TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


equipment instance, there have been reports of active Lyme disease being transmitted following penetrating keratoplasty . In addition, transplant and transfusion-transmitted infections have The proper use of personal protective equipment (PPE) is been documented for other tick-borne pathogens, including Babesia, mandatory when working with ticks. PPE requirements vary by Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Rickettsia and Ehrlichia (Alhumaidan institution and country. Full coverage PPE is highly recommended et al., 2013; Cotant et al., 2006; Fine et al., 2016; Goel et al., 2018; during the entire feeding procedure, and should consist of a hair Sachdev et al., 2014; Safdar et al., 2002; Trofe et al., 2001; Wells et al., net, surgical mask, coveralls/white gown, white/light colored 1978). Effective control of tick-borne infections requires a deeper gloves, and shoe covers. A depiction of full coverage PPE is shown understanding of transmission dynamics and the development of in Figure 1A. PPE should be white or light-colored to aid in the improved detection assays. Here, we have provided a detailed visualization of ticks. Proper coverage of PPE provides basic FIGURE 1 Personal protective equipment. (A) Full coverage PPE consists of a hair net, surgical mask, coveralls/white gown, white/light colored gloves, and shoe covers. Gloves are then donned over the hand and sleeve to reduce skin contact areas. (B) The hairnet is pulled below the ears to secure it to the head. Frontiers in Microbiology 02 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. Preparing the cages for tick feeding on protection as a physical barrier, preventing any ticks from crawling mice inside and attaching to the skin of research or animal facility staff. A hair net is worn to cover the entire crown of the head and extends below the ears as demonstrated in Figure 1B. Adhesive white mats In our protocol, ticks were fed on 6 week old female C3H mice (Fisher Scientific, Cat# 19–181-510) were used as another method from The Jackson Laboratory, as C3H develops Lyme arthritis of tick-containment and were placed under any container and on . All mice were maintained on a regular diurnal any surface where ticks were expected to be handled. The adhesive lighting cycle (12:12 light:dark) with ad libitum access to food (LabDiet white mat aids in sticking and visualization in the unlikely event 5P76 IsoPro RMH 3000 Irradiated) and automated reverse osmosis that a tick climbs out, falls, or drops during handling. chlorinated water. Room temperature was maintained at 72 +/− 3°F
