TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


event 5P76 IsoPro RMH 3000 Irradiated) and automated reverse osmosis that a tick climbs out, falls, or drops during handling. chlorinated water. Room temperature was maintained at 72 +/− 3°F and humidity was 29–50%. Loose soft cellulose (BioFresh Comfort) was used as cage bedding prior to tick-feeding procedures. Prior to Tick storage tick-feeding procedures, environmental enrichment including nesting material (Bed-r Nest, The Andersons Inc), polycarbonate tunnel Black legged tick larvae and nymphs were purchased from tick (Datesand Limited), and cardboard tunnel (Pakolatus, LLC) were rearing facility at Oklahoma State University. The ticks were monitored provided. Mice were housed in standard plastic mouse cages (11–1/2″ via PCR assay for Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Borrelia long x 7–1/2″ wide x 5″ deep) with stainless steel wire flooring during burgdorferi. Single batches of egg clusters from monitored ticks were tick feeding. Mice were provided with the same food and water purchased from Oklahoma State University. Egg clusters were allowed mentioned above during tick feeding. A clear polycarbonate handling to hatch as larvae before introducing to mice. Prior to feeding the tube (Datesand Limited) was added to each cage as enrichment and as larvae and nymphs, the ticks were stored on a rack inside of a a resting place from the wire flooring. Roughly ¼ inch of water was transparent closed chamber (Secador 2.0 vertical desiccator cabinet, added to the bottom of the mouse cage prior to adding the wire SP Bel-Art) that was placed on an adhesive white color mat stored (Figure 3A). Ticks that have fed and detached, drop off the mouse and within an incubator (Fisherbrand Isotemp incubator) set to 25°C float in the water below. Mice may attempt to consume fed ticks that (Figures 2A,B). Distilled water in an open container was placed on the climb the walls. The top ½ inch of the interior of the mouse cages were bottom rack of the chamber to provide and maintain 90% humidity smeared with petroleum jelly, which acts as a second barrier for any within the chamber (Figures 2A,B). The ticks were stored within a ticks that have fed, detached, and climbed the walls of the cage 10x75mm polystyrene test tube (Axiom Medical Supplies M-1035956- (Figure 3A). Each prepared mouse cage was placed into a larger guinea 3123) with fine nylon mesh (Voile White Decorator fabric) placed pig cage (19″ long x 10–1/2″ wide x 8″ deep) that was also prepared between
