TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


placed into a larger guinea 3123) with fine nylon mesh (Voile White Decorator fabric) placed pig cage (19″ long x 10–1/2″ wide x 8″ deep) that was also prepared between the tube and flange 12 mm polyethylene plug top (Universal with 1 inch of water and the top ½ inch of the interior smeared with Medical Inc. GS-118139C) (Figure 2C). Several holes were poked into petroleum jelly (Figure 3B). The mouse cage inside of the guinea pig the polyethylene plug top with a hypodermic needle to allow for cage was then kept on a white sticky mat on a metal shelf. airflow (Figure 2D). Double-sided tape (Scotch) was placed around A 10% bleach solution was prepared fresh daily to sanitize any incubator door openings to further prevent any ticks from escaping collected waste liquids and to kill any uncollected ticks and tick-borne (Figure 2E). Two LED light strips were cut to 12 LEDs each, connected pathogens that were present in the wastewater. A 5-gallon jerrican was to the same power supply, and installed on opposing sides of the designated for 10% bleach disposal. Waste liquids that were treated internal top of the incubator (Figure 2F). The connected LEDs were with bleach for 24 h were discarded. run through a programmable timer with a 12:12 light:dark cycle To feed the ticks, mice were anesthetized (100 mg/kg (Figure 2G) (Fisherbrand Traceable Digital Outlet Controller, Cat# (ketamine) + 10 mg/kg (xylazine), 0.1 mL/100 g intraperitoneally) 06–662-24). and placed next to each other in a clean and empty mouse cage with petroleum jelly smeared on the top interior (Figure 4A). A heating pad was placed under the cage for supplemental heat while the mice were Infecting mice with Borrelia burgdorferi anesthetized. Ophthalmic ointment was applied to the eyes of each mouse to prevent drying while anesthetized, as the eyes remained To study non-native pathogen transmission, ticks must be infected open during anesthetization. with the pathogens, and for Borrelia burgdorferi, mice need to be infected for the tick nymphs/larvae to feed on them. For our Larval tick feeding research, we purchased Borrelia burgdorferi (sensu stricto) from BEI resources (NR`-13251, strain B31). Before infecting mice, B. burgdorferi was cultured in Barbour-Stoenner-Kelly (BSK) (Sigma-Aldrich, B8291) 1. Following anesthetization of the mice, the top half of a tube medium in 5 mL round-bottom polystyrene tubes (Corning, #352058) containing one larval batch was smeared with petroleum jelly. in a
