TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


anesthetization of the mice, the top half of a tube medium in 5 mL round-bottom polystyrene tubes (Corning, #352058) containing one larval batch was smeared with petroleum jelly. in a 37°C incubator (Fisherbrand Isotemp incubator) in the laboratory Larvae were tapped down by placing an index finger over the . Post-culturing, the bacterial concentration was lid and firmly tapping the bottom of the tube on the table. After determined with a Petroff-Hausser counting chamber and a dark-field confirming the absence of larvae on the lid, the tube was moved microscope. Exponentially growing bacterial stock was diluted to 106/ next to the mice and the lid was opened near the back and neck ml in BSK broth and 100 μL (105 total Borrelia) was injected via 0.5 cc of the anesthetized mice. syringe with 28G needle (0.5 inch) per C3H mouse, intraperitoneally. 2. After releasing larvae on mice (Figure 4A), the lid and tube Ticks were infected with B. burgdorferi by placing and feeding them on were quickly submerged into a 10% bleach solution to kill any B. burgdorferi-infected mice 15 days after injection as described below. remaining larvae. Frontiers in Microbiology 03 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 2 Incubator setup. (A) Tick housing contains a desiccator chamber with open containers of distilled water for humidity, a rack, and vials for housing ticks. The surrounding edges of the incubator covered in double sided tape to provide a barrier to escaping ticks. The desiccator chamber placed on a high tack white mat as preventative barrier to tick escape. (B) Double sided tape is adhered around the external portion of all chamber walls. (C) A polystyrene vial containing ticks, with fine nylon mesh placed between the tube and flange 12 mm polyethylene plug top. (D) Several holes poked into a polyethylene plug top via a hypodermic needle to allow for airflow. (E) Double sided tape is adhered to external surfaces of incubator. (F) Two pairs of 12 LED lights per strip were adhered to the top of the interior chamber wall. (G) The LED strips were plugged into a programmable power supply. A power strip was included in the series for space concerns, as the chamber’s internal power outlet is directly behind the shelf. 3. The anesthetized mice were directly observed for 30–90 min 5. Over the course of 7 days, fed larvae were collected from the and allowed to awake from anesthesia.
