TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


shelf. 3. The anesthetized mice were directly observed for 30–90 min 5. Over the course of 7 days, fed larvae were collected from the and allowed to awake from anesthesia. This period of wastewater and cages with flat, white-bristled size 24 and size inactivity also allows the larvae time to attach to the mouse 2 paint brushes, respectively. This collection was performed in (Figure 4B). the morning and evening on each of the 7 days, roughly 8–10 h 4. After recovering from anesthesia, the mice were transferred apart. The mice were transferred to a fresh tick feeding cage into the individually prepared cages where ticks were observed while the fed larvae were collected from the wastewater and feeding on mice (Figure 4C). cage (Figure 4D). Frontiers in Microbiology 04 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 3 Mouse cage and tick feeding setup. (A) The mouse cage (11–1/2″ Long x 7–1/2” Wide x 5” Deep) is prepared with petroleum jelly around the top ½” of the cage. Roughly ½” of water is added and a raised wire floor is placed inside the cage. A clear handling tube is added for enrichment and as a resting place from the wire floor. (B) A guinea pig cage is prepared with petroleum jelly around the top 1/2″ of the cage, and roughly 1/2″ of water is added to the guinea pig cage. The prepared mouse cage is placed inside of the guinea pig cage and the whole setup is placed on white adhesive mats on a shelf of the animal room. Nymphal tick feeding 6. Fifty fed larvae were then transferred into each round- bottom 10x75mm polystyrene test tubes with fine nylon mesh placed between the tube and flange plug top with 8. Following anesthetization of the mice, to introduce the tick airholes poked in it. To avoid larval death from mold nymphs, the top half of the tube containing nymphs was growth in the collection tubes from exposure to wastewater, smeared with petroleum jelly. The nymphs were tapped down the fed larvae were transferred to new storage tubes by placing an index finger over the lid and firmly tapping the after a week. tube on the table. After confirming that no nymphs were on the 7. The tube of fed larvae was placed on a rack inside the storage lid, the lid and mesh were removed carefully and Dumont container detailed above. Fed larvae
