TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


the 7. The tube of fed larvae was placed on a rack inside the storage lid, the lid and mesh were removed carefully and Dumont container detailed above. Fed larvae can be processed for DNA, tweezers style 5a (EMS #72720-D) were used to individually RNA, or protein, or allowed to molt into nymphs, depending select and hold the nymphs by their posterior legs. A fine- on experimental needs. bristled paint brush can also be used to place the tick nymphs onto the mice. For investigating Borrelia burgdorferi transmission to mice and 9. During handling, caution was taken to avoid handling the ticks detection thereof, 3–5 Borrelia-infected nymphs should be placed on by their first pair of legs. Haller’s organs are sensory organs naïve mice. For Borrelia acquisition and xenodiagnostic studies, one present on the terminal portion of the first legs that, if should put not more than 25–30 nymphs on infected mice (as damaged, can prevent the tick from finding and attaching to a described below). host skin. Frontiers in Microbiology 05 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 4 Larval ticks feeding on mice. (A) Tick larvae are introduced from a storage tube that has been smeared on the top half with petroleum jelly. (B) Tick larvae are allowed to disperse while mice are recovering from anesthesia. (C) A closeup view of a larval tick feeding on host mouse neck. (D) Shown are larval ticks that have become fully engorged, dropped off into the wastewater, and been rinsed with clean water. 10. Nymphs were placed onto the back, neck, and ear of the morning and evening, with the wastewater having been thoroughly anesthetized adult mice. Ticks were placed under the fur checked for ticks. Wastewater was treated with bleach as described (Figures 5A,B). A maximum of 30 nymphs were placed per above. During the cage transfer of mice, cages should be kept on adult mouse. Empty tubes were placed into a 10% bleach a white sticky mat as described above. By Day 3 of tick feeding, solution for 24 h before discarding. The number of nymphs 10–50% of ticks drop off after becoming fully engorged. By Day 4, placed on each mouse was recorded. 95–98% of ticks dropped off the mice. Day 5 contained the lowest 11. The anesthetized mice were directly observed and allowed to yield of fully fed ticks, with the subsequent days yielding no awake from anesthesia as
