TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


Day 5 contained the lowest 11. The anesthetized mice were directly observed and allowed to yield of fully fed ticks, with the subsequent days yielding no awake from anesthesia as described above. This period of additional ticks. Following tick feeding, the mice were euthanized inactivity allows the nymphs time to attach to the mouse. via carbon dioxide and cervical dislocation. Mouse blood and 12. After recovering from anesthesia, each mouse was transferred tissues can be harvested at this step to investigate various avenues to their individually prepared cages. of tick-host interaction. 13. Nymphs were collected from the mice at experimentally determined intervals after placement or collected as fully fed Dissecting ticks to collect specific organs ticks over the course of 7 days. The partially fed nymphs were for staining or RNA extraction picked from the skin of the mice using Dumont style 5a tweezers and placed into microcentrifuge tubes for transport. The partially fed ticks were immediately dissected and The tick nymph was placed into a drop of PBS on a sterile processed. Partially fed nymphs can be dissected for specific microscope slide (Figure 6A). Using an Olympus SZ61 dissecting tissues to extract DNA/RNA/protein. microscope to visualize, the legs were each removed by holding the 14. Tubes of fed nymphs were placed on a rack inside of a tick with tweezers and cutting off the legs with vannas scissors humidified chamber in a 25°C incubator for storage. (World Precision Instrument 501,839). Once the legs were removed, the tick is rendered immobile and easier to dissect. While During the entire feeding process, the tick-harboring mouse holding the chelicerae with tweezers, a flat cut was made with was transferred to a freshly prepared tick feeding cage every vannas scissors on the most posterior portion of the tick Frontiers in Microbiology 06 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 5 Nymph ticks feeding on mice. (A) Introduction of tick nymphs by placing into fur with tweezers or brush. (B) Multiple tick nymphs moving into mouse fur. Zoomed view with red circles indicating tick location among mouse fur. (Figure 6B). Two opposing diagonal cuts at roughly 45 degrees and tissues were blocked using PBS-T (0.05% Tween-20 in PBS) 135 degrees were made connecting with the previous cut, cutting supplemented with 5% normal goat serum for 30 min at room- just laterally to the spiracular plates of the trachea (Figure 6B). temperature (RT). The blocking buffer was
