TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


cut, cutting supplemented with 5% normal goat serum for 30 min at room- just laterally to the spiracular plates of the trachea (Figure 6B). temperature (RT). The blocking buffer was removed, and samples Using the newly created opening (Figure 6C), the interior of the were incubated with primary antibody [Anti-Borrelia (Abcam, tick is exposed by peeling the dorsal scutum from the ventral ab69219) diluted in fresh blocking buffer overnight at 4°C exoskeleton. The scutum was torn away from the ventral (primary incubation can also be done for 1 h at RT). Samples were exoskeleton, as the ventral side contained all major anchor points washed three times in PBS-T for 5–10 min each at RT before for internal tissues (Figure 6D). Care was taken during scutum being incubated with secondary antibody [Goat anti-Rabbit Alexa removal to not disrupt the capitulum and the scutum was discarded Fluor® 488 (ab150077) for 1 h at RT. During and following (Figure 6D). Both the salivary gland and midgut were located and secondary antibody incubation, samples were protected from the tracheal tissue surrounding these organs was removed by light by placing them in a foil-wrapped container during gently tearing them away. The midgut was removed first, as it sits incubations. Samples were then washed three times in PBS-T for on top of the salivary glands (Figure 6E). Using two pairs of 5–10 min each at RT. Following washes, the tissues were tweezers, each portion of the midgut was carefully separated from transferred onto Poly-Lysine coated slides, and a drop of anti-fade surrounding tissue to prevent excess tearing, contamination, and mounting media with DAPI was added to the samples before leakage. The midgut was placed onto a slide with 1 drop of 1x PBS applying a cover slip. Samples were incubated with mounting and fixed with acetone for immunofluorescence assays or into a media for at least 20 min prior to imaging. Positive Borrelia microcentrifuge tube with 100 μL TRIzol for RNA extraction. infection results of tick gut tissues are depicted (Figures 7A,B). Following midgut removal, both salivary glands, which appear as Western blots of uninfected mammalian cell lysate were compared spherical clusters (Figure 6F), were dissected from their respective to cultured Borrelia lysate that were probed with Borrelia-infected sides by tearing the anterior lobular salivary duct nearest to the mouse serum (Figure 7C) or an anti-Borrelia commercially capitulum (Figure 6G), then placed onto a slide with
