TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


with Borrelia-infected sides by tearing the anterior lobular salivary duct nearest to the mouse serum (Figure 7C) or an anti-Borrelia commercially capitulum (Figure 6G), then placed onto a slide with PBS and fixed produced antibody (Figure 7D) and indicated positive Borrelia with acetone for immunofluorescence assays or into a signals only in the infected mouse. microcentrifuge tube with 100 μL TRIzol for RNA extraction. Discussion Tissue fixation and immunofluorescence assay of Borrelia burgdorferi-infected The methodologies outlined in this manuscript provide a samples comprehensive framework for studying B. burgdorferi transmission and acquisition through deer tick (Ixodes scapularis) Tick guts and salivary glands were washed with 3 drops of feeding on mice. This methods manuscript will help bridge the PBS after dissection. Post-washing, acetone was added and treated gap between field studies and controlled laboratory experiments for 10 min to fix and permeabilize the tissues. After fixation, as this methodology article enables precise manipulation and Frontiers in Microbiology 07 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 6 Tick dissection. A 24-h fed nymph is depicted in panel (A–C), while an unfed nymph is depicted in panel (D–G). (A) An undissected 24-h fed nymph is depicted. (B) The legs were carefully cut away to prevent tick mobility and subsequent cuts are indicated as dashed lines. (C) Cuts were made with vannas scissors at the posterior along with intersecting 45- and 135-degree cuts to expose internal organs. (D) The scutum was detached by careful tearing with fine-nosed tweezers. (E) The midgut was isolated from the tick. (F) The salivary glands appeared as grape-like clusters after the midgut has been removed. (G) The salivary glands were carefully isolated from the surrounding tracheal tissues. observation of tick-pathogen-host interactions. Given the tube feeding (Broadwater et al., 2002; Embers et al., 2013). increasing incidence of tick-borne diseases such as Lyme disease, Although each method offers distinct advantages depending on developing reliable and reproducible methods for studying tick experimental objectives, natural feeding on infected mammalian feeding and pathogen transmission is crucial for advancing our hosts, particularly mice, remains the preferred approach for understanding of disease pathogenesis and informing public accurately mimicking the natural processes of Borrelia acquisition. Among the approaches available, feeding on mammalian our protocol provides an ideal platform to study host-Borrelia hosts remains the most effective and biologically relevant method interactions and the subsequent uptake of Borrelia by feeding ticks for studying B. burgdorferi acquisition and transmission (Mather .
