TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


study host-Borrelia hosts remains the most effective and biologically relevant method interactions and the subsequent uptake of Borrelia by feeding ticks for studying B. burgdorferi acquisition and transmission (Mather . This methodology allows for the generation of et al., 1989; Mather et al., 1990; Ewing et al., 1994; Telford et al., pathogen-laden ticks, which can be further utilized in downstream 1988; Levin and Schumacher, 2016; Lin et al., 2009; Lin et al., studies, including transmission experiments, molecular analyses, 2012; Jacobs et al., 2006; Jacobs et al., 2003; Telford et al., 1990). and vaccine efficacy trials. Compared to artificial membrane feeding – which avoids the While other manuscripts discuss feeding, few discuss and logistical challenges of animal housing but demands complex detail dissection of ticks for the collection and processing of setups to mimic host conditions such as attachment stimuli and specific organs (Embers et al., 2013; Nuss et al., 2017). The nutrient supply – natural feeding allows ticks to acquire dissection and processing techniques described for tick tissues pathogens in a way that closely resembles their natural lifecycle. ensure minimal contamination and damage to critical organs such While artificial feeding systems show promise for reducing as the midgut and salivary glands. This precision is vital for reliance on animal models, their current limitations, including downstream analyses, including immunofluorescence assays (IFA), the need for specialized materials like non-biodegradable, elastic RNA extraction and other molecular biology assays (De et al., membranes with specific hardness to mimic host skin and precise 2023; Jia et al., 2020; Ni et al., 2023). nutrient formulations, restrict their scalability and practicality for One of the strengths of this protocol is its scalability and large-scale studies (Narasimhan et al., 2024; Gonzalez et al., 2021; adaptability. While the current focus is on B. burgdorferi, the Khoo et al., 2022; Garcia Guizzo et al., 2023; Krober and described methods can be adapted to study other tick-borne Guerin, 2007). pathogens, expanding the utility of this system across a broad To achieve infection, ticks can be exposed to B. burgdorferi spectrum of vector-borne diseases. Despite the robustness of this B. burgdorferi cultures (Policastro and Schwan, 2003), intensive nature of tick feeding, and dissection may pose logistical microinjection (Kariu et al., 2011; Smith et al., 2018), or capillary challenges, particularly for studies involving large sample sizes. Frontiers in Microbiology 08 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 7 Immunofluorescence assays and western blots against Borrelia.
