TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


et al., 2018), or capillary challenges, particularly for studies involving large sample sizes. Frontiers in Microbiology 08 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. FIGURE 7 Immunofluorescence assays and western blots against Borrelia. (A) Immunofluorescence assay of a Borrelia-infected tick nymph gut utilizing anti- Borrelia (green) antibody and DAPI (blue). Image has been zoomed to show positive Borrelia signal. (B) Immunofluorescence assay of a segment of Borrelia-infected tick nymph gut utilizing anti-Borrelia (green) and DAPI (blue). (C) A western blot of mammalian cell lysate and cultured Borrelia probed with mouse serum collected post-Borrelia infection. (D) A western blot of mammalian cell lysate and cultured Borrelia probed with a commercially produced anti-Borrelia antibody. Data availability statement Additionally, variations in tick attachment and feeding success may introduce variability in tick engorgement and pathogen acquisition rates. Future refinements to this protocol could focus The original contributions presented in the study are included in on exploring alternative containment systems to further streamline the article/supplementary material, further inquiries can be directed the process. to the corresponding author. In conclusion, this manuscript presents a detailed and replicable protocol for studying B. burgdorferi transmission through tick feeding. Ethics statement The methods described herein not only facilitate the investigation of Lyme disease pathogenesis but also provide a foundational framework for studying other tick-borne diseases. By enhancing our The animal study was approved by White Oak (WO) understanding of tick-pathogen-host interactions, this work Animal Care and Use Committee (ACUC), United States and control measures for tick-borne diseases. USA. The study was conducted in accordance with the local Frontiers in Microbiology 09 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. legislation and institutional requirements. Written informed administered by the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education consent was obtained from the individual(s) for the publication through the US Department of Energy and U.S. Food and of any potentially identifiable images or data included in Drug Administration. this article. Conflict of interest Author contributions The authors declare that the research was conducted in the AS: Conceptualization, Investigation, Methodology, Validation, absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. BL: be construed as a potential conflict of interest. Conceptualization, Investigation, Resources, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. JD: Methodology, Writing – review & Generative AI statement editing. SD: Conceptualization, Funding acquisition, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Resources, Supervision, Validation, Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review
