HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


useful in the evaluation and management of most sleep complaints and their underlying disorders ( 5 ). The interaction of circadian effects, i.e., usual time to go to sleep, and amount of prior wakefulness (homeostatic response), determines the onset and amount of sleep ( 6 ). Regulated by a strong circadian pacemaker, free running natural sleepwake rhythms cycle at about 25 hours rather than coinciding with the solar 24-hour schedule ( 7 ). However, cues from the environment (zeitgebers) entrain sleep's rhythm to a 24-hour schedule. As a result, persons depend on external cues to keep their diurnal cycle "on time." The normal diurnal clock resists natural changes in its pattern by more than about 1 hour per day, which explains the sleep difficulties that usually accompany adaptation to new time zones or switches in work shifts. Individuals differ considerably in their natural sleep patterns. Most adults in non-tropical areas are comfortable with 6.5 to 8 hours daily, taken in a single period. Children and adolescents sleep more than adults, and young adults sleep more than older ones. Normal sleep consists of four to six behaviorally and electroencephalographically (EEG) defined cycles, including periods during which the brain is active (associated with rapid eye movements, called REM sleep), preceded by four progressively deeper, quieter sleep stages graded 1 to 4 on the basis of increasingly slow EEG patterns ( 8 ) ( Figure 1 ). Deep sleep or slow wave sleep (SWS) (stages 3 and 4) gradually lessens with age and usually disappears in the elderly. Figure 1. Effects of age on normal sleep cycles. REM sleep (darkened area) occurs cyclically throughout the night at intervals of approximately 90 minutes in all age groups. REM sleep decreases slightly in the elderly, whereas stage 4 sleep decreases progressively with age, so that little, if any, is present in the elderly. In addition, the elderly has frequent awakenings and a notable increase in wake time after sleep onset. SLEEP DISORDERS Sleep disorders are common in the general population and are associated with significant behavioral and health consequences ( 9 , 10 ). Insomnia, the most common sleep disorder, is often associated with psychologic difficulties ( 11 - 13 ) and significant cardiometabolic morbidity and mortality ( 14 - 24 ). Excessive daytime sleepiness is the predominant complaint of most patients evaluated in sleep disorders clinics and often reflects organic dysfunction. Sleep apnea, narcolepsy,
