HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


and mortality ( 14 - 24 ). Excessive daytime sleepiness is the predominant complaint of most patients evaluated in sleep disorders clinics and often reflects organic dysfunction. Sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and idiopathic hypersomnia are the most common disorders associated with excessive daytime sleepiness. Sleep apnea occurs predominantly in middle-aged men and postmenopausal women and is associated with obesity and cardiovascular complications, including hypertension, while narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia are chronic brain disorders with an onset at a young age ( 5 ). In the general population, excessive daytime sleepiness and fatigue are frequent complaints of patients with obesity ( 13 , 25 , 26 ), depression ( 13 , 27 , 28 ) and diabetes ( 27 ). The parasomnias, including sleepwalking, night terrors, and nightmares, have benign implications in childhood, but often reflect psychopathology or significant stress in adolescents and adults and organic etiology in the elderly. SLEEP AND THE STRESS SYSTEM In mammalian organisms, including human beings, the stress system consists of central and peripheral components, whose main function is to maintain homeostasis, both in the resting and stress states ( 29 - 31 ). The central components include: (i) the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus, which secrete corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH and arginine vasopressin (AVP); ii) the CRH neurons of the paragigantocellular and parabranchial nuclei of the medulla and (iii) the noradrenergic nuclei of the medulla and pons, including the locus caeruleus (LC), regulating arousal, and other nuclei mostly secreting norepinephrine (NE) and regulating the systemic sympathetic and adrenomedullary, as well as the parasympathetic nervous systems. The peripheral components include (i) the neuroendocrine hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis; (ii) the efferent systemic sympathetic and adrenomedullary (SNS) and parasympathetic nervous systems ( 31 ). Normal Sleep and the HypothalamicPituitaryAdrenal (HPA) Axis Although the association between sleep and stress has been noted for hundreds of years, a more systematic approach in the relation between several features of sleep and stress system activity has only taken place in the last two decades ( Figure 2 ). In 1983, Weitzman and colleagues reported that sleep, in particular SWS, appears to have an inhibitory influence on the HPA axis and cortisol secretion ( 32 ). Since then, several studies have replicated this finding. In turn, central (intracerebroventricular) administration of CRH ( 33 , 34 ) or systemic administration of glucocorticoids ( 35 ) can lead to arousal and sleeplessness. In normal individuals, wakefulness and
