HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


turn, central (intracerebroventricular) administration of CRH ( 33 , 34 ) or systemic administration of glucocorticoids ( 35 ) can lead to arousal and sleeplessness. In normal individuals, wakefulness and stage 1 sleep (light sleep) accompany cortisol increases ( 36 ), while slow wave sleep or deep sleep is associated with declining plasma cortisol levels ( 37 ). In addition, in normals, induced sleep disruption (frequently repeated arousals) is associated with significant increases of plasma cortisol levels ( 38 ). Furthermore, mean 24-hour plasma cortisol levels are significantly higher in subjects with a shorter total sleep time than those with a longer total sleep time ( 39 ). Figure 2. A simplified, heuristic model of the interactions between central and peripheral components of the stress systems with sleep and REM sleep. ACTH: corticotropin; AVP: arginine vasopressin; CRH: corticotropinreleasing hormone; GH: growth hormone; LC/NE: locus caeruleusnorepinephrine/sympathetic nervous system. A solid green line denotes promotion/stimulation; a dashed red line denotes suppression. The amount of REM sleep, a state of central nervous system activation that resembles unconscious wakefulness (paradoxic sleep), appears to be associated with a higher activity of the HPA axis. An early study showed that 24hour urinary 17hydroxycorticoids were increased during REM epochs in urological patients ( 40 ). More recently, a study in healthy, normal sleepers showed that the amount of REM sleep was positively correlated with 24-hour urinary free cortisol excretion ( 41 ). These results are consistent with the coexistence of HPA axis activation, and REM sleep increases in patients with melancholic depression ( 30 ). Corticotropin Releasing Hormone and ACTH in Sleep/Wake Regulation CRH produced and released from parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus is the key regulator of the HPA axis ( 31 ). Release of CRH is followed by enhanced secretion of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) from the anterior pituitary and cortisol from the adrenal cortex. In addition, CRH exerts various influences on behavior, including cerebral activation and waking maintenance, through activation of CRH receptors, which are expressed in the basal prosencephalic areas, thalamus, hypothalamus, mesencephalus, brainstem, and pons ( 42 ). In animals, central (intracerebroventricular) administration of CRH induces increased waking ( 34 , 43 , 44 ), decreased NREM and REM sleep ( 44 , 45 ), and altered locomotor activity ( 44 , 46 ). Also, specific CRH antisense oligodeoxynucleotides caused a reduction in spontaneous wakefulness during the dark period, but not during
