HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


, 45 ), and altered locomotor activity ( 44 , 46 ). Also, specific CRH antisense oligodeoxynucleotides caused a reduction in spontaneous wakefulness during the dark period, but not during the light period in rats ( 47 ). Several reports indicate that CRH is excitatory in the locus caeruleus (LC), amygdala, hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and some portions of the hypothalamus ( 30 , 31 ). Spontaneous discharge rates in the LC are highest during arousal and lowest during sleep. In humans, the majority of the studies suggest that the sleep of young individuals is rather resistant to the arousing effects of CRH ( 48 - 51 ). In contrast, middle-aged individuals responded to an equivalent dose of CRH with significantly more wakefulness and suppression of slow wave sleep compared to baseline ( 51 ). Based on these findings, we concluded that middle-aged men show increased vulnerability of sleep to stress hormones, possibly resulting in impairments in the quality of sleep during periods of stress. These findings suggest that changes in sleep physiology associated with middle age play a significant role in the marked increase of prevalence of insomnia in middleage. Also, peripheral administration of CRH is associated with a REM suppression, which is stronger in the young than in the middle aged. The administration of ACTH and its analogues in humans has been associated with general CNS activation consisting of a decreased sleep period time and sleep efficiency, and an increase of sleep latency ( 39 , 44 ). Continuous administration of ACTH produced a marked reduction in NREM sleep ( 44 ). Glucocorticoid Effects On Sleep The administration of glucocorticoids causes a robust suppression of REM sleep ( 44 , 52 ). In addition to the well-established decrease of REM sleep in some studies, the continuous or pulsatile nocturnal administration of cortisol was paradoxically associated with a modest increase of SWS ( 48 , 53 ). It has been suggested that this effect of cortisol on SWS compared to CRH may be mediated by a feedback inhibition of CRH by cortisol. A study in Addisonian patients demonstrated that an evening replacement dose of hydrocortisone was necessary for proper expression of REM sleep, (vide infra) suggesting that glucocorticoids have some permissive action for this sleep parameter, possibly reflecting an inverse u-shaped dose response curve ( 54 ). In clinical practice, the use of pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids is associated with
