HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


permissive action for this sleep parameter, possibly reflecting an inverse u-shaped dose response curve ( 54 ). In clinical practice, the use of pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids is associated with sleep disturbance. In fact, in a multicenter, placebocontrolled study in which steroids were used on a short-term basis, insomnia was one of the most common side effects ( 35 ). In addition to their direct effects on sleep, glucocorticoids might also modulate sleep indirectly by influencing the activity of the circadian clock system (from the Latin “circa diem” meaning “approximately a day”), a highly conserved timekeeping system that creates internal rhythmicity under the influence of day/night cycles ( 55 - 57 ). At the cellular and molecular level, glucocorticoids influence peripheral clocks at multiple sites through their intracellular receptor, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), which functions as a ligand-activated transcription factor ( 58 ). Besides this molecular cross-talk, accumulating evidence suggests that glucocorticoids might play a fundamental role in the entrainment of wake-sleep cycle rhythmicity through regulation of behavioral adaptation to phase shifts, possibly through an indirect feedback to the SCN ( 44 , 59 ). AGING, HPA AXIS AND SLEEP Old age is associated with marked sleep changes consisting of increased wake, minimal amounts of SWS, declining amounts of REM sleep, and earlier retiring and rising times. Some studies have shown that older adults have elevated cortisol levels at the time of the circadian nadir and have higher basal cortisol levels than younger adults ( 60 - 62 ). It is difficult to discern whether the latter changes are associated with aging or increased medical morbidity common in this group. It has been suggested that the effect of aging on the levels and diurnal variation of human adrenocorticotropic activity could be involved in the etiology of poor sleep in the elderly ( 60 ). Higher evening cortisol concentrations are associated with lower amounts of REM sleep ( 60 , 62 ), and increased wake ( 62 ). More recently, it was shown that older women without estrogen replacement therapy (ERT), when subjected to mild stress, showed greater disturbances in sleep parameters than women on ERT ( 63 ). SLEEP DEPRIVATION AND HPA AXIS If sleep is important for our sense of wellbeing, then it is conceivable that sleep deprivation represents a stressor to human bodies and should be associated with activation of the stress system ( 64 ). However, several
