HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


of wellbeing, then it is conceivable that sleep deprivation represents a stressor to human bodies and should be associated with activation of the stress system ( 64 ). However, several studies that have assessed the effects of one night's sleep deprivation on the HPA axis have shown that cortisol secretion is either not or minimally affected by sleep following prolonged wakefulness ( 65 - 67 ). More recent studies have reported somewhat antithetical results, with some studies showing that cortisol secretion is elevated the next evening following sleep deprivation ( 68 - 71 ) and the other studies showing a significant decrease of plasma cortisol levels the next day ( 72 - 74 ). Additionally, the study by Vgontzas et al ( 72 ) indicated that this inhibition of the HPA axis activity was associated with an enhanced activity of the growth hormone axis. Also, similarly to these inconsistent results from studies of total sleep deprivation, partial sleep loss (4 hours of sleep for 6 days) has been reported to be associated with evening cortisol elevation ( 75 ) while a modest restriction of sleep to 6 hours per night for one week was associated with a significant decrease of the peak cortisol secretion ( 76 ). Newer studies using different sleep restriction experimental protocols have also found inconsistent results, with the majority of them reporting no effect of sleep restriction on the HPA axis ( 77 - 82 ). Methodological differences primarily related on the way subjects were handled during deprivation may explain these opposing findings. The finding that sleep deprivation leads to lower cortisol levels post deprivation (primarily during the subsequent night of sleep) suggests that lowering the level of HPA activity, which is increased in depression, may be the mechanism through which sleep deprivation improves the mood of depressed individuals. In one study, we assessed the effects of a 2-hour midafternoon nap following a night of total sleep deprivation on sleepiness, proinflammatory cytokines (IL6, TNFα) and cortisol levels. Parameters of interest (subjective feeling of sleepiness, psychomotor vigilance PVT, IL6, TNFa and cortisol levels) were measured on the fourth (predeprivation) and sixth days (postdeprivation). We observed a marked and significant drop of cortisol levels during napping, which was followed by a transient increase during the postnap period ( 83 ). These findings suggest that sleep and particularly SWS has an inhibiting effect on cortisol secretion and that wake
