HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


followed by a transient increase during the postnap period ( 83 ). These findings suggest that sleep and particularly SWS has an inhibiting effect on cortisol secretion and that wake and alertness are associated with higher levels of cortisol. Prolonged sleep deprivation in rats results in increased plasma norepinephrine levels, higher ACTH and corticosteroid levels at the later phase of sleep deprivation ( 84 ). It is postulated that these increases are due to the stress of dying from septicemia rather than to sleep loss. The effects of prolonged sleep deprivation on the HPA axis in humans have not been studied. It is possible that there is activation of stress response when a certain tolerability threshold has been reached. SLEEP DISORDERS AND HPA AXIS Although sleep disorders/disturbances with their various physical and mental effects on the individual should be expected to affect the stress system, information regarding the effects of sleep disorders/disturbances on this system is limited. Insomnia and HPA Axis Insomnia, a symptom of various psychiatric or medical disorders, may also be the result of an environmental disturbance or a stressful situation. When insomnia is chronic and severe, it may itself become a stressor that affects the patient's life so greatly that it is perceived by the patient as a distinct disorder itself. Either way, as a manifestation of stress or a stressor itself, insomnia is expected to be related to the stress system. Few studies have measured cortisol levels in "poor" sleepers or insomniacs, and those results are inconsistent. The majority of these studies reported no difference between controls and poor sleepers in 24-hour cortisol or 17hydroxysteroid excretion ( 85 ). In a 1998 study in 15 young adult insomniacs, 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC) excretion levels were positively correlated with total wake time ( 86 ). In addition, 24-hour urinary levels of catecholamines and their metabolites DHPG and DOPAC were positively correlated with percent stage 1 sleep and wake time after sleep onset. However, the total amount of the 24-hour UFC or catecholamine excretion was not different from normative values. These preliminary findings were confirmed and extended in a controlled study in which objective sleep testing and frequent blood sampling was employed; the 24-hour ACTH and cortisol plasma concentrations were significantly higher in insomniacs than matched normal controls ( 87 ). Within the 24-hour period, the greatest elevations were observed in the evening and first half of
