HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


plasma concentrations were significantly higher in insomniacs than matched normal controls ( 87 ). Within the 24-hour period, the greatest elevations were observed in the evening and first half of the night ( Figure 3 ). Also, insomniacs with a high degree of objective sleep disturbance (% sleep time < 70) secreted a higher amount of cortisol, compared to those with a low degree of sleep disturbance. Pulsatile analysis revealed a significantly higher number of peaks per 24h in insomniacs than in controls (p < 0.05), while cosinor analysis showed no differences in the circadian pattern of ACTH or cortisol secretion between insomniacs and controls. Thus, insomnia is associated with an overall increase of ACTH and cortisol secretion, which, however, retains a normal circadian pattern. Also, this increase relates positively to the degree of objective sleep disturbance. These findings are consistent with a disorder of CNS hyperarousal not only during the night but during the day as well, rather than one of sleep loss, which is usually associated with no change or a decrease in cortisol secretion, or a circadian disturbance. Increased evening and nocturnal cortisol peripheral concentrations have been reported in one study ( 88 ), while another study that included insomniacs without evidence of objective sleep disturbance did not report differences between insomniacs and controls ( 89 ). Figure 3. Twenty-four-hour plasma cortisol concentrations in insomniacs (■) and controls (O). The thick black line indicates the sleep recording period. The error bar indicates SE, P < 0.01. It appears that the difference between these two groups of studies is the degree of polysomnographically documented sleep disturbance. For example, in the study by Rodenbeck et al ( 88 ) the correlation between the area under the curve (AUC) of cortisol and % sleep efficiency was 0.91 suggesting that high cortisol levels are present in those insomniacs with an objective short sleep duration. In contrast, in the study by Riemann et al ( 89 ), in which no cortisol differences were observed between insomniacs and controls, the objective sleep of insomniacs was very similar to that of controls (88.2% Sleep efficiency vs 88.6%). In another study that applied constant routine conditions, all indices of physiological arousal were increased but not to a significant degree due to lack of power and controls not being selected carefully ( 90 ). Interestingly, in the latter study a visual inspection of cortisol data suggested
