HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


to a significant degree due to lack of power and controls not being selected carefully ( 90 ). Interestingly, in the latter study a visual inspection of cortisol data suggested an elevation of cortisol values of 15% to 20% in the insomnia group, a difference similar to that reported in the study by Vgontzas et al. ( 87 ) and which should be considered of clinical significance. These preliminary findings on the role of objective sleep disturbance, were recently corroborated by newer studies in experimental or community samples of insomnia patients using polysomnography or actigraphy to objectively assess nighttime sleep ( 91 - 93 ). In all these three studies, insomnia coupled with objective short sleep duration was associated with higher cortisol levels both in adults ( 91 , 92 ), as well as in children ( 93 ). Based on our observations from the studies on Insomnia and HPA axis, that cortisol levels are higher in those with objective short sleep duration ( Figure 4 ) we expected that insomnia with short sleep duration should be associated with significant medical morbidity and mortality. A study, which used a large general random sample of men and women (n=1,754), demonstrated that insomnia with objective short sleep duration (<5h nighttime sleep) entailed the highest risk for hypertension, followed by the insomnia group who slept 56 hours, compared to the normal sleeping and >6h sleep duration group ( 14 ). In the same population sample, chronic insomnia with objective short sleep duration was also found to be associated with increased odds for type 2 diabetes ( 15 ), as well as neuropsychological deficits in speed processing, attention, visual memory and verbal fluency ( 16 ). In order to examine the mortality risk in this sample, we followed up men and women for 14 and 10 years respectively. After controlling for several confounders, the mortality rate in insomniac men with objective short sleep duration was four times higher than in control normal sleepers ( 17 ). Figure 4. Twenty-four-hour plasma cortisol concentrations in insomniacs, with low total ST (■) vs. those with high total ST (O) (MANOVA). The thick black line indicates the sleep recording period. The error bar indicates SE, P < 0.01. More recently, from the same random, general population sample of the Penn State Cohort, 1395 adults were followed up after 7.5 years ( 22 ). All of the subjects underwent
