HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


More recently, from the same random, general population sample of the Penn State Cohort, 1395 adults were followed up after 7.5 years ( 22 ). All of the subjects underwent 8-hour polysomnography. We used the median polysomnographic percentage of sleep time to define short sleep duration (i.e. < 6 hours). Compared with normal sleepers who slept ≥6 hours, the highest risk for incident hypertension was in chronic insomniacs with short sleep duration. This study was the first longitudinal study to have examined the association of insomnia with objective short sleep duration with incident hypertension using polysonomnography ( 22 ). Finally, another cross-sectional study on a research sample on chronic insomniacs, showed that chronic insomnia (based on standard diagnostic criteria with symptoms lasting ≥6 months) when associated with physiological hyperarousal, (as defined by long MSLT values) is associated with a high risk for hypertension ( 19 ). Collectively, the above data further support that objective sleep measures in insomnia are an important index of the medical severity of the disorder, and they also point out the need for validation of practical, feasible, inexpensive methods, such as actigraphy, to measure sleep duration outside of the sleep laboratory. From a clinical standpoint, these data suggest that the therapeutic goal in insomnia should not be just to improve the quality or quantity of nighttime sleep. Rather, they suggest that the common practice of prescribing only hypnotics for patients with chronic insomnia at most is of limited efficacy. Furthermore, the focus of psychotherapeutic and behavioral modalities, including sleep hygiene measures, should not be to just improve the emotional and physiological state of the insomniac pre or during sleep, but rather to decrease the overall emotional and physiologic hyperarousal and its underlying factors, present throughout the 24-hour sleep/wake period. It is possible that medications that suppress the activity of the HPA axis, such as antidepressants ( 94 ), could be a promising tool in our pharmacologic approaches. The effects of antidepressants on sleep, as well as on the daytime function and wellbeing of insomniacs, have not been assessed systematically yet some preliminary studies have reported improvement on sleep ( 95 , 96 ). The potential usefulness of antidepressants in insomnia was further supported by a study by Rodenbeck et al . ( 97 ), who demonstrated the beneficial role of doxepin (a TCA) on both sleep and cortisol secretion in patients with primary insomnia without a
