HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


by Rodenbeck et al . ( 97 ), who demonstrated the beneficial role of doxepin (a TCA) on both sleep and cortisol secretion in patients with primary insomnia without a clinically diagnosed depression. Moreover, two other studies have also underlined the efficacy and the safety of small doses of doxepin in adults suffering from primary insomnia, as well as in a model of transient insomnia ( 98 , 99 ). In conclusion, more studies are needed in order to confirm the possible therapeutic role of antidepressants on chronic insomnia as well as to clarify their underlying sleeppromoting mechanisms. DISORDERS OF EXCESSIVE DAYTIME SLEEPINESS AND THE HPA AXIS Obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS), the most common sleep disorder associated with excessive daytime sleepiness and fatigue, is accompanied by nocturnal hypoxia and sleep fragmentation. The latter conditions should be expected to be associated with an activation of the stress system. Indeed, it has been shown that urinary catecholamines, as well as plasma catecholamines measured during the nighttime, are elevated in sleep apneics compared to controls ( 100 ). Also, using microneurography, it has been shown that obstructive apneic events are associated with a surge of sympathetic nerve activity ( 101 ). In addition, another study lately demonstrated the beneficial effect of CPAP treatment on the stress system of sleep apneic patients ( 102 ). It has also been proposed that sympathetic activation in sleep apnea is one of the mechanisms leading to the development of hypertension, a condition commonly associated with sleep apnea. This proposal was supported by a study which showed that 3-month CPAP therapy could moderate hypertension in obese apneic men, an effect that may be attributed to the normalizing actions of CPAP on the stress system by eliminating chronic intermittent hypoxia and repetitive microawakenings ( 103 ). Similarly, it was expected that sleep apnea would also be associated with an activation of the HPA axis. However, findings from different studies are inconsistent. Few studies that have assessed the plasma cortisol levels in sleep apneics have failed to show any differences between sleep apneics and controls ( 104 - 107 ), or more recently, sleep apnea was even reported to be associated with relative hypocortisolemia ( 108 ). In addition, no differences were reported in the plasma or urinary free cortisol levels following the abrupt withdrawal of CPAP, the most commonly recommended treatment for sleep apnea ( 109 ). However, another
