HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


differences were reported in the plasma or urinary free cortisol levels following the abrupt withdrawal of CPAP, the most commonly recommended treatment for sleep apnea ( 109 ). However, another study reported that CPAP corrected preexisting hypercortisolemia, particularly after prolonged use ( 110 ). In accordance with the latter study, a more recent one demonstrated an association between OSAS and a mild but significant at night elevation of cortisol levels, in obese apneics compared to obese nonapneic controls. The increased levels of cortisol were corrected after the 3month use of CPAP ( 111 ). These results were confirmed later by Henley et al. , who showed that untreated compared to treated OSAS was associated with marked disturbances in ACTH and cortisol secretory dynamics ( 112 ). Two other studies lately reported increased cortisol levels in sleep apnea ( 113 , 114 ). This latter study by Kritikou and collaborators showed that sleep apnea in non-obese men was associated with HPA axis activation, similar albeit stronger compared with obese individuals with sleep apnea. The same study was also the first to show that women, similarly to men, suffer from the same degree of the HPA axis activation. Finally, similarly to our previous study in obese men ( 111 ), short-term CPAP use had a significant effect on cortisol levels compared with baseline. Of interest is also that, in nondepressed, normally sleeping, nonapneic obese men, plasma levels of cortisol were lower than those in nonobese controls and exogenous administration of CRH provoked an enhanced ACTH response ( 111 ). These results suggest that in obesity there is hyposecretion of hypothalamic CRH, associated with hypotrophic adrenal cortices requiring compensatorily elevated amounts of ACTH to produce normal amounts of cortisol ( 111 ). The association of the two other major organic disorders of excessive daytime sleepiness, narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia, with the stress system has not been assessed. Preliminary data from a study that assessed the responsiveness of plasma cortisol and ACTH to the exogenous administration of ovine CRH in idiopathic hypersomniacs was associated with a normal or reduced plasma cortisol response, while the ACTH response to CRH tended to be significantly higher in the patients than controls ( 115 ). These preliminary findings suggested a subtle hypocortisolism and an inferred hypothalamic CRH deficiency in patients with idiopathic hypersomnia. A central CRH deficiency in these patients is consistent with their clinical profile of increased
