HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


suggested a subtle hypocortisolism and an inferred hypothalamic CRH deficiency in patients with idiopathic hypersomnia. A central CRH deficiency in these patients is consistent with their clinical profile of increased daytime sleepiness and deep nocturnal sleep (generalized hypoarousal). Consistent with these findings, it was reported that narcolepsy is associated with reduced basal ACTH secretion and a putative reduction of central CRH ( 116 ). FATIGUE, SLEEPINESS AND SLEEP APNEA, AND ADRENAL FUNCTION Patients with Cushing's syndrome frequently complain of daytime fatigue and sleepiness. In one controlled study, it was demonstrated that Cushing's syndrome was associated with increased frequency of sleep apnea ( 117 ). In that study, about 32% of patients with Cushing's syndrome were diagnosed with at least mild sleep apnea, and about 18% had significant sleep apnea (apnea/hypopnea index > 17.5 events per hour). Interestingly, those patients with sleep apnea were not more obese or different in any craniofacial features compared to those patients without sleep apnea. These findings are interesting in light of the new findings that visceral obesity, which is prominent in Cushing's syndrome, is a predisposing factor to sleep apnea ( 118 ). Also, Cushing's syndrome in the absence of sleep apnea was associated with increased sleep fragmentation, increased stage 1 and wake, and decreased delta sleep ( 119 ). Adrenal insufficiency or Addison's disease is associated also with chronic fatigue. A study indicated that untreated patients with adrenal insufficiency demonstrated increased sleep fragmentation, increased REM latency, and decreased amount of time in REM sleep, findings that may explain the patients' fatigue ( 54 ). These sleep abnormalities were reversed following treatment with a replacement dose of hydrocortisone. These results suggest that cortisol secretion may be needed to facilitate both initiation and maintenance of REM sleep. It should be noted that in normal individuals, exogenous glucocorticoids have been found to reduce REM sleep ( 52 ). The authors interpreted their findings that the inhibitory role of glucocorticoids on REM sleep in normals, along with their permissive role in Addison's patients, demonstrate that some cortisol is needed for REM sleep, with excess cortisol inhibiting REM sleep, perhaps indirectly by suppression of CRH. Also, fatigue and excessive daytime sleepiness are prominent in patients with secondary adrenal insufficiency, e.g., steroid withdrawal, and African trypanosomiasis. The latter conditions are associated with decreased adrenocortical function and elevated TNFα and/or IL6 levels ( 120 , 121 ), which may be the
