HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


e.g., steroid withdrawal, and African trypanosomiasis. The latter conditions are associated with decreased adrenocortical function and elevated TNFα and/or IL6 levels ( 120 , 121 ), which may be the mediators of the excessive sleepiness and fatigue associated with primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency, as well of the profound somnolence of patients with African trypanosomiasis. SLEEP AND CYTOKINES Research has shown a strong interaction between the HPA axis and the immune system ( 29 ). Cytokines have a strong stimulating effect on the HPA axis, whereas cortisol, the endproduct of the HPA axis, suppresses secretion ( Figure 2 ). In this section, we will describe what is known on the role of cytokines in sleep regulation and sleep disorders, as well as the interaction effect of cytokines and HPA axis on sleep and its disorders. Feelings of fatigue and sleepiness are common symptoms associated with infectious diseases and many other physical and mental pathologic conditions. Physicians for millennia have advised their patients to sleep during the course of an illness. However, it is only within the past 20 years that there has been a systematic study on changes in sleep that occur with infection or following microbial productinduced cytokine production (reviewed in 122 ). The first reports of the effects of IL1 on sleep in animals were published in 1984 ( 123 , 124 ). Following the observation that astrocytes (neuroglia) produce IL1 ( 125 ), which provided the basis to explore whether IL1 was somnogenic, several studies by Krueger and collaborators established the role of this cytokine in the sleep physiology of the rabbit. These studies ( 123 , 126 , 127 ) indicated that: 1) administration of IL1 increased electroencephalogram (EEG) slow wave activity in the delta frequency band; 2) the effects of IL1 on sleep were doserelated; and 3) the enhancement of induction of slow wave sleep (SWS) by IL1 was not merely a byproduct of fever because pretreatment of animals with anisomycin abolished IL1induced fever but not IL1induced SWS. Since then, IL1 has proven to be somnogenic in species other than rabbits, including rats, mice, cats, and monkeys. The same group of investigators demonstrated that TNFα induced SWS in several species ( 126 , 128 ), whereas TNFα mRNA ( 129 ) and protein in brain ( 130 ), exhibit circadian rhythms that coincide with sleepwake activity. Also, direct intervention with the TNF system by the
