HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


negatively related to the amount of nocturnal sleep ( 137 ). Thus, decreased overall secretion of IL6 is associated with a good night's sleep and a good sense of wellbeing the next day, and good sleep is associated with decreased exposure of tissues to the proinflammatory and potentially detrimental actions of IL6 on the cardiovascular system, insulin sensitivity, and bones ( 141 , 142 ). These findings on the circadian pattern of IL6 secretion were also illustrated in two studies that assessed the effects of modest sleep restriction ( 76 ) ( Figure 6 ) as well as the effects of a 2hour midafternoon nap following a night of total sleep loss ( 83 ) ( Figure 7 ) on sleepiness, psychomotor performance and finally plasma levels of proinflammatory cytokines (IL6, TNFα) and cortisol. Figure 6. Twenty-four-hour circadian secretory pattern of IL6 Before (◊) and after (▪) partial sleep restriction. Bar indicates SE. The thick black bar on the abscissa represents the sleep recording period during baseline. The open bar on the abscissa represents the sleep recording period during partial sleep restriction. *, P<0.05. Figure 7. Twenty-four-hour IL6 values pre( ♦ ) and post(□) sleep deprivation in the nonap group (top) and the nap group (bottom). Thick black lines on the abscissa indicate nighttime and nap recording periods. Significant reduction of IL6 during the nap period (14001600), P<0.05 Recently, we assessed the effects of recovery sleep after one week of mild sleep restriction on IL-6, sleepiness and performance ( 79 ). Serial 24-h IL-6 plasma levels increased significantly during sleep restriction and returned to baseline after recovery sleep ( Figure 8 ). Subjective and objective sleepiness increased significantly after restriction and returned to baseline after recovery. In contrast, performance deteriorated significantly after restriction and did not improve after recovery. Figure 8. Serial 24-h IL-6 values at baseline (♦), restriction (■), and recovery (▲). Thick white, gray, and black lines on the abscissa indicate the nighttime sleep recording period at baseline, restriction, and recovery, respectively. The view that IL6 is involved in sleep regulation is further supported by the observation that exogenous administration of IL6 in humans caused profound somnolence and fatigue ( 143 ), while in another study, its administration was associated with an increase of SWS in the second half of the night, suggesting a direct action of IL6 on central nervous system sleep mechanisms ( 144 ). The
