HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


was associated with an increase of SWS in the second half of the night, suggesting a direct action of IL6 on central nervous system sleep mechanisms ( 144 ). The sleepdisturbing effect of exogenous IL6 noted in the first half of the night might be attributed to increased secretion of CRH, ACTH and cortisol induced by IL6 during the early part of the night. An alternative, not mutually exclusive, hypothesis is that high levels of IL6 per se may compromise early nighttime sleep. Sleep Disturbance, Cytokines and Normal Aging In a study in which we compared older adults to young subjects, the mean 24h IL6 and cortisol secretion was significantly higher in older adults (P < 0.05) ( 62 ) ( Figure 9 ). IL6 secretion in older adults was increased both during the daytime and nighttime, whereas cortisol secretion was more pronounced during the evening and nighttime periods. TNFα secretion in young adults showed a statistically significant circadian rhythm with a peak close to the offset of sleep; such a rhythm was not present in older adults. Both IL6 and cortisol levels were positively associated with total wake time. The effect of IL6 on wake time was markedly stronger for the older group than for the young group. The combined effect of cortisol and IL6 on wake time was additive. IL6 had a negative association with REM sleep only in the young, while cortisol was associated negatively with REM sleep both in the young and old, with a stronger effect in the young. These results suggest that in healthy adults, age-related alterations in nocturnal wake time are associated with elevation of both plasma IL6 and cortisol concentrations, while REM sleep declines with age is primarily associated with cortisol increases. Figure 9. Twenty-four-hour plasma concentrations of IL6 (top), TNFα (middle), and cortisol (bottom) in healthy young (□) and old (■) individuals. Each data point represents the mean ± SE. The darkened area indicates the sleep recording period. It has been previously suggested that increased HPA axis activity associated with aging is a result of the "wear and tear" of lifelong exposure to stress ( 53 , 54 ). An alternative, not mutually exclusive, explanation is that the significant alteration of HPA axis activity associated with age is at least partially secondary to the hypersecretion of IL6, whose peripheral levels are a good marker of increased morbidity and mortality ( 145
