HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


HPA axis activity associated with age is at least partially secondary to the hypersecretion of IL6, whose peripheral levels are a good marker of increased morbidity and mortality ( 145 ). The source of IL6 hypersecretion in the elderly is not known. However, we know that IL6 peripheral levels correlate negatively with sexsteroids levels, positively with the amount of adipose tissue, are decreased after a good night's sleep, and are elevated in chronic pain/inflammatory syndromes ( 62 , 137 , 142 , 146 - 148 ). Old age is associated with decreased sexsteroid concentrations, increased proportional body fat, decreased quantity and quality of sleep, and frequent chronic pain/inflammatory conditions. Reducing the secretion of IL6 in elderly, either by (a) administration of sex steroids, (b) decreasing fat through diet and exercise, (c) improving nighttime sleep, and (d) controlling adequately chronic pain and inflammation with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents, may improve sleep, daytime alertness, and performance, and decrease the risk of common ailments of old age, e.g., metabolic and cardiovascular problems, cognitive disorders, and osteoporosis ( 118 , 149 , 150 ). Cytokines as Potential Mediators of Pathological or Experimentally Induced Excessive Daytime Sleepiness Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) occurs in about 59% of the general population ( 9 , 13 , 151 ) and is the chief complaint of the majority of patients evaluated at sleep disorders centers. EDS is one of the major physiological consequences of obstructive sleep apnea. Besides the obvious effects of daytime sleepiness on patients' occupational and social life, daytime sleepiness appears to be a major concern of public safety. There has been a number of studies of cytokine profiles in patients with excessive daytime sleepiness (pathologic or experimentally induced) within the last 20 years. In one of the first studies in 1996, Entzian et al. studied 10 hospitalized patients requiring therapy for obstructive sleep apnea ( 104 ). Blood samples were collected every 4 hours during the day (08.00 to 20.00 h) and at 2h intervals during nighttime sleep. Whole blood cultures stimulated with lipopolysaccharide were used to determine cytokine release. The circadian rhythm of TNFα was significantly altered in sleep apnea patients; the peak concentrations that occurred during the night in normal control subjects were not present in sleep apnea patients. Rather, sleep apnea patients exhibited increased TNFα concentrations in the afternoon, the time period during which concentrations in normal control subjects are at a minimum. It
