HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


in sleep apnea patients. Rather, sleep apnea patients exhibited increased TNFα concentrations in the afternoon, the time period during which concentrations in normal control subjects are at a minimum. It is also interesting to note that in spite of a lack of statistical differences due to inherent interindividual variability, infrequent sampling and a small sample size, absolute IL1 concentrations in the sleep apnea patients were more than twice those obtained from normal controls, and IFN concentrations were more than three times those of normal controls. Finally, IL6 in sleep apneics reached maximum concentrations in the evening, in contrast to normal subjects where IL6 peaked at about 2.00 a.m. In 1997, we published a study in which cytokine profiles were obtained from several patient populations with disorders of excessive daytime sleepiness ( 152 ). Three populations were studied; those with obstructive sleep apnea (n = 12); narcoleptics (n = 11); and idiopathic hypersomniacs (n = 8). Single blood samples were drawn in the morning after the completion of the nighttime sleep laboratory recordings. Plasma concentrations of IL1β, TNFα, and IL6 were determined by ELISA. Relative to control subjects, plasma IL1 concentrations did not differ between the three groups. TNFα was elevated in sleep apnea patients and narcoleptics, and IL6 was elevated only in sleep apnea patients. Correlational analyses indicated that TNFα and IL6 correlated positively with measures of excessive daytime sleepiness; TNF was positively correlated with the degree of nocturnal sleep disturbance, and the degree of hypoxia, whereas IL6 concentrations were correlated with degree of nocturnal sleep disturbance, degree of hypoxia, and body mass index. The potential role of IL6 as a mediator of daytime sleepiness was further suggested in a study by HinzeSelch et al. that showed that IL6 secretion by monocytes was higher in narcoleptics than controls and plasma levels of IL6 were non-significantly higher in patients compared to controls ( 153 ). The results of our first study prompted us to study further the role of IL6 and TNFα as potential mediators of EDS in disorders of EDS, i.e., sleep apnea, and in conditions of experimentallyinduced daytime sleepiness following sleep deprivation. Those preliminary findings were later corroborated by several studies by us or other researchers that showed that: (a) Single and 24hour TNFα and IL6 plasma levels are elevated in adults and children with sleep apnea independently of obesity ( 103 , 118 , 154 - 158 )
