HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


(a) Single and 24hour TNFα and IL6 plasma levels are elevated in adults and children with sleep apnea independently of obesity ( 103 , 118 , 154 - 158 ) ( Figure 10 ); (b) body mass index (BMI) positively correlates with both TNFα and IL6 levels, suggesting that these two cytokines may play a role in daytime sleepiness experienced by obese individuals in the absence of sleep apnea ( 25 ); (c) daytime levels of IL6 and TNFα are elevated in healthy humans experiencing somnolence and fatigue as a result of total sleep deprivation ( 137 ) or even after a modest sleep loss by restricting sleep to 6 hours a night per week ( 76 , 159 ); and (d) a midafternoon nap following a night of total sleep deprivation is beneficial for both the suppression of IL6 secretion and for the improvement of alertness ( 83 ). In the latter studies, greater presleep deprivation amounts of slow wave (deep) sleep rendered the subjects resistant to the effect of sleep deprivation. It is common experience that individuals differ significantly in terms of their ability to sustain sleep loss or curtailment. Those with greater amounts of SWS are inherently more capable of tolerating sleep loss, possibly avoiding exposure to the potentially harmful effects of increased IL6 secretion. Other studies have confirmed these findings by showing that IL6 and TNFα are elevated following an 88hour period of wakefulness ( 160 ) and that the nighttime rise of IL6 levels is delayed during partial sleep deprivation ( 161 ). TNFα plasma levels are also elevated in other diseases associated with excessive daytime sleepiness, such as chronic fatigue syndrome, postdialysis fatigue, HIV patients ( 162 ). In 2004, a pilot, placebo controlled, doubleblind study further supported the somnogenic actions of IL6 and TNFa. In this study, researchers tested the results of etanercept, a TNFα antagonist in eight obese male apneics suffering from excessive daytime sleepiness. Both sleepiness and AHI (number of apneas/hypopneas per hour) were reduced significantly by the drug compared to the placebo. IL6 levels were also significantly decreased ( 163 ). Figure 10. Plasma TNF, IL6, and leptin levels in sleep apneics and BMImatched obese and normal weight controls. A *, P <0.01 vs. normal weight (nl wt) controls, B *, P < 0. 5 vs. nl wt controls, C *, < 0.05 vs. obese and lean controls. These studies
