HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


*, P <0.01 vs. normal weight (nl wt) controls, B *, P < 0. 5 vs. nl wt controls, C *, < 0.05 vs. obese and lean controls. These studies collectively provide evidence that cytokines are elevated in individuals suffering from a disorder of EDS, e.g., apnea, or healthy individuals experiencing EDS secondary to acute or shortterm sleep loss and support the hypothesis that EDS (pathologic or experimentally-induced) may be mediated in part by somnogenic cytokines. Insomnia and Cytokines Chronic insomnia, by far the most commonly encountered sleep disorder in medical practice, is characterized by long sleep latencies or increased wake time during the night and increased fatigue during the day, although in objective daytime sleep testing, insomniacs are unable to fall asleep ( 164 , 165 ). In a 2002 study, we demonstrated that the mean 24hour IL6 and TNF secretions were not different between insomniacs and controls. However, mean IL6 levels were significantly elevated in insomniacs compared to controls in the midafternoon and evening presleep period (15.0023.00, P < 0.05) ( 146 ) ( Figure 11 ). Furthermore, cosinor analysis showed a significant shift of the major peak of IL6 secretion from early morning (05.00) to evening (20.00) in insomniacs compared to controls. Also, TNFα secretion in controls showed a statistically significant circadian rhythm with a peak close to the offset of sleep; such a rhythm was not present in insomniacs ( Figure 12 ). Figure 11. Twenty-four-hour circadian secretory pattern of IL6 in insomniacs (○) and controls (●). The thick black line on the abscissa indicates the sleep recording period. Error bar indicates SE, * P < .05. Moreover, the daytime secretion of TNF in insomniacs was associated with a regular periodicity of about 4 hours, and its amplitude was significantly different from zero. Controls showed a similar rhythm, which, however, was not significant. Figure 12. Twenty-four-hour circadian secretory pattern of TNFα in insomniacs (○) and controls (●). The thick black line on the abscissa indicates the sleep recording period. Error bar indicates SE. Based on these findings, we concluded that chronic insomnia was associated with a shift of IL6 and TNF secretion from nighttime to daytime, which may explain the daytime fatigue and performance decrements associated with this disorder. The daytime shift of IL6 and TNF secretion, combined with a 24h hypersecretion of CRH and cortisol, both arousal hormones, may explain the insomniacs' daytime fatigue and
