HPA Axis and Sleep
KEYWORDS: sleep, pubmed, cortisol, associated, insomnia, levels, sleepiness, apnea, secretion, sleep apnea, axis, daytime, study, patients, effects


with this disorder. The daytime shift of IL6 and TNF secretion, combined with a 24h hypersecretion of CRH and cortisol, both arousal hormones, may explain the insomniacs' daytime fatigue and difficulty falling asleep during the daytime and/or the nighttime. In conclusion, despite the fact that the above findings show abnormal secretion patterns of TNFα and IL6 in insomnia, further studies are needed in order to get better insight into the association between cytokine secretion pattern and chronic insomnia. Sleepiness vs. Fatigue: The Role of the Interaction of HPA Axis with Cytokines From our previous studies, it became evident that cytokines are elevated both in disorders of deep sleep/EDS as well as in disorders of poor sleep/fatigue. These seemingly inconsistent findings can be better understood if we clarify the terms sleepiness vs. fatigue and understand the effects of cytokines on sleep/sleepiness in terms of their interaction with HPA axis. “Sleepiness” and “fatigue” have been considered to be either the same state, different states on a continuum or finally fundamentally different states. In medical practice and literature, these terms are often used interchangeably; however, there is enough clinical evidence to propose a separate definition for these 2 terms in sleep disorders medicine. Sleepiness is a subjective feeling of physical and mental tiredness associated with increased sleep propensity. Fatigue is also a subjective feeling of physical and/or mental tiredness; however, it is not associated with increased sleep propensity. Based on these definitions, sleep disorders or conditions associated with sleepiness include sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and sleep deprivation. On the other hand, sleep disorders associated with fatigue include chronic insomnia, sleep disturbances in the elderly, and psychogenic hypersomnia. This distinction between “sleepiness” and “fatigue” was adopted unanimously as useful for the field of insomnia research by an expert panel of 25 sleep researchers who convened in Pittsburgh on March 1011, 2005 ( 166 ). Based on our studies, we propose that daytime cytokine hypersecretion and/or circadian shift of cytokine secretion not associated with HPA axis activation leads to sleepiness and deeper sleep, and a good example of this is sleep deprivation. On the other hand, we suggest that daytime cytokine hypersecretion and/or circadian alteration of cytokine secretion associated with HPA axis activation, e.g., insomnia, leads to fatigue and poor sleep. Such a model, which combines cytokine secretion and HPA axis function to explain sleepiness and increased sleep versus fatigue and poor sleep, is supported by
