Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


or acquired generalised LD (Lawrence syndrome) in adults and children 2 years of age and above • with confirmed familial partial LD or acquired partial LD (Barraquer–Simons syndrome), in adults and children 12 years of age and above for whom standard treatments have failed to achieve adequate metabolic control'. 3.2 Metreleptin is administered daily by subcutaneous injection. For people weighing 40 kg or less, the starting daily dose is 0.06 mg/kg. Dose adjustments of 0.02 mg/kg are allowed up to a maximum daily dose of 0.13 mg/kg. For men and women weighing over 40 kg, the starting daily dose is 2.5 mg and 5 mg respectively. For people weighing over 40 kg, dose adjustments of 1.25 mg to 2.5 mg are allowed up to a maximum daily dose of 10 mg. 3.3 The most common treatment-emergent adverse events in metreleptin studies included weight loss, hypoglycaemia, fatigue, injection site reactions, neutralising antibodies, decreased appetite, nausea, headache, abdominal pain, menorrhagia and alopecia. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.4 The price of metreleptin per 11.3 mg vial (up to a 10 mg dose) is £2,335.00; per 5.8 mg vial (up to a 5 mg dose) is £1,167.50 and per 3 mg vial (up to a 2.8 mg dose) is £583.75 (excluding VAT; company's evidence submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes metreleptin available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company's responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 4 Consideration of the evidence The evaluation committee (see section 6) considered evidence submitted by Amryt, the views of people with the condition and those who represent them, clinical experts and NHS England, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG), the technical report, and responses from stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. History of the evaluation 4.1 Previously, 2 committee meetings were held for the evaluation of this topic. After the second committee meeting (12 February 2019), a final evaluation determination was drafted of the committee's considerations and conclusions based on the evidence presented. NICE received 2 appeals against that final evaluation determination. The appeal hearing did not take place because Aegerion (the marketing authorisation holder at the time) requested reconsideration of this topic (in
