Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


received 2 appeals against that final evaluation determination. The appeal hearing did not take place because Aegerion (the marketing authorisation holder at the time) requested reconsideration of this topic (in line with the highly specialised interim methods and process guide). This was granted and the final evaluation determination was withdrawn. For reconsideration of the topic, the company also agreed to address the concerns outlined in the drafted final evaluation determination by presenting additional evidence and doing further analysis. Amryt, the company that is now the marketing authorisation holder, submitted the additional evidence and new analyses for reconsideration. The resubmission went through a technical engagement process in August 2020. 4.2 Concerns raised by the committee during the second meeting (reported in the final evaluation document that was withdrawn) included: • Lack of evidence on relative effectiveness of metreleptin on disease progression or important outcomes such as hyperphagia: － The systematic literature review may have missed some studies. － There was no evidence on change in patient experience and disease progression for people who did not have metreleptin. － Early access programme results did not improve the committee's understanding of metreleptin's relative effectiveness in the short or long term because they did not include long-term data or patient-reported outcomes (such as hyperphagia). • The economic model focused on mortality and did not capture important aspects of the condition; it oversimplified its underlying progression. The committee's suggestion of using a model structure with established diabetes or fatty liver disease models to capture some important aspects of disease progression was not followed. • Starting and stopping criteria were not included in the economic model. • Rescaled utility estimated from the discrete choice experiment was more plausible than the original discrete choice experiment, but there were still uncertainties. • Carer utility decrement was based on literature and only applied to the supportive care arm. 4.3 The evaluation committee was aware that 1 issue (issue 5) was resolved during the technical engagement stage. It agreed that yearly rates of stopping treatment (8.93% in year 1, 5.63% in years 2 to 9 and 2.04% in year 10 onwards) were a good reflection of treatment stopping seen in the first year of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) trial and the decline in how many people stopped treatment over time. It agreed that it was better than applying a single stopping rate only based on those who chose
