Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


trial and the decline in how many people stopped treatment over time. It agreed that it was better than applying a single stopping rate only based on those who chose to stop metreleptin in each population (1.5% for generalised lipodystrophy and 3.86% for partial lipodystrophy) from NIH trials. 4.4 There was 1 remaining area of uncertainty associated with the analyses presented (see the technical report in the final evaluation determination decision making. It discussed issue 1, issues 2 and 3 together; issue 4, issue 6, issue 7, issue 8, issue 9, and issue 10, which were outstanding after technical engagement. When forming the recommendations, the committee took into account the full range of factors that might affect its decision, in particular, the nature of the condition, the clinical effectiveness, value for money and the impact beyond direct health benefits. Nature of the condition Burden of disease 4.5 The patient experts explained the all-consuming nature of lipodystrophy. They highlighted that, other than the serious metabolic abnormalities caused by the condition, hyperphagia was a predominant debilitating feature. The company stated that this feeling of constant hunger was better described as starvation to convey the extent of its debilitating effects. The patient experts explained that eating does not relieve the hunger, so people with the condition are constantly looking for food, which results in physical, psychological and behavioural complications. For children, constant supervision is needed to ensure they do not eat inedible objects. The constant food seeking, and associated lack of concentration and fatigue, negatively affects social and professional life, and is a significant financial burden. The patient experts highlighted that, in the absence of specific treatment targeting lipodystrophy and hyperphagia, dietary advice is a mainstay of supportive treatment. They noted their frustration with this because dietary control is often impossible when overcome by a feeling of starvation. The patient experts also noted that caring for a child with lipodystrophy is a substantial burden, affecting parents and carers both emotionally and financially. The committee acknowledged that lipodystrophy is a debilitating condition, and that hyperphagia has a significant effect on quality of life, which affects patients, parents and carers. For children and young people with congenital generalised lipodystrophy, the condition may also shorten their life expectancy. The committee recognised that there is a significant unmet need for an effective treatment option. Diagnosis 4.6 The clinical experts explained that lipodystrophy diagnosis may be delayed because
