Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


life expectancy. The committee recognised that there is a significant unmet need for an effective treatment option. Diagnosis 4.6 The clinical experts explained that lipodystrophy diagnosis may be delayed because it is not immediately recognised and is a rare condition. Diagnosing generalised lipodystrophy, particularly when congenital, is easier because people typically present at between 1 to 2 years old, and develop diabetes and damage in 1 or more organs by the time they are 2 or 3 years old. However, partial lipodystrophy usually presents later, and symptoms are heterogeneous, which makes diagnosis at an early stage of the disease difficult. The clinical experts highlighted that an earlier diagnosis is important to prevent disease progression. The patient experts supported the view of the clinical experts, stating that partial lipodystrophy can progress and become severe if undiagnosed and untreated. The company explained that some people may have a mutation that is unrelated to leptin deficiency but manifests with similar symptoms, emphasising that the right clinical diagnosis is critical for effective treatment. The clinical experts confirmed that patients are routinely genotyped as part of the NHS service at Addenbrooke's Hospital. The committee was satisfied that people with lipodystrophy can be accurately identified, but noted that diagnosis in some people with milder forms of partial lipodystrophy may be delayed. Impact of the new technology Clinical trial evidence 4.7 The committee discussed the clinical evidence submitted by the company: • NIH 991265 was a pilot, dose-escalation study to determine the safety and efficacy of short-term leptin replacement (up to 8 months). After NIH 991265 ended, patients continued treatment in the extension study NIH 20010769 for long-term follow up. All but 1 patient who completed NIH 991265 moved to NIH 20010769. This meant the studies were treated as 1 study continuously enrolling patients with generalised (n=66) and partial lipodystrophy (n=41) over the course of 14 years. • FHA101 was an open-label, single-arm, expanded-access study with 9 patients with generalised lipodystrophy and 32 patients with partial lipodystrophy enrolled over the course of 6 years. Only 1 patient in these studies was recruited from the UK, but the clinical experts confirmed that the trial populations were generalisable to patients seen in clinical practice in England. The ERG highlighted that estimates of treatment effects were based on changes from baseline in single-arm metreleptin treatment studies during the first and second committee meetings. The committee noted that there was a
