Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


that estimates of treatment effects were based on changes from baseline in single-arm metreleptin treatment studies during the first and second committee meetings. The committee noted that there was a lack of evidence on metreleptin's relative treatment effect. In its resubmission, and in response to committee's concerns at the second meeting (see section 4.2), the company updated its systematic literature review. It used a new search strategy to include search terms for comparators and did a new indirect treatment comparison using 3 methods. The ERG noted that the new systematic literature review addressed its previous critiques on searching. The committee concluded that it was satisfied with the company's attempt to identify evidence on comparators in its updated systematic literature review. Early access programme 4.8 One of the committee's concerns was the lack of evidence on metreleptin's long- term effect in people who have treatment (see section 4.2). In its resubmission, the company provided additional clinical evidence with 36-month follow up from the metreleptin early access programme (n=31, including all patients who had treatment since the start of the programme) at Addenbrooke's Hospital. Data were collected retrospectively, with clinicians entering patient data on baseline characteristics, organ damage and complications, laboratory values and metreleptin dose. The ERG noted that the additional data showed persistence of changes with metreleptin treatment up to 36 months, with a reduction in HbA1c and triglycerides (see section 4.11). But, there were no patient-reported outcomes or measures of patient experience (including hyperphagia) presented, despite some people having treatment for 10 years or more. The company explained that when the early access programme was set up in 2005 there was no pre-specified data collection protocol, so the only data available were from a review of patient medical records. In addition, clinical experts noted that the treatment eligibility criteria currently used were not in place when the programme was set up. Because the criteria were only introduced 2 years ago, not all people with partial lipodystrophy in the programme had poor enough metabolic status at baseline to be eligible for the treatment under the current criteria. For example, people with high levels of triglycerides and a low level of HbA1c were enrolled at the time. The clinical experts also stated that the programme had a small sample size, and there were very few data on generalised lipodystrophy's response to metreleptin. This meant that no conclusion on efficacy could be made
