Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


that the programme had a small sample size, and there were very few data on generalised lipodystrophy's response to metreleptin. This meant that no conclusion on efficacy could be made from the early access programme. The committee welcomed the company's attempt to gather additional clinical evidence to supplement the sparse evidence base. It agreed that the new evidence indicated that metreleptin treatment improves metabolic outcomes at 36-month follow up. But, the committee did not substantially improve its understanding of the relative effectiveness of metreleptin. It concluded that evidence from the early access programme itself was not sufficient to address the gaps in the clinical evidence base. Representativeness of the NIH follow-up study and the indirect treatment comparison 4.9 In response to the committee's concerns about the lack of evidence on metreleptin's relative effectiveness (see section 4.2), the company did an indirect treatment comparison. This used 3 methods (inverse probability weighting, multivariate regression analysis, and naive comparison) to estimate the treatment effect of metreleptin relative to supportive care for key clinical outcomes. Data used to inform the indirect treatment comparison were from the NIH 991265/ NIH 20010769 study (metreleptin arm) and the GL/PL natural history study (supportive care arm), respectively. Outcomes assessed included change from baseline in HbA1c, triglycerides and liver enzyme (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] and aspartate aminotransferase [AST]) levels, the incidence of acute pancreatitis and all-cause mortality. The results of the indirect treatment comparison showed statistically significant differences in favour of metreleptin on HbA1c, triglycerides, liver enzymes and reducing the risk of pancreatitis at 12-month follow up. It also suggested that survival was worse with metreleptin compared with supportive care, but the difference was not statistically significant. 4.10 The committee agreed in a previous meeting that the NIH follow-up study was representative of people with lipodystrophy in the UK and appropriate to be used for treatment comparison. However, with additional evidence available from the early access programme, the ERG raised 2 concerns related to the indirect treatment comparison. These were the representativeness of the NIH follow-up study used to inform the indirect treatment comparison compared with the early access programme, and the selection of covariates used to adjust for differences between patient cohorts in the indirect treatment comparison. The ERG noted differences in the effects of metreleptin treatment (particularly for changes in triglyceride levels) between the early access programme (see section 4.8) and the NIH follow-up study (see section 4.7).
