Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


noted differences in the effects of metreleptin treatment (particularly for changes in triglyceride levels) between the early access programme (see section 4.8) and the NIH follow-up study (see section 4.7). For example, for people with generalised lipodystrophy, the 12-month change in triglycerides was -3.5 mmol/ litre (based only on people for whom both baseline and 12-month data were available) in the early access programme, compared with -10.54 mmol/litre in the NIH follow up. The ERG noted that the early access programme estimate is closer to that of the GL/PL natural history study estimate of -4.43 mmol/litre. The change in HbA1c at 12 months was also lower in the early access programme (-1.5% for those with generalised lipodystrophy) than in the NIH follow-up study (-1.94% for all patients). Given these differences and the fact that people enrolled in the early access programme are from the UK, the ERG stated that the early access programme should be used in the indirect treatment comparison instead of the NIH follow-up study. The company explained that the early access programme had a much smaller sample size (n=31) and started over a decade ago. The eligibility criteria have evolved along with the growing evidence base for people with lipodystrophy. The clinical experts highlighted the limitations of the early access programme data, namely that people did not have poor enough metabolic status at baseline when they were enrolled in the programme (see section 4.8). They added that the early access programme was not a research study, it was based on 'compassionate use' rather than formal clinical criteria. One of the clinical experts involved in the early access programme explained that recent outcomes are becoming more and more aligned with those of the NIH study follow up. This is because of the application of recent clinical inclusion criteria (see section 4.8). The clinical experts stated that the indirect treatment comparison would be better informed by the NIH follow-up study. The ERG was also concerned about the limited covariates adjusted for in the indirect treatment comparison. This is because important prognostic covariates such as baseline HbA1c and triglyceride levels were not controlled for in the analysis. The company argued that these were not confounding factors because they were not related to treatment allocation. The company also explored using additional covariates in a sensitivity analysis. But, it stated that this analysis was not feasible because of small sample size, the
