Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


related to treatment allocation. The company also explored using additional covariates in a sensitivity analysis. But, it stated that this analysis was not feasible because of small sample size, the high proportion of missing data and the large number of potential covariates. The company explained that there was more than 90% of missing data and, despite a small sample number (n=31), the 3 methods it used to adjust for cofounders (inverse probability weighting, multivariate regression analysis, and naive comparison) showed consistent results with statistical significance. The company added that its approach was driven by clinical opinion and statistical principles. The committee recognised the limitation of the company's indirect treatment comparison. However, it understood the challenges in generating evidence for ultra-rare diseases given the availability of the data. The committee concluded that, despite the limitations, it was broadly satisfied with the company's methods for the indirect treatment comparison. HbA1c, triglycerides and liver enzyme levels as surrogate end points 4.11 The primary outcomes measured in the clinical studies included absolute change in HbA1c levels and percent change in fasting serum triglyceride levels from baseline to month 12. Metreleptin was associated with a statistically significant improvement in both primary outcomes compared with baseline in NIH 991265/ 20010769. In the generalised lipodystrophy population this was -2.2, percentage point (pp), p<0.001 for HbA1c levels and -32.1%, p=0.001 for triglyceride levels. In the partial lipodystrophy population this was -0.6 pp, p=0.005 for HbA1c and -20.8%, p=0.013 for triglyceride levels. Decreases in HbA1c and triglyceride levels were not statistically significant in the FHA101 study. Additional data from the early access programme (at 36-month follow up) that became available for the resubmission also suggested that metreleptin reduced HbA1c in both people with generalised and partial lipodystrophy (-1.1% and -1.2% respectively) and fasting triglyceride levels (-57.6% and -23.9%, respectively). No statistical significance was reported. The company also presented evidence on metreleptin's treatment effect on the liver enzymes, ALT and AST. This showed treatment effect in favour of metreleptin at 12-month follow up (see section 4.9). 4.12 The committee discussed HbA1c, triglyceride and liver enzyme levels as surrogates because changes in these outcomes were used to adjust long-term transitions between states in the modelling. As part of their resubmission, the company held a Delphi panel involving 10 international clinical experts (3 of whom were clinical experts from Addenbrooke's Hospital). The Delphi panel reached a consensus that HbA1c is a good
