Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


company held a Delphi panel involving 10 international clinical experts (3 of whom were clinical experts from Addenbrooke's Hospital). The Delphi panel reached a consensus that HbA1c is a good predictor of diabetes-related complications including cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, retinopathy and neuropathy in people with lipodystrophy. The company explained that the relationship between HbA1c and long-term clinical outcomes based on 30-year follow up in diabetes studies is established and widely accepted. The clinical experts explained that triglyceride levels were strongly linked to pancreatitis but that the association was harder to capture mathematically. The clinical experts agreed that HbA1c and triglyceride levels are used in clinical practice and are considered to be reasonably predictive of clinical outcomes. However, the relationship may not be identical to that in other disease areas such as diabetes. For example, the risk of early death is greater for people with lipodystrophy compared with people with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. They stated that, in general, people with lipodystrophy with lower HbA1c and triglyceride levels have a better prognosis than people with higher levels. They also noted that the effects of HbA1c and triglycerides were broadly correlated but there may be differences between individuals with lipodystrophy depending on other independent factors, for example, genetic factors. They added that HbA1c can predict for complications of the eye and nervous system, as in type 2 diabetes, but differently for other organ complications such as complications of the kidney, liver and heart. They also stated that many people can stop insulin completely after starting leptin treatment. The committee also considered the merit of liver enzymes as a surrogate outcome for liver complications. Clinical experts explained that these are poor predictors of liver disease. The company stated that, because it knew liver enzymes were not a good surrogate, it sought the opinion of clinical experts (through the Delphi panel) on the likely effect of metreleptin on liver disease. The committee asked about the likelihood of HbA1c and triglyceride levels falling without metreleptin. The clinical experts stated that if people had not previously been given any dietary advice, that giving it at the start of treatment could result in improved levels. But, the extent of improvement may be limited because of hyperphagia. In fact, they stated that without treatment, HbA1c levels are likely to reverse to their baseline values over 6 to 12 months, or sooner. The committee noted that evidence
