Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


hyperphagia. In fact, they stated that without treatment, HbA1c levels are likely to reverse to their baseline values over 6 to 12 months, or sooner. The committee noted that evidence showed that metreleptin is effective in lowering HbA1c and triglyceride levels. Evidence also showed that metreleptin may affect liver enzymes but their correlation with the progression of liver disease is less clear. The committee concluded that using HbA1c to predict diabetes-related complications in people with lipodystrophy is acceptable but the relationship between liver enzymes and liver disease is uncertain. Clinical and patient-perceived outcomes 4.13 The clinical studies did not include an objective measure to capture the effect of metreleptin on hyperphagia even though, as the patient experts explained, it is a defining characteristic of lipodystrophy with important physical and emotional consequences. The clinical experts agreed that treatment targeting hyperphagia is critical because eating less means some complications of lipodystrophy will improve. The clinical experts also explained that hyperphagia is caused by a deficiency in the hormone leptin (see section 2.1). They also noted that it was hard to predict the impact of metreleptin effect on hyperphagia and quality of life, because there is no simple relationship between eating less and quality of life. The committee acknowledged the expert comments and agreed that any improvements in hyperphagia would be important, but difficult to capture when considering the clinical benefits of metreleptin. The ERG noted that the NIH study measured food intake (kcal) per day in a subset of patients. This showed that, while intake decreased from baseline initially (4-month assessment), decreases were not statistically significant at the end of the year. Results from the NIH follow-up study showed that 99% of people who had metreleptin reported improvements in hyperphagia. The ERG highlighted that improvements were assessed in a review of medical notes and, although results suggested metreleptin improved hyperphagia, these judgements were not made using an objective measure. The patient experts stated that, since starting metreleptin, they had experienced a feeling of fullness after eating and that this had dramatically altered their lives. One patient expert also noted that, before their daughter started metreleptin, they had to lock cupboards because her intense hunger led her to search for food. But, since starting the treatment her hunger had reduced, and food seeking had stopped. The clinical experts agreed that metreleptin reduces hunger and food seeking. They also noted that children with congenital
