Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


starting the treatment her hunger had reduced, and food seeking had stopped. The clinical experts agreed that metreleptin reduces hunger and food seeking. They also noted that children with congenital leptin deficiency could continue benefiting from metreleptin when having treatment for over 20 years, including avoiding obesity and related comorbidities. The committee queried whether there was any continued effect of metreleptin if patients stop the treatment. Clinical experts stated that symptoms of hyperphagia will return after a few days once metreleptin is stopped. The committee noted that, in the studies, a substantial number of patients stopped metreleptin treatment. The clinical experts explained that this could be because metreleptin only treats leptin deficiency and does not correct problems associated with loss of adipose tissue. The company explained that some patients who were seen as stopping treatment had remained on metreleptin but moved to local treatment centres where treatment was provided through compassionate use programmes. It stated that it intended to capture patient- reported outcomes, including hunger scores, as part of its post-authorisation commitments. The committee agreed that any additional information (qualitative or quantitative) about the experience of hyperphagia in people with lipodystrophy, and the effect metreleptin has on it, could substantially improve its understanding of the potential clinical benefits. It concluded that capturing the effect of metreleptin on hyperphagia could be challenging but was important to assess the nature and magnitude of any clinical benefits of metreleptin while patients are on treatment, and also after stopping treatment. Starting and stopping criteria 4.14 The committee queried whether all people diagnosed with lipodystrophy and covered by the marketing authorisation would be expected to have treatment with metreleptin. The clinical experts stated that most people with generalised lipodystrophy have hyperphagia and organ dysfunction, so would be expected to benefit from leptin treatment. The committee was also aware that everyone diagnosed with generalised lipodystrophy had leptin treatment as part of the early access programme at Addenbrooke's Hospital. The marketing authorisation for partial lipodystrophy (for people aged 12 and over) was not restrictive. But, the committee was aware that several different subsets of people with partial lipodystrophy had been presented in the company evidence: • NIH studies 991265/20010769 included leptin level criteria in their definition of people with partial lipodystrophy (used for the indirect treatment comparison): － NIH 2001769: below 12.0 nanogram/ml in women, below 8.0 nanogram/ml in men, and below 6 nanogram/ml in children between
