Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


people with partial lipodystrophy (used for the indirect treatment comparison): － NIH 2001769: below 12.0 nanogram/ml in women, below 8.0 nanogram/ml in men, and below 6 nanogram/ml in children between 6 months and 5 years － NIH 991265: 8.0 nanogram/ml and below in women and 6.0 nanogram/ml and below in men － HbA1c 6.5% or more or triglycerides 5.65 mmol/litre or more, or both. • A subgroup of people with partial lipodystrophy from the NIH studies with baseline HbA1c 6.5% or more, or triglycerides 5.65 mmol/litre or more, or both (used for model inputs for the economic analysis, including baseline levels of metabolic surrogates and changes from baseline of HbA1c). The company considered that this subgroup of people with partial lipodystrophy represents a more severe group compared with the overall population of people with partial lipodystrophy in the NIH studies. This is because they are more at risk of organ damage and this best reflects the licensed indication. • The early access programme included people with partial lipodystrophy with baseline leptin below 12 nanogram/ml and HbA1c 6.5% or more, or triglycerides 5.65 mmol/litre or more, or both (used by the company for baseline patient distribution in the model). The early access programme also included people with partial lipodystrophy who did not meet these criteria (see section 4.8). • After the technical engagement, the company suggested further restricting the group of people with partial lipodystrophy from their original definition (HbA1c 6.5% or more, or triglycerides 5.65 mmol/litre or more, or both), to baseline HbA1c above 58 mmol/mol (7.5%), or fasting triglycerides above 5.00 mmol/litre, or both. But, they accepted the HbA1c could be lower under exceptional circumstances such as in cases of extreme hyperphagia, or because of severe side effects from other glucose-lowering medications or other serious complications of inadequate metabolic control such as progressive liver disease. The company explained these restrictive criteria were developed based on the clinical evidence from the NIH studies 991265/ 20010769, UK clinical expert experience and consensus from European lipodystrophy centres. The ERG pointed out that there was no clinical or economic evidence for this further restricted subgroup of partial lipodystrophy proposed by the company. It was concerned that the effect on the population size eligible for treatment was unknown given the lack of information on the number of people who would actually fulfil these criteria, including the exceptions. It noted that the narrower population would
