Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


for treatment was unknown given the lack of information on the number of people who would actually fulfil these criteria, including the exceptions. It noted that the narrower population would cause issues around application of the various data sources to UK clinical practice. The clinical experts explained that response to metreleptin is greater in people with lipodystrophy and with more severe metabolic status (that is, HbA1c and triglyceride levels) at baseline. They further explained that the criteria of 'HbA1c above 7.5%' was based on the recommended value for a person with diabetes to target in clinical practice. The criteria of 'fasting triglycerides above 5.00 mmol/litre' was based on the value above which people with diabetes are at risk of pancreatitis. The committee understood the rationale for choosing the further restricted criteria for the subgroup of people with partial lipodystrophy. It acknowledged the ERG's concerns, but agreed that partial lipodystrophy with more severe metabolic status (that is, HbA1c above 58 mmol/mol (7.5%), or fasting triglycerides above 5.00 mmol/litre, or both) may benefit more from metreleptin. Because the subgroup of people with partial lipodystrophy included in the economic model had less severe metabolic status (HbA1c 6.5% or more, or triglycerides 5.65 mmol/litre or more, or both), the estimated cost effectiveness for metreleptin was likely to be too high. The committee concluded it would take this into account in its decision making. Adverse events 4.15 The committee noted that the proportion of patients in the main clinical trials who had a treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) was high: • In the NIH studies, around 89% of patients with generalised lipodystrophy and 85% with partial lipodystrophy had an event. This was severe in 44% and 39% of patients, respectively, and caused 8% and 2%, respectively, to stop treatment. • In the FHA101 study, around 78% of patients with generalised lipodystrophy and 84% with partial lipodystrophy had a TEAE. This was severe in 67% and 28% of patients, respectively, and caused 11% and 9%, respectively, to stop treatment. The company commented that stopping happened not only because of adverse events, but also because the studies included some patients for whom metreleptin was not effective because their condition was not related to leptin. Also, some patients stopped treatment because they were pregnant. The company added that TEAEs happened over a long period of time, more than 3 years in the NIH studies and over 2 years in
