Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


treatment because they were pregnant. The company added that TEAEs happened over a long period of time, more than 3 years in the NIH studies and over 2 years in the FHA101 study, and that several reported TEAEs (such as decreased appetite and weight, and hypoglycaemia) were consistent with metreleptin's mechanism of action. The clinical experts suggested that adherence is likely to improve in practice as the benefits of metreleptin become clear. The company and clinical experts also noted that episodes of pancreatitis improved with metreleptin compared with baseline. A patient expert highlighted that she had gone from having frequent events of pancreatitis to no events since starting metreleptin treatment. The ERG noted that, in its original submission, the company only included data for pancreatitis as an adverse event happening after metreleptin withdrawal: 4 patients with generalised lipodystrophy and 2 patients with partial lipodystrophy had treatment- emergent pancreatitis across studies (1 patient died, 5 recovered). However, the ERG also noted that the NIH data indicated that patients had improvements in pancreatitis on metreleptin. The company noted that TEAEs were not reported in the data collected from the early access programme. The ERG highlighted that this contradicted the company's comments from the first evaluation committee meeting that additional adverse event information could be provided. The committee agreed that additional real- world data on adverse events would be informative. But, based on what it had heard from the experts, it concluded that the tolerability profile of metreleptin was likely to be acceptable. 4.16 In the NIH 991265/20010769 and FHA101 studies, 88% of people developed antibodies to metreleptin, and 4% developed neutralising antibodies to metreleptin. This raised concern that developing neutralising antibodies could affect metabolic control and immune function. The company explained that neutralising antibodies were only reported in 4% of people. Therefore, it did not anticipate this affecting a significant proportion of people or affecting outcomes such as HbA1c and triglyceride levels in the long term. Clinical experts stated that neutralising antibodies are rare, and although relevant to some people, do not seem to be a frequent problem in clinical practice. The same issues are seen in other metabolic diseases, but it does not affect the efficacy of the drug. They noted that neutralising antibodies should still be monitored. The committee concluded that neutralising antibodies did not seem to be a significant issue, but this should still be monitored in the future.
