Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


that neutralising antibodies should still be monitored. The committee concluded that neutralising antibodies did not seem to be a significant issue, but this should still be monitored in the future. Cost to the NHS and value for money Company's economic model 4.17 The company developed a de novo individual patient-level model addressing previous committee concerns (see section 4.2). The model consists of 6 Markov sub-models. These simulate the progression of disease on distinct organ systems affected by lipodystrophy, capturing the key lipodystrophy-related complications that affect health-related quality of life, costs and mortality over the lifetime of people with lipodystrophy. The 6 organ sub-models are: pancreas, liver disease, cardiovascular disease, kidney, neuropathy (nerves) and retinopathy (eyes). In each cycle (which lasted for 1 year), a person is simultaneously in a single discrete health state in each of the 6 independent organ sub-models. A person can die during each cycle, in which case they are removed from all sub-models into the death state. • Pancreas sub-model starts in the 'no pancreatitis' state when a person is at risk of developing pancreatitis. • Liver sub-model is based on NICE's guideline on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). People transition through health states, from having no or asymptomatic fibrosis, to advanced fibrosis, to compensated and then decompensated cirrhosis. • Cardiovascular sub-model: people start in the 'no cardiovascular disease' state, when they are at risk of experiencing cardiovascular complications (stroke, angina, congestive heart failure, and myocardial infarction). • Kidney sub-model is based on the structure of the Sheffield diabetes model. People start in the 'no chronic kidney disease' state, when they can transition through microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria to the end-stage renal disease (ESRD) health state. From ESRD, people can transition to receiving a kidney transplant (tunnel state), moving to the post-transplant state in the following cycle. • Neuropathy sub-model: people start in the 'no peripheral neuropathy' state and can progress to peripheral neuropathy, peripheral arterial disease with amputation, and can move to the post-amputation state in the following cycle. • Retinopathy sub-model: people start in the 'no retinopathy' state and can progress to blindness either directly, or by progressing through various retinal diseases such as background retinopathy, proliferative retinopathy and macular oedema. • People are at risk of death in all states. The ERG noted that the company's sub-model structure is an improvement from previous submissions (see section 4.2). This is because it is better structured
