Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


risk of death in all states. The ERG noted that the company's sub-model structure is an improvement from previous submissions (see section 4.2). This is because it is better structured to account for the potential progression of complications related to lipodystrophy over time. However, it relies on the assumption that people with diabetes or elevated triglyceride levels, because of lipodystrophy, will follow a similar course to people with similar metabolic abnormalities but different aetiologies. It stated that this was an area of considerable uncertainty. The company explained that its choice to follow a diabetes framework for its model structure was in response to the committee's previous suggestion (see section 4.2). The model is based on the structure of the diabetes-related complications seen in the Sheffield diabetes model, and the established model structure from NICE's guideline on NAFLD to reflect liver disease progression. It chose the Sheffield diabetes model, among others, because it considered it the most robust, and it was previously used in a multiple technology assessment for diabetes. The committee was satisfied with the company's attempt to capture the disease progression using sub-models for each relevant organ. It was aware that there are uncertainties as to what extent people with lipodystrophy will follow a similar course to people with diabetes and fatty liver disease. However, given the scarcity of evidence in lipodystrophy, the committee concluded that the model structure is appropriate for decision making. Transition probabilities adjusted by HbA1c for sub-models 4.18 The company used published literature for baseline transition probabilities for 4 of the sub-models that are diabetes-related complications: cardiovascular, kidney, neuropathy and retinopathy. Baseline transition probabilities were then adjusted according to the absolute change in HbA1c level from baseline to 12 months from NIH 991265/20010769, to generate probabilities for people having metreleptin. For the liver sub-model, the baseline transition probability for liver disease was derived from the model in NICE's guideline on NAFLD, and then adjusted using reduction in risk estimated from the Delphi panel (company's base case) or changes in liver enzymes from the indirect treatment comparison (company's scenario analysis). For the pancreas sub-model, the baseline transition probability for pancreatitis was directly sourced from the GL/PL natural history study. It was then adjusted using odds ratios estimated from the indirect treatment comparison (see section 4.9). 4.19 For the 4 diabetes-related sub-models, the ERG noted that the company did not adjust the transition probabilities based on triglycerides,
