Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


estimated from the indirect treatment comparison (see section 4.9). 4.19 For the 4 diabetes-related sub-models, the ERG noted that the company did not adjust the transition probabilities based on triglycerides, because of a lack of data in the literature. The company explained that it meant that the transition probabilities were underestimated in cases when hypertriglyceridaemia contributes to the risk of a complication, such as cardiovascular disease. The committee noted that using only HbA1c to adjust the transition probabilities in the 4 diabetes-related sub-models could either under or overestimate metreleptin's treatment effect on those organ complications. But, the exact magnitude of that is unlikely to be quantified because of limited evidence. It agreed that, qualitatively, HbA1c has value as a surrogate for clinical outcomes in the cardiovascular, kidney, neuropathy and retinopathy sub-models. It was generally satisfied with the approach taken by the company to model transition probabilities. The ERG preferred using the change in liver enzymes (trial-based data) estimated from the indirect treatment comparison (rather than the risk reduction estimate directly obtained from the Delphi panel) to adjust the baseline transition probability for the liver in their base case. The committee recalled that liver enzymes are a poor predictor for liver complications (see section 4.12). It agreed that the Delphi panel, based on clinical experts' judgement, would be an appropriate source to inform the liver transition probabilities in this case. It was also aware that the choice between liver enzymes and the Delphi panel estimates only had a minor impact on the cost-effectiveness estimate. The committee concluded that it was generally satisfied with the company's approach to modelling transition probabilities. Utility decrements for organ complications 4.20 The committee was aware that the clinical trials of metreleptin did not collect any quality-of-life data. In its resubmission, the company did a systematic literature review to identify sources of utility values from the literature. The utility decrement for pancreatitis was based on the discrete choice experiment (DCE) from the original submission. The DCE was done for a large sample of the general population, to estimate utility decrements associated with key lipodystrophy attributes. The utility decrements for the other organs were taken from published sources and those previously used and accepted in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease. The committee agreed with using utility decrements from other conditions than lipodystrophy, given the scarcity of data for this condition. Also,
