Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


guidance on type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease. The committee agreed with using utility decrements from other conditions than lipodystrophy, given the scarcity of data for this condition. Also, to capture specific symptoms not already accounted for in the sub-models (that is, hyperphagia, polycystic ovary syndrome, inability to work and impaired physical appearance), the company's model applied a utility differential (compared with supportive care) of 0.12, based on the rescaled DCE from the original company submission (see section 4.2). The committee recalled it had had concerns relating to the validity of the utility values estimated from the DCE (see section 4.2). The company acknowledged the limitations but stated that no alternative value could be sourced from the literature. The patient expert explained that people with lipodystrophy with organ damage may also have fertility issues, pain and fatigue, so those should be taken into account in the model. The clinical expert added that, even when including the utility differential of 0.12, there could be other symptoms or factors not accounted for. The committee concluded it was generally satisfied with the approach to include a utility differential to account for symptoms not captured by estimates of utility related to organ damage. Carer utility 4.21 The company recalled that the committee had concerns about how it had modelled carer utility in its previous submission (see section 4.2). In its resubmission, the model also included a utility decrement to account for the burden on carers of -0.0986. This decrement was estimated as the difference between the mean value for carers in the Lipodystrophy Caregiver Burden Survey (done by the company to explore carers experience in the UK) and the general population norm, obtained from the EQ-5D. The committee was satisfied with the company's approach to model carer utility. Number of carers 4.22 The company assumed that each patient had 2 carers. This was the median and the rounded value of the mean of 1.67 carers, based on the Lipodystrophy Caregiver Burden Survey. The company argued that the median is more likely to be representative of the number of carers in UK clinical practice and was validated by UK patient experts. The ERG used the mean of 1.67 in their base- case model as is usual in health economic modelling. The committee agreed with using 1.67 carers from the ERG because not all people with lipodystrophy will have 2 carers. It concluded that it
