Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


is usual in health economic modelling. The committee agreed with using 1.67 carers from the ERG because not all people with lipodystrophy will have 2 carers. It concluded that it was satisfied with the ERG's approach. Long-term effect of metreleptin on HbA1c, liver, quality of life, and patient-reported outcomes such as hyperphagia after stopping treatment Metreleptin's treatment effect on HbA1c after stopping treatment 4.23 Although there is no evidence on metreleptin's effect on HbA1c after stopping treatment, the company's model assumed that metreleptin's treatment effect on HbA1c will be maintained for a lifetime after stopping treatment. In the model, when people start metreleptin, their HbA1c level is fully reduced (in the first cycle), based on the change from baseline to 12 months from the NIH 991265/ 20010769 studies. In subsequent cycles, people have a yearly rise of 0.15% in their HbA1c level, regardless of whether they have or have not stopped metreleptin, or have supportive care. The yearly increase of 0.15% in HbA1c level was assumed from NICE's technology appraisal guidance on canagliflozin in combination therapy for treating type 2 diabetes. It is intended to reflect disease progression in people with diabetes. This yearly rise continues up to a ceiling of 12%, which represents people whose diabetes is poorly controlled (based on clinical opinion from the Delphi panel). The ERG considered this persistence of effect after stopping treatment unrealistic. During technical engagement, the company explained that complications associated with diabetes develop over many years at a rate and extent that is related to the adequacy of glucose control. Therefore, a slow-offset period of treatment effect would be expected after stopping treatment. This is because the benefit of controlling blood glucose with metreleptin would decline at a similar rate to benefit accruing. The ERG argued that there is no evidence for this. It noted that the company assumed the lag between glucose control (marked by HbA1c) and the effect on risk of complications in the model after stopping treatment. But, this lag was not modelled at the start of the treatment when people are at increased risk because of previous poor glucose control. It therefore removed this assumption (lifetime HbA1c benefit) in their base case so that HbA1c returned to baseline within the year after stopping metreleptin. The ERG also excluded the annual drift of 0.15% after stopping treatment, as was modelled in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on canagliflozin in combination
