Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


within the year after stopping metreleptin. The ERG also excluded the annual drift of 0.15% after stopping treatment, as was modelled in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on canagliflozin in combination therapy for treating type 2 diabetes. The clinical experts stated that HbA1c level is likely to revert to baseline levels over 6 to 12 months after stopping treatment (see section 4.12) and agreed that the ERG's base case best reflected this statement. The committee concluded that the likely delayed onset of treatment effect compared with the slow offset of treatment effect does not have a substantial impact on modelling. This is because the lag is only about 1 year and any delay would happen at the beginning and end of treatment. This means they, in part, would cancel each other out. The committee was satisfied with the company's approach of modelling HbA1c level while on treatment. But, it agreed that the duration after which HbA1c reverts to baseline levels (6 to 12 months) after stopping treatment should be reflected in the model. Metreleptin's treatment effect on liver disease after stopping treatment 4.24 Similarly, although there is no evidence of an effect of metreleptin on liver complications after stopping treatment, the company assumed (in their base case) that the liver benefit would remain for a lifetime after stopping treatment. This was based on clinical experts' opinion stating that residual liver benefit will be retained and that it would take several years to return to a baseline level of risk. Additionally, the company applied the persisting lifetime liver benefit in addition to the period of treatment effect after stopping treatment. Therefore, the experts' statements were not reflected in the model appropriately. The clinical experts explained that some sustained slowing of liver damage may be maintained for months when metreleptin is stopped. The ERG remained uncertain of the true period and level of benefit when metreleptin is stopped. However, in their base case, the ERG included the 1-year efficacy after stopping treatment to reflect the possibility that there may be some residual benefit to the liver. The committee concluded that the ERG's analysis was appropriate and consistent with the clinical experts' views. Metreleptin's treatment effect on quality of life and patient-reported outcomes such as hyperphagia after stopping treatment 4.25 The committee discussed how the utility differential and carer utility (see section 4.20 and section 4.21) are modelled when metreleptin is stopped. The company
