Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


as hyperphagia after stopping treatment 4.25 The committee discussed how the utility differential and carer utility (see section 4.20 and section 4.21) are modelled when metreleptin is stopped. The company assumed, in its base-case model, that 50% of the 0.12 differential and 50% of benefit to carers would be maintained over the patients' lifetime after stopping treatment. The ERG's base case removed the assumption of the 50% continued lifetime treatment benefits. This is because including it would suggest continued absence of hyperphagia and continued ability to work, but there is no evidence to support this. During the technical engagement, the company explained that the utility differential accounted not only for hyperphagia but also other symptoms not captured in the organ damage sub-models. The ERG noted that hyperphagia and inability to work accounted for about 80% of the utility differential according to the company's rescaled DCE. However, it recalled that the symptoms of hunger would return within days after stopping metreleptin (see section 4.13) and ability to work is not in NICE's reference case for consideration. The committee asked how much weight hyperphagia accounted for in the utility differential. The company explained it was not a primary driver but still had a weight of about 25%. The committee considered it appropriate to account for specific symptoms not related to organ damage separately, some of which may not return fully after stopping treatment, as a utility differential. But, it concluded that the ERG's approach of removing the assumed lifetime maintenance of 50% utility differential to both patients and carers is preferred. Stopping rule 4.26 The company's model structure for metreleptin included a stopping rule for people with partial lipodystrophy. At 9 months after the start of metreleptin treatment, a specialist service review will see whether treatment should be stopped if the following metabolic criteria have not been met: an HbA1c reduction of at least 0.75% from baseline, or a fasting triglyceride reduction of at least 50% from baseline. A clinical expert stated that there was a consensus in European lipodystrophy centres to stop metreleptin at 6 to 9 months if the person did not take the treatment properly or did not engage with appointments, or there was no HbA1c reduction of at least 0.5% from baseline or a fall in fasting triglycerides of at least 50% from baseline. The clinical expert can apply their own judgement and agree to continue to treat
