Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


least 0.5% from baseline or a fall in fasting triglycerides of at least 50% from baseline. The clinical expert can apply their own judgement and agree to continue to treat the lipodystrophy even if the criteria are not met. The committee noted that the company's stopping rule did not match the one from the clinical experts, but the rule proposed did incorporate significant clinical discretion. Application of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) weighting 4.27 The committee understood that NICE's interim process and methods of the highly specialised technologies programme (2017) specifies that a most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of below £100,000 per QALY gained for a highly specialised technology is normally considered an effective use of NHS resources. For a most plausible ICER above £100,000 per QALY gained, judgements about the acceptability of the highly specialised technology as an effective use of NHS resources must take account of the magnitude of the incremental therapeutic improvement. This is seen through the number of additional QALYs gained and by applying a 'QALY weight'. It understood that a weight between 1 and 3 can be applied when the QALY gain is between 10 and 30 QALYs. The committee considered that although there was uncertainty, the undiscounted QALY gains for the scenarios incorporating its preferred assumptions did not meet the criteria for applying a QALY weight. Cost-effectiveness results 4.28 The company's base case showed that metreleptin was associated with an ICER of £60,611 per QALY gained for the overall population. The ICER for generalised lipodystrophy was £46,000 per QALY gained, and the ICER for partial lipodystrophy was £81,584 per QALY gained. The total costs and QALYs are considered by the company to be commercial in confidence and so cannot be reported here. 4.29 The ERG's base case showed that metreleptin was associated with an ICER of £110,460 per QALY gained for the overall population. The ICER for generalised lipodystrophy was £92,593 per QALY gained, and the ICER for partial lipodystrophy was £130,334 per QALY gained. The total costs and QALYs are considered by the company to be commercial in confidence and so cannot be reported here. 4.30 Considering both the company and ERG's scenario analyses, the committee's preferred assumptions were: • using the estimate directly obtained from the Delphi data to adjust transition probabilities in the liver model (rather than liver enzymes, see section 4.19) • reversing HbA1c to baseline level after stopping treatment
