Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


directly obtained from the Delphi data to adjust transition probabilities in the liver model (rather than liver enzymes, see section 4.19) • reversing HbA1c to baseline level after stopping treatment (excluding 0.15% drift, see section 4.23) • maintaining liver benefit for 1 year when metreleptin is stopped (see section 4.24) • removing assumed lifetime maintenance of 50% of quality-of-life treatment differential and carer utility gain after stopping metreleptin (see section 4.25 and section 4.22) • correcting number of carers to 1.67 (rather than 2 in company base case, see section 4.22). The committee's preferred assumptions were associated with an ICER of £108,267 per QALY gained (for the overall population). The ICER for generalised lipodystrophy was £87,545 per QALY gained, and the ICER for partial lipodystrophy was £133,606 per QALY gained. Impact of the technology beyond direct health benefits and on the delivery of the specialised service 4.31 The committee discussed the effects of metreleptin beyond its direct health benefits. It understood from patient experts that children with hyperphagia need considerable carer support, which can have a significant effect on families. It noted that the treatment may have benefits beyond health in children and young people with generalised lipodystrophy. They may account for a minority of the patient population, but the treatment may have important implications for their schooling, interactions with their parents, and social life. This could lead to profound psychosocial benefits for individuals. In adults, hyperphagia and fatigue can compromise their social and professional lives. The committee acknowledged that lipodystrophy affects patients beyond direct health benefits but that quantifying this was difficult. However, it concluded that the effects are qualitatively accounted for in its decision making. 4.32 The committee noted that lipodystrophy is managed in an established specialist centre at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge. This means that additional infrastructure or staff training is not expected to be needed to introduce metreleptin in England. 4.33 The committee noted that the population for which metreleptin is indicated includes children and young people. It discussed the need to balance the importance of improving the lives of children and their families with fairness to people of all ages. It noted the principles that guide the development of NICE guidance and standards. This emphasises the importance of considering the distribution of health resources fairly within society as a whole, and factors other than relative costs and benefits alone. The committee acknowledged and considered the
