Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


the importance of considering the distribution of health resources fairly within society as a whole, and factors other than relative costs and benefits alone. The committee acknowledged and considered the nature of the population as part of its decision making. Other factors 4.34 The committee discussed the nature of the condition and to what extent the severity of lipodystrophy was comparable to other ultra-rare conditions. It understood that hunger was a particular aspect of the condition which caused substantial impact on quality of life for people with lipodystrophy and was likely to be associated with other comorbidities. 4.35 It also noted that response to metreleptin is heterogenous between people with generalised lipodystrophy and partial lipodystrophy. Evidence showed that metreleptin was associated with greater benefits in people with generalised lipodystrophy and children with congenital leptin deficiency may keep benefiting from metreleptin after a long period of treatment (see section 4.14). The heterogeneity is more obvious in partial lipodystrophy and people with more severe partial lipodystrophy are likely to benefit more from the treatment. This was the basis for the company's suggestion of further restricting the metabolic status of the partial lipodystrophy subgroup to HbA1c above 58 mmol/mol (7.5%), fasting triglycerides above 5.00 mmol/litre, or both (see section 4.14). The committee noted that, because the more severe partial lipodystrophy subgroup was associated with greater benefit, including it in the cost-effectiveness model was likely to lower the cost-effectiveness estimates. But, the magnitude of that was difficult to quantify. Conclusion 4.36 The committee acknowledged that lipodystrophy, and hyperphagia in particular, has a substantial effect on the quality of life of patients, and their families and carers. It noted that the clinical evidence suggested metreleptin provides clinical benefits by reducing blood sugar, triglycerides and liver enzymes in people with lipodystrophy. The indirect treatment comparison results presented by the company during the resubmission also indicated that metreleptin was associated with greater improvement in metabolic outcomes compared with supportive care. However, there are uncertainties in metreleptin's treatment effect on clinical outcomes in the long term. 4.37 The committee was generally satisfied with the company's modelling approach in the resubmission, which was based on established diabetes and fatty liver frameworks. It was aware that there are uncertainties about transition probabilities (see section 4.18) and utility values (see section 4.20) sourced from other disease areas, transition probabilities adjusted by change in HbA1c (see section 4.19), and metreleptin's assumed treatment
