Metreleptin for treating lipodystrophy
KEYWORDS: treatment, metreleptin, lipodystrophy, people, committee, company, clinical, liver, section, experts, partial, noted, baseline, evidence, stopping


transition probabilities (see section 4.18) and utility values (see section 4.20) sourced from other disease areas, transition probabilities adjusted by change in HbA1c (see section 4.19), and metreleptin's assumed treatment effect on organ damage and quality of life after stopping treatment (see sections 4.23, 4.24 and 4.25). It also noted that metreleptin did not meet the criteria for a QALY weighting to be applied. The committee acknowledged the uncertainties and took into account the impact of metreleptin beyond direct health benefits (see section 4.31) and the likely overestimated cost-effectiveness results (see section 4.14 and section 4.35). As such, the committee agreed that the ICER of £108,267 per QALY gained would lower to an acceptable range for metreleptin to be an effective use of NHS resources. Therefore, the committee concluded that metreleptin can be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources for highly specialised technologies, and recommended metreleptin as an option for treating the complications of leptin deficiency in lipodystrophy for people who are either 2 years and over with generalised lipodystrophy, or 12 years and over with partial lipodystrophy with HbA1c above 58 mmol/mol (7.5%), or fasting triglycerides above 5.0 mmol/litre, or both. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 8(6) of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires clinical commissioning groups, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. 5.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE highly specialised technologies guidance. When a NICE highly specialised technologies guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final evaluation document. 5.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraph above. This means that, if a patient has lipodystrophy and the doctor responsible for their care thinks that metreleptin is the right treatment, it should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations.
