Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


organ ( Table 2 ). Table 2. - Prevalence of Osteoporosis and Fractures in Patients Pre-Transplantation * View in own window Organ Osteoporosis Fracture incidence Spine Hip Renal 22% 20% 24%-38% Liver 12%-55% - 22% ( 5 ) Heart 7%-40% 25% 40% Lung 9%-69% - 15%-50% • Using dual X-ray densitometry, Vertebral fracture incidence in the first years post-transplantation. References: 1,2,3,4,5,6,9,120,122,123. Renal Disease End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with a form of bone disease known as renal osteodystrophy. This condition develops due to factors such as Vitamin D deficiency, hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, metabolic acidosis, adynamic bone disease, osteomalacia, and aluminium overload which can lead to low bone BMD. In ESRD, cortical bone is predominantly lost, often resulting in peripheral fractures. The combination of fractures and the classic risk factors of chronic kidney disease significantly increases mortality. Osteoporosis was found in 27.6% of 221 patients awaiting kidney transplantation and was associated with vascular calcification in 75% and parathyroid hyperplasia in 93.4% of cases. In many of these patients, there is a preference for appendicular fractures, which is different from other solid transplant recipients. Elevated bone markers of formation (PINP) and resorption markers (B-CTX) were also linked to decreased BMD, confirming a disruption in bone remodelling. This suggests that sustained PTH levels indicate abnormal osteoblast function characterized by high turnover and increased resorption which contributes to a higher fracture risk ( 11 ). Early renal dysfunction is associated with a 38% increase in fracture risk in men over 65 years old. In a cohort of 1477 participants from the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam, followed for six years, patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 3a and 3b had a 28% and 46% higher fracture risk, respectively, compared to those with stages 1 and 2 (eGFR >60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ) ( 12 ). Early renal dysfunction was linked to lower femoral neck BMD, only in men, likely due to higher PTH levels. Several factors, including hemodialysis and diabetes mellitus further increase fracture risk. Patients with renal insufficiency, low bone turnover, and reduced BMD are at the highest risk for fractures. Liver Disease Osteoporosis and osteopenia are frequent complications of chronic liver disease, with a higher prevalence in patients awaiting liver transplantation, particularly in those with cholestatic liver diseases ( 14 , 15 ). Low BMD before transplantation is a major risk factor, influenced by inadequate calcium intake, malabsorption, malnutrition, vitamin
