Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


transplantation, particularly in those with cholestatic liver diseases ( 14 , 15 ). Low BMD before transplantation is a major risk factor, influenced by inadequate calcium intake, malabsorption, malnutrition, vitamin D deficiency with secondary hyperparathyroidism, and an abnormal sex hormone ratio. In cirrhotic patients, factors such as hypogonadism, steroid use, and alcoholism can further accelerate bone loss ( 16 ). Heavy alcohol consumption affects bone metabolism by modulating Wnt and mTOR signaling [17], leading to decreased bone formation and increased adipogenesis. Additionally unconjugated bilirubin in patients with cholestasis has been shown to exert harmful effects on osteoblasts, reducing their viability. Studies have demonstrated that sera from jaundiced patients can upregulate the RANKL/OPG ratio promoting osteoclastogenesis, while downregulating Runx2, a key transcription factor involved in osteoblast differentiation ( 18 ). Calcium and serum PTH levels are typically normal, but two-thirds of patients may have low levels of 25OHD, due to impaired hepatic hydroxylation of cholecalciferol. Histomorphometric studies have revealed decreased cortical bone volume, low bone formation, poor mineralization, and slightly elevated osteoclastic activity ( 19 ) Cardiac Disease Bone loss in candidates for cardiac transplantation is associated with the underlying disease and is commonly found in those with congestive heart failure. The prevalence of osteoporosis at the time of cardiac transplantation has been reported to range from 7% to 23% ( 20 ). Older studies indicate that 7% of these patients had lumbar osteoporosis and 20% had hip osteoporosis, meaning that fewer than 50% had normal BMD ( 21 ). In another study of 51 cardiac transplant candidates, the prevalence of osteoporosis was 27%, with longer waiting times before transplantation identified as a major risk factor for its development. ( 22 ). Interestingly, despite 80% of these patients having vitamin D deficiency, 55% of cardiac transplant candidates, had BMD levels comparable to those of healthy individuals ( 23 ). This discrepancy may be explained by seasonal variations and the fact that these patients were ambulatory rather than on the transplant list. It is therefore recommended that patients on the waiting list be evaluated for bone loss prevention. The high prevalence of osteoporosis in this population is linked to chronic illness, poor nutrition, limited mobility, weight loss, gonadal dysfunction, and medications that negatively affect bone health ( 24 ). Additionally, patients with congestive heart failure, are often treated with medications such as loop diuretics, which increase urinary calcium losses. Furthermore, azotemia is
