Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


negatively affect bone health ( 24 ). Additionally, patients with congestive heart failure, are often treated with medications such as loop diuretics, which increase urinary calcium losses. Furthermore, azotemia is known to impair vitamin D metabolism leading to elevated PTH levels and further contributing to bone loss. Lung Disease Patients who are candidates for lung transplantation are also highly likely to have osteoporosis before surgery. In many cases, chronic exposure to glucocorticoids is the primary risk factor. However, several other risk factors may also contribute to bone loss. A retrospective study of patients with diffuse parenchymal lung disease referred for lung transplantation found that 30% had lumbar osteoporosis and 49% had femoral osteoporosis ( 25 ). Another study reported even higher rates, with 50% of patients having lumbar osteoporosis and 61% having femoral neck osteoporosis ( 26 , 27 ). Additionally, most of these patients had a history of glucocorticoid therapy. Cystic Fibrosis (CF) in advanced stages, is another lung disease associated with a high prevalence of osteoporosis and fractures in patients awaiting lung transplantation. A meta-analysis found that bone complications are common in CF, with a prevalence of 23.5% for osteoporosis, 14% for vertebral fractures, and 19.7% for non-vertebral fractures ( 28 ). In younger patients, potential risks such as calcium and vitamin D malabsorption, malnutrition, delayed puberty, hypogonadism, and glucocorticoid therapy have been identified as contributors to bone loss. BONE LOSS AND FRACTURES AFTER TRANSPLANTATION Bone loss and fracture rates are higher in patients who had osteoporosis before transplant ( Table 3 ). In these cohorts, post-transplantation fractures are associated with increased mortality rates ( 29 ). The highest fracture risk has been reported in heart and lung recipients, as well as in those with comorbidities such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD. Regarding diabetes mellitus, no clear association has been established between this condition and fracture risk in post-transplanted patients. Table 3. - Prevalence of Osteoporosis and Fractures in Patients Post-Transplantation View in own window Organ Osteoporosis Fracture incidence Spine Hip Renal 7%-44% 11%-56% 7-21%) Liver 11%-52% ( 6 ) - 24-65% Heart 28%-50% 25% 22%-44% Lung 31%-84% - 18-37% • Using dual X-ray densitometry, Vertebral fracture incidence in the first years post-transplantation. References: 1,2,5,6,7,8,9,10,38,120,121,122,123,124, 125,126. Bone loss appears to be more significant during the first year after transplantation across all types of organ transplants, primarily affecting trabecular bone, including the vertebrae and
