Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


References: 1,2,5,6,7,8,9,10,38,120,121,122,123,124, 125,126. Bone loss appears to be more significant during the first year after transplantation across all types of organ transplants, primarily affecting trabecular bone, including the vertebrae and peripheral skeleton. When analysing the incidence rate of osteoporosis per 1000 person-years, heart and lung transplants have the highest rates at 6.00, compared to 4.17 and 4.09 for liver and kidney transplants, respectively. A significant increase was also observed in heart and lung transplant recipients, with a rate of 9.36 per 1.000 person-years, compared to 2.44 for liver transplants and 1.98 for kidney transplants. ( 27 ). These differences are likely influenced by variations in immunosuppressive regimens and the use of lower steroid doses. There are inconclusive findings regarding bone mass recovery in transplant recipients beyond the first year, with studies reporting decreases, increases, or stabilization ( 30 , 31 ). After five years of follow-up, hip BMD often remains lower than pre-transplant levels in many patients, similar to trends observed in quality-of-life assessments. ( 32 ). There is considerable overlap in BMD values between individuals who develop fractures and those who do not. This suggests factors affecting bone quality -such as geometry, microarchitecture, and intrinsic properties of bone- may play a more significant role in fracture risk than bone quantity alone in transplant patients. Trabecular Bone Score (TBS) a surrogate of bone quality, has been shown to deteriorate for up to a year after solid organ transplantation, even with therapeutic interventions, such as risedronate, ibandronate, vitamin D, and calcium, and without correlation with BMD. However, after one year, TBS improved and has been identified as a strong and independent predictor of fragility fractures ( 33 , 34 ). Kidney Disease As with other organ transplants, BMD loss in the first six months after kidney transplantation primarily affects cortical bones, largely due to persistent hyperparathyroidism and glucocorticoid use. It is estimated that 30% to 50% of patients continued to have hyperparathyroidism post-transplant ( 35 ). Specific risk factors for bone loss in kidney transplant recipients include previous chronic kidney disease, duration of dialysis, and hypomagnesemia. Additionally, patients with diabetes mellitus and nephropathy, have an increased risk of bone loss. Post-transplant treatment factors, such as the use of tacrolimus and steroids, along with older age and elevated body mass index, further contribute to the risk of developing post-transplant diabetes ( 36 ). In kidney transplant recipients, those with vitamin D deficiency,
