Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


along with older age and elevated body mass index, further contribute to the risk of developing post-transplant diabetes ( 36 ). In kidney transplant recipients, those with vitamin D deficiency, have a 2.4 times higher risk of developing post-transplant diabetes compared with those with normal serum 25OHD (>30 ng/ml). Cross-sectional studies report osteoporosis prevalence rates ranging from 17% to 29% at the spine, 11% to 56% at the femoral neck, and 22% to 52% at the radius ( 11 ). Although most fractures occur within the first three years post-transplant, the risk continues to increase over time in some patients. Liver Disease After liver transplantation, bone density declines rapidly within the first six months, followed by a gradual increase in the subsequent months, with a tendency toward recovery within two years. However, not all patients regain normal BMD levels. Fracture incidence is highest during the first six months post-transplant, particularly in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. While lumbar BMD tends to improve over time, hip BMD often remains lower for an extended period after transplantation ( 39 ). Previous studies have reported an osteoporosis prevalence of 40.8% in 82 liver transplant recipients with various etiologies who were followed for one year ( 38 ). Similarly, a more recent study found a prevalence of 34.5% in 83 patients who were followed for an average of 80 months ( 39 ). After the first year, bone loss tends to slow, likely due to reduced use of glucocorticoids and immunosuppressants ( 40 ). Additionally, the decrease in bilirubinemia, known to negatively affect osteoblast differentiation and mineralization, may also play a role in this stabilization. However, it is accepted that approximately one-third of liver transplant recipients, still have lumbar spine BMD below the fracture threshold two years post-transplant, despite improvements in survival and quality of life ( 41 ). Reported fracture rates after liver transplantation range from 24% to 65%. Cardiac Disease Bone loss progresses rapidly after transplantation in these patients, with an estimated decline of 6%-11% at the vertebral site within the first six months, and a similar rate at the hip within the first year ( 21 ). Most studies report vertebral fracture incidence ranging from 33 to 36% in the first one to three years post-transplant stabilizing in subsequent years ( 15 ). During the initial months after transplantation, bone resorption markers are elevated, while bone formation markers (such as osteocalcin),
