Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


one to three years post-transplant stabilizing in subsequent years ( 15 ). During the initial months after transplantation, bone resorption markers are elevated, while bone formation markers (such as osteocalcin), are reduced. The levels typically return to normal by the end of the first year ( 38 ). Patients with congestive heart failure patients are particularly prone to significant bone loss compared to other cardiac transplant candidates ( 7 ). Higher exposure to glucocorticoids, vitamin D deficiency, and testosterone deficiency in men, are linked to reduced bone formation in the first year ( Table 3 ). By the third-year post-transplant, a significant recovery in lumbar BMD is observed. While both men and women experience similar rates of bone loss, women are more prone to fractures due to lower pre-transplantation BMD. In some patients, bone recovery has not been observed, with a reported fracture prevalence of 40% among 180 individuals who underwent cardiac transplantation over 10 years ( 44 ). Furthermore, significant bone loss has been documented, with decreases ranging from 3% to 10% in the lumbar spine, 6% to 11% in the femoral neck, and fracture rates between 12% and 36% within one year. These rates of bone loss are notably higher compared to the 1.41% and 0.35% annual decreases observed at the lumbar spine and femoral neck, respectively, in the healthy population ( 44 , 45 ). Lung Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have a high prevalence of osteoporosis which can reach 57% to 73% in the first year after lung transplantation ( 46 ). Fracture rates continue to rise in some cases, with an average prevalence of 53% by the fifth-year post-transplant ( 47 ). Lung transplants have reported the highest fracture rates, likely due to prolonged and intensive immunosuppressive therapy, along with additional life-risk factors. Among lung diseases, patients with COPD are particularly prone to bone loss. OSTEOPOROSIS AFTER BONE MARROW TRANSPLANTATION Allogenic or autologous stem cell transplantation is used to treat a variety of hematologic diseases. Advances in histocompatibility testing and improvements in infection control have significantly increased patient survival. Risk factors for osteoporosis include the underlying disease, comorbidities (such as diabetes and obesity), the use of glucocorticoids, and immunosuppressants. The pathogenesis of bone loss in this context is not well understood. It has been postulated that implanted bone marrow stromal cells may have a reduced capacity to develop into osteogenic lineage. Bone
