Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


bone loss in this context is not well understood. It has been postulated that implanted bone marrow stromal cells may have a reduced capacity to develop into osteogenic lineage. Bone loss is most prominent during the 6 to 12 years following transplantation. Osteoporosis has now been recognized as a common condition in these patients, with a reported prevalence of up to 23% within the first-year post-transplant. Therefore, bone marrow-related osteoporosis following stem cell transplantation appears to be less severe compared to that seen in solid organ transplantation. However, there are still relatively few publications addressing this issue. PATHOGENESIS OF OSTEOPOROSIS POST-TRANSPLANTATION Bone loss after solid organ transplantation is caused by numerous factors, including pre-transplant underlying disease, individual risk factors, and the use of glucocorticoids and immunosuppressor drugs. Additional contributors include age, limited mobility, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, and lifestyle habits. Glucocorticoids Glucocorticoids are essential for managing rejection episodes. They are typically administered at high doses initially and then gradually reduced. However, if rejection occurs, the dosage is increased. Recent protocols have aimed to minimize glucocorticoid doses to reduce side effects. High doses of glucocorticoids play a significant role in bone loss. However, it has been shown that even small doses of glucocorticoids are associated with an increased fracture risk ( 48 ). The potential impact of glucocorticoid dose on bone loss is supported by the evidence showing no significant bone loss at the lumbar spine and proximal femur in renal transplant patients treated with low doses of steroids and tacrolimus. Additionally, studies have reported that steroid withdrawal in liver transplant patients accelerates lumbar spine bone density recovery without compromising graft tolerance ( 5 , 54 , 54a ). The mechanisms contributing to glucocorticoid-induced bone loss are discussed in the Endotext chapter entitled “An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis” in the Bone Mineral section. DIRECT EFFECTS OF GLUCOCORTICOIDS ON OSTEOBLASTS AND OSTEOCYTES Glucocorticoids inhibit bone formation by impairing the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts, as well as reducing their lifespan ( 49 , 50 , 51 ). This occurs through the inhibition of the canonical Wnt/B catening pathway, and the upregulation of sclerostin and other peptides, which further suppress osteoblast formation. DIRECT EFFECT OF GLUCOCORTICOIDS ON OSTEOCLASTS Glucocorticoids increase the production of RANKL (receptor activators of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand) and decrease the production of osteoprotegerin, leading to enhanced bone resorption. INDIRECT EFFECTS Similar to other conditions with hypercortisolism, glucocorticoids in post-transplant
