Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


RANKL (receptor activators of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand) and decrease the production of osteoprotegerin, leading to enhanced bone resorption. INDIRECT EFFECTS Similar to other conditions with hypercortisolism, glucocorticoids in post-transplant patients can induce hypogonadism, by directly inhibiting the secretion of estrogens and androgens. They also impair calcium absorption, and negatively affect the synthesis of 25OHD, by inhibiting the 25 hydroxylases. Calcineurin Inhibitors: Cyclosporine A (CsA) and Tacrolimus The impact of various immunosuppressor drugs used in post-transplant patients on bone health remains partially unknown and, in some cases, controversial. This uncertainty is likely due to differences in dosage, duration of use, and combination with other medications ( Table 4 ). Among these drugs, two are considered the cornerstone of immunosuppressive therapy for maintaining graft survival. Calcineurin inhibitors work by inhibiting cytokines synthesis, such as interleukin-2, through binding to immunophilin and suppressing the activity of calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin. This suppression reduces by downregulating genes regulatory products, including interleukin 2, interleukin receptors and H-ras and c-myc ( 55 ). Studying the effect of these drugs on bone health is challenging due to their frequent coadministration with glucocorticoids. The effects of these drugs are difficult to study, due to their coadministration with glucocorticoids. Table 4. Effect of Immunosuppressor Drugs on Bone of Post-Transplant Patients View in own window Drug Effect on Bone Glucocorticoids Inhibition of bone formation Stimulation of bone resorption Reduce intestinal calcium absorption Increase urinary calcium excretion Decrease secretion of GH, estrogens and androgens Calcineurin inhibitors Cyclosporine A & Tacrolimus Marked stimulation of bone resorption Minor increase in bone formation Sirolimus (Rapamycin) No effects on bone volume Inhibits longitudinal growth Decrease bone formation Everolimus Decrease bone resorption Azathioprine No effect on bone volume Mycophenolate mofetil No change in bone volume Studies in rats have shown that CsA stimulates both osteoblast and osteoclast activity ( 56 ). However, administration of CsA in rodents has been associated with severe trabecular bone loss and induced high turnover bone loss, due to increased bone resorption and formation, accompanied by elevated levels of osteocalcin and 1,25(OH)2D3 ( 57 ). In a one-month comparative study in rats, both CsA and tacrolimus were found to reduce bone strength. CsA induced high-turnover bone loss by stimulating both bone formation and resorption whereas tacrolimus primarily stimulated bone resorption ( 58 ). Additionally, in a small study of renal transplant patients, steroid withdrawal was associated with lower bone loss when CsA
