Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


and resorption whereas tacrolimus primarily stimulated bone resorption ( 58 ). Additionally, in a small study of renal transplant patients, steroid withdrawal was associated with lower bone loss when CsA was used alone ( 59 ). Consequently, the overall effect of CsA on bone density remains unclear. Tacrolimus has been shown to induce trabecular bone loss without significantly affecting bone formation in the rat ( 57 ). Compared to Csa, Tacrolimus-based regimens may allow for a decrease in glucocorticoids use and result in a more modest reduction in BMD. In a study of 350 liver transplant recipients with chronic cholestatic liver disease, patients treated with CsA experienced lower post-transplant bone gain and higher incidence of fractures than those receiving tacrolimus ( 60 ). Other studies suggest that tacrolimus induces only a modest reduction in bone mass, while some reports indicate liver transplant recipients treated with tacrolimus had significantly higher femoral neck BMD compared to those receiving CsA ( 61 ). mTOR Immunosuppressors: Sirolimus and Everolimus Both drugs, inhibited the activity of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) a key protein kinase involved in regulating cellular metabolism, catabolism, immune responses, autophagy, survival, proliferation, and migration, to maintain cellular homeostasis. Sirolimus, also known as rapamycin, has the advantage of not causing nephrotoxicity. In-vitro, Sirolimus inhibits the proliferation and differentiation of osteoclasts, making it a potential bone-sparing agent ( 61 ). Additionally, lower bone resorption markers observed in a study of renal transplant recipients suggest that this drug helps preserve bone mineral density ( 62 ). However, potential side effects seen in animal studies, including impaired growth, delayed callus formation, and interference with IGF1- indicating that sirolimus should be used with caution in clinical practice ( 63 ). Everolimus is a derivative of rapamycin, targets the mTOR pathway, and inhibits interleukin-2 (IL”)-induced cell proliferation, thereby suppressing the immune response. Using mouse models everolimus has been shown to act as a potent inhibitor of osteoclast formation and activity ( 64 ). Other Immunosuppressors: Mycophenolate Mofetil (Mn) and Azathioprine Mn inhibits B and T lymphocyte proliferation while azathioprine, a purine antagonist, reduce lymphocyte count and immunoglobulin synthesis. In animal studies, neither drug has shown an adverse effect on bone mass, and their use may contribute to reduced glucocorticoid co-administration. Currently, many recommended post-transplant regimens consist of a calcineurin inhibitor -such as tacrolimus or cyclosporine A in combination with an antiproliferative agent Mm), with or without
