Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


to reduced glucocorticoid co-administration. Currently, many recommended post-transplant regimens consist of a calcineurin inhibitor -such as tacrolimus or cyclosporine A in combination with an antiproliferative agent Mm), with or without low-dose corticosteroids (e.g., prednisolone). Azathioprine, another purine antagonist, further decreases B and T lymphocytes. The impact of sirolimus, tacrolimus, and Mn on osteoclasts has been studied in cell-cultured systems. The authors detected that the inhibition of osteoclast precursors and proliferation, with Mn and tacrolimus, was lower compared to sirolimus ( 65 ). Both drugs are given in protocols combined with other immunosuppressors, which makes it difficult to determine their effects on bone. POST-TRANSPLANTATION SERUM PTH, VITAMIN D, TESTOSTERONE, AND MAGNESIUM Changes in serum PTH levels vary following solid organ transplants. No significant alteration in PTH levels has been observed after cardiac transplants, whereas liver transplant recipients often experience a moderate increase. In kidney transplant patients, PTH levels may initially decrease by approximately 50% within the first six months post-transplantation ( 2 ). Notably, secondary hyperparathyroidism is observed in some kidney transplant recipients, particularly those with prolonged pre-transplant dialysis duration, reduced glomerular filtration, and low serum 25OHD levels ( 66 ). The exact causes of elevated serum PTH levels remain unclear but may be associated with the decline in renal function, which affects approximately 20% of transplant recipients. For a detailed discussion of hyperparathyroidism in patients with renal disease see the Endotext chapter entitled “Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease” in the Bone and Mineral section. Serum 25OHD levels are often low before transplantation in all transplant candidates before the procedure and remain low afterward. Following transplantation, 91% of patients experience vitamin D insufficiency, and 55% have a deficiency, with the more severe cases observed in liver transplant recipients ( 68 ). However, a tendency toward higher levels is typically seen, likely due to supplementation. This deficiency, along with factors such as immobilization, low sunlight exposure, and inadequate vitamin D intake, contributes to an increased risk of bone loss. Additionally, excess glucocorticoid leads to an increased catabolism of 25OHD. Furthermore, the frequently observed lower testosterone levels found in transplant patients, which contribute to bone loss, generally recover within one year. Hypomagnesemia is commonly observed in kidney and cardiac transplant recipients and has been associated with the use of calcineurin inhibitors, particularly tacrolimus. Hypomagnesemia can lead to bone loss by increasing the number of osteoclasts and decreasing osteoblasts, resulting in the deterioration of
