Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


risk of falls, and bone fractures. Physical exercise is strongly recommended, including: o A 30- to 40-minute walk per session (3 to 4 times per week). o Back and postural exercises for a few minutes per day (3 to 4 times per week). o Strength training exercises. • Implementation of fall prevention measures, both at home and outdoors. Finally, to optimize bone metabolism in transplant patients and reduce the risk of developing osteoporosis, it is recommended to appropriately adjust the doses of steroids and immunosuppressants (maintaining these drugs within the therapeutic range and avoiding overdosing) ( 83 ). CALCIUM AND VITAMIN D SUPPLEMENTATION Although conclusive data in patients with solid organ transplantation is lacking, it is recommended to achieve and maintain normal levels of calcium and vitamin D, with supplementation provided if necessary. Vitamin D deficiency is particularly common in transplant recipients, making supplementation especially important for these patients. The recommended daily intake of calcium ranges from 1000 to 1200 mg, depending on age and sex ( 84 ). If dietary calcium intake is insufficient, supplementation should be considered. Vitamin D deficiency leads to inefficient absorption of dietary calcium and phosphorus, as well as secondary hyperparathyroidism, which can impair bone mineralization. An optimal 25(OH)D level of >30 ng/mL is recommended, similar to the target for steroid-induced osteoporosis. A study involving pre-renal transplant recipients found that cholecalciferol supplementation with vitamin D and calcium, did not lead to a significant improvement in BMD compared to calcium supplementation alone ( 85 ). However, a recent study in renal transplant patients showed that taking 4000 IU/day of cholecalciferol for one year reduced lumbar BMD loss compared to placebo (percentage change in BMD: −0.2% with cholecalciferol vs. −1.9% with placebo). The positive effect on BMD was more pronounced in patients who had significant bone mass impairment at the beginning of treatment with more pronounced bone mass impairment at the start of treatment ( 86 ) CALCITRIOL, PARACALCITOL, ALFACALCIDOL Calcitriol is the active form of vitamin D, while paricalcitol and alfacalcidol are synthetic analogs of vitamin D. It has been demonstrated that these compounds reduce or stabilize parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels and improve bone histology post-transplantation ( 84 , 86 ). Their use has been proposed as a preventive treatment for osteoporosis in transplant patients who may have contraindications to or intolerance of bisphosphonates. In heart transplantation, a clinical trial comparing alendronate and calcitriol over one
