Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


as a preventive treatment for osteoporosis in transplant patients who may have contraindications to or intolerance of bisphosphonates. In heart transplantation, a clinical trial comparing alendronate and calcitriol over one year demonstrated that calcitriol significantly reduced bone mass loss in the lumbar spine and femoral neck, with no significant differences between the bisphosphonate and calcitriol groups ( 87 ). In renal transplant patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism, supplementation with paricalcitol for six months was associated with reductions in PTH levels and proteinuria, as well as an improvement in bone mass loss ( 88 ). A meta-analysis demonstrated a reduction in vertebral fractures with bisphosphonates or calcitriol during the first year of administration in solid organ transplant recipients ( 89 ). It is important to note that this meta-analysis showed considerable heterogeneity across the included studies (e.g., type of transplanted organ, type and dose of bisphosphonate used, and immunosuppressive regimen). Furthermore, only two of the eleven studies included calcitriol as the active comparator. Calcidiol was also found to be an effective therapy in 40 patients following cardiac transplantation. After 18 months of treatment, 12,000 IU weekly of calcidiol led to a 4.9% increase in lumbar BMD, compared to −1.19% and −0.19% with calcitonin and etidronate, respectively. Calcidiol causes less hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria than calcitriol ( 90 ). Despite their potential benefits, calcitriol and synthetic analogues should be used with caution, as their use is associated with an increased risk of hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria. Therefore, periodic monitoring of serum calcium and 24-hour urinary calcium levels is recommended. BISPHOSPHONATES (BFs) These drugs have been the most widely used treatment for osteoporosis for over two decades ( Table 6 ). They are analogs of inorganic pyrophosphate that inhibit bone resorption. BFs are generally safe and well-tolerated. They are the initial treatment option for both the prevention and management of post-transplant osteoporosis. Numerous studies have demonstrated improvements in bone density with BFs; however, there is currently no specific recommendation favoring one bisphosphonate over another. In an early trial, the comparison of salmon calcitonin and sodium etidronate over one year showed that BFs were capable of inducing a greater increase in lumbar BMD (6.4% vs. 8.2%) ( 91 ). A more recent retrospective study in renal transplant patients with end-stage renal disease demonstrated that BF treatment for 3.5 years was associated with a significant increase in lumbar spine BMD in recipients 15 years post-transplant ( 92 ).
