Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


patients with end-stage renal disease demonstrated that BF treatment for 3.5 years was associated with a significant increase in lumbar spine BMD in recipients 15 years post-transplant ( 92 ). Additionally, in renal transplant patients, administration of BFs for 12 months was associated with improvements in lumbar and femoral neck BMD, as well as a reduction in fracture risk (RR 0.62; CI: 0.38–1.01) ( 86 ). Two trials with risedronate have been conducted: one involving 101 patients after kidney transplantation and another with 41 liver transplant patients, both with one year of follow-up. In both trials, there was a significant and early increase in lumbar BMD at 6 months ( 93 , 94 ). In a study of 84 patients with liver or heart transplantation, alendronate and zoledronate administered for one year prevented hip bone loss. However, in heart transplant patients, lumbar BMD remained stable with zoledronate but decreased with alendronate ( 95 ). A more recent meta-analysis reported improvements in BMD and reductions in fracture risk with BFs use in liver transplant patients ( 96 ). The results indicate that BFs are associated with superior fracture prevention compared to calcium and vitamin D alone (OR = 0.37; CI: 0.17–0.7). Oral BFs were linked to a lower incidence of vertebral and overall fractures, as well as improvements in lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD, compared to intravenous BFs. The potential superiority of oral BFs may be due to several studies using intravenous zoledronate and ibandronate with doses that did not align with those recommended in clinical guidelines. The tolerability of BFs is generally acceptable, with the common adverse effect being gastroesophageal reflux ( 97 ). Therefore, caution should be exercised in liver transplant patients with pre-existing cirrhosis if esophageal pathology is present, especially in those with pre-transplant esophageal varices. In transplant patients with a history of esophageal injuries or who develop esophagitis with oral bisphosphonate use, zoledronate may be considered, as its parenteral administration is not associated with reflux development. Furthermore, treatment with zoledronate is associated with better patient adherence ( 98 ) and may be an option to reduce polypharmacy in transplant patients ( 95 ). Another complication associated with BF use is hypercalcemia, typically linked to intravenous zoledronate use and pre-existing vitamin D deficiency ( 86 ). Finally, due to its potential to exacerbate adynamic bone disease, BFs are not recommended in patients with glomerular filtration rates below
