Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


use and pre-existing vitamin D deficiency ( 86 ). Finally, due to its potential to exacerbate adynamic bone disease, BFs are not recommended in patients with glomerular filtration rates below 30 mL/min ( 96 ). DENOSUMAB Denosumab is a monoclonal antibody against the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL), a key factor involved in osteoclast differentiation. By blocking the binding of RANKL to its receptor, RANK, denosumab reduces the formation, function, and survival of osteoclasts. This action decreases bone resorption, increases BMD, and reduces fracture risk in both the short and long term ( 99 ). Therapy with denosumab has demonstrated improvements in BMD in patients undergoing solid organ transplantation, although data are limited. In a study involving 93 renal transplant patients with osteoporosis, after 12 months of denosumab treatment, there was an improvement in bone mineral density of 4.6% (3.3–5.9%) in the lumbar spine and 1.9% (0.1–3.7%) in the total hip ( 100 ). Similarly, it was shown that the prevalence of osteoporosis decreased in the lumbar spine from 72% to 50% and in the femoral neck from 78% to 69% in 32 renal transplant recipients ( 101 ). High-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography has described the beneficial short-term effects of one year of denosumab treatment on bone structure, microarchitecture, and strength in kidney transplant recipients ( 102 ). In a study with various types of transplants (49 renal, 14 liver, and 15 simultaneous kidney-pancreas transplant recipients), denosumab treatment over one year increased lumbar BMD by 11.5 ± 6.2% and femoral neck BMD by 10.4 ± 8.3%, reducing the prevalence of osteoporosis in the spine by 48% and in the proximal femur by 18% ( 103 ). In a 4-year trial, denosumab was linked to a significant increase in BMD (9.0 ± 10.7% in the lumbar spine and 3.8 ± 7.9% in the total hip) in renal transplant patients, while the control group showed lower increases in BMD at all sites ( 104 ). Few studies have evaluated whether denosumab improves densitometric outcomes compared to BFs. A clinical trial involving 85 renal transplant patients compared the impact of denosumab versus BFs after more than 3 years and found that denosumab treatment resulted in a significant increase in bone density in both the lumbar spine and femoral neck compared to the BFs group ( 105 ). A slight increase in mild urinary tract infections and asymptomatic episodes of
