Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


bone density in both the lumbar spine and femoral neck compared to the BFs group ( 105 ). A slight increase in mild urinary tract infections and asymptomatic episodes of hypocalcemia (especially in patients with impaired renal function) has been reported with denosumab. To detect hypocalcemia, it is recommended to measure corrected serum calcium and 25(OH)D levels 2–4 weeks after the denosumab dose ( 106 ). No severe complications, such as osteonecrosis of the jaw, have been reported in transplant patients using denosumab. As for vertebral fractures observed in postmenopausal osteoporosis following denosumab discontinuation, this complication has not been evaluated in transplant patients. In summary, the available studies demonstrate that short- and medium-term use of denosumab is a useful option for treating osteoporosis in patients who have undergone organ transplantation. Its use should be considered, particularly in patients with established chronic kidney disease where bisphosphonates may be contraindicated. Moreover, a sub-analysis of the FREEDOM study showed that the reduction in fracture risk remained similar in patients with chronic kidney disease stages I to IV, suggesting that denosumab could be highly beneficial for this group of patients ( 107 ). TERIPARATIDE Teriparatide is a fragment of parathyroid hormone comprising amino acids 1–34, retaining the activity of the intact peptide. It is an anabolic agent with proven efficacy in reducing both vertebral and non-vertebral fracture risk in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis ( 108 ). However, similar to denosumab, publications evaluating the use of teriparatide in solid organ transplant patients are limited. In a 6-month clinical trial, 26 renal transplant patients received either teriparatide or a placebo. In the teriparatide-treated group, no improvement in BMD at the femoral neck, lumbar spine, or distal radius was observed; rather, BMD remained stable. In contrast, patients receiving a placebo experienced a decrease in femoral neck bone mass over the 6-month study period ( 109 ). In another study, teriparatide treatment in 18 renal transplant patients was associated with a significant improvement in lumbar spine BMD after 1 year, stability of total hip bone mass, and a significant increase in femoral neck BMD after 2 years of treatment ( 110 ). No changes were observed in bone microarchitecture, as assessed by the Trabecular Bone Score. Teriparatide was generally well tolerated, with isolated episodes of mild and transient hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia. In a separate retrospective study of renal transplant patients with osteoporosis, the differences in BMD after 1
