Post-Transplant Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, patients, pubmed, transplantation, transplant, osteoporosis, risk, loss, bone loss, fractures, disease, fracture, kidney, liver, bmd


generally well tolerated, with isolated episodes of mild and transient hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia. In a separate retrospective study of renal transplant patients with osteoporosis, the differences in BMD after 1 year of treatment with alendronate or teriparatide were evaluated. Teriparatide was associated with a significant improvement in BMD at all sites, while bisphosphonate use was linked to a lower rate of complications ( 111 ). SUMMARY OF TREATMENT APPROACHES. WHEN TO START AND STOP ANTIRESORPTIVE THERAPY The Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation has made the following recommendations for initiating pharmacologic therapy: 1. Patients with lumbar, femoral neck, or total hip BMD T-score ≤-2.5. 2. Postmenopausal women and men aged ≥50 years with lumbar, femoral neck, or total hip BMD between -1.0 and -2.5 and a 10-year probability of a hip fracture ≥3% or a 10-year probability of a major osteoporosis-related fracture ≥20%. 3. A hip or vertebral fracture regardless of T-score. 4. A pelvis, proximal humerus, or distal forearm fracture in a person with low bone mass or osteopenia. It is recommended that glucocorticoids be administered at the lowest dose possible, and reduced or withdrawn when feasible, in order to minimize early bone loss after transplantation. Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D is advised. Serum 25OHD levels should be above 50 nmol/L. In kidney transplant recipients; alfacalcidiol or calcitriol can be used due to impaired 1 alpha hydroxylation of this metabolite to reduce secondary hyperparathyroidism. In the presence of osteoporosis, antiresorptive therapy should be administered. BFs are the most widely used, while denosumab is an alternative, especially in cases of intolerance to bisphosphonates. For patients with suppressed bone turnover markers, BFs should be avoided due to the potential risk of exacerbating low bone turnover or adynamic bone disease. Although denosumab is metabolized hepatically and does not accumulate in renal insufficiency, hypocalcemia and the risk of rebound vertebral fractures upon withdrawal require careful monitoring and consideration of initiating BF therapy. There is limited experience with other drugs, such as romosozumab and abaloparatide, which have demonstrated efficacy in treating adult osteoporosis. FOLLOW-UP OF POST-TRANSPLANT PATIENTS After initiating treatment, BMD should be monitored using Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Although there are no specific recommendations for transplant patients, it is reasonable to repeat DXA after 1 year if denosumab is used, and after 1 or 2 years if bisphosphonates are the treatment ( 112 ). If an adequate densitometric response is not observed after
