Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


tumors has increased much more steeply from 57% to 65% in the last decade (~95% in low-grade gliomas) as a result of improved multimodality cancer therapies and better supportive care ( 10 – 12 ). However, while survival is high, increasingly intensive treatment strategies aimed at improving cure in a small minority can conversely cause a higher toxicity burden in the larger majority, with a rapidly accruing cohort of survivors faced with reduced quality of life due to late and evolving multi-organ toxicities ( 13 – 15 ). Over 40% of these chronic morbidities (“late effects”) are severe, disabling or life-threatening ( 16 ), and more than 80% of CNS tumor survivors develop at least one endocrinopathy, most frequently growth hormone deficiency ( 17 ). Indeed, suprasellar tumors have been found to be the commonest cause of hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction in adult cohort studies ( 18 , 19 ). However, when compared with adult CNS tumors, pediatric tumors tend to be more curable, and the early presentation of some tumors (e.g., craniopharyngiomas, primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET)), and their association with mutations in neural development genes blur the delineation between congenital malformations and neoplasia ( 20 – 22 ). Tumor location and histology is distinctly age-dependent: 30% of tumors under the age of 14 years are infratentorial (medulloblastomas, posterior fossa juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas, and ependymomas), whilst 26% and 16% of tumors diagnosed in young adulthood (15 to 24 years) are supratentorial or suprasellar respectively (non-pilocytic astrocytomas, other gliomas, pituitary adenomas, and germinomas) ( 4 , 23 ). Supra- and intrasellar tumors constitute 10% of all pediatric CNS tumors ( 23 , 24 ) and their close proximity to the vital hypothalamo-pituitary axis (HPA) increases the risk of important endocrine dysfunction. This may occur secondary to tumor mass effect and/or treatment, and can therefore be manifest at presentation or evolve subsequently during or after completion of oncological therapies. Dissecting the effect of tumor from treatment on endocrinopathies diagnosed after commencement of therapy is particularly complicated. We aim here to ( 1 ) outline the epidemiology, clinical features, and management of common pediatric suprasellar tumors not readily addressed in other chapters, ( 2 ) examine the common clinical neuroendocrine presenting features and ( 3 ) summarize common themes in the neuroendocrine late effects observed at follow-up of these patients. THE DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF PEDIATRIC SUPRA- AND INTRASELLAR MASSES The definitive diagnosis of pediatric suprasellar
