Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


) summarize common themes in the neuroendocrine late effects observed at follow-up of these patients. THE DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF PEDIATRIC SUPRA- AND INTRASELLAR MASSES The definitive diagnosis of pediatric suprasellar and intrasellar masses is crucial, as therapeutic strategies differ markedly depending on histological subtype. However, a tissue diagnosis may not always be possible due to their location, as even minor procedures such as biopsies can lead to life-threatening endocrinopathies such as diabetes insipidus (DI) ( 25 ). Biochemical measurements of serum prolactin (PRL), α-fetoprotein (AFP), and β-human chorionic gonadotrophin (β-hCG) to aid the diagnosis of prolactinomas and secreting germinomas respectively are therefore absolutely essential prior to commencement of any therapy. Table 1. The Differential Diagnosis of Pediatric Suprasellar Tumors and Other Disorders View in own window Neoplastic Craniopharyngioma Low-grade glioma (mainly pilocytic astrocytoma) Pituitary adenoma Germ cell tumor (mainly germinoma) Hamartoma Meningeal metastases Non-neoplastic Pituitary hyperplasia Pituitary stalk thickening Langerhans cell histiocytosis* Tuberculosis Sarcoidosis Rathke cleft cyst Arachnoid cyst Epidermoid/dermoid cyst Meningioma * The classification of Langerhans cell histiocytosis as a non-neoplastic disease is debatable. Craniopharyngiomas Figure 1. T 1 -weighted MRI images of a craniopharyngioma demonstrating the coexistence of solid, cystic and calcified components with the tendency for multiple progressions over seven years. (a) After initial endoscopic cyst fenestration and ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion, (b) after first transcranial debulking, (c) first cystic progression, (d) after first cyst drainage via reservoir, (e) second cystic progression, (f) after second transcranial debulking, (g) after adjuvant radiotherapy and third cystic progression, (h) after second cyst drainage via reservoir, (a) after fourth cystic & solid progression, (j) after complete resection. Craniopharyngiomas are by far the commonest suprasellar tumor of childhood, accounting for up to 50-80% of masses in this region ( 24 , 26 – 28 ) and 1.5-11.6% of all pediatric CNS tumors ( 3 , 24 , 26 , 29 , 30 ). There is a bimodal age distribution in incidence, with the peak incidence in childhood occurring between the ages of 5-14 years at 1.4 cases/million/year ( 29 , 31 ). They are benign tumors originating from the embryonal epithelium lining Rathke’s pouch and are almost invariably adamantinomatous in childhood, characterized by the presence of intratumoral calcifications ( 32 ). Over-activation of the Sonic hedgehog ( SHH ) and Wnt/β-catenin pathways, both important in both pituitary stem cell development and carcinogenesis, have been shown to be key to their formation ( 20
