Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


exposure; however only surgical intervention (regardless of extent) has been shown to be independently associated with posterior pituitary dysfunction and life-threatening salt and water imbalances ( 25 , 64 ). Similar to craniopharyngiomas, overall survival is high (85% at 25 years), but ~80% of survivors experience at least one endocrinopathy ( 25 , 79 ). Pituitary Adenomas Figure 3. T 1 -weighted MRI image demonstrating appearances of a giant prolactinoma. There is obscuration of normal pituitary morphology due to the tumor arising from the pituitary gland itself. Pituitary adenomas are rare in childhood, accounting for just 3% of all supratentorial tumors with an estimated annual incidence of 0.1 cases/million/year in children ( 89 ). The vast majority are functioning, with prolactinomas alone accounting for 50% of adenomas and 2% of all pediatric and adolescent intracranial tumors. Therefore, the measurement of plasma prolactin (PRL) may be diagnostic and is absolutely mandatory prior to planning surgery for any pituitary mass, as medical treatment alone may be entirely curative ( 90 , 91 ). ACTH- and GH-secreting adenomas are the next commonest, whilst TSH-secreting, gonadotrophin-secreting, and non-functioning adenomas are vanishingly rare ( 91 – 93 ). A child with a pituitary adenoma may be the index case for a genetic tumor predisposition syndrome (up to 22%), particularly given their rarity, and therefore careful documentation of their family history and testing for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ( MEN1 ) and aryl-hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein ( AIP ) gene mutations are therefore paramount in all cases ( 94 – 96 ). Other genetic syndromes associated with pituitary adenomas that need to be considered are multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4 ( CDKN1B ), Carney complex ( PRKAR1A ), McCune-Albright syndrome ( GNAS ), SDH-related pituitary adenoma syndrome ( SDHB , SDHC , SDHD ), and DICER1 syndrome ( 97 ). Investigation and management of pituitary adenomas depends on whether they are functioning or non-functioning, and in the case of the former, which hormones are being secreted in excess. Similar to craniopharyngiomas, an evidence- and consensus-based national UK guideline is being written for the management of pituitary adenomas in children and young people as a collaborative effort between the CCLG, RCPCH and BSPED. PROLACTINOMA Pituitary adenomas are classified as microadenomas (<1 cm), macroadenomas (>1 cm), and giant adenomas (>4 cm). In prolactinomas plasma PRL levels generally, but not exclusively, increase with tumor size. Hyperprolactinemia may also
