Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


are classified as microadenomas (<1 cm), macroadenomas (>1 cm), and giant adenomas (>4 cm). In prolactinomas plasma PRL levels generally, but not exclusively, increase with tumor size. Hyperprolactinemia may also result from stalk compression by tumor mass (interrupting hypothalamic dopaminergic inhibition of PRL secretion) and antipsychotic medication but PRL concentrations are usually <2000 mU/l and patients rarely symptomatic ( 98 ). Laboratories should always screen for artefactual hyperprolactinemia due to macroprolactin, but levels >5000 mU/l are usually diagnostic and symptomatic. Occasionally, falsely low results can be due to interference by extreme hyperprolactinemia on antibody-antigen sandwich complex formation, a phenomenon known as the hook effect. In cases of large tumors, samples should therefore be diluted 100-fold and repeated for confirmation ( 99 ). Clinical presentation varies according to the size of tumor, gender, and pubertal status, with girls usually experiencing galactorrhea, pubertal delay, or amenorrhea and boys presenting later with larger, more aggressive tumors with raised intracranial pressure ( 90 ). Given the paucity of good quality outcome data in children, treatment guidelines follow those for adults ( 53 , 91 ), recommending dopamine agonists (DAs) as first line, ideally cabergoline due to its high efficacy and tolerability ( 98 ). Starting doses, dose escalation and duration of therapy in children remain undefined and are critical questions given the potential for more aggressive disease and cardiac valve abnormalities with long-term cumulative exposure ( 100 ). Surgery should be reserved for those cases resistant to DAs or for neurosurgical emergencies (e.g., neuro-ophthalmic deficits, pituitary apoplexy) and both trans-sphenoidal and transcranial approaches should be considered by an experienced pediatric neurosurgeon. Radiotherapy has usually been reserved for treatment failures in view of the presumed risk of post-treatment endocrine morbidity and second primary cancers. However, the former may have been overestimated in view of the high incidence of endocrinopathies already present at diagnosis ( 101 ), and therefore this treatment modality should be considered earlier and prior to other more experimental treatments such as temozolomide chemotherapy ( 98 ). As with other hypothalamo-pituitary tumors, long-term neuroendocrine and secondary cardiovascular morbidity is significant ( 102 ). CORTICOTROPHINOMAS The age distribution for corticotrophinomas is younger than that of prolactinomas (where the incidence increases in adolescence and young adulthood), with Cushing disease accounting for the vast proportion of Cushing syndrome in children aged >5 years, and >70% of pituitary adenomas in the prepubertal age group ( 103 ,
