Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


adulthood), with Cushing disease accounting for the vast proportion of Cushing syndrome in children aged >5 years, and >70% of pituitary adenomas in the prepubertal age group ( 103 , 104 ). These tumors are nearly always microadenomas. Common presenting features include weight gain with linear growth arrest or short stature, change in facial appearance, fatigue, striae, hirsutism, emotional lability, hypertension, acne, headaches, or psychosis ( 104 – 106 ). Diagnosis is achieved by firstly screening for Cushing syndrome indicated by a raised urine free cortisol (sensitivity 89%) or midnight cortisol concentration of >50 nmol/l (sensitivity 99%, specificity 20%). This is then followed by a low-dose (sensitivity 100%, specificity 80%) then high-dose (sensitivity 94%, specificity 70%) dexamethasone suppression test ( 104 , 107 – 111 ). CRH-stimulated bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS) may help successfully localize the position of the microadenoma ( 104 , 105 ). Transsphenoidal resection is the first-line treatment of choice, superseding bilateral adrenalectomy which carries a risk of post-operative Nelson syndrome ( 112 ). Cure rates are 45-78% with nearly 40% requiring adjuvant radiotherapy ( 113 – 115 ). SOMATOTROPHINOMAS 8-15% of all pituitary adenomas in patients <20 years of age secrete GH, with a significant proportion co-secreting PRL and TSH ( 103 , 116 ). Genetic syndromes associated with somatotrophinomas include MEN-1 ( MEN1 ), Carney complex ( PRKAR1A ), McCune-Albright syndrome ( GNAS ), and familial isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA, AIP ) syndrome ( 97 ). Due to the absence of complete epiphyseal fusion, in childhood and adolescence, somatotrophinomas present with pituitary gigantism rather than acromegaly. Tall stature and increased growth velocity however can still be associated with other acromegalic features such as mild obesity, macrocephaly, acral enlargement, frontal bossing, and macrognathia ( 93 , 117 ). Investigations reveal high random GH and IGF-1 concentrations, loss of GH pulsatility, and failure of GH suppression to an oral glucose tolerance test ( 87 ). Like corticotrophinomas, transsphendoidal resection is the treatment of choice but a significant proportion of patients require adjuvant medical therapy with somatostatin analogues (octreotide, lanreotide), dopamine agonists (cabergoline, bromocriptine), or the GH receptor antagonist pegvisomant ( 118 ). Radiotherapy has been used with limited effect ( 119 ). Germ Cell Tumors Figure 4. T 1 -weighted MRI image demonstrating the appearance of a contrast-enhancing suprasellar β-hCG-secreting germinoma in a patient who presented with central diabetes insipidus. Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are
