Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


Figure 4. T 1 -weighted MRI image demonstrating the appearance of a contrast-enhancing suprasellar β-hCG-secreting germinoma in a patient who presented with central diabetes insipidus. Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are tumors arising from primordial germ cells normally sited in the testes and ovaries and can be subclassified into germinomatous (GGCT, usually non-secreting but can occasionally produce βhCG) and non-germinomatous germ cell tumors (NGGCT). NGGCTs and can be further classified into yolk sac tumors (secreting α-fetoprotein (AFP)), choriocarcinomas (secreting βhCG), and embryonal carcinomas. In contrast to craniopharyngiomas and LGGs, intracranial GCTs account for just 3-4% of all primary pediatric and young adult CNS tumors <24 years ( 23 , 120 ). There is a clear peak in incidence in adolescence and young adulthood, with age-adjusted incidence rates rising from 0.9 cases/million/year in patients <10 years to 1.3-2.1 cases/million/year in patients aged 15-24 years ( 23 , 120 ). Boys are affected nearly three times as often as girls, and this sex distribution is magnified in adolescence (male: female ratio of >8:1) ( 23 ). GCTs are also the commonest CNS tumor in Klinefelter and Down syndromes ( 121 ). Diabetes Insipidus (DI) and gonadotrophin-independent precocious puberty (due to βhCG acting on the LH receptor) are common findings at diagnosis and present in 30-50% and 11-12% of patients respectively. Unlike NGGCTs, GGCTs can grow indolently (if at all), meaning that both clinical and radiological features can often be subtle at onset, and delays in diagnosis up to 21 years have been reported ( 122 – 124 ). Histologically, intracranial GCTs resemble their gonadal counterparts (ovarian teratoma or testicular seminoma) and account for 34% of all such tumors ( 125 ). They have a particular predilection for the pineal gland (37-66%) and suprasellar region (23-35%), such that synchronous (bifocal) pineal and suprasellar tumors are pathognomonic. Both GGCTs and NGGCTs are extremely chemo- and radiosensitive, and their propensity to metastasize throughout the cerebrospinal fluid ( 26 , 121 , 126 ) has meant that whole neuraxial (craniospinal) irradiation has been standard therapy for decades, with overall and progression-free survival rates approaching 100% ( 119 ). Chemotherapy alone has been shown to result in inferior survival ( 127 ), and more recent attempts to reduce the irradiation field with adjuvant chemotherapy in an effort to preserve cognitive function have shown little reduction in overall survival ( 121 , 128 , 129 ). The latest SIOP
