Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


the irradiation field with adjuvant chemotherapy in an effort to preserve cognitive function have shown little reduction in overall survival ( 121 , 128 , 129 ). The latest SIOP CNS GCTII however aims to reduce the radiation dose and field by stratifying treatment strategies between NGGCT and GGCTs, and based on the absence or presence of metastatic disease ( https://www.skion.nl/workspace/uploads/2_siop_cns_gct_ii_final_version_2_15062011_unterschrift_hoppenheit.pdf ). As for other suprasellar tumors, the rate of post-treatment endocrine morbidity is significant, with 50-60% of patients having at least one endocrinopathy ( 122 ). Hypothalamic Hamartomas Figure 5. T 1 -weighted MRI image demonstrating the appearances of a pedunculated hypothalamic hamartoma (arrowheads) arising from the floor of the third ventricle in a patient who presented with central precocious puberty. The pituitary morphology is otherwise normal. Hypothalamic hamartomas are extremely rare congenital (rather than neoplastic) malformations consisting of grey matter heterotopia in the tuber cinereum and inferior hypothalamus ( 24 , 26 , 130 ). Their true prevalence is unknown but is estimated to occur in between 1 in 50,000 – 1 million individuals ( 131 – 133 ). Symptom onset occurs in infancy to early childhood, with the mean age of first seizures occurring between 6 weeks – 4.5 years ( 133 – 136 ). The triad of epilepsy (usually gelastic (laughing) or dacrystic (crying) seizures), central precocious puberty, and developmental delay is classic with the seizure semiology eventually evolving into multiple, more severe seizure types ( 130 ). Rarely, they are associated with Pallister-Hall syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by polydactyly and other midline defects (imperforate anus, bifid epiglottis, panhypopituitarism and dysmorphic facies) ( 132 , 137 ), or with SOX2 mutations ( 138 ). The intrinsic epileptogenicity of these lesions ( 139 , 140 ), the trend towards evolving seizure semiology, the worsening of behavioral and psychiatric co-morbidities, and the general failure of anti-epileptic drug therapy has led clinicians to explore the options of surgical or stereotactic radiosurgical resection despite their deep-seated location, with variably reported success in the remission of seizure activity and behavioral disturbances, but more modest improvements in cognitive function ( 130 , 131 , 141 – 143 ). Li et al.'s ( 144 ) case series reported successful remission of central precocious puberty (CPP) and little, if any, late-onset endocrinopathy; but a larger cohort study by Freeman et al. ( 145 ) suggested that clinically silent endocrine dysfunction (particularly GH
