Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


Hand-Schuller-Christian disease if associated with orbital and bony lesions) ( 151 , 152 , 154 , 158 , 159 ). Commonly associated radiological findings include thickening of the pituitary stalk with progression to space-occupying tumors and an absence of the posterior pituitary bright spot ( 159 ). Indeed, LCH is the commonest underlying diagnosis in patients with central DI and an intracranial mass, occurring in 70% of this cohort ( 160 ). The presence of multisystem involvement, particularly if involving “risk” organs, craniofacial bones, gastrointestinal tract, skin, or genitalia) is a particular risk factor for DI ( 159 , 161 ). Treatment is dependent on the number of organs involved and may range from biopsy/curettage, intralesional steroids, indomethacin, and radiotherapy/UV phototherapy for single bone and cutaneous lesions to systemic chemotherapy with steroids and vinblastine for multisystem disease ( 155 , 162 , 163 ). Refractory cases have been treated with cytarabine, cladribine, clofarabine, hemopoietic stem cell transplantation, or BRAF inhibitors ( 164 – 168 ). Notably, no treatment protocol has been shown to reverse existing or prevent future DI or other endocrinopathies ( 159 ), though current therapeutic recommendations are aimed at preventing disease progression and limiting endocrinopathy with prolonged, low-dose systemic chemotherapy ( 155 , 169 – 171 ). Overall, 5-year survival remains relatively high at 71-95%, but 3-25% of patients experience at least one endocrinopathy (particularly GH deficiency), with no current chemotherapeutic regimens showing superior overall- or endocrine event-free survival ( 151 , 156 , 158 , 161 ). Pituitary Stalk Thickening Figure 7. T 1 -weighted MRI image illustrating the appearances of a contrast-enhancing thickened pituitary stalk lesion (arrow) and an absent posterior pituitary bright spot in a patient presenting with central DI. The differential diagnosis included germinoma and LCH. However, approximately one year after diagnosis, the pituitary stalk lesion resolved completely, although the patient has been left with GH deficiency and central DI. A thickened pituitary stalk (TPS) may be discovered either as part of the evaluation of a patient presenting with central DI, visual impairment, or other endocrine dysfunction or incidentally on neuroimaging performed for other purposes. It is discussed here as it is an important differential for germ cell tumors and Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), resulting frequently in diagnostic and management dilemmas, due to a number of reasons: 1. There is no clear consensus as to what constitutes abnormality for children; previous adult studies
