Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


( 182 , 183 ). In an attempt to define which patients with isolated TPS are at risk of neoplasia and therefore require more intensive follow-up or biopsy, Robison et al. suggest risk factors such as the presence of DI (strongest risk factor), the coexistence of DI with anterior pituitary dysfunction or a progressive increase in infundibular size of >15% from baseline ( 178 ). Apart from size, no other particular MRI appearances have been found to be specific for pediatric-related tumor processes ( 184 ). Various proposed diagnostic pathways have been proposed for the management of TPS and idiopathic DI ( 178 , 184 , 185 ) but most recently a national consensus-based guideline has been developed in the UK by the CCLG, RCPCH and BSPED to help achieve a more consistent approach to this finding ( 186 ). Miscellaneous Non-Neoplastic Hypothalamo-Pituitary Masses Other hypothalamo-pituitary malformations can mimic neoplastic processes in the suprasellar region, and should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis particularly before commencing oncological therapies: Pituitary hyperplasia – Hypothalamic releasing hormones are trophic on the pituitary gland, hence hypersecretion of these hormones (e.g., GHRH from a pancreatic tumor in children with MEN1 syndrome) can cause anterior pituitary enlargement and mimic a true mass. The commonest physiological cause of pituitary hyperplasia is puberty, where the maximal height of the gland can be 10 mm in girls and 7 mm in boys ( 187 , 188 ). Pituitary hyperplasia can also occur pathologically, for instance in chronic primary hypothyroidism leading to thyrotroph hyperplasia due to a lack of negative feedback ( 24 , 187 ). It is also important to note that pituitary enlargement can be associated with certain congenital forms of hypopituitarism ( PROP1 , LHX3, SOX3 mutations ( 189 , 190 ). Rathke’s cleft cysts (RCCs) – RCCs are congenital cystic epithelial remnants of Rathke’s pouch which fail to involute during pituitary development, hence arising in the pars intermedia but often extending superiorly ( 24 ). Although often incidental and asymptomatic (occurring in 11% of autopsy cases ( 191 )), cystic growth can lead to visual deficits and endocrinopathies, requiring surgical marsupialization (resection exacerbates endocrine dysfunction) ( 192 ). Unlike craniopharyngiomas (the other common cystic suprasellar lesion), RCCs do not calcify. Arachnoid cysts – These are congenital collections of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) arising from the splitting and/ or duplication of the arachnoid membranes. 16% are suprasellar
