Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


lesion), RCCs do not calcify. Arachnoid cysts – These are congenital collections of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) arising from the splitting and/ or duplication of the arachnoid membranes. 16% are suprasellar and these cysts can present with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure, visual deterioration, endocrinopathies, or developmental delay ( 193 – 197 ). Treatment is by endoscopic fenestration ( 196 , 198 , 199 ). Rare entities – In contrast to adults where autoimmune lymphocytic hypophysitis is the commonest cause of isolated thickened pituitary stalk (TPS), this is exceptionally rare in children, but should be considered in the differential together with other granulomatous diseases (neurosarcoidosis, tuberculosis ( 24 , 200 ). Table 2. The Differential Diagnosis of Pediatric Suprasellar Masses by Radiological Features View in own window Tumor Primary location T1 intensity § T2 intensity § Contrast enhancement Other features Craniopharyngioma Supra>intrasellar Variable, heterogenous High Yes (cystic rims) Cysts, heterogenous, calcification LGG Suprasellar, optic pathways Low High Yes Generally homogenous Pituitary adenoma Intrasellar (intrapituitary) Low Low No Sella turcica expansion Germinoma* Suprasellar, pituitary stalk Isointense – low Isointense – low Yes Loss of posterior pituitary bright spot, coexistent pineal tumor Hamartoma Suprasellar (tuber cinereum) Isointense Isointense – high No - LCH* Suprasellar, pituitary stalk Isointense Isointense Yes Loss of posterior pituitary bright spot, coexistent osseous lesions Lymphocytic hypophysitis* Suprasellar, pituitary stalk, intrasellar Isointense Isointense Yes Loss of posterior pituitary bright spot Pituitary hyperplasia Intrasellar Isointense Isointense Yes Homogenous RCC Intrasellar Isointense – high Isointense – low No Round & smooth walled Granuloma (sarcoidosis, TB) Suprasellar, pituitary stalk Isointense – low Low – isointense Yes Coexistent parenchymal and leptomeningeal lesions Arachnoid cyst Suprasellar Very low (isointense with CSF) High (isointense with CSF) No - LGG, low-grade glioma; LCH, Langerhans cell histiocytosis; RCC, Rathke’s cleft cysts. §MRI signal intensity in comparison to that of gray matter. *Note that germinomas, LCH and lymphocytic hypophysitis cannot be differentiated on radiological features alone ( 24 , 26 , 174 , 201 ). NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION AT DIAGNOSIS OF HYPOTHALAMO-PITUITARY TUMORS Neurological Syndromes RAISED INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE (RICP) The proximity of hypothalamo-pituitary tumors to the floor of the third ventricle and optic chiasm accounts for the high frequency of RICP and visual symptoms at presentation. RICP symptoms (headache, vomiting, and/or papilloedema) are the commonest presenting feature of any pediatric brain tumor (30-60%) ( 202 , 203 ), but occur with even greater frequency in suprasellar lesions such as craniopharyngiomas
