Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


and/or papilloedema) are the commonest presenting feature of any pediatric brain tumor (30-60%) ( 202 , 203 ), but occur with even greater frequency in suprasellar lesions such as craniopharyngiomas (78%) and LGGs (86%) ( 37 , 66 ). Children may therefore present to acute neurosurgical units as a neurosurgical emergency or subacutely with a chronic course that may initially be misdiagnosed as tension/ migrainous headaches or infective gastroenteritis with unrecognized concurrent visual disturbances. Current UK recommendations are to scan all children with vomiting persisting <2 weeks, and/ or headaches occurring in children <4 years, on waking or during sleep, in association with confusion and/ or disorientation, or persisting >4 weeks ( 9 ). Persistent vomiting in the absence of other features suggestive of gastroenteritis (diarrhea, pyrexia) should also prompt consideration of an intracranial lesion. It is important to note that due to the delayed fusion of cranial sutures, children <4 years of age with hydrocephalus more often (41%) present with a rapidly increasing head circumference than classical RICP symptoms ( 203 ). VISUAL DETERIORATION Visual field loss and/or worsening visual acuity are the second commonest presenting feature, particularly in LGGs, where up to 100% of cases may have visual impairment due to direct involvement of the optic pathway ( 75 ). Other suprasellar tumors affect visual function by mass effect on the optic chiasm, occurring in up to 50-70% of craniopharyngiomas and 15% of pituitary adenomas ( 38 , 44 , 102 ). Contrastingly, visual symptoms are rare (~5-7%) in children with other CNS tumors ( 203 ). Other common ophthalmological symptoms that warrant urgent neuroimaging include new onset nystagmus, incomitant (paralytic) squints, optic atrophy, and proptosis, particularly given the difficulties in assessing visual function in young children and the danger of passing off a squint as being “normal” in childhood without detailed examination ( 9 , 203 , 204 ). Parinaud’s syndrome, a combination of upward gaze palsy, convergence-retraction nystagmus, and pupillary dilatation with light-near dissociation is a rare particular presentation of bifocal suprasellar/pineal germinomas due to pressure of the pineal tumor on the tectal plate ( 124 , 205 ). Although the aim of oncological therapy in many of these low-grade tumors is to preserve vision, this has not been generally successful, most likely due to nerve fiber dropout and optic atrophy ( 84 ), or the fact that anatomical tumor characteristics correlate poorly with the degree
