Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


in LGGs as it can occur in the context of NF-1 even in the absence of a hypothalamo-pituitary lesion ( 211 ). It is also one of key components of the hypothalamic hamartoma clinical triad, present in up to 45% of patients at diagnosis ( 131 , 145 ). In both these cases it is presumed to result from premature activation of hypothalamic GnRH, unlike its occurrence in up to 35% of germinomas, where gonadotrophin-independent CPP can occur due to secretion of β-hCG which shares a common alpha subunit with LH and FSH and thus stimulates the same receptors ( 124 , 126 ). Other anterior pituitary deficits evolve only with extensive disease, and are usually only seen at presentation with craniopharyngiomas, although more subtle deficits may have previously been under-recognized with other tumors. ACTH deficiency ( secondary hypoadrenalism) is particularly important to diagnose and treat pre-operatively, and is present at diagnosis in up to 71% of craniopharyngiomas, 19% of germinomas, 10% of hamartomas and 3% of LGGs ( 41 , 124 , 145 , 212 ). Similarly, TSH/TRH deficiency ( secondary/central hypothyroidism) is present in up to 32% of craniopharyngiomas, 19% of germinomas and 10% of LGGs and hamartomas( 45 , 124 , 145 , 213 ). Mild to moderate hyperprolactinemia (<2000 mU/l) is common in all non-prolactinoma hypothalamo-pituitary lesions, needs to be distinguished from true prolactinomas (>5000 mU/l), and does not usually lead to clinically significant galactorrhea. Posterior pituitary dysfunction , particularly central (“cranial”) DI, is the hallmark endocrinopathy of germinomas and Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), being present in up to 90% and 40% of patients respectively at diagnosis ( 123 , 158 ). However, DI can also occur as a presenting clinical feature for other suprasellar lesions which may be missed if symptoms of polyuria and polydipsia are not elucidated. Table 1. Common Endocrinopathies at Presentation of Various Hypothalamo-Pituitary Lesions View in own window Tumor Commonest endocrinopathy at presentation Craniopharyngioma GH deficiency, pubertal delay/arrest Optic pathway LGG Central precocious puberty Pituitary adenoma Hyperprolactinemia (prolactinomas) Suprasellar germinoma Central diabetes insipidus, gonadotrophin-independent central precocious puberty (hCG-secreting) Hypothalamic hamartoma Central precocious puberty Langerhans cell histiocytosis Central diabetes insipidus GH, growth hormone; LGG, low-grade glioma; hCG, human chorionic gonadotrophin. Endocrine dysfunction is under-recognized at presentation, as demonstrated by the discrepancies between spontaneous reports of growth retardation, weight loss/gain, polyuria and polydipsia compared to their true incidence based on direct enquiry or
