Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


is under-recognized at presentation, as demonstrated by the discrepancies between spontaneous reports of growth retardation, weight loss/gain, polyuria and polydipsia compared to their true incidence based on direct enquiry or assessment ( 44 ). Longitudinal retrospective studies have shown that growth failure and weight gain can occur up to 3 years before the diagnosis of a craniopharyngioma, especially in the presence of hypothalamic infiltration ( 214 ). Since the diagnosis of GH deficiency requires dynamic endocrine testing, and idiopathic CPP can be a normal variant in young girls, a significant underlying lesion may be missed without mandatory neuroimaging, despite studies showing that 14-45% of female patients with CPP have a hypothalamo-pituitary mass ( 215 – 217 ). DI may remain occult in the ACTH-deficient patient, or unrecognized until the patient is water-deprived or rendered effectively adipsic by general anesthesia, coma or further hypothalamic damage sustained during surgery, with potentially fatal consequences. Lethargy, recurrent infections, somnolence, and cold intolerance may be subtle symptoms of ACTH and/or TSH deficiencies, whilst hypothalamic dysfunction (discussed below) manifesting as hyperphagia, escalating obesity, sleep-wake cycle disturbance, and temperature dysregulation may be mistaken for psychosocial dysfunction. PRE-OPERATIVE ENDOCRINE ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HYPOTHALAMO-PITUITARY TUMORS Due to their relative rarity and a general lack of data on optimum treatment strategies, all pediatric hypothalamo-pituitary tumors should be discussed in a multidisciplinary forum which comprises, at minimum, a neuro-oncologist, neuroradiologist, pediatric endocrinologist, and pituitary surgeon. Careful endocrine assessment with appropriate neuroimaging is vital before definitive therapy ( Table 4 ). Early morning cortisol/ACTH measurements should ideally be performed before any dexamethasone is given for cerebral oedema, alongside paired urine and plasma osmolarities & electrolytes as these will influence perioperative fluid management. Plasma tumor markers (prolactin, β-hCG, α-fetoprotein) should be obtained prior to any surgical intervention regardless of radiological appearances, as both prolactinomas and germinomas can be treated medically without requiring a biopsy. In some cases, cerebrospinal fluid β-hCG and α-fetoprotein may be required to aid diagnosis. Early access to a pediatric endocrinologist enhances diagnostic decision-making and ensures appropriate peri-operative fluid management particularly in the presence of life-threatening salt/water and hypocortisolemic crises. If dexamethasone has not been commenced for peritumoral edema and where a patient’s hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal status is unknown, parenteral hydrocortisone (2 mg/kg) should be given at anesthetic induction and 6-8 hourly thereafter for 48-72 hours (or via a continuous hydrocortisone infusion), weaning to maintenance doses over 5-10 days according to
