Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


( 220 , 221 ), teratomas ( 222 ), ependymomas ( 223 ), craniopharyngiomas ( 224 ), epidermoid cysts ( 225 ), and rarely with non-suprasellar lesions such as brainstem gliomas ( 226 ). Since Russell’s original description, however, the definition for DS has now too loosely broadened to include all cancer-related cachexia ( 227 ), with <4% of patients with DS having onset of symptoms at >2 years of age ( 220 , 228 ), and some publications reporting adult-onset DS where growth velocity is irrelevant ( 224 , 229 ). It is therefore becoming increasingly difficult to determine whether the patients described in these cases truly have DS or not. Its pathophysiology remains poorly understood, although the most consistent biochemical finding is of high random plasma GH concentrations that is neither suppressed by an oral glucose tolerance test, nor further stimulated by insulin-induced hypoglycemia, with low or normal IGF-1 concentrations, indicative of a GH-resistant state ( 77 , 230 , 231 ). Studies showing increased resting energy expenditure ( 232 , 233 ) support the theory of a dysregulated metabolism rather than abnormal caloric intake. At the time of writing, the next LGG trial is being designed to incorporate an international study of this rare entity, which is an independent risk factor for death, progression ( 11 ) and severe endocrine morbidity ( 25 ). ANOREXIA AND EATING DISORDERS Anorexia nervosa is an over-represented symptom in multiple published case reports of patients with hypothalamic lesions (particularly slow-growing germ cell tumors), with an average delay in diagnosis of nearly 3 years ( 234 ), though symptoms tend to resolve with appropriate therapy. Given the ventromedial and lateral hypothalamic location of the hunger and satiety centers, it is reasonable to postulate the effect of a suprasellar lesion on appetite. However, current understanding of the orexigenic and anorexigenic neuroendocrine regulators of tumor-related anorexia is still incomplete, and reports of non-suprasellar CNS tumors presenting with anorexia ( 227 , 235 , 236 ) suggest dysregulation beyond the hypothalamus, whilst the effect of inflammatory cytokines present in disseminated disease (tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF- α), interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interferon-γ (IFN- γ)), may also play a role ( 227 ). An intracranial lesion needs to be differentiated from true anorexia nervosa, which should fulfil DSM-V or ICD-10 criteria ( 237 , 238 )), in all patients presenting with anorexia and weight loss. A full
