Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


to be differentiated from true anorexia nervosa, which should fulfil DSM-V or ICD-10 criteria ( 237 , 238 )), in all patients presenting with anorexia and weight loss. A full auxological, pubertal and endocrine biochemical assessment should be performed to exclude neuroendocrine disease, particularly in boys where the lower prevalence of anorexia nervosa requires mandatory pituitary neuroimaging. Anorexia nervosa presenting with amenorrhea may be due to a suprasellar tumor causing hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism ( 239 ), and initially normal imaging may not exclude an eventual diagnosis of a tumor, particularly for germinomas ( 235 ). Severe weight loss at diagnosis may be a predictor for future hypothalamic obesity ( 240 ). NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION AFTER DIAGNOSIS AND/OR TREATMENT The Evolution Of Endocrinopathy And Its Association With Treatment Whilst the initial endocrinopathies present at diagnosis are fairly typical for particular tumor subtypes, the pattern of post-treatment endocrine dysfunction in survivors of these lesions is interestingly very similar in frequency and timing. It has long been recognized that there is an evolution in the incidence of dysfunction in each of the hypothalamo-pituitary axes over time, closely mimicking that seen in congenital neurodevelopmental disorders such as septo-optic dysplasia ( 241 ). Although the various axes are differentially sensitive to irradiation, with the GH axis being the most susceptible (even at doses as low as 20 Gy), and the ACTH axis being the most robust ( 38 , 242 , 243 ), the similar evolutionary pattern of endocrine dysfunction seen in patients with a wide range of hypothalamo-pituitary lesions even in the absence of therapeutic irradiation suggests that the pattern of deficits is related most strongly to the position of the tumor (and thus recurrent disease) rather than treatment. GH deficiency is thus commonest, followed by gonadotrophin dysfunction (either central precocious puberty or hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism), ACTH and TSH deficiency, and least commonly posterior pituitary dysfunction, usually presenting as central DI (which is never seen after similar pituitary irradiation doses administered to non-suprasellar tumors) ( 25 , 37 , 45 , 145 , 158 , 244 – 247 ). Hence, lifelong endocrine follow-up of these survivors with regular clinical and biochemical assessments is vital as all patients with such tumors remain at high-risk for the development of these deficits. National guidelines on the neuroendocrine long-term follow-up of tumors such as craniopharyngiomas have been developed in the UK ( 49 ). GH Deficiency GH deficiency affects virtually all
