Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


these deficits. National guidelines on the neuroendocrine long-term follow-up of tumors such as craniopharyngiomas have been developed in the UK ( 49 ). GH Deficiency GH deficiency affects virtually all survivors of pediatric hypothalamo-pituitary lesions at some stage. If not already present at diagnosis, it is virtually guaranteed to occur after pituitary-directed therapy such as radiotherapy or surgery ( 45 , 248 ). Diagnosis of GH deficiency requires dynamic endocrine testing with the gold standard being the insulin tolerance test, although this is contraindicated in patients with a history of seizures. It is worth noting that the GHRH stimulation test should not be used in this context as it will not detect GH deficiency of hypothalamic origin ( 249 ). Serum IGF-1 and its binding protein IGF-BP3 are less accurate markers of GH deficiency, although they may be useful in severe growth failure in the context of a hypothalamo-pituitary tumor where GH testing is considered too hazardous ( 250 , 251 ). They should not be used in the context of suspected GH deficiency in the context of previous irradiation ( 252 – 254 ). Occasionally, GH deficiency may initially present with abnormal spontaneous secretion but normal peak responses to stimulation tests (termed “neurosecretory dysfunction”) ( 255 ), although testing for this with overnight GH profiling is not currently recommended by the GH Research Society ( 256 ). Paradoxical normal growth may continue despite GH deficiency either due to precocious or accelerated puberty, or the syndrome of “growth without growth hormone”, where secondary hyperinsulinemia occurs due to the rapid weight gain observed post-treatment ( 257 ). Growth failure may also be masked by concurrent central precocious puberty. Both situations deserve prompt investigation and GH substitution which, in replacement doses, does not increase tumor recurrence ( 25 , 258 – 260 ), but promotes anabolism and lean body mass. This should therefore not be delayed beyond 12 months after definitive therapy (although this cut-off is arbitrary) ( 261 ), particularly in patients who have irreversible loss of height from spinal irradiation (e.g., for germinomas) ( 262 ). Gonadotrophin Dysfunction Gonadotrophin dysfunction may manifest in three ways. Firstly, central precocious puberty (CPP) (defined as a testicular volume of ≥4 ml in a boy <9 years or breast budding in a girl <8 years) which, if not already present at diagnosis (e.g., hamartomas, LGGs, germinomas) is increased particularly by radiotherapy ( 243 ).
