Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


boy <9 years or breast budding in a girl <8 years) which, if not already present at diagnosis (e.g., hamartomas, LGGs, germinomas) is increased particularly by radiotherapy ( 243 ). There is no evidence that surgical resection of hypothalamic hamartomas, the commonest lesion associated with CPP, improves these symptoms, despite ameliorating the seizures ( 145 ). As mentioned above, coexistence of an early puberty with GH deficiency may mask the latter as height velocity may initially appear to be maintained or even accelerated, but not when corrected for bone age. Any child in puberty should therefore concurrently have an urgent assessment of GH secretion and consideration of replacement to restore height in combination with GnRH analogues to delay skeletal maturation if it is felt psychosocially appropriate. It is worth noting that prior CPP does not preclude later pubertal delay or arrest and may in fact be a risk factor ( 25 ). Therefore, careful monitoring is required even after the cessation of GnRH analogues. Pubertal delay or arrest may either be due to hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism from tumor- or treatment-related injury to the hypothalamus (causing GnRH and/or LH/FSH deficiency) or to primary gonadal failure from systemic chemotherapy (hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism). Patients may fail to enter puberty altogether by the expected age (14 years in boys, 13 years in girls), enter puberty normally and subsequently fail to progress, or demonstrate secondary amenorrhea (girls) or sexual dysfunction (boys). In this situation concurrent GH deficiency can be corrected simultaneously or 6 months prior to commencing sex steroid replacement to initiate an appropriately-timed pubertal growth spurt. There is no advantage to adult height in delaying sex steroid replacement any further, particularly in the light of the benefits on bone mineral accretion ( 263 ). Most chemotherapeutic drugs used in CNS tumor regimens (e.g., carboplatin, vincristine, etoposide) are not considered gonadotoxic, but other high-risk agents such as cyclophosphamide, temozolomide, and cisplatin are occasionally used, with their effects being modulated by age at exposure and gender ( 264 ). Since it is possible to protect future fertility in boys even as young as 12 years with some masculinization (Tanner stage 3+ and/or testicular volume of 8+ mls) by sperm cryopreservation, this should be considered before definitive therapy, even in those not receiving chemotherapy ( 265 ). By contrast, girls who have achieved regular spontaneous menses should be warned of the reduced window of reproductive capacity and a premature
