Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


in those not receiving chemotherapy ( 265 ). By contrast, girls who have achieved regular spontaneous menses should be warned of the reduced window of reproductive capacity and a premature menopause due to a reduced ovarian follicular reserve ( 266 ). Notably, patients with hypothalamo-pituitary tumors who have received chemotherapy can potentially have concurrent hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism and primary gonadal failure, compounding the future risk of subfertility. ACTH Deficiency/Central Adrenal Insufficiency The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is fortunately relatively robust to irradiation and chemotherapeutic damage. However, in the context of a hypothalamo-pituitary tumor, the most important diagnostic challenge is to accurately determine adrenal reserve and differentiate reversible dexamethasone-induced ACTH suppression (after treatment for cerebral edema) from true, permanent ACTH deficiency. Given the lifelong implications of the latter, it is our opinion that the diagnosis should be carefully made ideally with the gold standard insulin tolerance test (ITT) and repeatedly reviewed with time. This may additionally necessitate regular plasma morning cortisol and ACTH measurements and 24-hour cortisol day curves. Although the standard synacthen test (SST) is often used to test adrenal integrity in adults, this supraphysiological stimulus does not test the entire pathway and the integrity of the hypothalamus or pituitary. There is evidence to suggest that in CNS tumor survivors the SST may be less sensitive than the ITT or low dose synacthen stimulation in detecting more subtle degrees of deficiency ( 267 – 269 ). In patients who have received peri-operative dexamethasone for peritumoral edema, formal testing of the HPA axis may be best left until 2-3 months after substitution with maintenance hydrocortisone as doses can be more safely omitted whilst testing is performed. Testing should be performed in a tertiary pediatric endocrinology unit used to managing patients with multiple endocrinopathies, with routine glucose rescue at 25-30 minutes and hydrocortisone at the end of low-dose (0.1 units/kg) insulin-induced hypoglycemia or glucagon stimulation. Treatment of adrenal insufficiency with glucocorticoids may unmask occult DI, and the coexistence of ACTH deficiency, DI, and adipsia due to hypothalamic damage can be fatal and should be avoided where possible. TRH/TSH Deficiency/Central Hypothyroidism The thyroid, like the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis, can be rendered underactive by either central TRH/TSH deficiency (inappropriately normal/low TSH for a low free T 4 or T 3 ) due to the tumor itself or surgery, or primary hypothyroidism (high TSH with a normal (compensated/subclinical) or low (frank) free T 4 ) from spinal irradiation
