Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


or T 3 ) due to the tumor itself or surgery, or primary hypothyroidism (high TSH with a normal (compensated/subclinical) or low (frank) free T 4 ) from spinal irradiation and/or chemotherapy, with the potential for the two states coexisting in some patients. There is little evidence for the role of irradiation in the former. In the adult cohort studied by Littley et al. , no patients treated with low-dose radiotherapy alone experienced TSH deficiency ( 242 ). Similarly, Gan et al. found that the only independent risk factor for TSH deficiency in LGGs was hypothalamic involvement of the tumor ( 25 ). TRH stimulation tests may not differentiate hypothalamic (tertiary) from pituitary (secondary) damage, and serial thyroid function tests with two consecutive low free T 4 concentrations in association with a low or inappropriately normal TSH concentration confirm the diagnosis without the need for further testing ( 270 – 272 ). Primary hypothyroidism can present many years after the initial irradiation or chemotherapeutic insult. Annual thyroid function tests in at-risk children are important for early detection of subclinical hypothyroidism and institution of early treatment, particularly in light of the known effects on the developing brain. Given the known risk of radiation-associated second primary thyroid cancers, the carcinogenicity of nuclear fallouts, and the long-term cardiovascular mortality risk of subclinical hypothyroidism, few clinicians would leave a persistently raised TSH in such a patient cohort untreated ( 273 ). Hyperprolactinemia The importance of serum prolactin (PRL) measurements in the diagnosis of prolactinomas has already been discussed. Similarly, a rise in PRL levels can occur post-treatment in two situations. In the presence of a prolactinoma, this can indicate tumor “escape” from dopamine agonist (cabergoline/bromocriptine) control requiring further therapy. The more common situation arises where hyperprolactinemia is due to stalk compression by a progressive sellar or suprasellar tumor or hypothalamic damage. In this situation PRL concentrations are usually <2000 mU/l ( 274 ) and patients are unlikely to be symptomatic, with galactorrhea being unusual ( 25 ). Chronic severe primary hypothyroidism will also lead to hyperprolactinemia due to the stimulatory effects of a raised TRH on the lactotroph. Posterior Pituitary Dysfunction (PPD) Posterior pituitary dysfunction can present itself in three ways – DI, SIADH, or cerebral salt-wasting syndrome (CSW), the latter attributed to hypersecretion of cerebral atrial natriuretic (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) in response to plasma volume expansion by ADH. The latter
