Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


or cerebral salt-wasting syndrome (CSW), the latter attributed to hypersecretion of cerebral atrial natriuretic (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) in response to plasma volume expansion by ADH. The latter two syndromes are rare outside the context of an acute cerebral insult and are usually transient, whilst DI may be a presenting feature and/or a permanent post-operative deficit. The absence of a posterior pituitary bright spot on MRI is a relatively sensitive marker of a lack of neurohypophyseal integrity ( 275 – 277 ). DI does not develop after cranial irradiation in the absence of a hypothalamo-pituitary tumor or surgery to the area ( 25 , 99 ). Whilst PPD is the least common form of endocrinopathy, the rapid shifts from hyper- to hyponatremia in the acute setting can prove life-threatening, as evidenced by a recent retrospective cohort study of optic pathway LGGs with high survival showing showed that nearly 50% of the deaths that occurred were associated with uncontrolled PPD ( 25 ). This risk is further increased by coexistent ACTH deficiency, hypothalamic adipsia, and treatment with anti-epileptic medications, which have SIADH-like effects. After hypothalamo-pituitary surgery, PPD presents as a well-described triphasic response in ADH secretion: firstly, immediate but transient DI up to day 2; secondly, SIADH from day 1-14; and finally, a second phase of DI, which is usually permanent if it persists beyond 21 days, the preceding SIADH is prolonged or severe, or if extensive surgery has been performed ( 278 , 279 ). This triphasic response is thought to result from necrosis of hypothalamic ADH-secreting magnocellular neurons and is seen more often in children than adults (23% vs. 14% in one craniopharyngioma study) ( 280 ). The three phases may also occur independently, and cerebral salt-wasting syndrome may coexist and complicate diagnosis and management. Dramatic changes in sodium concentrations can therefore occur with the inherent risk of seizures, cerebral edema and death; such patients require high intensity care with precise fluid management supervised by an experienced pediatric endocrinologist. The measurement of plasma and urinary arginine-vasopressin (AVP) may help differentiate between these different disorders, but these assays are not widely available and careful sample processing is required prior to analysis ( 281 ). More recently, measurement of plasma copeptin, the more stable by-product of cleavage of AVP from its carrier protein neurophysin II, is becoming more widely available and has been shown to be a more easily
