Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


plasma copeptin, the more stable by-product of cleavage of AVP from its carrier protein neurophysin II, is becoming more widely available and has been shown to be a more easily measurable, sensitive, and specific surrogate marker of AVP secretion ( 282 – 284 ). Detailed management of these disorders is beyond the scope of this chapter, but can be summarized in the algorithm seen in Figure 8 . Figure 8. Algorithm for the management of post-operative salt-water balance disorders ( 53 ). The Hypothalamic Syndrome The hypothalamic “syndrome” is loosely defined and usually refers to a constellation of features attributed to hypothalamic dysfunction. Central to it is hypothalamic obesity, a morbid, inexorably escalating obesity (BMI usually >+3 SDS) first described over a century ago ( 285 ). It occurs in up to 77% of craniopharyngiomas, 53% of optic pathway LGGs, 40% of pituitary adenomas, 40% of germinomas, and 23% of hamartomas ( 64 , 145 , 286 – 288 ), with some symptoms occurring at diagnosis prior to any treatment. Despite this, its pathophysiology is still poorly understood, although it is becoming increasingly evident that both hyperphagia and a dysregulation of anorexigenic and orexigenic hormones contribute ( 289 ). Young age at diagnosis, hypothalamic injury by tumor, high dose irradiation or surgery (including biopsies), and multiple endocrinopathies are all risk factors ( 278 , 289 ). Unlike common obesity, the weight gain is largely resistant to caloric restriction, lifestyle interventions, medical and surgical therapies ( 290 – 295 ). Several authors have recently trialed GLP-1 agonists in hypothalamic obesity with some success ( 296 – 298 ), but a randomized control trial is needed to confirm these findings in the longer-term, particularly given the newly published data demonstrating long-term success with common obesity ( 299 ). More recently, the combination of tesofensine (a monoamine reuptake inhibitor) and metoprolol has shown promising results in a phase 2 trial ( 300 ). Other hypothalamic symptoms include sleep-wake cycle disturbances, adipsia, temperature dysregulation, cognitive (particularly memory loss), and behavioral (particularly autistic) disorders. Children with disturbed sleep and/or behavioral difficulties should be referred to a specialist sleep laboratory and behavioral neuropsychopharmacology unit. These disorders are even more difficult to treat than replacement of the endocrine deficits. Where endocrine deficits, particularly ACTH deficiency and DI coexist, hypothalamic adipsia is potentially fatal particularly during intercurrent illness and surgery, requiring careful day-to-day fluid management with obligate daily
