Pituitary and Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, available, www, nlm nih, nih gov, nih, gov, gov pubmed, ncbi, ncbi nlm, nlm, internet, www ncbi, internet available, http


endocrine deficits. Where endocrine deficits, particularly ACTH deficiency and DI coexist, hypothalamic adipsia is potentially fatal particularly during intercurrent illness and surgery, requiring careful day-to-day fluid management with obligate daily fluid intake and desmopressin dose adjustments. The difficulties in managing patients with panhypopituitarism with concurrent hypothalamic dysfunction should not be underestimated, therefore avoiding these complications must be an important aim of initial therapy. CONCLUSIONS Pediatric hypothalamo-pituitary tumors are uncommon, and may present with occult or unusual clinical features posing diagnostic dilemmas that incur treatment delays or necessitate prolonged MRI surveillance. Notwithstanding their generally high survival rates, tumor- or treatment-related neuroendocrine morbidity is very significant and not always simply reversible by hormone replacement therapy. Consequently, treatment decision-making should aim to preserve not only visual, but also hypothalamo-pituitary function. Pediatric endocrinologists and pituitary surgeons should be part of the decision-making multidisciplinary team, with radiological, visual, and biochemical assessments together aiding management planning. A detailed baseline endocrine assessment is paramount to both diagnosis and treatment and will ultimately improve long-term outcome monitoring, the clarification of tumor- and treatment-related consequences and management of lifelong morbidity. Given the potentially significant reduction in health-related quality of survival, lifelong, age-appropriate follow-up and management within a dedicated multidisciplinary neuroendocrine unit familiar with the complexity of patients’ needs is recommended. To achieve this, rehabilitation, reproductive, neuropsychological, and vocational services need developing further in parallel with appropriate transition processes to adult services if we are to better manage and improve outcomes for this high-risk group of young patients. Evidence- and consensus-based guidelines are increasingly being developed to define a standard of best practice for the management of these rare tumors. REFERENCES 1. Baade PD, Youlden DR, Valery PC, Hassall T, Ward L, Green AC, et al. Trends in incidence of childhood cancer in Australia, 1983-2006. Br J Cancer [Internet]. 2010/01/07. 2010;102(3):620–6. Available from: http://www ​.ncbi.nlm.nih ​.gov/pubmed/20051948 . [ PMC free article : PMC2822940 ] [ PubMed : 20051948 ] 2. Childhood Cancer Research Group . The National Registry of Childhood Tumours. Oxford: Childhood Cancer Research Group; 2012. 3. Stiller C. Childhood cancer in Britain: incidence, survival, mortality. Oxford: Oxford University Press; 2007. 4. Department of Health ., Macmillan Cancer Support ., NHS Improvement . Living with and beyond cancer: taking action to improve outcomes. London: National Cancer Survivorship Initiative (NCSI), Department of Health; 2013. 5. Ward EM, Thun MJ, Hannan LM, Jemal A. Interpreting cancer trends. Ann N Y Acad
