Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


ABSTRACT This chapter provides a comprehensive overview of the clinical, "hands-on" approach to the diagnosis and treatment of male infertility. It is a resource of evidence-based information for those who are practicing in this fascinating field as reproductive endocrinologists, fertility specialists, urologists, gynecologists and general practitioners. This chapter has been revised with a particular focus on current challenges in the management of severe male infertility. The chapter gives an overview of the genetic and chromosomal contribution to abnormal sperm production and covers the latest advances in the investigation of the topical DNA fragmentation and newest sperm selections strategies. Therapeutic interventions are presented in detail, mainly in the areas of sperm retrieval, varicocele repair and intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection, including potential complications and extreme challenges as complete failed fertilization. Various approaches to fertility preservation are described, including advances in prepubertal fertility preservation. The current chapter is a resource for those who wish to familiarize themselves with multiple aspects of donor sperm usage. For complete coverage of this and all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our FREE web-book, www.endotext.org . NATURE AND CAUSES OF MALE INFERTILITY Definitions Infertility is the inability to produce a pregnancy or failure to do so within a reasonable period of trying, usually 6 to 12 months. Sterility is a total inability to produce a pregnancy, and this may be reversible or irreversible. Subfertility is infertility without an absolute barrier to reproduction that would cause sterility, such as azoospermia. Hypogonadism is a nonspecific term for decreased testicular or ovarian function that could include a disorder of gamete production or function or a disorder of sex hormone production or action. Usually male hypogonadism indicates testicular failure associated with androgen deficiency. Primary hypogonadism results from disorders that affect the gonads directly, and secondary hypogonadism results from defective pituitary gonadotropin secretion. Incidence and Distribution Of couples planning a pregnancy up to 50% conceive in the first cycle and in the remainder, the percentage who conceive in each successive month declines as the proportion of subfertile couples left continuing to try increases. Approximately 85% conceive a first pregnancy by 6 to 12 months.[1-3] The 6- to 12-month period used to define infertility means that it afflicts approximately 15% of couples.[4] Infertility is thus common and the male contribution is substantial.[5] Infertility results from female disorders (anovulation, tubal obstruction, or other pathology) in approximately 30%, a male disorder in 30%, and disorders in
