Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


hypogonadism. In contrast, a primary testicular disorder with elevated gonadotropin levels may occur with chronic illnesses. Increased peripheral conversion of androgens to estrogens may produce some features of feminization such as gynecomastia. The association of hypogonadism and feminization with chronic liver disease is well known. Similar primary, secondary or mixed hypogonadism may occur with other chronic illnesses such as chronic anemia, chronic renal failure, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic spinal cord injury, thyroid diseases, Cushing’s syndrome, obesity, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and neoplasia. Sex hormone–binding globulin levels are increased with some conditions such as cirrhosis and thyrotoxicosis but suppressed with others such as obesity, hypercortisolism, and hypothyroidism.[43] Numerous drugs have side effects on the reproductive system.[43] Heroin addiction and intrathecal narcotic infusions to control chronic pain suppress luteinizing hormone secretion.[44] Fever can cause transient declines of a few months’ duration.[43, 45, 46] Diabetes mellitus may be associated with impotence in early uncontrolled stages, ejaculatory disorders with autonomic neuropathy, sperm autoimmunity and ROS damaged sperm.[47] Men with renal disease may have infertility of multifactorial origin, including testicular failure from chronic illness, cytotoxic drug exposure, zinc deficiency, and damage to the vasa or penile blood supply during kidney transplantation. However, as with cirrhosis, provided that metabolic decompensation is not severe, semen quality often is adequate for fertility.[43] Epididymal obstruction associated with chronic sinopulmonary disease (Young’s syndrome) was diagnosed frequently in Australia and the United Kingdom in the past yet is rare elsewhere.[48] Some cases of Young’s syndrome may have been caused by mercury poisoning in childhood from calomel-containing teething powders.[49] These were withdrawn from the market in the mid-1950s when it was found that they caused pink disease, and Young’s syndrome is seen rarely. Fetal rubella may result in defective development of the vasa. Bronchiectasis and sinusitis are common in men with immotile sperm from cilial defects.[50] Situs inversus may also be present. Testicular Symptoms Previously undescended testes are common in men being investigated for infertility.[14, 51, 52] Undescended testes may be associated with other congenital malformations and disorders of testicular hormone production or action during fetal development, such as Kallmann syndrome, insulin-like factor 3 receptor mutations, androgen receptor mutations or defects of androgen metabolism, and diethylstilbestrol exposure in utero. In Western countries, this condition is usually treated in early childhood, but whether early surgery reduces the severity of the subsequent spermatogenic disorder is unclear. A randomized controlled trial of orchiopexy for unilateral
