Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


this condition is usually treated in early childhood, but whether early surgery reduces the severity of the subsequent spermatogenic disorder is unclear. A randomized controlled trial of orchiopexy for unilateral palpable maldescended testis at 9 months versus 3 years of age showed that surgery at 9 months was followed by significant growth of the testis up to age 4 years but there was no change in testis size in those treated at age 3 [53]. This has led to clinical guidelines for treatment of maldescended testes that recommend orchiopexy for congenital forms between 6 and 12 months of age and as soon as possible for those discovered later and for acquired maldescent. Hopefully this will reduce the frequency of subsequent testicular tumours and spermatogenic defects. A testicular dystrophy may cause both the failure of descent and defective sperm production in adult life despite early surgery. It is difficult to explain otherwise how men with unilateral undescended testes are so frequent in the infertile population. Bilateral undescended testes carry a poorer outlook for fertility than unilateral undescended testes. Infertility after bilateral orchiopexy is approximately six times more common than in the general population and occurs in approximately half of the men, whereas after unilateral orchiopexy, infertility is increased by a factor of two and affects approximately 10%.[51] There may be associated malformation of the epididymides.[54] Rarely the testes may atrophy after surgery because of interference with the blood supply or coincidental torsion. Episodes of severe testicular pain and swelling may result from torsion, orchitis, or epididymo-orchitis and may be followed by loss or atrophy of the testis. Post-inflammatory atrophy is particularly frequent with mumps orchitis but rare with other illnesses such as glandular fever and brucellosis.[55] Epididymo-orchitis of bacterial origin is commonly associated with urethritis or urinary tract infections and may follow straining with heavy lifting. Sexually transmitted diseases are important, particularly if there was associated epididymal pain or swelling. Some patients have post-gonococcal obstructions in the tails of the epididymides without clear or admitted histories of epididymitis. Failure of development and a decrease in size of one or both testes are important symptoms of spermatogenic defects. Torsion of the testes may cause atrophy. The vasa may be damaged during hernia repairs and kidney transplantation. Testicular biopsy may inadvertently damage the epididymis, especially if retroversion of the testis is not recognized and the biopsy is performed without taking the testis out
