Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


repairs and kidney transplantation. Testicular biopsy may inadvertently damage the epididymis, especially if retroversion of the testis is not recognized and the biopsy is performed without taking the testis out of the tunica. Similarly, surgery for torsion, hydroceles, or epididymal cysts may result in the obstruction of the epididymis. Hematomas in the scrotum and infarction of the testes may follow interference with the vascular supply of the testes. Rarely, autoimmune orchitis results from testicular injury or inflammation. Testicular tumors and carcinoma in situ occur with increased frequency in infertile men, even without a history of undescended testes.[21, 56] Iatrogenic Infertility Vasectomy and Sertoli-cell-only syndrome caused by cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation therapy for malignant tumors of the testes, leukemia, lymphoma, and serious autoimmune diseases are the most common forms of medically induced infertility.[57, 58] Although some treatment regimens only suppress spermatogenesis temporarily, recovery of fertility is unpredictable. Alkylating agents, such as cyclophosphamide and busulfan, destroy spermatogonia.[58] Antimetabolites may be used to treat psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, or xenograft rejection and can have transient adverse effects on spermatogenesis.[43, 59] Treatment with sulfasalazine for inflammatory bowel disease or arthritis causes a reversible impairment of semen quality.[43] Cessation of sulfasalazine often results in a marked improvement in semen quality over several months. Many other drugs have real or potential adverse effects on spermatogenesis or sexual performance, including androgens, anabolic agents, estrogens, glucocorticoids, cimetidine, spironolactone, antibacterials (especially nitrofurantoin), antihypertensive drugs, and psychotropic agents. However, in practice these are not common causes of infertility.[43] Anti-spermatogenic Factors Occupational and environmental exposures may affect reproduction.[60, 61] Exposure to heat from frequent sauna baths, vehicle driving, furnaces, and perhaps working outdoors in summer may cause a decline in spermatogenesis. Impaired testicular heat exchange from obesity and varicoceles may accentuate the effect. Exposure to chemicals in the workplace or elsewhere, particularly nematocides; organophosphates; estrogens; benzene; and welding, zinc, lead, cadmium, and mercury fumes, may have anti-spermatogenic effects. Various social drugs, including tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, and narcotics, are potentially anti-spermatogenic, but these usually require heavy use for an adverse effect.[43, 62, 63] Some addicts have other organ damage, such as cirrhosis, which may further impair testicular function.[43] Physical Examination A general physical examination is performed (see Table 2) and specific abnormalities are sought in particular circumstances, for example, of the respiratory system with suspected genital tract obstructions or immotile sperm, the prostate for ejaculatory duct obstruction or prostatitis, the endocrine system for
