Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


sought in particular circumstances, for example, of the respiratory system with suspected genital tract obstructions or immotile sperm, the prostate for ejaculatory duct obstruction or prostatitis, the endocrine system for hypopituitarism or other defects associated with testicular failure, the nervous system for autonomic neuropathy with coital disorders, optic field defects with pituitary tumors, and hyposmia with Kallmann syndrome. Virilization Hair distribution varies markedly between men. The loss or reduced growth of facial, pubic, axillary, and body hair is an important feature of androgen deficiency but is often unrecognized by patients. Men may note a reduced frequency of the need to shave. The stages of genital and pubic hair development can be recorded according to the method of Tanner. Eunuchoidal proportions (arm span 6 cm greater than height or pubis-to-floor measurement greater than 6 cm longer than one half the height) result from delayed fusion of the epiphyses and are a sign of delayed or incomplete puberty in whites or Asians but can be found with normal testicular function. Gynecomastia Gynecomastia of mild degree is common in men with testicular failure of any cause.[43] Marked gynecomastia may be associated with Klinefelter’s syndrome, cirrhosis, androgen receptor defects, estrogen-producing tumors, or anabolic steroid and human chorionic gonadotropin abuse. Galactorrhea is rare in men and usually but not always associated with hyperprolactinemia.[64] External Genitalia Examination of the penis for the position of the meatus, phimosis, urethral strictures, and Peyronie’s disease is important because these may influence the adequacy or completeness of ejaculation. Inadequate penile size appears to be an exceptionally rare cause of infertility.[65] Examination of the scrotal contents is critical in the evaluation of male infertility. A general approach to the examination is outlined in Figure 172-1. This examination should be performed with the man lying and standing.The body of the testes, the head, the body, and the tail of the epididymis and vas are palpated on both sides as shown. Sometimes it is difficult to examine the scrotum thoroughly because of ticklishness or because the scrotum is very tight. Testes may retract into the superficial inguinal region, especially if small. Testes not present in the scrotum may be palpable in the subcutaneous tissue in the groin or, occasionally, in the inguinal canal. Palpable remnants of the vas and epididymis in the scrotum suggest the testis has atrophied completely—the vanishing testis.[66] Orchiometry The volume of the testis is determined by comparison with an
