Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


Palpable remnants of the vas and epididymis in the scrotum suggest the testis has atrophied completely—the vanishing testis.[66] Orchiometry The volume of the testis is determined by comparison with an orchiometer (normal: 15–35 mL).[67] In the absence of varicoceles, the right and left testes are approximately equal in size. Testicular volume is related to body size and number of sperm per ejaculate. As seminiferous tubules occupy more than 90% of the volume of the testes, impairment of spermatogenesis is commonly associated with reduced testicular size. Testicular atrophy suggests severe impairment of spermatogenesis. Figure 1 Prader orchiometer for measuring testis volume. Testicular Abnormalities Pain on palpation or excessive tenderness suggests inflammation. Loss of normal testicular sensation may occur with chronic inflammations, neuropathy, or neoplasia. Reduced consistency or softness of the testes is a feature of reduced spermatogenesis. Abnormalities of shape and hard lumps suggest tumors or scars. Epididymal Abnormalities Palpable abnormalities include congenital absence of the vas or other failures of development, enlargements of the heads or nodules in the tails of the epididymides with obstruction, spermatoceles, and other cysts and tumors. In men with very small testes (<5 mL), small epididymides suggest severe androgen deficiency, and normal-size epididymides suggest postpubertal testicular atrophy or a severe seminiferous epithelial disorder, such as Klinefelter’s syndrome. Vasal Abnormalities Abnormalities of the vas include absence, nodules and gaps with vasectomy, and thickening or beading of the vas with severe post-inflammatory scarring as from tuberculosis. Miscellaneous Abnormalities Incidental scrotal findings include scars from surgery, scrotal dermatitis, and pubic fat pads around the genitals in extreme obesity. Inguinal hernias and lipomas and encysted hydroceles of the cord are palpated above and behind the epididymis. Cysts “hydatids” of the appendix testis or epididymis are typically anterior to the head of the epididymis. Spermatoceles and cysts of the paradidymis are in the head or body of the epididymis. Retroversion of the testes, where the vas and epididymis are anterior rather than posterior to the testes is common. Hydroceles of mild degree are common. A tense hydrocele may hide a testicular tumor. Unilateral absence of the vas may be associated with ipsilateral agenesis of the kidney and ureter on the same side. Many of these anomalies have little relationship with infertility. Checking for Varicocele With the man standing up, the scrotum can be inspected for swelling of the pampiniform plexus and a cough or Valsalva impulse seen or palpated by
