Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


infertility. Checking for Varicocele With the man standing up, the scrotum can be inspected for swelling of the pampiniform plexus and a cough or Valsalva impulse seen or palpated by holding the spermatic cords between the thumb and index finger of each hand and elevating the testes toward the external inguinal ring. This maneuver reduces the risk of confusing contractions of the cremaster muscles with venous impulses. Varicocele size is graded: cough impulse without palpable enlargement of the spermatic cord (grade 1), palpable enlargement (grade 2), and visible enlargement (grade 3). Although predominantly a left-sided condition, varicoceles may occasionally be on the right side. The accuracy and reproducibility of clinical examination, even for structures as accessible as those in the scrotum, may not be high. Varicoceles may vary in size from day to day. Even absence of the vasa may be overlooked. With practice, orchiometry can be repeated to within one orchiometer size. SEMEN ANALYSIS AND OTHER INVESTIGATIONS Investigations are outlined in Table 3. Semen Analysis The most important laboratory investigation in male infertility is semen analysis. The variables assessed and the methods are in the World Health Organization’s laboratory manual.[68] Automation of semen analysis is in progress and should be used in most specialized laboratories soon.[17] It is crucial that the laboratory is experienced in the performance of semen analyses, and participates in quality assurance activities.[69] There should be a room nearby for the collection of semen. Semen may be obtained by masturbation or coitus using a special nontoxic condom. Ordinary latex contraceptive condoms are unsatisfactory because the rubber usually immobilizes the sperm.[70] If these methods of collection are not possible, postcoital examination of midcycle cervical mucus may give some information about the likelihood of adequate semen quality if many motile sperm are found. In contrast, a negative postcoital test on its own is of little diagnostic value because conception can occur in the same cycle.[71] The man should be provided with a wide-mouth, sterile, and nontoxic collection jar and written instructions about collection and delivery to the laboratory. A period of abstinence from ejaculation from 2 to 5 (preferably 2) days, delivery of the sample to the laboratory within 1 hour of collection, and avoidance of exposure to lubricants or extremes of temperature are specified. Because of the variability of results, several semen analyses at intervals of 2 or more weeks are necessary in a man with an
