Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


lubricants or extremes of temperature are specified. Because of the variability of results, several semen analyses at intervals of 2 or more weeks are necessary in a man with an abnormality in the first test. Even with complete collection of samples, there is variability caused by counting error, other technical errors, and differences in the ejaculate from day to day (Fig. 2).[68, 72] These large variations need to be remembered when interpreting results of semen analysis. To check for retrograde ejaculation, urine collected immediately after ejaculation is centrifuged and the pellet examined for sperm. Figure 2 Variability of semen analysis results in a fertile sperm donor. C, sperm concentration; V, semen volume; M, total motility; MI, motility index-product of grade and percentage of sperm with progressive motility graded 0 to 3. (Mallidis C et al: Variation of semen quality in normal men. Int J Androl 14:99-107, 1991. Used by permission Blackwell Scientific Publications.) Assays of semen constituents from the accessory glands and testis are available: zinc and acid phosphatase from the prostate, fructose from the seminal vesicles, neutral α-glucosidase, glycerophosphocholine, and l-carnitine from the epididymis and inhibin B from the Sertoli cells. Prostatic fluid is acid (pH approximately 6.0), but the ejaculate is alkaline because of the admixture with seminal vesicle fluid. Semen biochemistry is of limited usefulness in clinical practice. Some examples are given in Table 5 . Table 5 Common or Characteristic Patterns of Semen Abnormality View in own window Volume (mL) >1.5* Concentration (10 6 /mL) >15* Motility (%) >40* Normal Morphology (%) >4* Comment Cause 0.4 0 - - Fructose 1 nmol/L (low) pH 6.5 (low) Congenital absence of vasa Ejaculatory duct obstruction Partial retrograde ejaculation Testicular failure with androgen deficiency (Spill or incomplete collection) 4.0 0 - - Fructose 15 nmol/L Genital tract obstruction Primary seminiferous tubule failure Secondary seminiferous tubule failure with androgen treatment 3.0 100 0 35 Live 70% (Contamination or condom collection) Immotile cilia 3.0 100 5 35 Live 20% (Contamination or delayed examination) Necrospermia Sperm autoimmunity 3.0 100 65 0 Small round heads Total teratospermia: absent acrosomes 3.0 100 25 10 Liquefaction delayed Sperm aggregation 2+Live 40% Polymorphs 1 x 106/mL Idiopathic asthenospermia Sperm autoimmunity Prostatitis (Delayed examination) 3.0 4 30 3 Mixed abnormal morphology Oligospermia of specific or nonspecific causes 3.0 <1 - - Motile sperm present Severe oligospermia of specific or nonspecific causes Primary seminiferous tubule failure Partial genital
