Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


in the ability of sperm to interact with the coverings of the oocyte. Figure 3 Stages of human fertilization. Spermatozoa swim through the surrounding medium and cumulus mass (not shown) and bind to the surface of the zona pellucida. The acrosome reaction is stimulated by zona proteins and the acrosome reacted sperm penetrates the zona, enters the perivitelline space and binds to the oolemma via the equatorial segment. Oocyte processes surround the sperm head and it enters the ooplasm and decondenses. Infertility could result from defects of any of these processes. For example, abnormal sperm particularly with defective head morphology bind poorly to the zona. (From Baker, H.W.G., Male Infertility. Chapter 141 In Endocrinology, 6th edition, Jameson J. L. and DeGroot L.J. (Chief Eds.), Saunders Elsevier Philadelphia PA. pp 2556-2579, 2010) Human Sperm–Zona Pellucida Binding Ratio Test Because the number of sperm bound to the ZP is strongly related to the fertilization rate, human sperm–ZP interaction tests have been developed using oocytes that failed to fertilize in vitro.[74] These oocytes can be used either fresh or after storage in concentrated salt solutions. Because the ZP binding capacity is variable, control (fertile donor) and test sperm are labeled with different fluorochromes (fluorescein and rhodamine). After incubation with equal numbers of control and test sperm, the oocytes are aspirated through a wide bore pipette to dislodge loosely adherent sperm and the numbers of sperm tightly bound to the ZP are counted with a fluorescence microscope. Results are expressed as a ratio of the number of test and control sperm bound to the ZP of four oocytes. An alternative method is to cut the zona and expose one half to test and the other to control sperm (Hemizona assay).[75] Human Sperm–Zona Pellucida Penetration Test It is difficult to determine the number of sperm penetrating the ZP when many sperm are bound to the surface. The sperm bound to the surface of the ZP can be sheared off by repeatedly aspirating the oocyte with a pipette with an internal diameter less than the diameter of the oocyte (120 m). The sperm penetrating the ZP or perivitelline space can then be counted easily, and the results of this test are the most predictive of fertilization rates with standard IVF.[74] Zona Pellucida–Induced Acrosome Reaction Test Sperm dislodged from the ZP can be stained with a fluorescein-labeled lectin such as pisum sativum agglutinin or an antibody specific
