Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


rates with standard IVF.[74] Zona Pellucida–Induced Acrosome Reaction Test Sperm dislodged from the ZP can be stained with a fluorescein-labeled lectin such as pisum sativum agglutinin or an antibody specific for the acrosomal contents to determine the proportion that are acrosome reacted. This test is useful for diagnosis of disordered ZP-induced acrosome reaction.[74] Human Sperm–Oolemma Binding Ratio Test Sperm-oolemma binding has been studied in a similar way to the sperm-ZP binding test, using oocytes that have had the ZP removed. [74] Interpretation of Semen Analysis Results Table 5 shows various patterns of abnormality of semen quality and their common causes. It is always important to consider whether the result is spurious. Repeated tests are necessary to establish an average and to determine the variability within an individual man (see Fig. 2). Variations in Semen Volume and Appearance Low semen volume suggests incomplete collection, short duration of abstinence from ejaculation before the test, absence or obstruction of the seminal vesicles, or androgen deficiency. High semen volume (>8 mL) may be seen in association with oligospermia but is of little practical significance. Hemospermia is usually the result of minor bleeding from the urethra, but serious conditions, such as genital tract tumors, must be excluded. Other discoloration of the semen may indicate inflammation of accessory sex organs. The semen may be yellow with jaundice or salazopyrine administration. Defects of liquefaction and viscosity are relatively common and presumably result from malfunction of the accessory sex organs. Although these may cause problems with semen analysis and preparation of sperm for assisted reproductive technology (ART), they are probably of little relevance to fertility. Sperm agglutination is common with sperm autoimmunity but can also occur for other reasons. Azoospermia The total absence of sperm from the semen needs to be confirmed in repeated tests with vigorous centrifugation of the semen and careful examination of the pellet.[68] Cooper and others have shown that sperm maybe found in apparently azoospermic samples using more sensitive sperm-counting methods (e.g. fluorescence microscopy).[76] Rarely, an illness or difficulty with collection will cause transient azoospermia; however, this can also occur for unexplained reasons. With severe spermatogenic disorders and some obstructions, sperm may be present in the semen intermittently. If any live sperm can be found, these can be cryopreserved for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Oligospermia Sperm concentrations of less than 15 million/mL or preferably total number (concentration X volume) less than 39 million are
