Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


found, these can be cryopreserved for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Oligospermia Sperm concentrations of less than 15 million/mL or preferably total number (concentration X volume) less than 39 million are classified as oligospermic.[68] This figure represents the 5th percentile derived from analysis of semen analyses preformed using WHO methods in about 1900 healthy volunteers whose partners had a time-to-pregnancy of ≤12 months and is used in the 5 th edition of the WHO semen analysis manual .[77] There is a correlation between sperm concentration and other aspects of semen quality. Both motility and morphology are usually poor with oligospermia. Asthenospermia Asthenospermia is defined as less than 40% sperm motility or less than 32% with rapid progressive motility.[68] Spurious asthenospermia caused by exposure of sperm to rubber (particularly condoms), spermicides, extremes of temperature, or long delays between collection and examination, should be excluded. Low sperm motility is a frequent accompaniment of oligospermia, and is often also associated with a mixed picture of morphologic defects suggesting defective spermiogenesis. Specific ultrastructural defects of the sperm can be evaluated by electron microscopy when there is zero sperm motility or extreme asthenospermia (less than 5% motile sperm).[50, 78] Absent dynein arms, other axonemal defects, mitochondrial abnormalities, disorganized fibrous sheath or outer dense fibers, or normal ultrastructure may be found. Standard semen analyses usually show normal sperm concentrations and morphology but there may be tail abnormalities: short, straight, or thick tails, or midpiece defects. Viability tests help to distinguish this group of patients from those with necrospermia.[79] Patients with structural defects in the sperm may be able to be treated by ICSI. Asthenospermia may also be associated with sperm autoimmunity. The causes of other motility defects of moderate degree are unidentified. Absolute asthenospermia (the condition in which only immotile spermatozoa can be retrieved) is reported at a frequency of 1 in 5000 men and it implies a very poor fertility prognosis. Selection methods currently used to choose a viable sperm for ICSI in the case of absolute asthenospermia are based on chemical substances added to the sample before the procedure or biophysical approaches accomplished during the procedure. [80] Immotile sperm treatment with pentoxifylline, a nonselective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase has been investigated and proved to be an efficient approach. [81, 82] Theophylline, a nonselective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase with an increased half-life compared to pentoxifylline was also investigated, recently, [83] in a prospective study on thawed testicular sperm
