Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


efficient approach. [81, 82] Theophylline, a nonselective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase with an increased half-life compared to pentoxifylline was also investigated, recently, [83] in a prospective study on thawed testicular sperm selected for ICSI. Theophylline-treated thawed sperm compared with untreated sperm showed a significant improvement in searching time, increased fertilization and blastulation rates and higher implantation and clinical pregnancy rates. In a recent case report [84], theophylline has been demonstrated to be an efficient agent for stimulating immotile spermatozoa also in a patient with retrograde ejaculation and total sperm asthenospermia, and a healthy live birth was reported. Other sperm selection methods as the sperm tail flexibility test (STFT) [85], the hypo-osmotic swelling test (HOS)[86, 87] and laser shot system [88] were reported to be useful. Necrospermia It is important to distinguish necrospermia from other types of severe asthenospermia because some patients with necrospermia produce pregnancies despite the low sperm motility.[40, 79, 89, 90] Necrospermia is characterized by usually less than 20% to 30% total motility, less than 5% progressive motility, and a viability test less than 30% to 40%, indicating a high proportion of dead sperm. Other causes of severe asthenospermia such as sperm autoimmunity and collection problems must be excluded. Necrospermia may fluctuate in severity, particularly with changes in coital frequency.[79, 90] Characteristic of necrospermia is an improvement of sperm motility with increased frequency of ejaculation. The condition may be caused by defective storage of sperm in the tails of the epididymides or stasis in the genital tract, and it also occurs with chronic spinal cord injury and with adult polycystic kidney disease associated with cysts in the region of the ejaculatory ducts.[40, 89] There are ultrastructural features of degeneration in the ejaculated sperm but normal structure of late spermatids in testicular biopsies.[79, 89] Treatment with antibiotics may have a beneficial effect, but this is not proved. The couple should have intercourse once or twice every day for 3 to 4 days up to the time of ovulation. Teratospermia Teratospermia is a reduced percentage (<4%) of sperm with normal morphology assessed by light microscopy.[68] It is important to distinguish mixed abnormalities of sperm morphology from those in which all or the majority of sperm show a single uniform defect, such as spherical heads with absence of the acrosomes (globospermia) and pinhead sperm. Pinhead sperm result when the centrioles from which the sperm tails develop are not correctly aligned opposite the
