Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


as spherical heads with absence of the acrosomes (globospermia) and pinhead sperm. Pinhead sperm result when the centrioles from which the sperm tails develop are not correctly aligned opposite the developing acrosome. On spermiation, the sperm heads are disconnected from the tails and absorbed during epididymal transit so that there are only sperm tails in the ejaculate, the cytoplasmic droplet on the midpiece giving the pinhead appearance.[91] Both these conditions cause sterility but are extremely rare. In general, human spermatozoa are very variable in appearance and the microscopic assessment of sperm morphology is highly subjective and difficult to standardize between laboratories. Only a small proportion (<25%) of the motile sperm from fertile men are capable of binding the ZP in vitro, and this zona binding capacity is closely related to the morphology of the sperm head.[92] The morphometric characteristics of the sperm that bind to the ZP may be useful as a standard for sperm morphology.[17, 93] Various histological assessments of morphology have been used. The simplest is to record as normal only those sperm that have no shape defects in head, midpiece or tail, regions.[68] In the strict morphology approach, although size measurements are set, the sperm are assessed by eye and those marginally abnormal are assigned abnormal. Automated methods involving image analysis by computer have been developed that could overcome the between-laboratory variability and greatly improve the predictive value of semen analysis for natural conception.[17, 93] Before the introduction of ICSI, the percentage of sperm with normal morphology assessed by strict criteria after washing the sperm and adjusting the concentration to 80 million/mL, provided one of the most useful predictors of fertilization rates with standard IVF. There was a progressive reduction in oocytes fertilized from 60% to 20% as abnormal morphology increased from less than 70% to more than 95%.[94] Patients with high proportions of sperm with abnormal morphology are now treated by ICSI because of the risk of failure of fertilization with standard IVF. ICSI results are independent of sperm morphology. Sperm chromatin and abnormal DNA assays A variety of flow cytometric and other assays to measure sperm chromatin integrity, DNA fragmentation, sperm apoptosis or nuclear integrity have been developed. [95, 96] The usefulness of these tests for prediction of fertility remains controversial [97] Hormone Assessment It is not necessary to perform hormone measurements routinely. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels in patients with azoospermia, normal testicular volume, and
