Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


for prediction of fertility remains controversial [97] Hormone Assessment It is not necessary to perform hormone measurements routinely. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels in patients with azoospermia, normal testicular volume, and normal virilization may help distinguish genital tract obstruction from a spermatogenic disorder. The most useful FSH value for the upper limit in reproductively normal young men is ~8 IU/L.[98, 99] However, some men with primary seminiferous tubule failure have normal FSH levels. Normal FSH is common with germ cell arrest at the primary spermatocyte stage. Rarely, high FSH levels are seen with normal spermatogenesis.[100] Measurement of FSH, luteinizing hormone, and testosterone is useful in men with reduced testicular volume and signs of androgen deficiency, to distinguish primary from secondary hypogonadism. Inhibin B measurement may provide additional information about the state of spermatogenesis.[101] but is rarely used in routine practice. Prolactin should be measured in men with galactorrhea or androgen deficiency and loss of libido.[102] Other hormone investigations are occasionally required, such as thyroid function tests with hyperprolactinemia, 17-hydroxyprogesterone measurements with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, estradiol with liver disease or tumors, iron studies to exclude hemochromatosis, human chorionic gonadotropin with tumors and estrogen excess, and pituitary function tests for panhypopituitarism.[43] Chromosome and Genetic Studies Chromosomal anomalies are 8-10X more common in infertile than fertile populations, and in many cases there are no other phenotypic changes. The prevalence is inversely correlated to the sperm density, being 14% of azoospermia.[103, 104] Accordingly a routine assessment is recommended in men with unexplained infertility and sperm densities < 5-10 million/ml. A karyotypes is performed in men with clinical evidence of primary testicular failure and small testes to confirm a clinical diagnosis of Klinefelter syndrome. Usually the karyotype is 47,XXY, but there may be higher numbers of X chromosomes or a sex-reversal 46,XX karyotype.[105-107] Although most men with Klinefelter syndrome produce no sperm in the semen, some are oligospermic and very rarely fertile.[105] Also, sperm for ICSI may be obtained by testicular biopsy in about 50% of patients.[106, 107] Defective spermatogenesis may occur with 47,XYY, but the clinical picture is much less uniform than it is for Klinefelter syndrome. The extra Y chromosome is deleted early in gametogenesis because the sperm, embryos, and children generally have normal karyotypes. However, an increased rate of sex chromosomal and autosomal aneuploidy has been noted in studies of sperm from XXY and XYY men.[107, 108] Some Y chromosome abnormalities, such as
