Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


karyotypes. However, an increased rate of sex chromosomal and autosomal aneuploidy has been noted in studies of sperm from XXY and XYY men.[107, 108] Some Y chromosome abnormalities, such as an isochromosome of two short arms, are associated with absences of spermatogenesis. Infertile men have much higher rate of aneuploidies compared to fertile men and most of them have no other phenotypic features. An increased frequency of autosomal abnormalities is found with defective spermatogenesis, particularly balanced autosomal translocations (reciprocal and Robertsonian), which may be transmitted in unbalanced form to their offspring.[109] As part of their infertility investigation, it is imperative to screen severely oligospermic men as the result may affect treatment outcome. Cystic fibrosis gene studies are important for evaluation of patients with congenital absence of the vas and their partners.[110] If the woman has a cystic fibrosis gene mutation, preimplantation genetic diagnosis of their embryos can be offered. Microdeletions in the long arm of the Y chromosome (AZF regions) have been found in 3% to 15% of men with severe primary spermatogenic disorders.[18, 19, 27, 36, 37] Sons of men with these microdeletions have the same microdeletions.[111] Another gene involved in spermatogenesis (histones replacement) and different from the AZF regions Yq deletions is CDY. ([112] TSPY gene is located on the short arm of Y chromosome and may regulate the timing of spermatogenesis by signaling spermatogonia to enter meiosis. [29] The sex hormone-binding globulin ( SHBG ) gene has been studied for possible role in spermatogenesis.[113] Other genes that have been investigated for a possible involvement in fertility are DAZL (sperm count) MTHFR and the estrogen receptors genes (ESR1 and ESR2). Polymorphisms of the promoter region of the estrogen receptor gene have been shown to be related to sperm production. Men with higher numbers of TA repeats have lower sperm counts. [29] Androgen receptor defects have also been found in some men with unexplained primary spermatogenic disorders. Mutations in the gene impairing androgen receptor activity produce androgen insensitivity, which has a variable phenotypic expression from testicular feminization to otherwise normal males with gynecomastia or hypospermatogenesis and oligospermia.[33] Increases in the number of CAG repeats in exon 1 over approximately 40 are associated with Kennedy disease (progressive spinobulbar atrophy) and men with this condition may be infertile. The field of epigenetic errors has also been studied for its possible contribution to male infertility. [114] ( Table 4 ) Other specific
