Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


men with this condition may be infertile. The field of epigenetic errors has also been studied for its possible contribution to male infertility. [114] ( Table 4 ) Other specific genetic tests and family studies may be indicated on clinical grounds (see Table 4 ). At present, it is reasonable to screen all infertile men with otherwise unexplained primary spermatogenic defects with average sperm concentrations less than 5-15 million/mL by karyotype and Yq microdeletion testing.[115] All patients should be counseled about the possibility of transmitting known and unknown genetic defects. Testicular Biopsy Testicular biopsies are necessary to assess spermatogenesis in men with presumed genital tract obstruction. A significant proportion of men with azoospermia, normal testicular size, and normal FSH are found to have severe spermatogenic disorders.[14] Some severe spermatogenic defects may be incomplete, and because ICSI can be performed if sperm can be obtained from the testes, diagnostic testicular biopsies should be offered to men with severe primary spermatogenic tubule disorders with persistent azoospermia. If any elongated spermatids can be found, it should be possible to perform ICSI. However, if no elongated spermatids are seen in the diagnostic biopsies it still may be possible to find spermatids by more extensive sampling of testicular tissue with open biopsies (see later). It is most important that tissue for histology is removed from the testes with minimal damage and placed in a suitable fixative, such as Bouin’s or Steive’s solution. Standard formalin fixatives destroy the cytoarchitecture. Testis biopsies may be performed under local or general anesthesia. Needle biopsy many obtain only isolated cells but these may be sufficient for diagnosis based on cytology or for flow cytometry. The technique shown in Fig. 4 usually provides sufficient material for a histologic diagnosis of the state of the seminiferous epithelium despite some deformation artifacts.[116] It is also useful for obtaining testicular sperm for ICSI.[117] Complications are rare and include minor bleeding in the skin and testis, and rarely hematoma or reactions to the local anesthetic. Failure to obtain tissue occurs particularly with fibrosed or small (<5mL) testes In the presence of azoospermia, an open testicular biopsy might not just be a therapeutic approach in the way of sperm retrieval, but also the only way of excluding early testicular germ cell neoplasia or even an overt testicular cancer. Infertile men are more likely to develop testicular cancer compared to men with normal fertility.[118] Testicular intra-tubular germ
