Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


excluding early testicular germ cell neoplasia or even an overt testicular cancer. Infertile men are more likely to develop testicular cancer compared to men with normal fertility.[118] Testicular intra-tubular germ cell neoplasia of the unclassified type (ITGCNU) also called carcinoma in situ (see below) is the precursor of testicular germ cell tumors in which the neoplastic cells are confined within the seminiferous tubules. This makes it a non-invasive stage of the disease. It can be found in testicular tissue adjacent to germ cell tumours in more than 90 percent of adult cases. [119, 120] The incidence of ITGCNU in men undergoing fertility evaluation ranges between 0.4 - 1.1 percent.[121, 122] As ITGCNU is asymptomatic, patients remain undiagnosed until an overt tumour can be identified usually by palpation. A sample from a sperm retrieval open biopsy should be sent to histopathology routinely. Figure 4 (A) Fine-needle tissue aspiration biopsy of the testis. Local anesthetic is injected around the vas to block testicular sensation. (B) Fine-needle tissue aspiration biopsy of the testis A 21 gauge butterfly needle is inserted into the testis. An assistant applies suction to the needle tubing via a 10mL syringe and the operator makes thrusting movements of the needle into the substance of the testis. (C) Fine-needle tissue aspiration biopsy of the testis while maintaining the suction the needle is removed carefully and any seminiferous tubules protruding from the needle are grasped with fine forceps to avoid them falling back into the puncture hole. With this technique seminiferous tubule sections are sucked into the needle and these are expelled into some culture medium. Portions can be sent for histology and the remainder used for extraction of sperm in the IVF laboratory by stripping the seminiferous tissue out of the connective tissue membrane of the seminiferous tubule. For clinical purposes, testicular histology is classified as follows: normal or hypospermatogenesis (all the cellular elements of spermatogenesis are present but in reduced numbers), germ cell arrest (the earlier cellular elements of spermatogenesis are present but at a certain stage, the process stops, most often at the primary spermatocytes), Sertoli-cell-only syndrome or germ cell aplasia (the tubules contain Sertoli cells but no germ cells), hyalinization (the cellular elements have disappeared, leaving only thickened seminiferous tubule walls as in Klinefelter syndrome), and immature testis (no gonadotropin stimulation, prepubertal appearance).[123] Examples are shown in Figure 5. Other classifications such as partial or incomplete maturation
