Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


thickened seminiferous tubule walls as in Klinefelter syndrome), and immature testis (no gonadotropin stimulation, prepubertal appearance).[123] Examples are shown in Figure 5. Other classifications such as partial or incomplete maturation arrest and partial germ cell aplasia cause confusion in the literature and should not be used.[124] Figure 5A Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Normal. Figure 5B Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Left mild hypospermatogenesis with elongated spermatids with poor head morphology: right normal. Figure 5C Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Mild-moderate hypospermatogenesis. Figure 5D Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Moderate-severe hypospermatogenesis. Figure 5E Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Germ cell arrest at the primary spermatocyte stage. Figure 5F Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Sertoli cell-only syndrome: low and high power. Figure 5G Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Germ cell arrest at the spermatogonial stage from gonadotropin deficiency. Upper panel atrophic Leydig cell stained brown with anti-testosterone antibody. Figure 5H Testicular histology from fine-needle aspiration samples. Carcinoma in situ, only transformed spermatogonia and Sertoli cells present. Other Investigations Ultrasonography is useful to check for tumors in the testes, particularly when the testes are difficult to palpate because of a tense hydrocele.[125] Other abnormalities may also be found (Figs 6-8). It can also be used to measure testicular size and confirm the presence and nature of cysts or other abnormalities in the scrotum. Some argue scrotal ultrasound should be performed routinely in infertile men to measure testicular volume, assessing the texture and exclude impalpable malignant tumors in the testes.[126] However, some clinical guidelines do not support this. [127] Doppler blood flow assessment is valuable in assessing a painful swollen testis for torsion or inflammation and for evaluating varicoceles. Other tests of a varicocele, including thermography, technetium scans, and venography may be performed but, as pointed out later, the value of treating varicoceles to improve fertility is uncertain. Rectal ultrasound may demonstrate cysts in the prostate, enlarged seminal vesicles, or dilated ejaculatory ducts associated with distal genital tract obstructions ( Figure 8 ).[128] Clinical suspicion of the presence of a pituitary tumor should be followed up by appropriate radiology. Abdominal imaging is necessary to check the position of impalpable testes. FIGURE 6 Ultrasounds of testes with tumours. A Longitudinal, testis with seminoma in a man presenting with infertility, severe oligospermia and a large hard right testis; B Low power histological section of radical orchiectomy specimen with
