Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


tumours. A Longitudinal, testis with seminoma in a man presenting with infertility, severe oligospermia and a large hard right testis; B Low power histological section of radical orchiectomy specimen with active tumour stained blue, and necrotic centre and seminiferous tubules stained red; C, Londitudinal and D transverse of impalpable 1cm diameter seminoma in the upper pole of the right testis in a man presenting with severe oligospermia and normal sized testes. FIGURE 7 Miscellaneous findings on scrotal ultrasound. A,B multiple epididymal and intratesticular cysts in a man with von Hippel Lindau syndrome; C Simple hydrocele; D Multiloculated hydrocele; E Simple cysts in head of the epididymis; F Ectasia of the rete testis; G Hypoechoic area in periphery of testis of uncertain significance; H Microlithiasis in a severely atrophic testis; I Transverse blood vessel; J Intratesticular varicocele; K Blood flow in intratesticular varicocele. FIGURE 8 Ultrasound of undescended testes. A - In neck of scrotum at external inguinal ring with small tumour; B - In inguinal canal; Incidental prostatic cyst in a healthy man: C - transverse, D - sagittal; Ejaculatory duct obstruction: E - prostate transverse - dilated ejaculatory duct; F - transverse, dilated seminal vesicle; G - sagittal, dilated duct and seminal vesicle. MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC CONDITIONS This section addresses the management of sperm autoimmunity, male genital tract obstructions, coital disorders, genital tract inflammation, and varicocele. Treatment of gonadotropin deficiency and androgen replacement therapy are covered in Chapters by Hayes and Pitteloud, and Handelsman. Sperm Autoimmunity Sperm autoimmunity is present in 6% to 10% of infertile men.[42] They have sperm coated with antibodies to the extent that sperm function is impaired, particularly sperm - mucus penetration and sperm zona-pellucida binding, resulting in severe infertility. Natural pregnancy rates without treatment are very low and fertilisation rates with standard IVF are low or zero. Other men have positive IBT, sometimes with only to tail tip binding and normal or only marginally impaired mucus penetration.[73] These low-level sperm autoantibodies are irrelevant to the infertility and other causes of the couple’s infertility should be sought. Sperm autoimmunity can be treated by glucocorticoids in immunosuppressive doses. Antibody levels fall and semen quality improves in about 50% of patients and about 25% produce natural conceptions during a 4-6 month course of treatment.[42] There are significant risks of severe side effects particularly aseptic necrosis of bone. The superior results of ICSI make this treatment obsolete and
