Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


during a 4-6 month course of treatment.[42] There are significant risks of severe side effects particularly aseptic necrosis of bone. The superior results of ICSI make this treatment obsolete and only useful in exceptional circumstances. Genital Tract Obstruction Clinical Characteristics Most men with genital tract obstruction have azoospermia, normal testicular size, normal virilization, and normal serum FSH levels. However, some have combined obstruction and spermatogenic disorders or partial obstructions and severe oligospermia. There may be a history of an event that caused the obstruction, such as epididymitis with gonorrhea or associated respiratory disease. Because a few men with normal spermatogenesis have elevated FSH levels and some spermatogenesis may occur in association with a severe spermatogenic disorder, all patients should be offered further investigation. The presence of sperm antibodies in blood serum by indirect IBT indicates sperm are being formed but is an adverse prognostic factor for natural conception after surgery. With bilateral congenital absence of the vasa or ejaculatory duct obstruction, semen volume, pH, and fructose levels are low. The semen also does not have its characteristic smell and does not form a gel after ejaculation because it contains only prostatic and urethral fluid. Rectal ultrasound shows absent or atrophic seminal vesicles with bilateral congenital absence of the vasa but with ejaculatory duct obstruction the seminal vesicles and ejaculatory ducts are dilated and the cause of the obstruction may be obvious such as a cyst of the prostatic utricle.[128] Testicular biopsy is usually normal but there may be some reduction in spermatogenesis either as a coincidence or as a result of the obstruction, particularly after vasectomy.[129] Pathophysiology Degeneration of the Wolffian duct structures occurs with cystic fibrosis gene mutations but can be of variable extent. Although most often only the heads of the epididymides are palpable, some men with bilateral congenital absence of the vasa have parts or all of the epididymides and scrotal vasa present with absent or atrophic pelvic vasa and seminal vesicles. Other conditions may cause defective development of the vasa such as congenital rubella. Young’s syndrome which is now rare is not related to cystic fibrosis gene mutations. The pathology shows inspissated material in the head of the epididymis, and there are lipid inclusions in the epithelial cells.[48, 49] As some men with this syndrome have fathered children, the blockage may develop in adulthood. Post-inflammatory obstructions after gonorrhea typically occur in the tail of the epididymis,
