Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


epithelial cells.[48, 49] As some men with this syndrome have fathered children, the blockage may develop in adulthood. Post-inflammatory obstructions after gonorrhea typically occur in the tail of the epididymis, whereas nonspecific bacterial inflammation produces more widespread destruction, and tuberculosis usually causes multiple obstructions in the epididymides and vasa or destruction of the prostate and seminal vesicles. Back pressure ‘blowout’ obstructions in the epididymis are frequent after vasectomy. Iatrogenic causes of genital tract obstruction include inadvertent epididymectomy during testicular biopsy, vasal damage during hernia repair or pelvic or lower abdominal surgery such as renal transplantation, and ejaculatory duct obstruction from prostatectomy or complicated bladder catheterization. Differential Diagnosis Men with persistent azoospermia, normal testicular size, normal virilization, and normal FSH levels can be assumed to have obstruction until proved otherwise. As many as one third of men with this clinical picture are found to have a serious spermatogenic disorder on testicular biopsy despite the normal serum FSH level.[14] There are rare instances of normal men who show azoospermia on single occasions or over a short period.[6, 20] This “spurious azoospermia” must be excluded before surgery is contemplated. Once diagnosis of obstruction is confirmed, it is necessary to determine the feasibility of surgery. Intratesticular and caput-epididymal obstructions have a poor prognosis, but cauda-epididymal and vasal obstructions can often be treated successfully with surgery.[130] Distal obstructions are important to diagnose because they may be reversed at transurethral endoscopy.[128] It is important to test for sperm in urine after ejaculation in patients with possible ejaculatory duct obstruction as partial retrograde ejaculation can produce the same the semen characteristics as ejaculatory duct obstruction ( Table 5 ). Also large cysts causing ejaculatory duct obstruction can affect the bladder neck and cause retrograde ejaculation. Treatment General Management Patients in whom one or both vasa deferentia are not palpable have congenital unilateral or bilateral absence of the vas deferens. Fifty to eighty-two percent of healthy men with CBAVD harbor detectable mutations in one or both alleles of the CFTR gene . These men should all be tested for CFTR abnormalities. CFTR testing is also indicated in azoospermic patients with normal testis volume, normal serum FSH, and palpable vasa deferentia, who have low semen volume (<1.5 ml). Female partners of carriers should be screened for cystic fibrosis gene mutations and the couple counseled accordingly. Although most consider genetic testing unnecessary, high proportion of men with idiopathic epididymal obstruction
