Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


partners of carriers should be screened for cystic fibrosis gene mutations and the couple counseled accordingly. Although most consider genetic testing unnecessary, high proportion of men with idiopathic epididymal obstruction were shown to be carriers of CFTR mutations.[131] Preimplantation or prenatal genetic diagnosis may be performed if mutations are found in both partners. The woman should be investigated in detail to ensure her potential fertility before surgery is contemplated in the man. The prognosis of the procedure and the availability of other forms of treatment, including donor insemination, should be discussed with the couple. Sperm retrieval for ICSI, either from the testis or other parts of the genital tract, is an alternative to surgery.[117] ICSI is also used when reconstructive surgery is not possible, the female partner has an infertility problem, or the couple cannot wait 6 to 12 months to have a reasonable attempt at conceiving naturally after surgery. For ICSI, sperm may be obtained by testicular biopsy or percutaneous sperm aspiration from the epididymis under local anesthesia. If a spermatocele is present, usable sperm may be obtained by direct puncture through the scrotal skin. It may be possible to combine vasoepididymostomy with sperm aspiration for cryopreservation or ICSI. Epididymal and Vasal Surgery Treatment of male genital tract obstructions is best undertaken by specialist microsurgeons.[130] The testis is exposed and the most proximal (to the testis) level of obstruction determined. The patency of the vas is determined by syringing with saline or by vasography. The vas or epididymal tubule is opened proximal to the obstruction, and, if possible, the presence of motile sperm is demonstrated by microscopy. Microsurgical anastomosis between the ends of the vas or between the vas and the epididymal tubule is then undertaken. Results Vasovasostomy and vasoepididymostomy for caudal blocks produce relatively good results, with 50% to 80% of patients having sperm present in the semen. However, less than half of these produce a pregnancy within the first year.[130] There may be continuing obstruction, sperm autoimmunity, or coexisting spermatogenic disorders. The results of vasoepididymostomy for proximal blocks are poor. Although sperm may appear in the semen, pregnancies are extremely uncommon after vasoepididymostomy for caput epididymal blocks. In contrast, the results of ICSI with testicular or epididymal sperm, fresh or after cryopreservation, are similar to those obtained with sperm from semen.[117] Gonadotrophin deficiency and suppression Clinical Characteristics Most men seeking treatment for infertility associated with gonadotropin deficiency
