Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


sperm, fresh or after cryopreservation, are similar to those obtained with sperm from semen.[117] Gonadotrophin deficiency and suppression Clinical Characteristics Most men seeking treatment for infertility associated with gonadotropin deficiency have been treated with androgens, following presentation in adolescence with delayed puberty. The main diagnoses are Kallmann’s syndrome, other isolated gonadotropin deficiencies, combined gonadotropin and growth hormone deficiency and rarely pituitary tumours, trauma or craniopharyngiomas treated in childhood. [30] Occasionally men with previously undiagnosed prepubertal gonadotropin deficiency present with infertility. The clinical features are usually very small testes (<4mL) and severe androgen deficiency. There may be a child like appearance with lack of secondary sex hair development, failure of male pattern scalp hair recession and balding and eunuchoidal proportions. Gonadotropin deficiency may develop after puberty because of tumours, surgery or trauma of the pituitary or hemochromatosis. These men usually note loss of libido and may note reduced beard and body hair growth, low ejaculate volume and decreased testicular size. General lethargy, muscular weakness and hot flushes are also common but non-specific symptoms. Physical examination may show testicular atrophy, reduced secondary sex hair and dry finely wrinkled skin on the face. Gynaecomastia may be present. Features of underlying or associated conditions may be present for example: headache, visual disturbance and hormone excess or deficiency with pituitary tumours, or pigmentation, liver disease or diabetes with haemochromatosis. Hyperprolactinemia is uncommon in men.[132, 133] It usually presents with loss of libido and impotence, low testosterone levels and variable semen analysis results from azoospermia to relatively normal. Galactorrhea may occur, sometimes with only minimal gynaecomastia. There is usually a pituitary tumour. Hyperprolactinemia associated with a pituitary macroadenoma is rare but important: as well as loss of libido there is usually progressively severe headache and visual field impairment. A number of paediatric syndromes include mental deficiency and gonadotropin deficiency but the patients rarely seek treatment for infertility as adults. Mutations of DAX1 cause adrenal hypoplasia and gonadotropin deficiency. Gonadotropin suppression may occur in a variety of circumstances. The most common now appears to be the illicit use of anabolic and androgenic steroids or chorionic gonadotropin or opioid for chronic pain. [6, 14] [43, 134]Other hormones and drugs can cause gonadotropin suppression. Rarely men are seen with hormone producing tumours for example adrenal adenomas, Leydig cell tumours or hCG producing teratomas which will suppress gonadotropins, usually there are features of marked hyperestrogenization with progressive gynecomastia. Very rarely
