Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


hormone producing tumours for example adrenal adenomas, Leydig cell tumours or hCG producing teratomas which will suppress gonadotropins, usually there are features of marked hyperestrogenization with progressive gynecomastia. Very rarely men are seen with congenital adrenal hyperplasia with gonadotropin suppression and azoospermia who can be treated successfully by glucocorticoid suppression of ACTH. [38, 39] Spermatogenesis may occur despite severe androgen deficiency - the so-called fertile eunuch syndrome. This is believed to be due to predominant LH deficiency or partial gonadotropin deficiency. There may be normal sperm concentrations but usually there is low ejaculate volume and sperm motility. The fertile eunuch syndrome commonly occurs with hyperprolactinemia, hemochromatosis, starvation, illness or in athletes in negative energy balance. It is also seen with partial or mild Kallmann syndrome. Pathophysiology Commonly gonadotropin deficiency is caused by genetic disorders of gonadotropin releasing hormone production or the GnRH receptor, loss of function of gonadotrophs, or suppression of gonadotropin secretion by extraneous steroids, other drugs or illness. There is usually a combined defect of androgen and gamete production. If the underlying cause cannot be corrected life-long androgen replacement therapy is required. This is usually in the form of testosterone but when fertility is desired, treatment must be changed to gonadotropins. While experimental conditions may be found to indicate that either FSH or LH alone may be able to initiate spermatogenesis in humans, for practical clinical purposes treatment with LH alone (as hCG) is effective for fertile eunuch syndrome and may be effective where spermatogenesis has been stimulated before, either by natural puberty or previous gonadotropin therapy. In other situations both FSH and LH are required (see chapter by Hayes and Pitteloud). Differential Diagnosis In men with gonadotropin deficiency it is necessary to determine the cause of the disorder, or if this is not possible to exclude a serious underlying cause such as a pituitary tumour. With Kallmann syndrome there is hyposmia or anosmia from malformations of the rhinencephalon. Other abnormalities may also be present including colour blindness, cleft lip and cerebellar ataxia. [14] [30] Except where the diagnosis is obvious, detailed radiological examination of the pituitary and hypothalamic area is necessary, together with full pituitary function tests to determine if there are other hormone deficiencies. Treatment Gonadotropin suppression from administration of steroids or other agents is treated by withdrawal of the agents, and starvation induced gonadotropin suppression by refeeding. Hyperprolactinemia can be treated with bromocriptine or other
