Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


suppression from administration of steroids or other agents is treated by withdrawal of the agents, and starvation induced gonadotropin suppression by refeeding. Hyperprolactinemia can be treated with bromocriptine or other dopamine agonist. [20] [102] Gonadotropin deficiency caused by of gonadotrophe destruction or abnormalities of the GnRH receptor require treatment with gonadotropins. [20, 135] Some men with gonadotropin releasing hormone deficits can be treated successfully with pulsatile GnRH administration. For details of the gonadotropin and GnRH treatment, see chapter by Hayes and Pitteloud. Coital Disorders Male coital disorders impacting fertility include erectile dysfunction (impotence), failure of ejaculation, and retrograde ejaculation. Many men have problems with sexual performance after first learning about their infertility, but this usually ameliorates with time. Infrequent and poorly timed intercourse may result from incorrect advice, low libido, or the psychological reaction to infertility.[6] Erectile dysfunction Erectile dysfunction may be associated with low libido from androgen deficiency with primary or secondary hypogonadism. (This topic is considered in detail in Chapter 8 by Bochinski et al.) Erectile dysfunction related to vascular or neurologic abnormalities (diabetic autonomic neuropathy or pelvic nerve damage) is uncommon in men presenting with infertility.[14] Selective impotence at the time of ovulation may indicate psychological problems and ambivalence about having children. Failure of Ejaculation Failure of ejaculation is usual with chronic spinal cord injury and may also be caused by antihypertensive and psychotropic drugs but otherwise is an infrequent cause of infertility in most societies.[89, 136] Healthy men who cannot ejaculate with intercourse may be able to produce semen by masturbation, with a vibrator, or other stimulation. Retrograde Ejaculation Retrograde ejaculation occurs when the bladder neck fails to contract at the time of ejaculation so that all or most of the semen passes into the bladder. Usually, there is an obvious cause: prostatic surgery, diabetic neuropathy, pelvic nerve damage, or spinal cord injury. Retrograde ejaculation is diagnosed by the finding of sperm in urine passed after ejaculation. Differential Diagnosis Recognition of a coital disorder is crucial and thus all infertile patients must discuss their sexual history in detail. Once recognized, the contribution of organic and psychological factors needs to be evaluated. General Treatment An optimistic prognosis can be given provided that live sperm can be obtained. The couple is advised about the various techniques that might be used for collecting the sperm for artificial insemination or other ART. The woman’s potential fertility must be evaluated. Specific
