Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


The couple is advised about the various techniques that might be used for collecting the sperm for artificial insemination or other ART. The woman’s potential fertility must be evaluated. Specific Treatment A drug, such as an antihypertensive or a tranquilizer, that may be contributing to the sexual disorder should be stopped temporarily or permanently.[43] Erectile dysfunction may respond to sex behavioral therapy, administration of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors, intrapenile injections of vasodilators and physical approaches with pumps and rubber occlusion devices to initiate and maintain erections or penile implants, but these are seldom needed in men with infertility. Some men with failure of ejaculation or retrograde ejaculation may be able to ejaculate during intercourse with a full bladder or after the administration of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors, imipramine, or cholinergic antihistamines, such as brompheniramine or ephedrine.[136] Others require more powerful stimulation with vibrators or electroejaculation.[89] If these are unsuccessful, sperm may be collected by needle biopsy of the testis.[137] Use of Collected Semen If semen can be obtained by masturbation or by wearing nontoxic condoms to collect nocturnal emissions, the couple can be taught to inseminate samples at home. The timing of ovulation can be determined by calendar and either symptoms of ovulation or luteinizing hormone surge detected with a urinary luteinizing hormone dipstick kit. Cryopreservation of samples for AIH or ICSI may also be possible. Assisted Ejaculation Ejaculation may be stimulated by applying a vibrator to the underside of the penis near the frenulum of the glans. Vibrators with a 2-mm pitch and frequency of 60 Hz or more are most effective. Men with complete spinal cord injuries below T10 are unlikely to respond and will require electroejaculation. Modern electroejaculation equipment is safe. The probe includes a thermal sensor and proctoscopy is performed before and after the procedure to ensure there are no burns or other damage to the rectum. A balloon catheter in the bladder is used to prevent retrograde ejaculation.[89] Semen obtained by assisted ejaculation from able-bodied men or in the acute stages of spinal cord injuries is often normal.[89] In contrast, with chronic spinal cord injury, there is frequently low volume, high sperm concentration, and poor motility.[89] As with necrospermia, repeated ejaculation over several days can improve sperm motility. If the semen quality is too poor for AIH or the risks associated with electroejaculation are considered unacceptable, aspiration of sperm from the testis and ICSI produces good results.
