Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


motility. If the semen quality is too poor for AIH or the risks associated with electroejaculation are considered unacceptable, aspiration of sperm from the testis and ICSI produces good results. Assisted ejaculation may cause autonomic hyperreflexia with chronic spinal cord injuries above T6.[89] The resulting uncontrolled hypertension may cause cerebral hemorrhage. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and prophylactic nifedipine treatment usually prevents serious problems. Men without complete sensory deprivation require general anesthesia for electroejaculation. Retrieval of Sperm with Retrograde Ejaculation Motile sperm may be obtained from the urine after retrograde ejaculation.[138] Urinary pH is adjusted to above 7 and osmolality to between 200 and 400 mOsm/kg by administration of 80 g of sodium bicarbonate and 2.0 to 2.5 L of water daily for 3 days before the expected time of ovulation. On the day of ovulation, the man ejaculates and passes urine. Sperm are recovered from the urine by centrifugation, washed, and resuspended in an IVF culture medium. The final pellet is resuspended in approximately 0.5 mL of culture medium for insemination. It is also possible to cryopreserve the sample obtained. If this method fails, electroejaculation and catheterization of the bladder could be considered. Effects of Systemic Illness and Reversible Exposures to Toxins or Drugs A very large number of exposures to agents in the environment, drugs, and illnesses can adversely affect testicular function, but it is rare to find patients in whom such exposures can be confirmed as contributing to male infertility. However, this should always be considered during clinical evaluation. The most commonly encountered problems clinically are impairment of spermatogenesis by salazopyrine used for treatment of inflammatory bowel disease or arthritis, testosterone administration, anabolic steroid abuse, long-term high-dose opiate use, and febrile illnesses causing transient reduction of spermatogenesis.[43] Workplace exposures may be implicated in some patients, but the association is rarely clear-cut enough to advise change of occupation.[60, 61] Acute Illnesses Fever The adverse effect of acute febrile illness on the semen quality is well known but only occasionally seen.[43, 45, 46] Frequent hot baths or saunas may also have a similar effect. There is a temporary suppression of spermatogenesis that recovers over 3 to 6 months. Whether increased scrotal temperature because of clothing, varicocele, obesity, or environmental temperature contributes to male infertility is controversial. Critical Conditions Suppression of gonadotropin secretion can occur with critical illness such as hepatic failure, myocardial infarction, head injury, stroke, respiratory failure, congestive
