Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


temperature contributes to male infertility is controversial. Critical Conditions Suppression of gonadotropin secretion can occur with critical illness such as hepatic failure, myocardial infarction, head injury, stroke, respiratory failure, congestive cardiac failure, sepsis, burns, starvation, general anesthesia and severe stress, both psychological and physical.[43] Transient decreases occur after drug or alcohol intoxication, anesthesia, and surgery. The reduction in testosterone is proportional to the severity of some of the critical conditions and may predict the likelihood of recovery. There may also be direct effects on the testes and alterations in sex hormone–binding globulin levels. The shutdown of testicular function may be a useful adaptation to illness or starvation. During recovery from the critical condition, pulsatile secretion of gonadotropins increases in a manner reminiscent of the changes with puberty, and gynecomastia may develop.[43] Nutritional Aspects Starvation is associated with gonadotropin suppression. Specific deficiencies of vitamins and minerals such as B 12 , C, folate, and zinc may affect testicular function, but these are rare in Western countries.[139] Simple obesity may be associated with alterations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis and impaired scrotal thermoregulation. The most common changes are increased conversion of androgens to estrogens in peripheral tissues and low sex hormone–binding globulin levels related to insulin resistance. Total testosterone, sex hormone–binding globulin levels and gonadotropin levels may be low and estrogen levels elevated. There are reports of hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism associated with gross obesity and indications that it can be treated with aromatase inhibitors.[140, 141] However, clinical androgen deficiency, estrogen excess, and abnormal semen analysis are not regularly seen in moderately obese men and the cause and effect relationship is not clear. It may be reduced testicular function predisposes to or aggravates obesity. Obesity Obesity in men is associated with low serum gonadotropin, total testosterone, and free testosterone concentrations. The low serum total testosterone concentrations is attributed to associated decrease in serum sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) Free testosterone concentrations appear to be inversely related to BMI, independent of changes in SHBG [142, 143] Other factors contributing to the hypogonadotropic hypogonadism seen with obesity include an increase in estrogens through aromatization in adipose tissue, insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, diabetes mellitus, and sleep apnea [144-146] Sperm quality has been reported to be inversely related to BMI. [147] U shaped relationship with lower sperm numbers was shown with both low and high BMI [148] Reversibility of obesity-associated male infertility with weight loss should be further investigated.[149]
