Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


BMI. [147] U shaped relationship with lower sperm numbers was shown with both low and high BMI [148] Reversibility of obesity-associated male infertility with weight loss should be further investigated.[149] Chronic Illnesses Impairment of testicular function is common in uncontrolled or poorly controlled chronic diseases.[43] There are usually elevated gonadotropin levels, indicating a primary testicular defect, but impaired gonadotropin secretion, hyperprolactinemia, changes in sex hormone–binding globulin, and increased aromatization of androgens to estrogens may occur. Although this pattern of abnormal testicular function is a common nonspecific response to chronic illness, the mechanism is obscure. There may be symptoms and signs of androgen deficiency and estrogen excess. Hepatic cirrhosis is one of the classic conditions known to have a profound adverse effect on the male reproductive function. Testicular function may recover after liver transplantation. Similar primary hypogonadism may occur with non-cirrhotic liver disease, chronic alcoholism without liver disease, and a variety of chronic diseases without alcoholism: chronic anemias, chronic renal failure, thyroid hyper- or hypofunction, HIV infection, lymphoma, leukemia, advanced metastatic cancers, rheumatoid arthritis, severe cardiac disease, and chronic respiratory disease. Effects of drugs Drugs may contribute to male infertility by affecting gonadotropin (e.g., steroids, opiates) or prolactin secretion (psychotropic agents), or spermatogenesis (salazopyrine, alkylating agents) or by reducing sexual performance (psychotropic and antihypertensive drugs). Some drugs may also cause gynecomastia (antiandrogens, estrogens).[43, 134] There is currently no place for testosterone treatment of infertile men, either continuously for low testosterone levels resulting from primary or secondary testicular failure, or as “testosterone rebound” therapy because testosterone suppresses gonadotropin secretion and reduces spermatogenesis. Abuse of androgens is widespread in people hoping to enhance athletic performance or bodybuilding. Some men are seen for infertility with azoospermia or oligospermia as a result. Others have sexual performance problems after stopping drug use. The patient may conceal the abuse. Normal virilization but low testosterone, low sex hormone–binding globulin, and low, normal, or transiently high gonadotropin levels may be seen. Recovery can take several months sometimes longer than 12 months, particularly after depot anabolic steroids. Salazopyrine used for bowel disease and arthritis commonly causes spermatogenic defects. Usually, there is poor sperm motility and morphology or oligospermia. The semen may be stained yellow. The antispermatogenic effect is caused by the sulfapyridine in the drug. Stopping the drug results in a recovery of sperm output within a few months provided the patient’s health remains good and he does not have
