Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


the sulfapyridine in the drug. Stopping the drug results in a recovery of sperm output within a few months provided the patient’s health remains good and he does not have an underlying defect of spermatogenesis. Other drugs and toxins are claimed to have adverse effects on spermatogenesis such as colchicine and anticonvulsants, and some antihypertensive drugs, calcium-channel blockers, and antiparasitic chemotherapeutic drugs may impair sperm motility, capacitation, or the acrosome reaction.[43, 134] Smoking A meta-analysis of 20 observational studies showed that men who smoked cigarettes were more likely to have low sperm counts.[150] In utero exposure to smoking was studied in 1770 young, healthy, potential military recruits and results showed the possibility of a small effect. [151] Exposure to smoking in utero was associated with mean sperm concentrations which were 20 percent lower when compared with unexposed men. In another study, there were no significant differences in mean sperm concentrations in men whose mothers either smoked or did not smoke during pregnancy. [152] However, men whose mothers had smoked ≥10 cigarettes per day while pregnant were at higher risk of having oligospermia (sperm concentration <20 x 10(6)/mL) Genital Tract Inflammation Specific inflammations of the genital tract such as mumps orchitis or gonococcal epididymitis may cause sterility. Nonspecific inflammations in the accessory sex organs are more common in men with infertility than in fertile men.[6, 153-156] Also, male accessory sex organ inflammation and infertility may be more important in some countries than in others.[6] Symptoms include chronic low back pain, intermittent dysuria, discharges from the penis on straining, and discomfort in the pelvic region or testes after ejaculation or prolonged sexual abstinence. The prostate may be enlarged and tender. The semen may show discoloration, variations in volume, increased viscosity, delayed liquefaction, high pH, sperm agglutination, bacteriospermia, and pyospermia. The bacteria in semen are frequently not pathogens but the commensals of the urethra or skin.[153 To have more than 1 million polymorphs per milliliter in semen, as determined by peroxidase reaction or monoclonal antibodies to leukocyte antigens, is considered abnormal.[68] Although inflammatory cells could damage sperm by releasing oxygen free radicals or cytokines, bacteria could impair sperm motility, and inflammation could also cause partial genital tract obstruction, the actual contribution of nonspecific genital tract inflammation to male infertility is contentious.[155, 156] Routine cultures of semen are not warranted except for sperm donors. General Management Men with clinical evidence of prostatitis require full
