Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


genital tract inflammation to male infertility is contentious.[155, 156] Routine cultures of semen are not warranted except for sperm donors. General Management Men with clinical evidence of prostatitis require full urologic assessment.[157] Specific infections with pathogenic agents are treated with appropriate agents. It remains unclear what should be done about the very common issue of asymptomatic pyospermia and nonspecific male accessory gland inflammation. Therapeutic trials generally show no benefit from antibacterial therapy on semen quality.[158, 159] Antibiotics or other agents may be used if it is thought that the pyospermia compromises semen quality or that bacteria might contaminate the IVF culture media. Because the organisms commonly implicated in nonspecific genital tract inflammation include chlamydia, mycoplasma, and various bacteria, broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy is required if treatment it is to be given. Also, many of the standard drugs do not enter inflamed accessory sex organs. Trimethoprim, erythromycin, doxycycline, and norfloxacin are potentially effective.[158, 159] Increased frequency of ejaculation to facilitate drainage of the accessory glands and stress management may also help. Varicocele The mechanism by which varicoceles cause infertility and the effectiveness of treatment in improving semen quality and natural fertility are controversial.[6, 15, 160-162] Varicoceles are found in approximately 25% of men being examined for infertility. An additional 15% may have a subclinical left varicocele indicated by a faint cough impulse in the spermatic cord or increase in diameter of the veins on ultrasound.[6, 15, 160] Varicoceles are also found in fertile men. Varicoceles are more common in tall men and in men with larger testes.[14] They are less frequent in men with severe testicular atrophy, for example, in Kallmann and Klinefelter syndromes. When there is a moderate to large left varicocele, the left testis is usually smaller than the right testis. Pathophysiology Men with varicoceles generally have poorer semen quality than those without varicoceles.[160, 163] Thus, varicoceles can have an adverse effect on testicular function. Various theories have been advanced for the effect, including vascular stasis, back pressure, interference with oxygenation, reflux of renal or adrenal products into the pampiniform plexus, ROS generation and interference with the heat exchange function of the pampiniform plexus.[160] Varicoceles are usually first noticed at puberty and thereafter may increase in size but remain relatively stable in size throughout the man’s lifetime. Symptoms, including swelling and a dragging sensation in the scrotum, are infrequent, and many men with a large varicocele are unaware of its
