Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


stable in size throughout the man’s lifetime. Symptoms, including swelling and a dragging sensation in the scrotum, are infrequent, and many men with a large varicocele are unaware of its presence. The sudden appearance of a varicocele in an adult should be taken seriously because it may be a feature of a renal carcinoma with extension into the left renal vein. Differential Diagnosis The semen quality in men with varicoceles varies from azoospermic to normal. There is no specific pattern of abnormality with varicocele. Testicular histology is also variable, the only common feature being that the defect in spermatogenesis is more severe on the left side than on the right. Varicocele may be an association rather than the cause of a couple’s infertility. Therefore, full evaluation of other aspects of male and of the female partner is necessary. Treatment The value of treatment of varicocele for infertility is particularly contentious.[160-162] One view is that treating varicoceles may not improve fertility; therefore, the varicoceles should only be treated for other reasons, such as symptoms.[15, 161] The other extreme is the belief that varicocele is the most important treatable cause of male infertility, therefore all varicoceles should be treated even if small.[162] In the middle are those who would select cases. When there is an absent, obstructed, or atrophic right testis and all sperm in the semen come from the left testis, treatment of the varicocele may produce a reasonable result.[164] Treatment of the varicocele involves embolization of the incompetent veins or surgery to prevent venous back flow from the abdomen to the pampiniform plexus. Radiographic techniques involve placement of a sclerosant, glue, or coils that promotes clotting in the veins. They have lower morbidity than surgery. A variety of operations can be performed for varicocele. In the past, retroperitoneal ligation and division of the testicular veins with or without preservation of the testicular artery and lymphatics was performed. Inguinal and scrotal microsurgical approaches have lower failure, recurrence, and hydrocele rates. Successful venous occlusion will relieve pain and reduce the size of large varicoceles. Whether semen quality and fertility are improved is not certain. Results Because varicoceles are so frequent, treatment of varicocele for infertility became common and several large series were published with claims of high success rates for improving semen and fertility. Floating numerator pregnancy rates averaging 35% (range, 20%–60%) were commonly reported. Regression toward the mean in semen variables,
