Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


published with claims of high success rates for improving semen and fertility. Floating numerator pregnancy rates averaging 35% (range, 20%–60%) were commonly reported. Regression toward the mean in semen variables, the nature of subfertility, and the need to include time in the denominator of pregnancy rates were ignored.[165] Although there are reports of successful treatment of azoospermic men by varicocelectomy, transient azoospermia may follow a minor illness or occur for unknown reasons, and, thus, such examples do not prove the value of treatment. Most exponents of varicocele treatment regard azoospermia as a bad prognostic sign, especially if the FSH level is elevated. Follow-Up Studies and Controlled Trials Follow-up studies of groups of treated and untreated patients with varicoceles suggest pregnancies are as frequent without treatment as with treatment of the varicocele.[15, 161] Attempts have been made to conduct randomized, controlled clinical trials of varicocele treatment. Such trials are difficult because the ideal design with sham operations and blinding, which is so important in controlling for outcomes affected by psychological factors, is not possible. Large trials are also needed. For example, approximately 250 pregnancies are required to have a high chance of finding a 25% increase in pregnancy rate after treatment significant at the 5% level.[20] So far, the trials have produced conflicting results and meta-analysis does not support varicocelectomy improves fertility.[161] But the trials are generally small and have problems. For example, the World Health Organization set up a multicenter controlled trial of Palomo ligation in men with infertility of more than 1-year duration, abnormal semen analyses, a moderate to large left varicocele, and a potentially fertile female partner. Volunteers were randomized to immediate operation or operation delayed for 12 months to provide an untreated control group. One of the participating centers reported their results separately.[166] There was a substantial effect on pregnancy rate. Two pregnancies occurred in 20 couples during the 1 year of observation without treatment compared with 15 pregnancies in 20 couples in the year after the operation. During the year after the operation in the remaining 18 control patients, there were 8 pregnancies. Semen analysis results also improved after the operation. There were another 248 couples in 12 countries in the trial, and there was a less marked but significant improvement, the life table pregnancy rates at 1 year being 35% for the operated group and 17% for the un-operated group (relative pregnancy rate, 2.7; 95%
