Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


less marked but significant improvement, the life table pregnancy rates at 1 year being 35% for the operated group and 17% for the un-operated group (relative pregnancy rate, 2.7; 95% confidence interval, 1.6–4.4). Semen analysis results also improved over the first year in the operated group. In the control patients having the delayed operation, the life table pregnancy rate at 1 year after the operation was 21%. However, there were possible irregularities of randomization in some centers early in the trial and high dropout rates, and the results were not published in detail.[160] Also, the pregnancy rates in the control group are lower than expected for untreated subfertile men with varicoceles: approximately 30% produce a pregnancy in 12 months.[15, 167] Thus, although some people remain convinced of the value of treating varicoceles for infertility, it is not easy to demonstrate this unequivocally and the apparent improvements in semen quality and fertility may result from random fluctuations and regression toward the mean. Although better trials are needed, meta-analyses do not support treatment of varicocele for infertility. It is clear that normal fertility is not achieved in a high proportion of patients treated for varicocele. ART is a realistic alternative for most couples who have not conceived after a reasonable time. GENERAL MANAGEMENT This section covers aspects of the management of couples with male infertility not amenable to specific treatment (Table 6). A number will conceive during investigation. Others will decide not to continue with medical intervention. Some patients with treatable conditions may choose ICSI instead of treatment or after a treatment has been unsuccessful. However, most couples with male infertility have conditions for which there is no clearly defined and certainly effective treatment. In these cases, it is important to discuss the prognosis for a natural pregnancy occurring, the ineffectiveness of treatments, and the availability of IVF and ICSI, donor insemination, and adoption. The investigation of the female partner should be reviewed and abnormalities treated when possible. Patients should be acquainted with the physiology of the menstrual cycle and symptoms of ovulation to help time sexual intercourse over the fertile phase of the cycle.[168] Good health practices should be promoted, particularly cessation of smoking because it reduces fertility in women. The psychological upheaval experienced by the couple should be discussed and additional help offered if necessary. Specialist infertility counselors and patient support groups are particularly valuable in this area. Table 6
