Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


psychological upheaval experienced by the couple should be discussed and additional help offered if necessary. Specialist infertility counselors and patient support groups are particularly valuable in this area. Table 6 Current Management of Subfertility Estimate prognosis for natural conception Discuss doubtful value of “empirical therapies” Advise of alternatives: donor insemination, adoption, childlessness Review coital timing Review female partner’s potential fertility Consider artificial reproductive technology: in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection Prognosis for Natural Pregnancy A number of factors in addition to semen quality affect the likelihood of natural pregnancies occurring. [1, 2, 4, 17, 169, 170] Some are obvious, such as female disorders and coital dysfunction. Female age is important because fertility declines after approximately 35 years of age. Duration of infertility is a major factor in most studies: The longer the infertility, the worse the outlook. The prognostic factors found in a study to determine the effect of varicocele surgery were duration of infertility (negative), mean sperm concentration (positive), untreated sperm autoimmunity (negative), ovulatory disorders (negative), occupational group (farmers doing better than other occupations), female age (negative), and previous fertility in the couple (positive).[15] Interestingly, varicocele presence and size were positive prognostic factors even though varicocele surgery was not significant. The pregnancy rate curves for different sperm concentration groups are shown in Figure 9 . Subfertile patients seen in the late 1990s had similar natural conception rates.[17] Such factors can be used to advise patients about their chances of producing a natural pregnancy over time. The accuracy of prediction is low because the statistically significant factors only explain a small part of the variability of the pregnancy rates. New studies using automated methods for semen analysis reveal the percentage of sperm with characteristics conforming to morphometrics preferred for binding to the ZP, and the straight line velocity, may have better predictive value.[17] However, other factors currently not assessable, such as gamete transport, may have an important bearing on conception and may explain the occurrence of pregnancies in some couples despite severely abnormal semen analysis results. Patients should not be told natural conception is impossible unless there is an absolute barrier to fertility. Figure 9 Pregnancy rate curves grouped according to average pretreatment sperm concentration. The number (n)of patients followed each year is shown. The numbers of men and pregnancies in each sperm concentration group are shown in the inset table (From Baker, H.W.G., Male Infertility. Chapter 141 In Endocrinology, 6th
