Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


year is shown. The numbers of men and pregnancies in each sperm concentration group are shown in the inset table (From Baker, H.W.G., Male Infertility. Chapter 141 In Endocrinology, 6th edition, Jameson J. L. and DeGroot L.J. (Chief Eds.), Saunders Elsevier Philadelphia PA. pp 2556-2579, 2010) of the problem followed by a tendency to blame others and a period of depression before final acceptance of the infertility. The reaction may take years to resolve, and it can threaten the stability of the partnership, interfere with investigation and management of infertility, and lead to futile involvement in expensive “cures” offered by the unscrupulous. Participation in unsuccessful treatments during this phase is often particularly difficult emotionally for the patients. Stresses of ordinary existence are unlikely to influence semen quality. 162 An empathetic approach and involvement of independent counselors or self-help infertility groups may assist some couples. In most, the unpleasantness of the psychological reaction subsides with time. TIMING OF COITUS A practical approach is to advise intercourse each day when ovulation might occur. Ovulation can be predicted to occur approximately 14±2 days before a period is due. Knowing the range of menstrual cycle length allows calculation of the days when ovulation is most likely to occur. Symptoms of ovulation including mittelschmerz and mid-cycle mucus changes also help identify the fertile time. 159 Temperature charts may be used to indicate the end of the fertile time as the basal body temperature rises after ovulation. Ovulation timing by measurement of estrogen and progesterone metabolites in urine, urine or serum LH levels, or ovarian ultrasonography may also be used. GENERAL HEALTH ASPECTS Although correction of adverse lifestyle factors in the most men seen for infertility is unlikely to produce normal fertility, healthy living has positive long-term benefits. The following are advised: weight reduction for the obese, reduced alcohol intake for the moderate to heavy drinker, avoidance of social drugs including tobacco, avoidance of heat from frequent sauna and spa baths, and management of stress in the workplace, in their relationship, and that engendered by the infertility. EMPIRCAL TREATMENTS: EVIDENCE-BASED VERSUS UNCONFIRMED TREATMENTS Treatments of some causes of male infertility are available as discussed previously, but for the majority of patients with abnormal semen analyses, there are no methods of proved effectiveness. 20, 126 A medical or surgical treatment may become established because it is logical and obviously effective, for example, gonadotropin treatment for Kallmann syndrome
