Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


are no methods of proved effectiveness. 20, 126 A medical or surgical treatment may become established because it is logical and obviously effective, for example, gonadotropin treatment for Kallmann syndrome or vasoepididymostomies for postinflammatory obstructions of the tails of the epididymides. However, in other situations in which semen quality is reduced and there is subfertility rather than absolute sterility, it is necessary to demonstrate that the treatment increases semen analysis results and pregnancy rates by a clinically meaningful amount. This evidence-based medicine approach generally requires controlled clinical trials of promising methods. These trials are usually designed to detect a certain magnitude of difference in the primary responses and thus a positive result supports the use of the method. However, if the trial is negative, it merely does not confirm the magnitude of benefit tested; it does not prove the method is of no value. In time, the results of several trials can be combined by meta-analysis to get better estimates of the overall effects of the method. In the past, many treatments were used in an uncontrolled fashion for defects of sperm production. 20, 126 Androgens have been given to suppress spermatogenesis in the hope that there would be “rebound” improvement after the treatment is stopped. Low-dose testosterone or weak androgens, such as mesterolone, have been given in the hope of improving epididymal maturation of sperm. Human chorionic gonadotropin has been given for similar reasons. Antiestrogens have been used to increase gonadotropin secretion or gonadotropins (FSH and human chorionic gonadotropin) given to “stimulate” spermatogenesis. Antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs have been given for subtle infections or inflammations in the accessory sex organs. Antioxidants, amino acids, vitamins, herbs, and minerals such as zinc, cold baths, and testicular coolers have been used. There are difficulties with the interpretation of the results of these treatments. 20 Marked improvements in semen quality can occur spontaneously (Fig. 10). Semen analysis results also display the phenomenon of regression to the mean. That is, on average, repeated semen analyses improve in men with initially abnormal results. 156 Pregnancy rate data were not analyzed effectively in many early studies. Floating numerator pregnancy rates, in which a percentage of patients pregnant is given without regard for time of exposure, have caused confusion in the infertility literature. Statistical methods for life table analysis and regression analysis with censored data are especially useful for assessing the impact of groups of variables on
