Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


caused confusion in the infertility literature. Statistical methods for life table analysis and regression analysis with censored data are especially useful for assessing the impact of groups of variables on pregnancy rates, for analysis of prognostic factors, and for testing results of therapeutic trials. 20 Figure 10 Sperm concentration and motility in a man with severe oligospermia and severe hypospermatogenesis included in a therapeutic trial of clomiphene. Semen quality improved and his wife conceived. He was given the placebo! (Baker HWG: Requirements for controlled therapeutic trials in male infertility. Clin Reprod Fertil 4:13-25, 1986.) The empirical treatments either have not been submitted to adequately controlled clinical trials, or when they have, the trials have not shown consistently positive results. Meta-analyses have also produced conflicting results, probably because of the variable quality of the trials included in the analyses. Until there is sound evidence of the value of a drug or procedure from controlled therapeutic trials, patients should be advised that none of the empirical methods meet the requirements of evidence-based medicine. AIH is widely practiced with dubious evidence of efficacy in patients who do not have coital difficulties. Ovulation induction with intrauterine artificial insemination probably does increase the pregnancy rates by increasing the number of oocytes exposed to the sperm.[172, 173]Results are lower with timed intercourse and multiple ovulation induction. Generally, the results are poor when the semen analysis is abnormal. Although this may be acceptable in countries where ART is expensive, the risk of multiple pregnancy is substantial. IVF or ICSI would be preferable because the number of embryos placed in the uterus can be controlled and high multiple pregnancies avoided.[172] In Vitro Fertilization/Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection for Male Infertility ICSI has revolutionized the management of male infertility. It involves the injection of a single sperm into the ooplasm (Fig. 11).[174, 175] ICSI can be used with almost any live sperm with an expectation of results similar to those obtained with standard IVF using normal sperm. ICSI may not be needed with mild semen disorders. Provided that more than approximately 2 million motile sperm can be harvested from an ejaculate, IVF can be attempted with an expectation of success close to that of IVF for other indications. The outcome depends particularly on sperm morphology and the ability of the sperm to bind to and penetrate the ZP. ICSI should be offered if there is a chance of failure of fertilization
