Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


particularly on sperm morphology and the ability of the sperm to bind to and penetrate the ZP. ICSI should be offered if there is a chance of failure of fertilization with IVF: less than 2 million motile sperm per ejaculate, less than 4% of sperm with normal morphology, less than 5% of sperm with progressive motility, sperm autoimmunity, and defects of sperm-oocyte interaction. Figure 11 Intracytoplasmic sperm injection. Preparation of the Patients The couple needs to be counseled carefully about the procedures, predicted chance of a live birth, and the possible complications. Special arrangements for the collection of semen, or for its preparation, may be required. Trial-run sperm preparations help to identify those patients who have difficulty collecting semen. These patients should practice collections before attending for the IVF procedure. Men with many inflammatory cells in the semen could be treated with antibiotics. Those with low motility or sperm autoimmunity may have better sperm motility with short, 1- to 2-day durations of abstinence. Cryopreserved semen can be used as backup if the fresh semen is particularly poor on the day of ICSI in patients with fluctuating semen abnormalities. This is particularly useful when sperm are present in the semen only intermittently. Those patients who produce an unexpectedly poor sample on the day of IVF should provide a second sample later to supplement the first sample. Electroejaculation or needle biopsy of the testes can be used if the man is unexpectedly unable to collect semen. Patients with genital tract obstruction can have sperm retrieved from the testis or epididymis by needle aspiration. ICSI also allows patients with severe primary spermatogenic disorders to be treated provided some live sperm or elongated spermatids can be recovered from the semen, testes, or genital tract (Table 172-7). If no sperm can be found in the semen, the likelihood of finding elongated spermatids in the testicular tissue can be estimated by the clinical situation and testicular histology. Sperm can be found by biopsies in approximately 50% of men with Klinefelter syndrome. Results are good if any tubules with complete spermatogenesis can be seen in diagnostic biopsies. However, if there are no elongated spermatids, the success rate with open biopsies is low: approximately 25% with Sertoli-cell-only syndrome and rarely with germ cell arrest at the primary spermatocyte stage.[117, 176] Yq microdeletions in the AZFa and b regions are also associated with a complete absence of spermatogenesis. Other
