Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


and rarely with germ cell arrest at the primary spermatocyte stage.[117, 176] Yq microdeletions in the AZFa and b regions are also associated with a complete absence of spermatogenesis. Other factors such as hormone levels and testicular size do not seem to be predictive. The use of donor sperm should be discussed during preparation of the couple if the outlook is poor. Testicular biopsy techniques should maximize the chance of finding sperm while minimizing damage. Microsurgery with examination of exposed testicular tissue under the operating microscope may allow selection of the larger diameter tubules, which are more likely to contain more advanced spermatogenesis.[176, 177] Alternatively, multiple sampling through small holes in the tunica may be used.[178] Large biopsies, particularly at multiple sites, have higher complication rates and will further impair testicular function (future androgen deficiency). Generally, repeat open biopsies for sperm collection should be performed only after the patient and testes have recovered from the previous surgery, and this may take 4-6 months. Approaches The standard approach is to stimulate multiple ovarian follicular development with FSH and collect the oocytes by ultrasound-guided transvaginal needle puncture of the ovaries after administration of human chorionic gonadotropin to mature the oocytes. ICSI or IVF is performed, and the resulting embryos are transferred into the uterine cavity, usually at the four- (day 2) to eight-cell (day 3) or blastocyst (day 5 or 6) stage with cryopreservation of remaining embryos. Although cryopreservation reduces the implantation potential frozen embryos produce good pregnancy outcomes.[179] Biopsy of blastomeres for detection of chromosomal and genetic abnormalities is used to avoid transmission of serious hereditary diseases or to select embryos with higher cnances of implantation.[180] Sperm Preparation Various procedures have been developed for sperm preparation for IVF. Most popular is centrifugation on gradients of colloidal silica because this can be performed with high reproducibility.[181] Cryopreserved samples require especially gentle handling, particularly with dilution of the semen cryoprotectant medium with culture medium. Motility, even just an occasional slight twitch of the tail, is required in selecting sperm for ICSI. The morphology of the sperm cannot be assessed in detail at the magnification used, but obviously grossly abnormal sperm are excluded. If no motile sperm can be found, motility stimulation with pentoxifylline or hypoosmotic swelling can be used to show that the sperm are alive.[181] Results With IVF and ICSI, 60% of oocytes fertilize and cleave normally over the first 48 hours.
