Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


or hypoosmotic swelling can be used to show that the sperm are alive.[181] Results With IVF and ICSI, 60% of oocytes fertilize and cleave normally over the first 48 hours. For women younger than 35 years of age, the clinical pregnancy rate (fetal heart positive ultrasound at 6 weeks gestation) for transfer of one fresh 2-day old embryo is approximately 30% and for transfer of two 2 day old embryos 40%. Pregnancy rates are approximately 25% lower with cryopreserved embryos. The cumulative live birth rates with transfer of fresh and cryopreserved embryos from the first oocyte collection are approximately 50% and 80% by the third oocyte collection in women under 35 years of age. Approximately 25% of the births resulting from transfer of two 2-day old embryos are twins. Multiple pregnancy is more frequent if three or more cleave stage embryos or two or more blastocysts are transferred. Many clinics are transferring single embryos (elective single embryo transfer) in patients with good prognosis to minimize the multiple pregnancies. A number of other factors influence the results of ART, including embryo quality and particularly female age. Implantation and pregnancy rates decrease and pregnancy losses increase after age 35, mostly due to increasing abnormalities in the oocytes. For women aged 36-39 years the live birth rate is about 70% of that for women under 36 and for those 40 years and over using their own oocytes, about 30% that for women under 36. Evaluation of Failed Fertilization When most or all oocytes fail to fertilize in IVF, the cause is usually defective sperm. Oocytes may not fertilize because of immaturity or abnormality, but this is an unusual cause of total failure of fertilization of all the oocytes retrieved from a woman.[74] Unexpected failures of fertilization should be evaluated by examination of the number of sperm bound on the ZP and penetrating the ZP. Low numbers usually indicate sperm defects.[74] Low fertilization rates may also result from undiagnosed sperm autoimmunity, infected semen, or technical problems in the IVF laboratory. Careful evaluation of the semen quality and screening patients with idiopathic infertility for defects of sperm-oocyte interaction before IVF should allow most couples likely to have low fertilization with standard IVF to be directed to ICSI.[74, 182] ICSI of unfertilized oocytes with the man’s sperm 12 to 24 hours after standard IVF insemination may result in fertilization and pregnancy, but, overall, the results are
