Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


mortality (stillbirth and neonatal deaths within 28 days of life) was for IVF 18.2, ICSI 15.3 and FET 11.8 per 1000 births. The perinatal mortality for ART singletons was 9.6 and for the general population in 2004: 10.2. Risks for the Woman The ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is a major risk with gonadotropin stimulation of multiple follicular development.[186] Careful monitoring of the patients is necessary. If many follicles develop, embryo freezing rather than transfer avoids pregnancy and allows the ovaries to recover, reducing the risk of severe complications such as thromboembolism, renal failure, and death. Surgical complications including bleeding and infection from the oocyte collection procedure are rare. There is also a small risk of complications from anesthesia and sedation. Maternal complications of pregnancy increase in frequency with multiple pregnancy. Cesarean section is more frequent for singleton ART births than in the general community. There are also concerns about the ovarian stimulation drugs predisposing to breast or gynecologic cancers.[187] Risks for the Child Multiple Pregnancy The risks of multiple pregnancy for the child, prematurity, low birth weight, increased perinatal mortality and morbidity, less parental attention during childhood, are well known and can be controlled by reducing the numbers of embryos transferred together.[183, 186, 188, 189] Transmission of Genetic and Chromosomal Disorders The known genetic risks were covered previously (see Table 4 ). For conditions such as cystic fibrosis and myotonic dystrophy, pre-implantation genetic diagnosis can be used so that only unaffected embryos are transferred. Balanced chromosomal translocations may become unbalanced in embryos and result in miscarriage or rarely in the birth of an abnormal child. Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis may also be used to detect unbalanced chromosomal constitution in the pre-implantation embryo.[180] Defects Possibly Associated with Abnormal Spermatogenesis There is a correlation between the production of abnormal sperm with poor morphology and motility and abnormal sperm DNA measured by a variety of techniques including acridine orange fluorescence, sperm chromatin structure assay, chromomycin staining, and comet assays. [22] Abnormal sperm produce reactive oxygen species that could damage sperm DNA and result in defects of implantation or pregnancy loss. [22] However, the results of ART do not reveal such problems (see Table 7).[24] A number of mechanisms reduce the likelihood such abnormal sperm would be involved in natural or assisted fertilization such as sperm aggregation caused by heavy coating with clusterin, poor motility, and limited ability to bind to the zona pellucida.[190, 191] An
