Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


of prenatal screening for Down syndrome and other triploids in ART patients may also influence the reported rates of birth defects. Even with perfect reporting, differences in malformation rates could be caused by other factors, such as age, parity or health of the mothers, which have not been adequately allowed for in the statistical analysis. USE OF DONOR SPERM Donor insemination is a common method of managing male sterility.[201-204] Donor sperm may be involved in approximately 1 in 200 births in countries where it is permitted. The main indications for donor insemination are untreatable sterility in the man or when treatments and ICSI for severe or chronic subfertility have failed. The couple may choose donor insemination as the primary method of managing their infertility. Donor insemination is also used to avoid transmission of a severe genetic or infectious disease in the man. Women without a male partner may use donor insemination to have children. Donor sperm may also be used in IVF when there is a combination of female infertility and male sterility. Because of the higher pregnancy rates, IVF with donor sperm may be used if donor insemination fails.[203] Donor sperm may also be used in IVF procedures as a backup, for example, when there is a high risk of failure with of sperm extraction with a severe spermatogenic defect. Cryopreservation of Semen Donor insemination can be performed in the setting of a specialist infertility clinic with all donor and patient management available. Alternatively, the sperm bank may only supply semen for the patient and be separate from the clinics or physicians performing the artificial insemination. Because of the risk of transmission of infectious diseases, particularly HIV, and also for convenience, donor insemination services now use only cryopreserved semen.[201, 203] Semen cryopreservation with glycerol–egg yolk cryoprotectant and either vapor freezing or controlled-rate freezing in plastic straws or vials produces pregnancy rates equal to those with fresh semen. Importantly, cryopreservation allows the semen to be quarantined for 6 months for donors to be recalled and retested for infectious diseases before it is used. Selection of Donors Prospective donors have their medical and family histories evaluated and a physical examination to exclude the possibility of transmitting serious genetic diseases such as hemoglobinopathies or sexually transmissible infections. Donors sign a lifestyle declaration to indicate that they are not involved in any practices that might expose them to serious infections, such as HIV.
