Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


hemoglobinopathies or sexually transmissible infections. Donors sign a lifestyle declaration to indicate that they are not involved in any practices that might expose them to serious infections, such as HIV. There usually is an upper age limit of 40 to 45 years because of the increasing frequency of genetic abnormalities in sperm with age. Semen quality is selected to be in the upper part of the normal range, particularly for concentration and motility.[201, 202] The semen is cultured for bacteria and blood is tested for hepatitis and HIV antibodies. Genetic screening for hemoglobinopathies and cystic fibrosis or other conditions may be included depending on their prevalence in the community. The freezing of semen does not appear to cause any increase in the frequency of congenital abnormalities.[201, 203, 205] It is usual to match the physical characteristics of the recipient’s husband and the donor including race, complexion, build, height, and hair and eye color. In addition, blood groups may be matched. In some programs, the recipient couple may be able to choose the donor on other information such as occupation and education. Known donors may also be used; these may be friends or relatives of the infertile couple. In this situation, special counseling of the donors and recipients is necessary. Also, there should be a full workup of the known donor as for an anonymous donor, including cryopreservation and quarantining of the semen. Donor factors relevant to the success of donor insemination are mainly to do with the quality of the semen. Post-thaw motility has the strongest predictive value for high fertilization rates, but sperm morphology, motility, and concentration are also significant.[201, 203] Despite selection of high-quality semen, there remains considerable variability in the pregnancy rates between donors. A policy to discard semen from a donor who produces no pregnancy after a certain number (e.g., 20–40) of inseminations is necessary.[202] Counseling The special nature of the use of donor sperm is discussed in detail with the couple so that they are fully aware of the implications for the child and their family. Donor insemination is forbidden in some religions. There may be local legislation or regulations to control the use of donated gametes. In some countries, special laws have been enacted that may either allow or prevent the child from obtaining identifying information about the donor. The legal status of the child may also be specified in various ways. The couple
