Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


that may either allow or prevent the child from obtaining identifying information about the donor. The legal status of the child may also be specified in various ways. The couple needs to decide how and when to disclose the child’s donor sperm origin. What and how much they should tell their friends and relatives about their infertility treatment should also be discussed, as should their reaction to acquaintances questioning the paternity of the child. The possibility that in the future half-siblings may unwittingly find each other and attempt to have children is of concern to some prospective parents and donors. This needs to be discussed carefully and the risks explained in view of the number of pregnancies permitted per donor by the clinic. Studies of donor families in which there has been expert pretreatment counseling indicate no physical or emotional problems with the children, and greater marital stability than average.[205] Procedures and Results The prospective recipients are screened for HIV, hepatitis B and C, rubella immunity, blood group, and genetic conditions if necessary. Tests of tubal patency are performed if the history suggests pelvic pathology. The inseminations are timed to coincide with natural ovulation. Careful monitoring of ovulation and timing of intrauterine insemination of prepared motile sperm suspensions (as for IVF) appear to increase the pregnancy rate. Pregnancy rates are approximately 10% to 25% per month for the first 4 to 6 months and then 5% to 10% thereafter, so that approximately 50% of women are pregnant by 4 to 6 months.[201, 203, 204] Female age affects the pregnancy rates.[201, 204] Women with subfertile male partners have on average lower pregnancy rates than those with sterile male partners, indicating the presence of female factors contributing to the infertility when the male partner is subfertile.[201, 204] Cumulative pregnancy rates for women who have had more than one pregnancy by donor insemination indicate higher conception rates over the first few months for the second pregnancy, approximately 33% pregnant in the first cycle and 55% by the second cycle.[201] Multiple ovulation induction and intrauterine insemination may increase the pregnancy rates but at the risk of multiple pregnancy.[201, 204] IVF may be used if no pregnancy has occurred after a reasonable number of inseminations (e.g., 4–6).[203] Live birth pregnancy rates with IVF in such patients are high, and women in good health can be advised that they have an 80% chance of having a
