Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


(e.g., 4–6).[203] Live birth pregnancy rates with IVF in such patients are high, and women in good health can be advised that they have an 80% chance of having a child within 2 years. PREVENTION OF INFERTILITY Prevention is difficult because of the lack of understanding of the causes of most types of male infertility. Mumps orchitis was an uncommon cause of infertility, and childhood immunization for this disease should make it very rare. It is important to recognize that subfertility often is a couple problem, with both partners contributing. Therefore, general factors that would change a society’s attitude to child bearing could have an important impact on the frequency of infertility, for example, a trend toward having children at earlier ages. On the other hand, toxins and environmental factors known to cause defects of sperm production, such as heat, dibromochlorobenzine, lead, benzene, ionizing radiation, and microwaves, are probably well controlled by environmental health measures. Preventable Diseases and Conditions Sexually Transmissible Infections Post-gonococcal epididymal obstructions appear to be the most important cause of infertility from sexually transmitted diseases. In countries where gonorrhea is treated promptly, post-gonococcal epididymal obstruction is rare. On the other hand, it remains a common preventable cause of infertility in other countries. Undescended Testes Although undescended testes have been sought and treated aggressively over the past 50 years, previously undescended testes remain a common association of male infertility, affecting approximately 7% of the men seen. It is therefore uncertain whether early surgery for undescended testes has any impact on subsequent fertility. It is possible that the failure of normal descent is a feature of testicular dystrophy and that the sperm production will be poor whether or not the testes are placed in the scrotum. A randomized controlled trial of orchiopexy for unilateral palpable maldescended testis at 9 months versus 3 years of age showed that surgery at 9 months was followed by significant growth of the testis up to age 4 years but there was no change in testis size in those treated at age 3 [50]. This has led to clinical guidelines for treatment of maldescended testes that recommend orchiopexy for congenital forms between 6 and 12 months of age and as soon as possible for those discovered later and for acquired maldescent. Hopefully this will reduce the frequency of subsequent testicular tumours and spermatogenic defects. Varicocele The effectiveness of varicocelectomy for sperm defects is controversial.
