Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


those discovered later and for acquired maldescent. Hopefully this will reduce the frequency of subsequent testicular tumours and spermatogenic defects. Varicocele The effectiveness of varicocelectomy for sperm defects is controversial. Varicoceles are common and usually appear about the time of puberty. Although some groups believe that varicoceles should be sought actively and treated in adolescence to prevent infertility, this approach could pose a major burden on the health resources because at least 15% of men have varicoceles. Long-term prospective trials are needed. Vasectomy Vasectomy reversal and treatment for continuing infertility after attempted vasectomy reversal are now common. Better counseling about the limited effectiveness of vasectomy reversal is needed and cryopreservation of semen before vasectomy in men who are uncertain about their need for future fertility should be promoted. Androgen deficiency In patients with symptomatic androgen deficiency, testosterone therapy should be deferred until fertility issues have been addressed. Alternatively, Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) preparation can be given in order to stimulate testosterone production without inhibition of spermatogenesis. If fertility is not immediately sought, sperm cryopreservation allows testosterone replacement to be commenced. Options for fertility preservation in males Advances in the treatment of cancer in young patients have led to great improvements in life expectancy which approaches 80% 5-year survival rate. As a result, fertility preservation and desire for paternity have become a significant issue in this group. A major concern is the negative impact of chemo and radiotherapy on fertility. Up to two thirds of patients are azoospermic following chemotherapy. Recovery of spermatogenesis is strongly dependent upon the chemotherapy and radiation regimen and the patient’s baseline reproductive function. Alkylating agents seem to have the most profound reproductive effects. Thus men about to have treatment for malignant conditions may have sperm cryopreserved before commencing chemotherapy or radiotherapy.[206] Although pretreatment semen quality may be too poor for AIH, ICSI now has improved the outlook for successful pregnancies. Semen collected during chemotherapy or radiotherapy must not be used because of the likelihood of induced mutations.[207] Infertile men with conditions such as orchitis or severe primary spermatogenic disorders that might involve progressively declining semen quality such as Klinefelter syndrome, when sperm can be recovered, should also store any live sperm that can be obtained as insurance for the future. A similar approach could be extended to adolescents with risk factors for infertility such as undescended testes in childhood, testicular torsion, and possibly a family history
