Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


insurance for the future. A similar approach could be extended to adolescents with risk factors for infertility such as undescended testes in childhood, testicular torsion, and possibly a family history of infertility or a father with a Yq microdeletion. Semen may also be stored after treatment of gonadotropin deficiency or surgery for genital tract obstruction in case of re-stenosis. Storage of sperm before premature death or after a sudden unexpected death is also possible. Although the use of gametes from a dead person is surrounded by complex ethical and legal issues it is permissible in some countries. Semen cryopreservation can also be offered to adolescents. Sperm may be obtainable from the semen or testis after mid puberty. Although only a small proportion of men who store semen may use the frozen sperm, the service provides insurance for future fertility. Methods of Collection Sperm for fertility preservation may be collected in a variety of ways. Ejaculated sperm cryopreservation is the most common technique used as enough sperm is usually found for freezing in majority of men. Unfortunately, some men with testicular and other malignancies may present initially with oligospermia or even azoospermia. This may be related to a basic infertility condition which puts them under higher risk to develop testicular cancer or the stress effect of the disease on spermatogenesis. Some patients will not be able to produce a sample. Some patients are unable to ejaculate for social, religious or medical reasons or may be unfamiliar with masturbation for example peri-pubertal boys. For them, sperm can be retrieved by penile vibratory stimulation, electroejaculation or surgically from the epididymis or the testis as discussed above. Fertility Preservation in Prepubertal Boys Preserving fertility in postpubertal boys facing chemotherapy can be achieve similar success rates to those in adults. However fertility preservation in p repubertal boys presents a great challenge as sperm banking is not possible. Alternative strategies have been developed but all are currently experimental. These strategies are based on immature spermatogenic cell cryopreservation as cell suspensions or whole testicular tissue for future fertility restoration using autografting, xenografting or in-vitro spermatogenesis. [208] More research is needed to establish the best approach to generate spermatozoa from immature stem cells via in-vivo or in-vitro maturation. In the meantime, prepubertal tissue preservation should be discussed with the boys and their parents and samples should be banked only after careful counseling emphasizing the experimental nature of this
