Clinical Management of Male Infertility
KEYWORDS: sperm, men, infertility, semen, testicular, male, fertility, treatment, pregnancy, icsi, normal, patients, results, male infertility, testis


In the meantime, prepubertal tissue preservation should be discussed with the boys and their parents and samples should be banked only after careful counseling emphasizing the experimental nature of this approach. Post Chemotherapy Sperm Recovery Various barriers to sperm banking such as prepubertal age, under-referral or inadequate understanding of the sterilizing effect of chemotherapy and defective spermatogenesis before the treatment may have prevented sperm banking.[209, 210] In these patients an approach similar to that used for men with severe primary spermatogenic disorders can be used as recovery of spermatogenesis after gonadotoxic treatments is highly variable. Men with persistent azoospermia following chemotherapy or radiotherapy can be offered microsurgical testicular sperm extraction (TESE) and ICSI as there is some chance of success. Schlegel et al. reported 84 microdissection TESE procedures performed in 73 patients with 43% having sperm retrieved and these produced an average 57% fertilization rate with ICSI and 42% had live births.[211] DNA FRAGMENTATION The study of sperm DNA fragmentation has become topical in recent years. It has been proposed that DNA damage may contribute to infertility in a way that is not revealed by simple morphological evaluation of spermatozoa. Sperm showing a high proportion of fragmented DNA has been blamed for a lower fertilization rate [212], poorer embryo development and reduced implantation rates. [213-215]. It is now assumed that a significant proportion of infertile men have clinically important levels of DNA damage in their spermatozoa. [216] Basically, once a sperm nucleus has been introduced into the oocyte, a rapid de condensation should occur to allow the DNA formation of the paternal pronucleus. Abnormalities in the structural DNA organization can cause delays and errors in the paternal DNA delivery. Animal studies demonstrated that sperm DNA damage can cause embryo development compromise.[217, 218]. Apoptosis plays a key role and is considered to be the main pathway leading to DNA breakage in sperm.[219] The known main external inducers of sperm DNA fragmentation are chemotherapy [220], advanced age [216], environmental factors such as cigarette smoking [221], genital tract inflammation and varicoceles [222-224] and the presence of leukocytes in the semen [225] Three main mechanisms have been proposed as contributors to the generation of DNA fragmentation; 1) DNA nicks occurring to promote the remodeling of sperm chromatin are not completely repaired due to an impairment of the sperm maturation process, [226]; 2) DNA cleavage produced by a process of apoptosis first triggered and later
