Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Journal of Infection and Public Health journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jiph Original Article Emergence of novel hypervirulent Acinetobacter baumannii strain and ]] ]] herpes simplex type 1 virus in a case of community-acquired pneumonia ]]]]]] in China Qiujing Wang a,1, Haiyang Liu b,1, Yue Yao c, Hangfei Chen c, Zhejuan Yang a, Haibo Xie d, Rongna Cui d, Huasheng Liu a, Chuner Li e, Weiping Gong f, Yunsong Yu g, Xiaoting Hua c,⁎, Shibo Li a,⁎ 310014, China a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t Received 17 December 2023 unit (ICU). This study aimed to characterize one hypervirulent A. baumannii strain in a patient with com- Received in revised form 24 April 2024 munity-acquired pneumonia and herpes simplex type 1 virus infection. Accepted 16 May 2024 Methods: Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were determined using the Kirby-Bauer (K-B) and broth microdilution methods. Galleria mellonella infection model experiment was conducted. Whole- Keywords: genome sequencing (WGS) was performed using the Illumina and Nanopore platforms. The resistance and Hypervirulent virulence determinants were identified using the ABRicate program with ResFinder and the VFDB database. Acinetobacter baumannii ST447Oxf The capsular polysaccharide locus (K locus) and lipooligosaccharide outer core locus (OC locus) were ST10Pas identified using Kleborate with Kaptive. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using the BacWGSTdb server. ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX). Bautype and Kaptive analyses showed that XH2146 contains OCL2 and KL49. WGS analysis revealed that the strain harbored bla , bla , ant ADC-76 OXA-68 (3′’)-IIa, tet(B), and sul2. Notably, tet(B) and sul2, both were located within a 114,700-bp plasmid (designated pXH2146–1). Virulence assay revealed A. baumannii XH2146 possessed higher virulence than A. baumannii AB5075 at 12 h. Comparative genomic analysis showed that A. baumannii ST447 strains were mainly iso- lated from the USA and exhibited a relatively close genetic relationship. Importantly, 11 strains were ob- served to carry bla ; bla was identified in 11 isolates and three ST447 A. baumannii strains OXA-58 OXA-23 harbored bla . NDM-1 Conclusions: Early detection of community-acquired hypervirulent Acinetobacter baumannii strains is re- commended to prevent their extensive spread in hospitals. © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( censes/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Introduction Antimicrobial-resistant pathogens, including Enterococcus fae- cium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
