Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( censes/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Introduction Antimicrobial-resistant pathogens, including Enterococcus fae- cium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter ⁎ Corresponding authors. baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter species E-mail addresses: (X. Hua), (S. Li). 1 These authors contributed equally to this work. (ESKAPE) represent a global threat to human health and their role in 1876-0341/© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC- ND license ( spreading multi-drug resistance (MDR) has been reported in many Whole genome sequencing and analysis developing or developed countries . A. baumannii is a kind of important clinical common bacteria potentiating capacity for spread Genomic DNA was extracted from A. baumannii XH2146 using a in hospitals, mainly by "persist and resist" strategy and developing QIAamp DNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), according to the multi-drug resistance at an unanticipated speed . Globally, 45% of manufacturer’s recommendations. Whole-genome sequencing was the strains are considered multi-drug resistant, while in the Middle performed using the Illumina HiSeq platform (Illumina, San Diego, East and Latin America, up to 70% occur at the site of anatomical CA, United States) and the Oxford Nanopore MinION platform barrier destruction . These include ventilator-associated pneu- (Nanopore, Oxford, UK). De novo assembly of Illumina and MinION monia, bloodstream infections, urinary tract infections, and surgical reads was performed using Unicycler v0.4.8 . Genome sequence site infections . Furthermore, researchers from Germany and annotation was performed using Prokka 1.11 . Antimicrobial re- Vietnam exposed the role of milk powder as a potential reservoir for sistance genes were identified using ABRicate v0.8.13 program antibiotic-resistant A. baumannii strains with similar resistance ( based on NCBI database genes as those clinical isolates . Clinically-relevant carbapenem . The bacterial virulence factors were identified using a virulence resistance in A. baumannii is usually conferred by horizontally-ac- factor database (VFDB, . Multilocus quired oxacillinase genes, most commonly bla via ISAba1- sequence typing (MLST) was performed using the Center for OXA-23 bounded composite transposons Tn2006 or Tn2009 . Genomic Epidemiology (CGE) website ( Importantly, A. baumannii possesses the ability to form biofilm services/MLST/). The capsular polysaccharide locus (K locus) and (significantly higher than other Acinetobacter species), which is the lipooligosaccharide outer core locus (OC locus) were tested using considered to be
