Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


biofilm services/MLST/). The capsular polysaccharide locus (K locus) and (significantly higher than other Acinetobacter species), which is the lipooligosaccharide outer core locus (OC locus) were tested using considered to be one of the main factors of virulence and also di- Bautype and Kaptive . Genetic relationship analysis was per- rectly contributes to increasing the tolerance to antimicrobial agents formed using the BacWGSTdb server, and the tree file was visualized . In addition, several studies have shown various types of motility using iTOL v5 . in isolates of the A. baumannii strains . Biofilm formation and motility have been observed to be strongly associated and linked to Virulence assessment by Galleria mellonella infection model increased virulence. However, motility and biofilm formation in promoting the virulence of A. baumannii is still a matter of debate. Galleria mellonella infection model was used to assess virulence Furthermore, discernible toxins or molecular determinants that ac- . Briefly, log-phase bacterial cells were centrifuged and re- count for the virulence potential of A. baumannii remain absent . suspended using phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and underwent A. baumannii is generally considered a low-virulence pathogen. In serial dilutions to 1 × 108 CFU/mL. Ten microliters volume (1 × 106 recent years, reports have been available on community-acquired CFU) was injected into G. mellonella larvae (n = 10, Yuejiayin, Tianjin, pneumonia caused by A. baumannii, in which alcoholism, diabetes, China) using the Hamilton syringe (Hamilton, USA). G. mellonella and other comorbidities such as malignancy and chronic obstructive larvae were incubated at 37 °C and survival was recorded every 12 h pulmonary disease are risk factors . and monitored for 72 h. A. baumannii AB5075 was used as a positive In this study, we isolated a community-acquired A. baumannii control, and A. baylyi ADP1 isolate served as a virulence-negative strain from a patient with herpes simplex type 1 viral infection in control. The experiments were independently performed in tri- eastern China. Currently, no cases of simultaneous infection with the plicate. uncommon A. baumannii and herpes simplex type 1 viruses in a single patient have been reported. To better understand the micro- Result biological characteristics and pathogenicity of the strain, we ana- lyzed its virulence, antimicrobial susceptibility, genomic Patient’s information characteristics, and genetic evolution using Illumina and Oxford Nanopore sequencing. The patient was a 65-year-old man who lived on Putuo Mountain, Zhoushan, a sea island in eastern China. On August 14, 2021, he
