Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


evolution using Illumina and Oxford Nanopore sequencing. The patient was a 65-year-old man who lived on Putuo Mountain, Zhoushan, a sea island in eastern China. On August 14, 2021, he experienced diarrhea more than ten times at night (Fig. 1). The fol- Materials and methods lowing day, he suddenly became unconscious with incontinence and convulsions. He became conscious after 20 min and was then sent to 43 mmHg, SPO2 87%, PH 7.42, and PO2 53 mmHg. After adminis- Informed consent and ethical approval were obtained from the tering ceftriaxone combined with moxifloxacin for anti-infection, local ethics committees (approval number: 2022–045). the patient was admitted to ICU, SPO2 reduced to 71%, clac tendency for 4.3/L, white blood cell count 15 × 109 / L, neutrophils ratio 90.2%, hypersensitive c-reactive protein 28.3 mg/L, creatinine 160 μmol/L, Bacterial isolation and antimicrobial agents susceptibility test eGFR 38.38 mL/min, procalcitonin 9.24 ng/mL, chest CT scan: large, patchy shadows with increased density were seen in both lungs, tification was conducted via Matrix-assisted laser desorption io- was seen. Endotracheal intubation and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) nization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and were performed. Blood sample was collected on Aug 15 before the 16 S rRNA gene sequencing. The minimum inhibitory concentra- patient admitted to ICU and then sent for blood culture. On August tions (MICs) for this strain against cefoperazone-sulbactam, pi- 18th, the blood culture bottle was reported to be positive and peracillin-tazobactam, amikacin and ceftazidime were tested via sputum culture was also positive for A. baumannii with identical Kirby-Bauer (KB) method. Furthermore, most of antimicrobial antibiogram within 12 h of admission to ICU. The patient was sub- agents, including imipenem, tigecycline, ceftriaxone, cefepime, sequently treated with imipenem 1 g q8h. After combination gentamicin, cefazolin, tobramycin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and therapy with tigecycline 100 mg q12h for 10 days, the lung in- trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, were determined by broth mi- flammation was absorbed. The antibiotics were discontinued. crodilution method. Results were interpreted according to the However, extensive purulent exudation was observed on the face color-filled boxes indicate various antimicrobial agents. Dark blue: Imipenem; Light blue: Tigecycline; Grey: Polymixin B; Orange: Cefoperazone-sulbactam; and Pink: Acyclovir. Fig. 2. Dynamic changes of facial rash. A: D7, Pustules appeared on the face, lips, and eyelids; B: D8, Pustules increase; C: D15, Pustular rupture; D: D30, Pustules scab and fall off. Lower eyelid eyelashes fell off. Peripheral blood pathogens were sequenced. Herpes simplex virus
