Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


studied. Till date, only one report from China has described a novel Table 2 Characteristics of XH2146 genome components. Element Size (bp) Replicon Antibiotic resistance genes chromosome 3806,806 Not detection blaADC-76, blaOXA-68, ant(3′’)-IIa pXH2146-1 (Plasmid) 114,700 GR24 tet(B), sul2 pXH2146-2 (Plasmid) 7596 Aci3 - hypervirulent A. baumannii strain which was susceptible to all tested hypervirulent strain. Hence, A. baumannii XH2146 strain may pos- antimicrobial agents . sess the ability to develop into hypervirulent and drug-resistant This was an unusual case of A. baumannii related community- strains if it acquires resistance plasmids via horizontal gene acquired pneumonia (CAP) following disseminated herpes simplex transfer (HGT). virus I infection simultaneously. However, the direct reason for CAP A recent study also from Zhejiang province, China showed a and the source of the A. baumannii strain remain unclear. Hence, we ST1431 carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii strain causing CAP also further explored the patient’s lifestyle and found that he often exhibited higher virulence phenotype compared to ATCC 17978 in G. worked in wet soil-related environments. Previous studies have mellonella model . Our research also shows strain collected from shown that A. baumannii is prevalent in the soil . Considering CAP also possesses high virulence. However, our strain was one that A. baumannii is known to inhabit soil , we deduced that carbapenem susceptible isolate. In Egypt, researchers offered the this patient acquired a community-acquired hypervirulent A. bau- first report concerning CAP infections and found A. baumannii strains mannii strain from soil in a humid living environment . To pre- exhibited multidrug resistance with the production rates of carba- vent the spread of this type of community-acquired hypervirulent A. penems were 56.5% and 60.9% for meropenem and imipenem disks, baumannii strain, people can wear gloves when working in wet soil respectively . OXA-24 (65.2%) is the main cause contributed to and perform effective hand hygiene after working. carbapenems resistance. However, no carbapenem resistance genes In the present case, glucocorticoid-related immunosuppression were identified in our strain. Despite this situation, it is still alarming was considered the major risk factor for secondary bacterial infec- that community-acquired hypervirulent A. baumannii strain to fur- tions. Evidence shows that HSV-1 reactivation may be involved in ther obtain the carbapenem resistance phenotype. the systemic inflammatory response syndrome caused by endotoxin However, some limitations exist in this study, including the use and tumor necrosis factors of A. baumannii infection . of an insect larvae model,
