Journal of Infection and Public Health 17 (2024) 102456
KEYWORDS: baumannii, strain, using, resistance, virulence, strains, infection, acinetobacter, hypervirulent, bla, genes, antimicrobial, locus, patient, study


inflammatory response syndrome caused by endotoxin However, some limitations exist in this study, including the use and tumor necrosis factors of A. baumannii infection . of an insect larvae model, which might not be the most suitable for to be multidrug-resistant, CAP strains are usually less resistant, as in be more useful. Additionally, at present, a single report of a com- the case report. This CAP strain XH2146 was susceptible to most munity-acquired hypervirulent isolate lacks generalizability. Finally, drugs tested despite possessing naturally occurring β-lactamase it could be further explored if other resistance plasmids could be gene bla and plasmids carrying tet(B), sul2. Consistent with a transferred into this kind of community-acquired hypervirulent A. OXA-68 previous report, the CAP strain XH2146 is virulent, similar to AB5075 baumannii strain to become high-risk clone. . XH2146 belongs to ST447, a clone found in several countries. In conclusion, this is the first study to describe a novel commu- Genomic analysis identified carbapenem-resistance-related genes nity-acquired hypervirulent strain of A. baumannii that mutually were identified in this ST447 clone, such as bla , bla , and reinforces HSV-1. As A. baumannii is an opportunistic pathogen that OXA-58 OXA-23 bla . Thus, we speculate that this clone might be a drug-re- mainly causes HAP, our discovery raises concerns regarding the NDM-1 sistant clone that poses a potential threat to healthcare settings. possibility of secondary A. baumannii infection in CAP. Although this Based on our study, A. baumannii XH2146 belongs to ST447 and is a point requires more evidence and further epidemiological studies Fig. 5. Phylogenetic analysis of ST447 A. baumannii strains. Phylogenetic analysis was performed via BacWGSTdb server and the tree was visualized with iTOL v5. Isolates name, location, sample type, STs and resistance genes are shown. A. baumannii XH2146 strain was labeled in red. are needed to evaluate the effect of co-infection in the community- Harding CM, Hennon SW, Feldman MF. Uncovering the mechanisms of acquired hypervirulent strain of A. baumannii, this report is sounding Acinetobacter baumannii virulence. Nat Rev Microbiol 2018;16:91–102. Dexter C, Murray GL, Paulsen IT, Peleg AY. Community-acquired Acinetobacter the alarm of CAP A. baumannii infection combined with the herpes simplex type 1 virus infection. Importantly, our study provides a Anti Infect Ther 2015;13:567–73. theoretical basis for the infection control and treatment of this type Wick RR, Judd LM, Gorrie CL, Holt KE. Unicycler: Resolving bacterial genome assemblies from short and long
