Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


not.Choices about ver- obtainingenoughdata,suchquantificationrequiresattaching tical equity—doing more for those in greatest need—are more parisonsaremadeoverlargeculturalandincomedifferences. problems—because the available interventions for those prob- All comparisons are relative, with no absolute distinction lems are not very effective at reducing their suffering—is not between being and not being cost-effective.In assigning priori- necessarily preferable to doing more for people with less severe ties among interventions for public funding or for other policy problems that are more amenable to intervention. When an lems to which interventions apply because that affects what is population and those not benefiting tend to have more severe affordable.Calculations ofthe effect ofspending US$1 million illness,then expanding coverage can improve both horizontal people offer ways of looking at such choices. Equity, poverty, effects ofexpanding or changing interventions. and risk of impoverishment from ill health may also influence Cost-Effectiveness and Disease Burden priorities; so do the budgets available—and the decisions of how much to make available—for buying interventions.Finally, Cost-effectiveness and disease burden are related because the effectiveness ofan intervention and,therefore,the degree to effectiveness is the reduction in burden caused by an interven- which it deserves priority depend on how far it is culturally tion. This relationship holds true at the individual level. The appropriate or acceptable for the population it is intended to magnitude of a health problem—the total burden in the benefit. The identical intervention, technically speaking, may population—is irrelevant for marginal changes in resource lead to different degrees ofuse or compliance in different pop- allocation.However,it matters for large changes from the sta- to achieve the full potential outcomes. well as financial and physical resources,and managerial ability Cost-effectiveness is only one of at least nine criteria rele- may be stretched thin if it has to deal with a large number of to spend public funds .Cost matters by itself, trate on relatively few and somewhat less cost-effective inter- intervention. The other criteria that may affect priorities many other interventions that are more cost-effective but include horizontal equity (equal treatment for people in equal affect only small burdens. Moreover, even for a cost-effective 272 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Philip Musgrove and Julia Fox-Rushby itive. The authors of chapter 21 indicate how expensive it (Jamison 2002,table 2).The term usually refers to an activity would be to protect all at-risk African children from malaria undertaken by a health system rather than by an individual. with bednets, even though bednets are highly cost-effective.
