Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


can start from an existing intervention X would dominate any other treatment that intervention such as Xin the first figure or,when there is is both more costly and less effective and,therefore,falls in currently no intervention,from point O in the first figure. Source:Authors. intervention that it facilitates is identical, because the legal, uncertainty about the future and preferences for timing ofcon- regulatory,or financial environment differs. sumption, and it avoids two problems. First, outcomes that potentially generate benefits forever,such as smallpox eradica- tion, appear to have infinite benefits if the future is not ESTIMATING EFFECTIVENESS IN HEALTH discounted and therefore seem to justify any finite cost at all. Second,it makes little sense to postpone interventions forever Usingcost-effectivenessforresourceallocationrequireshealth simply because funds to finance them could be invested today effectstoberepresentedincommonunitsinordertofacilitate and be worth more tomorrow.Even discounting the future at comparison across interventions, diseases, or conditions. All the low rate of3 percent annually has a substantial effect—that analysesstartwithsomenaturalunit:casesofdiseaseorinjury, is,dividing the values for future years by successive powers of deaths,ornumbersofpeoplewhoquitsmokingoradoptsome 1.03.That means dividing values for year 1 by 1.03;those for deatharealikeinthatregard.Preventingachild’sdeathatapar- ing an infant death saves not all the 80 calendar years of life ticular age, independent of the cause, means that the averted expectancy at birth (or fewer in low-income countries) but at deathaloneisanadequatemeasureofoutcome.However,when most 30 discounted years. livesaresavedatdifferentages—avertingdeathfrommalariaat For interventions that avert mortality, analysis starts by age2versusdeathfrombetathalassemiaatage10–15—theout- estimating the deaths prevented, uses age at death to yield come is no longer identical,and some measure must account numbers of life years saved,and then discounts those years as for the difference in years of life saved. These cases provide described above.When interventions improve health by avert- anothernaturalunit,subjecttoestimatinghowmuchlongera ing or reducing nonfatal disability,different disabilities must be personspareddeathmightlive.Thechoiceoflifeexpectancyto compared in severity. As with mortality, age at the time of assumeforsuchcalculationsisdiscussedlater. intervention matters for long-lasting conditions, and so does The unit oftime becomes a less natural and more synthetic discounting.In contrast,age is irrelevant for episodes ofillness measure if the future is discounted, as in all these analyses. or injury that are self-limited or quickly resolved by interven- future year by an amount that increases the further in the and all ages are treated alike in this analysis.Discounting also future that year is.The discounting procedure reflects inherent makes little difference over short intervals. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis forPrioritySetting | 277 that one intervention achieves the same results as another at The common unit of health loss or gain used here takes into
