Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


over short intervals. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis forPrioritySetting | 277 that one intervention achieves the same results as another at The common unit of health loss or gain used here takes into lower cost,which would be relevant if they were the only two account duration and severity,as well as discounting the future. possible interventions against a common problem, is not The disability-adjusted life year (DALY) is a unit introduced by enough.Comparing both with another intervention with dif- the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Bank ferent effects may also be necessary. For example, a coronary (Jamison and others1993;Murray 1996;World Bank 1993).As artery bypass graft for myocardial infarction costs,on average previously discussed,the DALY incorporates assumptions and across regions,US$37,000 per DALY gained,compared with an measurements about severity of nonfatal conditions, age at average of only US$409 for the polypill discussed earlier. incidence or intervention,duration with and without interven- However,both are much more expensive than saving life years tion,and remaining life expectancy at that age.For interven- for a middle-aged person by treating active tuberculosis (and tions directed to risk factors rather than diseases,the analysis thereby preventing transmission), an intervention that costs incorporates estimates of reductions in diseases that result only US$15 per DALY in the absence of HIV infection, or from changes in the level of risks. Smoking cessation, for US$102 on average where coinfection makes treatment more example,reduces deaths from both cardiovascular disease and difficult. (In only a few cases do chapters deal explicitly with cancer (chapter 46). comorbidity, in part because the DALY approach considers Published analyses, particularly in high-income countries, conditions only individually.) often use not DALYs but quality-adjusted life years (QALYs),an Parameter values for effectiveness are required in order to alternative measure ofhow much a year oflife is worth ifa per- conductCEA:howtovaluedisability,comparedwithmortality; son suffers one or more limitations of various kinds and how to treat the future; and whether to distinguish people degrees. QALYs can be estimated directly using a valuation according to age, sex, or other characteristics. Because effec- method such as the time tradeoff(comparing and varying the tiveness is related to reduction in disease burden, nearly all time spent in one health state with time spent in another state these parameter choices coincide with those adopted to esti- until the quality of life is judged the same in both). mate the existing burden (see Mathers and others 2005 for a Alternatively, a prescored questionnaire such as the EQ5D
