Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


important than any nonhealth outcomes. The money, may show whether time or monetary costs or both other is that, conceptually, it is unclear what dollar value to account for a relatively low level of use and therefore impede cases.Twoapproachestovaluinghealth,particularlyforjudging instruments discussed earlier,along with the intervention,may howmuchalifeisworth,areknownrespectivelyas(a)thevalue then be important in order for it to be cost-effective. of a statistical life, orthe human capital approach, and(b)the Including such costs also raises a question ofinterpretation. willingness-to-pay valuation, or contingent valuation. The for- If an intervention appears low in cost-effectiveness because it merdependsonestimatingearningslostfromprematuredeath requires much travel or waiting time,the fault may lie not with wouldpayforcaretoprotectorrestoretheirhealth. too far from the beneficiary population, are understaffed, or Both approaches reflect a society’s level ofincome.Although areinefficiently managed.For this reason,cost-effectiveness is applied globally they imply that better health is worth less impose prohibitive time costs on users. among poor populations than among those who are better off. Not only the characteristics ofthe interventions themselves, Both methods are arguably more appropriate for marginal but also the capacity to deliver interventions greatly affect cost- improvements (like saving travel time for commuters) than for effectiveness across many activities.In a complete analysis,each valuing life-or-death differences,although willingness to pay is intervention is characterized by how demanding it is ofmana- sometimes used in analyses of policies to reduce mortality. gerial or institutional capacity. This element is difficult to Avoiding monetary evaluation ofhealth benefits sidesteps most measure directly,but authors often provide at least an intuitive ofthe ethical problems ofvaluing individual lives and requires description of how easy or hard delivery of an intervention is fewer assumptions about what benefits are worth.The cost of or what factors facilitate or impede its implementation.Where this simplification is that occasionally substantial nonhealth capacity to deliver several interventions together is important, benefits are not explicitly valued,so interventions may look less authors deal explicitly with the issue, as in the chapters on service management (chapter 73),and whole packages ofinter- ventions (chapters 56 and 63). DETERMINING COSTS FOR INTERVENTIONS Dollarvaluesofunitcostsneedtobecalculatedforinterna- tional comparisons. The inputs used to produce an Whatever outcome measures are used to evaluate an interven- intervention—the time (and training) of human resources; tion,its costs must be estimated.This need raises several ques- drugsandsupplies;anddepreciationorrentalvalueof equip- tions about which costs to attribute to the intervention and ment, vehicles, and buildings—are either produced in the how some ofthem should be valued. countryorimported.Ifthelatter,theyalreadyhavepricesinU.S. Direct and indirect costs should be distinguished, and dollars;iftheformer,pricesinlocalcurrencymustbeconverted choices should be
