Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


the intervention and ment, vehicles, and buildings—are either produced in the how some ofthem should be valued. countryorimported.Ifthelatter,theyalreadyhavepricesinU.S. Direct and indirect costs should be distinguished, and dollars;iftheformer,pricesinlocalcurrencymustbeconverted choices should be made about which, if any, of the latter to to U.S. dollars for comparison with other interventions include.In addition to the direct costs to the health system of and other countries. The usual distinction between tradable 280 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Philip Musgrove and Julia Fox-Rushby andnontradablegoodsisthattradablesmovefromproducing cost,notaccordingtowhattheywouldcostifpricesweremore toimportingcountriesatrelativelyconstant“world”prices.In nearly uniform among countries. If, in local currency, physi- fact,thesamegoodmaybeimportedatdifferentpricestodif- ciansarepaidlittlemorethannursesare,itmaymakesenseto ferentcountriesormaybeimportedtoonecountrybutlocally employmoredoctorspernurse—evenifatinternationalprices producedinanother,sothatithasbothaninternationalanda doctors would cost much more and should be replaced by localprice.Thissituationisincreasinglytrueofdrugsandsup- nurses when possible. Of course, the staffing decision turns plies,whichmiddle-incomecountries(Brazil,forexample)and onthecompetenciesofthetwogroupsaswellasontheircosts; timesexport. choiceeveniftheycostmore. Prices in local currency can be converted to U.S.dollars by Two other reasons besides that ofefficiency in buying inter- exchange rates or by purchasing-power parity rates (as esti- ventions support basing cost-effectiveness on exchange rate mated in World Bank 2003).The former may reflect under- or prices. First, authors who have used published costs (which overvaluation of the local currency, making goods systemati- usually involve exchange rates) rather than building up esti- cally cheaper or more expensive than at world prices,and they mates from individual prices and quantities seldom break may change quickly and substantially in response to changes down costs into imported and domestic components. Local in a country’s trade balance, indebtedness, or capital flows. inputs cannot be repriced at purchasing-power parity rates or Nonetheless, they represent what is actually paid for locally can only be repriced very approximately. Second, for readers produced inputs at any given moment.Purchasing-power par- accustomed to dealing with prices converted using exchange ity rates, in contrast, attempt to say what local currency is rates,real resource estimates may simply appear to penalize the worth in purchasing power,correcting for systematic price dif- use of local inputs by valuing them at unrealistic prices. The ferences. Such rates can be calculated for the country as a problem with exchange rate prices, in contrast, is that when tions thereof(Wordsworth and Ludbrook 2004).This calcula- tions,as imported inputs become relatively more or less expen- tion means valuing local inputs at external prices, assuming sive. Cost-effectiveness is not static or intrinsic but depends they are equally productive or ofequal quality in the particular on prices as well as on quantities and on the results of an country as in the countries from
