Σ
KEYWORDS: intervention, interventions, costs, chapter, cost, cost-effectiveness, health, disease, life, chapters, estimates, countries, analysis, example, used


appropriate adjustments to total costs are possible with because ofthe cost ofidentifying who would benefit most from information on quantities ofinputs.In the absence ofdata on the intervention—for example,whether to screen all newborns quantities of resources used, differences in average cost can for sickle cell disease or only those of African origin (chap- sometimes be calculated using estimates ofinput proportions. ter 34). And expansion may change the cost-effectiveness Such an approximation characterizes the analysis for diabetes because it would require considerable fixed investment. The (chapter 30),in which proportions were known in one region costs of expanding capacity to deliver an intervention,includ- and assumed to be the same elsewhere and costs were estimated ing physical capital and training ofhuman resources,should be from regional cost ratios. amortized over a reasonable interval (10 years is the standard in this volume) and included in the total costs. Ideally, one Variation of Results and Uncertainty of Estimates would know the complete production function of the inter- vention,including the possibilities ofsubstituting one input for Variation and uncertainty are two different aspects of cost- another to minimize costs in response to differences in prices. effectivenessestimatesthatalsoneedtobeaccountedforinset- However, analysis of this level of complexity is difficult to ting priorities. Because costs of inputs differ among regions, achieve,so most chapters assume fixed input proportions.Q, interventioncostsvaryevenifeffectivenessdoesnot—andthere then,does not depend on P,and the CER varies (at most) only areoftenreasonswhythesameinterventionismoreeffectivein with coverage, prices, and outcomes. This result could be an one place than another. Such variation means that a single underestimate of the true cost-effectiveness if much substitu- estimateofincrementaloraveragecost-effectivenessofaninter- tion is possible (see chapter 16 on tuberculosis). ventionisnotuniversallyapplicable.Allestimatesshouldideally Approximations are required when the average and incre- belocal,andregionalvaluescaptureonlypartoftherealvaria- mentalCERshavetobetakendirectlyfromtheliteratureand tion.Forexample,theaveragecostperDALYofchemotherapy when key parameter values are not easily available. Existing foractiveorcontagioustuberculosis,intheabsenceofHIVand estimates of total cost or effectiveness may or may not AIDS, is US$15, but that figure varies from US$6 to US$31 incorporatethestandardassumptionsaboutdiscounting,dis- across regions, and such wide variation is common in many ability weights, and life expectancy. Authors then need to chapters.Whenevertheestimatesofcost-effectivenessindiffer- judgehowtoadjusttheavailableestimatesforamoreconsis- entchaptersusethesameinputprices,theirresultsarecompa- tentanalysis. rable within a given region.Analyses that draw on published 282 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Philip Musgrove and Julia Fox-Rushby estimatesforpriceorunitcostinformationarenecessarilyless The quality and relevance ofevidence can vary considerably, comparable across interventions and introduce another ele- depending on whether information comes from randomized mentofvariation,eveninthesamelocale.Stillmorevariation controlled trials or systematic overviews,nonrandomized stud- ariseswhencostsoroutcomesareextrapolatedfromonecoun- ies with multivariate analyses and well-defined endpoints, or tryorregiontoanother. case studies or expert opinion.For these analyses,the
