Cardiac tumors overview
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tumors, cardiac tumors, heart, tumor, symptoms, patients, primary, genetic, echocardiography, diagnosis, risk, biopsy, abnormalities, secondary


Overview The primary tumors of the heart are tumors that arise from the normal tissues that make up the heart. This is in contrast to secondary tumors of the heart, which are typically either metastatic from another part of the body, or infiltrate the heart via direct extension from the surrounding tissues. History and Symptoms Cardiac tumors present with a wide variety of symptoms. Many patients remain asymptomatic, and the tumor is an incidental finding. Some patients may present with symptoms of mimicking those of valve abnormalities such as mitral stenosis. Patients may also present with rhythm disturbances,endocarditis or even heart failure. Physical Examination A "tumor plop" (a sound related to movement of the tumor), abnormal heart sounds, or murmur may be heard. These sounds may change when the patient changes position. Electrocardiogram There are no specific ECG abnormalities associated with heart tumors. The ECG changes vary depending on the location of the tumor and aid in the diagnosis of tumors when used in conjunction with other diagnostic modalities. Historical Perspective As early as 1559, Dr. Realdo Colombo wrote about heart tumors, and the first successful surgery to remove a left atrial myxoma was performed in 1954 by Dr. Clarence Crafoord. After the discovery of cardiac tumors, new chemotherapeutic agents and treatments have been developed. Classification Based on their origin, cardiac tumors are classed as either primary or secondary. Primary cardiac tumors are classified as either benign, malignant, or intermediate. Pathophysiology Cardiac tumors' exact pathogenesis remains an enigma. Some cardiac tumors are linked to genetic predispositions or are a part of syndromes. • Cardiac rhabdomyomas are linked to "Tuberous sclerosis," an autosomal dominant disorder characterize Cod o kb iey s hth ele p ud s e dev le ivl eo r p oum r se en rvt i co esf . s Be y v use inr ga ol uo rr sg era vn ic eh s,a ym ou a agr rto eem toa os u. r use of cookies. OK 1/4 • Cardiac fibromas may be related with Gorlin syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by congenital anomalies and a predisposition to tumorigenesis. • Cardiac myxomas may be related with Carney complex, an autosomal dominant disorder. • Histiocytoid cardiomyopathy is occasionally inherited, however the underlying genetic abnormalities are still unclear. • The majority of undifferentiated cardiac sarcomas share the same genetic profile as pulmonary artery intimal sarcomas, which are
