Received: 25 May 2020 | Revised: 27 June 2020 | Accepted: 28 June 2020
KEYWORDS: prototheca, identification, protothecosis, species, patient, cutaneous, skin, treatment, case, wickerhamii, infection, right, susceptibility, report, human


at both the right ankle and the right arm with the largest ulcer size over 6 × 10 × 0.1 cm. The damaged skins were red with high tempera- 2 | CASE REPORT ture. Thickening and subcutaneous soft-tissue edema expanded to the whole right leg and arm (Figure 1A). No other positive physical 2.1 | Materials and methods signs were observed. The patient had had comorbidities of type II diabetes mellitus for 4 years and gout for 6 years. He had received 2.1.1 | Medical history of the patient and insulin therapy subcutaneously for four years. He is a farmer who is clinical data engaged in agriculture. On August 23, 2018, an 84-year-old man, who had suffered from skin ulcer and soft-tissue necrosis at multiple sites of limbs 2.1.2 | Sample detection, species identification, and Wenling. Three months ago, he had skin edema under no apparent predisposing cause. The edema was initially single and limited at Tissue samples were collected from the right arm's damaged skin ple, and then was aggravated to necrosis ulcers within 2 weeks. He microbiology laboratory. It was used for both direct microscopic ex- was diagnosed as a soft-tissue infection (bacteria being considered amination and further microbial culture after being digested with 3% debridement and irrigation, and antibiotics treatment (Rocephin®, Staining methods of lactophenol cotton blue (Baso) and fungus ceftriaxone sodium, 2 g, qd) for 3 days. He did not test any labora- fluorescence (Jiangsu Lifetime Biological Technology) were com- tory examinations and went back home after treatment. However, pleted. Two plates of Columbia agar with 5% defibrinated sheep the skin lesions did not recover but disseminated to the right arm blood and Sabouraud agar were used for further culture under at the follow-up 2 months. To get further treatment, he visited 37℃ and 5% CO condition To identify the species of the colonies 2 . Department of Burns with the impression of soft-tissue infection chemical reaction method with YSD card was utilized according to (unknown reason). the manufacturers' instructions. Molecular method based on partial The patient's body temperature was normal (37℃), and blood mitochondrion-encoded cytochrome b (cytb) gene sequencing was pressure was 130/70 mm Hg at the admission day. Blood laboratory involved for further species confirmation, as previously reported.3 tests, including white blood count (6.33 + E9/L, neutrophil percent- To compete with the cytb gene sequencing, genomic DNA was first age 73.1%), and glucose level
