Received: 25 May 2020 | Revised: 27 June 2020 | Accepted: 28 June 2020
KEYWORDS: prototheca, identification, protothecosis, species, patient, cutaneous, skin, treatment, case, wickerhamii, infection, right, susceptibility, report, human


confirmation, as previously reported.3 tests, including white blood count (6.33 + E9/L, neutrophil percent- To compete with the cytb gene sequencing, genomic DNA was first age 73.1%), and glucose level (5.3-5.6 mmol/L), were not abnormal extracted using ZR Fungal/Bacterial DNA MiniPrep Kit (ZYMO Skin of the right arm after debriding with 0.9% sodium chloride before treatment shows cutaneous necrosis or necrotic ulcer. B, Skin of the right arm after treatment displays the lesions have recovered. C and D, Individual colonies of P wickerhamii growing on Columbia agar with 5% defibrinated sheep blood and Sabouraud agar after 48 h of incubation, which are medium-sized, round or corrugated margin, smooth or rough in colony morphology ZHAO et Al. | 3 of 4 research) and then PCR was performed to amplify the cytb gene The clinical diagnosis was then revised to tissue-skin infection following-up Sanger sequencing at Biosum company. The sequence (human protothecosis) when the identification of P wichehamii was was then submitted to NCBI database ( confirmed. The patient was advised to immediately treat with anti- gov/Blast.cgi) for alignment. fungal drugs, including fluconazole (200 mg, iv, q 12 h) and compound In vitro antifungal susceptibility testing was detected using econazole nitrate cream on the damaged skin after debridement and YeastOne plate (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according to standard de- irrigation (0.5 g, bid). Besides, regular insulin kept on using to control tecting procedure. the level of blood glucose. Skin ulcers recovered within two weeks of therapy, and no more skin damage appeared. (Figure 1B) The patient was fully recovered and discharged one month later when C-reactive 2.2 | RESULT protein was decreased to less than 0.8 mg/L. 2.2.1 | Bacterial morphology under microscope 3 | DISCUSSION Round, grape-like, and scattered morula forms were observed under the microscope in bright blue and green fluorescence dying with lac- Although Prototheca spp. have been found with low virulence, they tophenol cotton blue and fungus fluorescence. Moruloid sporangia are capable of invading the colonization skin to the mucosal cells were composed of two to eight small sporangiospores and had a and causing skin-tissue infection.2 Here, we report a case of cutane- thick and highly refractile wall (Figure 1E,F). ous protothecosis caused by P wickerhamii with unique and limited infectious signs on the skin tissue. We share our experience on spe- cies identification and antifungal susceptibility phenotype and em- 2.2.2 | Culture result and species identification phasize the
