Dhitinanmuangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:257
KEYWORDS: shunt, gattii, infection, patients, csf, hydrocephalus, case, patient, cryptococcal, pseudocyst, antifungal, snamrofoen, thailand, pressure, yrevocer


occurs more frequently in immunocompetent per- were reduced after adjusting the VP shunt pressure. Six sons and more often results in CNS complications, such months following adjustment of the shunt pressure, the as hydrocephalus, and large cryptococcoma with delayed patient developed abdominal discomfort with a palpable treatment response . Few studies of C. gattii in- mass at the right paraumbilical region. The patient did fection in Thailand have been published. A molecular not feel feverish and did not have nausea or vomiting. typing study of 498 Cryptococcus spp. isolates from clin- Prior to this admission, gait difficulty and dizziness in- ical, animal and environmental sources from Thailand cludingdiffuseheadacherecurred.Recurrent hydroceph- data have not been reported . Another study de- furtherinvestigation. scribed Tsunami survivors from Thailand who suffered The patient was afebrile and had a very large, from primary cutaneous cryptococcosis caused by C. ill-defined mass with cystic consistency and smooth sur- gattii . Here we report atypical C. gattii infection in a face at the right paraumbilical region. Neurological patient who had chronic C. gattii meningitis complicat- examination revealed a magnetic gait, no neck stiffness ing a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt infection and con- and otherwise normal findings. The brain CT revealed current infected intraabdominalVPshuntpseudocyst. communicating hydrocephalus with appropriate in-place VP shunt as shown in Fig. 1a. The abdominal CT identi- Case presentation fied a well-defined rounded cystic mass measuring ap- A 66-year-old Thai female with underlying hypertension proximately 9.6×11.3×15 cm at the inframesocolic September 26, 2016 to evaluate the function of an im- shunt, suggestive of a CSF pseudocyst (Fig. 1b). CSF was plantedVPshunt andidentify the causeofanabdominal collected by lumbar puncture and returned a WBC mass. Two years earlier, she had progressive memory count of 12 cells/mm3 with 94% lymphocytes, 20 mg/dL impairment, dizziness, and difficulty walking for protein, and a ratio of CSF/serum glucose of 46/106 mg/ 4 months. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain re- dL (0.43). Ultrasonography-guided aspiration of the vealed communicating hydrocephalus without leptomen- intraabdominal VP shunt pseudocyst was also per- ingeal enhancement or abnormal enhancing lesion. formed. A total of 360 mL of clear yellow fluid was ob- Initial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a white blood tained and examined. The WBC count was 20 cell/mm3 cell (WBC) count of 54 cells/mm3 with 96% lympho- with 97% lymphocytes, 472 mg/dL protein, and a ratio cytes, a protein 165 mg/dL, and a ratio of CSF/serum of CSF/serum glucose
