Dhitinanmuangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:257
KEYWORDS: shunt, gattii, infection, patients, csf, hydrocephalus, case, patient, cryptococcal, pseudocyst, antifungal, snamrofoen, thailand, pressure, yrevocer


(WBC) count of 54 cells/mm3 with 96% lympho- with 97% lymphocytes, 472 mg/dL protein, and a ratio cytes, a protein 165 mg/dL, and a ratio of CSF/serum of CSF/serum glucose of <4.32/120 mg/dL (<0.03). An glucose of 25/126 mg/dL (0.2). The patient was India ink preparation of the CSF taken from the Fig.1a)Computedtomographyofbrainrevealedrecurrentcommunicatinghydrocephaluswithappropriatein-placeVPshunt,b)Computed tomographyofwholeabdomenwithcontrastrevealedalargewell-definedcysticmassatinframesocolicspace,approximately9.6×11.3×15cm indiameterwhichitencasedthedistallimbofVPshunt(arrow) Dhitinanmuangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:257 Page3of7 pseudocyst and from the lumbar puncture revealed a communicating hydrocephalus similar to other reports few encapsulated budding yeasts. Cryptococcal antigen . However, this patient was initially misdiag- testing of the serum and the CSF was positive at the ti- nosed with normal pressure hydrocephalus requiring VP ters of 1:8 and of >1:1024, respectively. The yeasts grew shunt placement, although the CSF culture completed 2 well on saboraud dextrose agar without cycloheximide. yrs earlier had revealed the presence of C. gattii infec- The isolate was identified as C. gattii by biochemical tion. Chronic, undiagnosed C. gattii meningitis following testing and a conversion to blue color on theVP shunt placement lead to multiple recurrent com- L-canavanine-glycine bromothymol blue (CGB) agar. A municating hydrocephalus, and eventually resulted in a molecular typing using the restriction fragment length cryptococcal intraabdominal VP shunt pseudocyst. A polymorphism (RFLP) of URA5 determined the isolate summary of nine case reports of cryptococcal VP shunt to be compatible with C. gattii molecular typeVGI. An- infection including the present case is provided in tifungal susceptibility testing by the broth microdilution Table 1 [9–14]. Only three patients had immunodefi- method was performed and showed minimal inhibitory cient conditions such as HIV infection (2) and diabetes concentrations (MICs) of amphotericin B deoxycholate mellitus with liver cirrhosis (1), while the six cases left (ABD) of 0.5 μg/mL, 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) of 0.5 μg/ had no apparent immunodeficient states. Previous stud- mL, fluconazole of 1 μg/mL, itraconazole of ≤0.015 μg/ iestentatively found anassociationamonghumanleuco- mL, voriconazole of 0.015 μg/mL, posaconazole of cyte antigen (HLA) subtypes and fungal infections such 0.03 μg/mL and all echinocandins (caspofungin, mica- as histoplasmosis , paracoccidioidomycosis . A fungin and anidulafungin) of >8 μg/mL. Unfortunately, study conducted in Papua New Guinea revealed patients when NPH was initially diagnosed 2 yrs earlier the CSF conferred HLA B*5601 were likely susceptible to C. gat- culture had grown C. gattii, but the result was over- tii infection . However, a relation of HLA and gen- looked. Chest radiography found no pulmonary nodules etic susceptibility to fungal infections
