Dhitinanmuangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:257
KEYWORDS: shunt, gattii, infection, patients, csf, hydrocephalus, case, patient, cryptococcal, pseudocyst, antifungal, snamrofoen, thailand, pressure, yrevocer


and not widely available in Thailand. Flu- pain, or abdominal mass were comparable among these conazole is an alternative agent used for combination patients. The infected pseudocysts were moderate to with amphotericin when treating HIV-infected patients large in size, and cyst fluid tested for cryptococcal anti- with severe C. neoformans infection . Although gens from twopatientsshowedhigh titers. amphotericin B in combination with fluconazole The present case is unique for several reasons. First, showed in vitro antagonistic interaction , several this patient was initially misdiagnosed as NPH for clinical studies demonstrated the combined two-drug 2 years. The reasons of slow progression in this patient regimen provided favorable outcomes for treating may be from the released CSF by VP shunt at the onset HIV-infected patients with cryptococcal meningitis of NPH, an ability to produce biofilm formation and a where 5-FC was not available or contraindicated [31– experimental studies elucidated C. neoformans exhibited in non-HIV infected individuals have been limited. All exopolymeric matrices including capsular polysaccharide cases listed in Table 1 that survived continued the oral promoting adherence to VP shunt and plastic sur- fluconazole therapy for several weeks. Following the in- face , and was resistant to host immune response duction of combined antifungal agents, patients who causing persistent infection. Second C. gattii was the have cryptococcal infection require long term flucona- only pathogen isolated from CSF and fluid from the zole therapy to prevent relapse . Neurological com- pseudocyst in the present case while C. neoformans was plications such as increased intracranial pressure or the principle etiologic agent in the other cases. Third, hydrocephalus, must be managed by CSF drainage pro- intraabdominal VP shunt pseudocyst infection caused by cedures. The present case initially received a VP shunt C. gattii has not been previously reported. Molecular to reduce hydrocephalus though the first CSF culture typing of the isolate identified C. gattii VGI strain, an was positive for C. gattii at the onset. It is possible that uncommon type. According to the molecular typing placement of theVP shunt may have prevented a rapid studies, C. gattii VGII is the most common molecular deterioration in neurological status. Of the nine re- type distributed in Thailand and other countries . portedcases, eight had theVPshunt removal, and three Of 386 Cryptococcus isolates from Thailand, 12 (3.1%) of these including the present case subsequently had a were C. gattii VGII and only 1 (0.3%) was a VGI
