Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: diverticula, myotomy, patient, epiphrenic, epiphrenic diverticula, symptoms, esophageal, esophagus, treatment, nitsa, surgical, laparoscopic, approach, achalasia, patients


Open Access Case Report Laparoscopic Heller Myotomy for Symptomatic Epiphrenic Diverticula: A Modern Technique Zoi Nitsa 1, Stylianos Faltsetas 2, Spyridon Davakis 1, Dimitrios Patsouras 3, Marianthi Vatrika 1, Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] Alexandros Charalabopoulos 1 Published [DATE] Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided Corresponding author: Zoi Nitsa, the original author and source are credited. DOI: Abstract Epiphrenic diverticula are one of the three types of esophageal diverticula, along with Zenker's and midesophageal, and are extremely rare. They are almost always associated with underlying esophageal motility disorders such as achalasia, diffuse esophageal spasm, and nutcracker esophagus. They are false diverticula and are found slightly above the cardio-esophageal junction on the right side. Symptoms usually appear in the digestive system and include dysphagia, regurgitation, and chest pain, as well as in the respiratory system with the occurrence of chronic cough and aspiration pneumonia. Not all epiphrenic diverticula are symptomatic, and treatment is indicated only when symptoms develop. Imaging methods, such as barium swallow, aid in diagnosing epiphrenic diverticula but should always be combined with endoscopy to exclude malignancy, since, rarely, epiphrenic diverticula are associated with squamous cell carcinoma. Manometry is crucial for confirming the presence of a motility disorder, as well as pH monitoring for symptomatic reflux. The treatment of the pathophysiologic basis of the genesis of the epiphrenic diverticula is the primary concern, and this involves surgical myotomy, as well as endoscopic techniques such as peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM). The results of symptom remission after the surgical approach are high. Categories: General Surgery, Gastroenterology Keywords: achalasia, epiphrenic diverticulum, laparoscopic approach, laparoscopic myotomy, poem Introduction In the 1960s, Belsey's and Effler et al.'s pioneering works established that epiphrenic diverticula often coexist with esophageal motility disorders, challenging the notion that diverticulectomy could serve as a standalone treatment and bringing myotomy into focus as an alternative therapeutic option. Esophageal motor disorders occur when there is a lack of coordinated movement between the muscles of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) and the lower esophagus, resulting in increased pressures within the esophagus. This elevated pressure can lead to the prolapse of the mucosa and submucosa through a weakness in the muscular layer, forming a pseudodiverticulum . The typical sites where hernias or diverticula can develop are at the entry points of the nerves and blood vessels of the lower esophagus, which are naturally
