Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: diverticula, myotomy, patient, epiphrenic, epiphrenic diverticula, symptoms, esophageal, esophagus, treatment, nitsa, surgical, laparoscopic, approach, achalasia, patients


a pseudodiverticulum . The typical sites where hernias or diverticula can develop are at the entry points of the nerves and blood vessels of the lower esophagus, which are naturally weaker areas . Conditions commonly associated with epiphrenic diverticula include esophageal achalasia, diffuse esophageal spasm, and nutcracker esophagus, affecting more than three-quarters of patients with epiphrenic diverticula [5-8]. Surgical or endoscopic intervention is typically reserved for symptomatic patients, as asymptomatic cases can often be managed conservatively. However, special attention must be given to asymptomatic patients, especially during procedures such as blind intubation, due to an increased risk of diverticular injury and perforation . Case Presentation An 81-year-old man presented to the upper GI surgery department with a five-year history of chronic dysphagia, vomiting, and recurrent episodes of aspiration. These symptoms prompted a series of laboratory, imaging, and endoscopic evaluations, which revealed the presence of three epiphrenic diverticula and type 2 achalasia. Esophageal dilatation was noted to be mild. The diverticula were located 5 cm above the diverticula in association with achalasia. After considering the available options, the decision was made to proceed with laparoscopic Heller myotomy using a five-port technique as the treatment for achalasia. This approach was chosen given the absence of significant reflux disease in the patient, making fundoplication unnecessary. How to cite this article Nitsa Z, Faltsetas S, Davakis S, et al. (April 29, 2025) Laparoscopic Heller Myotomy for Symptomatic Epiphrenic Diverticula: A Modern Technique. Cureus 17(4): e83227. DOI Surgical approach The patient was placed in a supine position with the upper and lower limbs in abduction in a reverse Trendelenburg position. The lead surgeon stood between the patient's legs, while the assistant positioned themselves on the left side of the patient. The monitor was positioned above the patient's head to ensure optimal visualization during the procedure. Pneumoperitoneum was established via the open Hasson technique at the sub-umbilical site, with a pressure of 12 mmHg. The visual trocar was inserted sub-umbilically, while the two manipulation trocars were placed on the right and left sub-costal areas, above the umbilicus. The fourth assistant trocar was positioned 5 cm laterally to the surgeon's left manipulation trocar at the left sub-costal region. Additionally, a Nathanson retractor was inserted through the subxiphoid trocar for optimal liver retraction. The dissection was performed with minimal invasion to preserve the physiological and anatomical anti- reflux mechanisms of the esophagus. The approach focused primarily on the
