Open Access Case Report
KEYWORDS: diverticula, myotomy, patient, epiphrenic, epiphrenic diverticula, symptoms, esophageal, esophagus, treatment, nitsa, surgical, laparoscopic, approach, achalasia, patients


follow-up results demonstrate the success of the procedure in addressing the patient's symptoms and improving his quality of life. 2025 Nitsa et al. Cureus 17(4): e83227. DOI 2 of 4 Discussion Epiphrenic diverticula have a prevalence of about 0.02%-3%. They are false diverticula, involving the last 10 cm of the esophagus, and most often occur 4-8 cm above the cardio-esophageal junction. Even though the risk of squamous cell carcinoma is low, about 0.6%, endoscopy should always be a part of the diagnostic algorithm . Through the years, diverticulectomy was the standard treatment, but a deeper understanding of the pathophysiology showed that myotomy-based procedures should be the primary surgical approach . Our case aligns with the literature demonstrating that addressing the underlying motility disorder through laparoscopic Heller myotomy can lead to substantial symptomatic relief without necessitating diverticulectomy. We should also add that we did not perform a diverticulectomy because the patient was 81 years old, and although he did not have any remarkable comorbidities, the thoracoscopic excision would have added extra risk, potentially outweighing the benefits of such a procedure. Diverticulectomies carry high mortality and morbidity rates and should be considered only as a last resort in symptomatic patients, where previous conservative and surgical treatments have failed. Laparoscopic or endoscopic myotomy is considered the gold standard in the treatment of epiphrenic esophageal diverticula due to the motor dysfunction of the organ. The technique of surgical myotomy remains the same as for the treatment of achalasia, while the technique of endoscopy remains debatable in terms of length, depth, and the orientation it should have . In 2019, Westcott et al. reported a case study of 22 patients with epiphrenic diverticula who had been treated by laparoscopic Heller myotomy and partial fundoplication, reducing significantly the need for diverticulectomy as the second stage in these patients . Three years later, a literature review study reported similar results, supporting myotomy with fundoplication as the first-line treatment of epiphrenic diverticula . Conclusions In cases where epiphrenic diverticulum coexists with the mobility disorder of the esophagus, diverticulectomy is not always necessary. In these patients, the first stage of treatment for the underlying condition is surgical myotomy or peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) in cases of esophageal achalasia, and in many cases, this is sufficient for the resolution of symptoms. Diverticulectomies are complex surgical procedures with an increased risk of complications, while other parameters such as the patient's age,
