HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Published in final edited form as: Hepatology. 2009 May ; 49(5): 1729–1764. doi:. Vascular Disorders of the Liver Laurie D. DeLeve1, Dominique-Charles Valla2, Guadalupe Garcia-Tsao3 1Division of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases and the Research Center for Liver Diseases, 2Service d’Hépatologie, Hôpital Beaujon, Université Denis-Diderot-Paris 7, and Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U773, Clichy, France Connecticut Healthcare System, New Haven, CT Abstract This guideline has been approved by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and represents the position of the association. Preamble These recommendations provide a data-supported approach. They are based on the following: (1) formal review and analysis of the recently published world literature on the topic (Medline search); (2) American College of Physicians Manual for Assessing Health Practices and Designing Practice Guidelines1; (3) guideline policies, including the AASLD Policy on the Development and Use of Practice Guidelines and the American Gastroenterological Association Policy Statement on Guidelines2; and (4) the experience of the authors in the specified topic. Intended for use by physicians, these recommendations suggest preferred approaches to the diagnostic, therapeutic, and preventive aspects of care. They are intended to be flexible, in contrast to standards of care, which are inflexible policies to be followed in every case. Specific recommendations are based on relevant published information. To more fully characterize the quality of evidence supporting recommendations, the Practice Guidelines Committee of the AASLD requires a Class (reflecting benefit versus risk) and Level (assessing strength or certainty) of Evidence to be assigned and reported with each American Heart Association Practice Guidelines.3,4) Potential conflict of interest: Nothing to report. All American Association for the Study Liver Diseases (AASLD) Practice Guidelines are updated annually. Ifyou are viewing a Practice Guideline that is more than 12 months old, please visit www.aasld.org for an update in the material. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Introduction The major vascular disorders of the liver are listed in Table 2. Most of the vascular disorders of the liver are rare, with the exception of portal vein thrombosis (PVT) in patients with cirrhosis, and therefore the best evidence about diagnosis and management has been acquired through prospective cohort studies rather than randomized clinical trials. Their importance lies in the very significant morbidity and mortality that can occur without timely diagnosis or disease-specific management
