HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


been acquired through prospective cohort studies rather than randomized clinical trials. Their importance lies in the very significant morbidity and mortality that can occur without timely diagnosis or disease-specific management or even with an inappropriate workup. The purpose of these guidelines is to provide clinicians with approaches to diagnose and manage the disorders for which there are sufficient data to make recommendations. Given the rarity of some of the vascular disorders, not all are suitable for practice guidelines, and these will not be discussed. These guidelines will review PVT, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, Budd- Chiari syndrome (BCS), and congenital vascular malformations. Portal Vein Thrombosis Obstruction of the portal vein or its branches can be related to invasion or constriction by a malignant tumor, or to thrombosis. In developed countries, PVT might be more common than previously considered, as it was found at routine necropsy in about 1% of Swedish subjects in the 1970s.5 In developing countries, PVT has accounted for up to 30% and 75% view, PVT consists of two different entities, acute PVT and chronic PVT, which represent successive stages of the same disease and share similar causes, but differ as to their management.7 Therefore, after considering their common causal factors, acute and chronic PVT will be discussed successively. Likewise, PVT occurring in children, in patients with cirrhosis, and in liver transplant recipients will be considered separately, because their features and management differ from those in other groups of patients. Causes of Portal Vein Thrombosis PVT is caused by a combination of local and general risk factors. A local risk factor can be identified in about 30% of patients, and a general risk factor in 70%.7–11 Local Factors. A list of these local risk factors is provided in Table 3. Malignant tumors within the portal venous territory (in the absence of portal venous invasion or constriction), and cirrhosis are the leading local risk factors for PVT.5,9 In the rest of the patients, the most common local factor for PVT is inflammatory foci in the abdomen.7,12,13 A local factor for PVT is more frequently recognized at the acute stage of PVT than later on at the chronic stage.7 General Factors. General risk factors are similar in nature and in prevalence in patients with acute PVT and chronic PVT.7 As shown in Table 4, an inherited or acquired prothrombotic condition has been found in many patients with PVT, whether a local risk
