HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


patients with acute PVT and chronic PVT.7 As shown in Table 4, an inherited or acquired prothrombotic condition has been found in many patients with PVT, whether a local risk factor had been identified. 8,9,11,14–19 Therefore, identification of a local risk factor does not exclude the possibility that a general risk factor is present. Malignancy is a well-established, although not fully Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript understood, risk factor for deep vein thrombosis (DVT).20 This malignancy-associated prothrombotic state may play a role in PVT developing in patients with malignant abdominal tumors in the absence of compression or invasion. Likewise, systemic inflammatory response is a major general risk factor for thrombosis.21 In the context of acute PVT, however, it is difficult to determine whether inflammation is a cause or consequence of PVT. In young adults without cancer or cirrhosis, PVT is frequently the presenting manifestation of a myeloproliferative disease.11,22 Overall, 30%-40% of patients with PVT are affected with chronic, Philadelphia-negative myeloproliferative diseases, usually polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, or unclassified myeloproliferative diseases. However, due to portal hypertension and/or iron deficiency, the peripheral blood changes suggestive for a myeloproliferative disease are lacking in most affected patients.23 Furthermore, splenic enlargement is not specific for a diagnosis of myeloproliferative disease in a context of portal hypertension. Clusters of dystrophic megakaryocytes at bone marrow biopsy22 and endogenous erythroid colony formation in culture of bone marrow or circulating progenitors23 have been used in the past to make a diagnosis of occult or masked myeloproliferative disease. Recently, 1849G→1849T point mutation (V617F) of the tyrosine kinase Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) gene in myeloid cells has proved a highly specific and easily detectable marker for myeloproliferative disease. Among 388 patients with noncancerous, noncirrhotic PVT in four studies, this mutation was found in 21%-37% of patients with PVT.24–27 However, in 5%-10% of patients with PVT, this specific mutation was undetectable whereas bone marrow biopsy and assessment of endogenous erythroid colonies provided evidence for a myeloproliferative disease. Identification of inherited deficiency of natural coagulation inhibitors can be difficult.9,11 In patients with acute PVT, the systemic inflammatory response may alter baseline levels of these inhibitors. In patients with chronic PVT, there can be a nonspecific decrease in the synthesis of coagulation factors and inhibitors even when liver dysfunction is not obvious.28 The concurrence of several prothrombotic disorders in a patient with
