HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


can be a nonspecific decrease in the synthesis of coagulation factors and inhibitors even when liver dysfunction is not obvious.28 The concurrence of several prothrombotic disorders in a patient with PVT is more frequent than expected in the general population.9,11 Thus, the identification of a risk factor for thrombosis does not exclude other factors. The role of oral contraceptive use and pregnancy as causal factors for PVT is less clear than for thrombosis at other sites.9,11 In patients with cirrhosis, the risk of developing PVT has been related to the severity of liver disease, and to the presence of inherited prothrombotic disorders.29 In patients with impaired synthetic function and low plasma levels of natural coagulation inhibitors, there is currently no simple means for ascribing such low levels to a preexisting deficiency. In patients with cirrhosis and portal venous obstruction, invasion by hepatocellular carcinoma should be ruled out before making a diagnosis of bland thrombosis.30,31 Recommendations for investigating causes of PVT: 1. Check first for cirrhosis, cancer of the abdominal organs, and an inflammatory focus in the abdomen, based on initial computed tomography (CT) scan and Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript sonography findings, followed by additional procedures, as appropriate (Class I, Level B). 2. Check for multiple, concurrent risk factors for thrombosis, in all patients without advanced cirrhosis or cancer, as indicated in Table 5 (Class I, Level B). 3. Do not rule out a diagnosis of myeloproliferative disease solely on the basis of normal or low peripheral blood cell counts (Class I, Level B). 4. When coagulation factor levels are decreased, consider low levels of protein C, protein S, or antithrombin as a possible consequence of liver dysfunction; consider inherited deficiency when screening of a first-degree relative is positive (Class I, Level C). Acute Portal Vein Thrombosis Definition. Acute PVT is characterized by the sudden formation of a thrombus within the portal vein. The thrombus can involve a variable portion of the mesenteric veins and/or the splenic vein. Occlusion can be complete or it can be partial, leaving a peripheral circulating channel. Acute PVT has been rarely reported in children. Therefore, this section will focus on data collected in adults. PVT occurring in patients with cirrhosis will be discussed separately. Acute septic PVT is frequently referred to as acute pylephlebitis. This entity is characterized by the presence of
