HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


in adults. PVT occurring in patients with cirrhosis will be discussed separately. Acute septic PVT is frequently referred to as acute pylephlebitis. This entity is characterized by the presence of infected thrombus/thrombi.32 Clinical and Laboratory Features. Acute PVT usually presents with abdominal or lumbar pain of sudden onset or progressing over a few days.7,33,34 The abdomen might be moderately distended by ileus, but without any other features of intestinal obstruction. There is no guarding, except when an inflammatory focus is the cause for PVT or when PVT is complicated with intestinal infarction. The contrast between severity of pain and the absence of peritoneal signs has long been regarded as suggestive of mesenteric venous thrombosis in the differential diagnosis of peritonitis.33,35 Partial thrombosis might be associated with fewer symptoms. Rapid and complete obstruction of the portal vein or mesenteric veins, without involvement of mesenteric venous arches, induces intestinal congestion, manifested by severe continuous colicky abdominal pain and occasionally nonbloody diarrhea.33 A marked systemic inflammatory response is common in patients with acute PVT in the absence of sepsis. Persistent, nonspiking fever and abdominal pain are usual. Plasma levels of acute phase reactants are frequently and sometimes markedly elevated. Liver function is preserved in patients with acute PVT, probably because increased hepatic arterial blood flow compensates for the decreased portal inflow; and because a collateral circulation develops rapidly from pre-existing veins in the porta hepatis.36 However, a transient, moderate increase in serum aminotransferases can be observed in some patients. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Provided there is no extension of the thrombus to mesenteric venous arches, all manifestations of acute PVT are completely reversible, either by recanalization or by development of a cavernoma.7 When extensive thrombosis involves distal mesenteric veins, intestinal ischemia and eventually infarction can occur. The occurrence of infarction is probably related to complete obstruction of venous outflow (the mesenteric arches can no longer serve as collateral pathways), and to reflex arterial constriction and occlusion.33 Clinical features that suggest a patient has transmural intestinal ischemia include persistence of severe pain beyond 5-7 days, bloody diarrhea, and ascites.35 Acidosis and renal or respiratory dysfunction are also suggestive of intestinal infarction.37 In the absence of treatment, intestinal perforation, peritonitis, shock, and death from multiorgan failure occur. sometimes shock. Blood cultures usually grow Bacteroides species, with or without other enteric species. Multiple,
