HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


In the absence of treatment, intestinal perforation, peritonitis, shock, and death from multiorgan failure occur. sometimes shock. Blood cultures usually grow Bacteroides species, with or without other enteric species. Multiple, small liver abscesses are common in this setting. Acute septic PVT is always associated with an abdominal focus of infection.7,12,32 This primary focus can be easily overlooked clinically and, therefore, detected only by careful review of the CT scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).38 Sepsis-related cholestasis can be present. Imaging Features and Diagnosis. In most patients, the diagnosis of acute PVT can be rapidly established using noninvasive imaging.39–43 Sonography can show hyperechoic material in the vessel lumen with distension of the portal vein and its tributaries. Doppler imaging shows the absence of flow in part or all of the lumen.44 A CT scan without contrast can show hyperattenuating material in the portal vein. After injection of contrast agent, lack of luminal enhancement, increased hepatic enhancement in the arterial phase, and decreased hepatic enhancement in the portal phase are shown.45,46 For the assessment of thrombus extension within the portal venous system, CT or MR angiography are more sensitive techniques than Doppler sonography, because the mesenteric veins are more difficult to visualize with ultrasound. Thinning of the intestinal wall or lack of mucosal enhancement of a thickened intestinal wall after intravenous contrast injection are further pieces of evidence for intestinal infarction.47 Enlargement of pre-existing veins in the porta hepatis are seen as early as a few days after the onset of acute PVT. This is particularly conspicuous in the gallbladder wall, which is thickened and enhances after contrast injection, and should not be confused with acute cholecystitis.48 Recommendations for diagnosis of acute PVT: 5. Consider a diagnosis of acute PVT in any patient with abdominal pain of more than 24 hours duration, whether or not there is also fever or ileus (Class I, Level B). 6. If acute PVT is suspected, CT scan, before and after injection of vascular contrast agent, should be obtained for early confirmation of diagnosis. If CT scan is not rapidly available, obtain Doppler-sonography (Class I, Level B). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 7. In patients with acute PVT and high fever and chills, septic pylephlebitis should be considered, whether or not an abdominal source of infection has been identified, and blood cultures should be routinely
