HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


with acute PVT and high fever and chills, septic pylephlebitis should be considered, whether or not an abdominal source of infection has been identified, and blood cultures should be routinely obtained (Class I, Level B). 8. In acute PVT, the possibility of intestinal infarction should be considered from presentation until resolution of pain. The presence of ascites, thinning of the intestinal wall, lack of mucosal enhancement of the thickened intestinal wall, or the development of multiorgan failure indicate that intestinal infarction is likely and surgical exploration should be considered (Class I, Level B). Treatment. The goal of treatment of acute PVT is to recanalize the obstructed veins, which will prevent intestinal infarction and portal hypertension. Correction of the causal factors, which should be achieved as soon as possible, is beyond the scope of these guidelines. In the presence of fever or leukocytosis, antibiotics have been used, whether bacterial infection was eventually documented. There are reports of recanalization of pylephlebitis with antibiotic therapy alone.12,49 Anticoagulation therapy is of proven benefit in patients with acute DVT.50 Extrapolation to patients with acute PVT is logical but still not firmly validated. There have been no controlled studies of anticoagulation therapy in patients with acute PVT. Four retrospective surveys—all reported before 2000—included consecutive patients. Their combined data show that when initiated immediately, 6 months of anticoagulation therapy was associated with complete recanalization in 50% of patients, partial recanalization in about 40% of patients, and no recanalization in 10% of patients.7 Spontaneous recanalization appears to occur infrequently in unselected patients not given anticoagulation therapy.7 High recanalization rates have also been reported in patients given anticoagulation therapy for postsplenectomy PVT,51 or for acute thrombosis involving the superior mesenteric vein. 7,34,49,52 Major complications of anticoagulation therapy were reported in less than 5% of treated patients.7 The optimal duration of anticoagulation therapy for acute PVT has not been determined. Complete recanalization can be delayed until the sixth month of anticoagulation therapy. 7,34,41 A panel of international experts has recommended that in patients with acute PVT, anticoagulation be given for at least 3 months, and permanent anticoagulation therapy be considered for patients with permanent prothrombotic conditions.53 In patients with DVT, a lack of complete recanalization indicates a high risk of recurrence after cessation of anticoagulation therapy.54 It remains to be assessed whether this is also true for patients with acute PVT. The reported experience with other treatment modalities (surgical thrombectomy,
