HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


recurrence after cessation of anticoagulation therapy.54 It remains to be assessed whether this is also true for patients with acute PVT. The reported experience with other treatment modalities (surgical thrombectomy, systemic or in situ thrombolysis, or transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt [TIPS]) in the treatment of acute PVT is extremely limited.55,56 One study analyzed the outcome in 20 patients treated with thrombolysis administered into the superior mesenteric artery or, through transhepatic puncture, in the portal vein.55 There was complete recanalization in three patients (15%), partial recanalization in 12 (60%), and no recanalization in five Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript patients (25%). Twelve patients (60%) developed major procedure-related complications, and one patient died as a result.55 In another retrospective survey, patients treated with thrombolytic agents had significantly increased mortality.57 There has been no formal comparison of the risk/benefit ratio of these procedures with that of anticoagulation alone. However, compared to anticoagulation alone, invasive procedures appear not to be more effective while being more dangerous. emergency laparotomy for resection of the overtly necrotic parts of the gut should be performed.35,58 The risk of postoperative malabsorption is related to the extent of intestinal resection. Moreover, the extent of irreversible lesions can be overestimated at gross inspection. Therefore, various procedures have been proposed to limit the extent of intestinal resection while coping with the risk of necrosis after operation.58 This aspect is beyond the scope of the present guidelines. Surgical thrombectomy can be performed at the time of the resection/laparotomy. Anticoagulation therapy appears to improve the survival of patients who undergo surgery.58,59 Outcome and Prognosis. When acute PVT is recognized and treated before intestinal infarction occurs, the outcome is good.7,34,49,52,57,60 Abdominal pain and systemic inflammatory syndrome start subsiding within a few hours to a few days after initiation of anticoagulation. Intestinal infarction is prevented when the superior mesenteric vein remains patent or has recanalized. Portal hypertension is prevented when the portal vein trunk and at least one of its two branches remains patent or has recanalized. Among 31 patients given prolonged anticoagulation therapy for acute PVT, bleeding occurred in two patients: from ruptured esophageal varices in one patient whose portal vein had not recanalized, and from an ovarian cyst in the other.7 A few patients may develop delayed intestinal obstruction as a result of intestinal ischemia and stricturing.60,61 Overall mortality rate appears
