HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


not recanalized, and from an ovarian cyst in the other.7 A few patients may develop delayed intestinal obstruction as a result of intestinal ischemia and stricturing.60,61 Overall mortality rate appears to have decreased from 30% to about 10% during the last decade, and currently most deaths are related to postoperative complications or underlying disease.37 Recommendations for the treatment of acute PVT (see also Table 6): 9. Give anticoagulation therapy for at least 3 months to all patients with acute PVT. Start with low molecular weight heparin in order to achieve rapid anticoagulation. Shift to oral anticoagulation as soon as the patient’s condition has stabilized, when no invasive procedure is planned (Class I, Level B). 10. Continue on long-term anticoagulation therapy in patients with acute PVT and permanent thrombotic risk factors that are not correctable other wise (Class I, Level B). 11. In the absence of contraindication, also consider long term anticoagulation for patients with acute PVT and thrombus extension distal into the mesenteric veins (Class IIa, Level C). 12. Initiate antibiotics promptly in patients with acute PVT and any evidence of infection (Class I, Level C). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Chronic Portal Vein Thrombosis Definitions. In patients with chronic PVT, also known as portal cavernoma, the obstructed portal vein is replaced by a network of hepatopetal collateral veins connecting the patent portion of the vein upstream from the thrombus to the patent portion downstream. The number, size, and location of collaterals is extremely variable from patient to patient. With occlusion of the trunk of the portal vein, antral, duodenal and biliary veins are markedly enlarged. This enlargement can produce compression and deformation of large bile ducts, so-called portal cholangiopathy or portal biliopathy.62,63 With occlusion at the origin of the portal vein, pancreatic veins are enlarged. Complete occlusion of the portal vein trunk, or of its two main branches is virtually always associated with portal hypertension and the development of portosystemic collaterals. Clinical and Laboratory Manifestations. In developed countries, there is a clear time trend for earlier recognition of PVT at the acute stage.7 Moreover, the classical presentation of cavernoma with ruptured esophageal or gastric varices is now rare. At present, diagnosis is commonly made after a fortuitous finding of hypersplenism or portal hypertension. Biliary symptoms related to portal cholangiopathy (jaundice, biliary pain, cholangitis, cholecystitis, or pancreatitis) rarely
