HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


rare. At present, diagnosis is commonly made after a fortuitous finding of hypersplenism or portal hypertension. Biliary symptoms related to portal cholangiopathy (jaundice, biliary pain, cholangitis, cholecystitis, or pancreatitis) rarely reveal a cavernoma. 62,63 Gastrointestinal bleeding is regarded as better tolerated than in other forms of portal hypertension probably because patients are usually younger and have no liver dysfunction. The occurrence of ascites or encephalopathy in patients with chronic PVT is uncommon, and is usually encountered only transiently following gastrointestinal bleeding or when there is unrelated renal failure or marked sepsis in older patients.64 Features of subclinical encephalopathy, however, can be demonstrated in half of the patients.65 Liver tests are typically normal in patients with portal cavernoma in the absence of underlying liver disease. Coagulation factor levels can be moderately altered. Portal cholangiopathy should be considered when there are cholestatic features. Hepatopulmonary syndrome is present in about 10% of patients.66 Imaging Features and Diagnosis. A diagnosis of cavernoma is readily made by abdominal imaging with ultrasound, CT or MRI which shows serpiginous structures while the main portal vein and/or its main branches are not visible.40,46,67 Hepatic arteries are usually enlarged. In the absence of cirrhosis, there might be an enlarged caudate lobe, together with an atrophic left lateral segment or right lobe of the liver. Typically, the umbilical vein is not dilated as it connects to the left portal vein branch down stream of the obstruction. In some patients a large, prominent collateral vein at the porta hepatis can be mistaken for a normal portal vein. A cavernoma that has developed in the pancreatic area might be confused with an enlarged pancreas. Portal cholangiopathy, which mimics the bead-like appearance of primary sclerosing cholangitis, is much more commonly seen on biliary tract Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript imaging than clinical or laboratory features of biliary disease would suggest.62 A tumor-like cavernoma can be confused with carcinoma of the main bile duct. This particular and rare form of chronic PVT is characterized by tiny collateral channels forming a mass that encases the main bile duct, and enhances at the portal phase of contrast injection.62 Endosonography and MR angiography and cholangiography appear to be of great help in clarifying these differential diagnoses.68,69 Recommendations for diagnosis of chronic PVT: 13. Consider a diagnosis of chronic PVT in any patient with newly diagnosed
