HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


appear to be of great help in clarifying these differential diagnoses.68,69 Recommendations for diagnosis of chronic PVT: 13. Consider a diagnosis of chronic PVT in any patient with newly diagnosed portal hypertension (Class I, Level B). 14. Obtain Doppler-sonography, then either CT scan or MRI, before and after a vascular contrast agent, to make a diagnosis of chronic PVT. 15. Base the diagnosis on the absence of a visible normal portal vein and its replacement with serpiginous veins (Class I, Level B). Treatment. Therapy for chronic PVT can be separated into three areas: prevention and treatment of gastro-intestinal bleeding; prevention of recurrent thrombosis; and treatment of portal cholangiopathy. Prevention and Treatment of Gastrointestinal Bleeding. There have been no controlled studies of beta-adrenergic blockers or endoscopic therapy in patients with chronic PVT. Nevertheless, screening for gastro esophageal varices, and beta- adrenergic blockers or endoscopic therapy for patients with large varices might be carried out for patients with portal cavernoma, as is done for patients with cirrhosis.53,70 Indeed, retrospective multivariate analyses found that their application reduced the risk of first bleed or recurrent bleeding,64 or improved survival.71 Endoscopic sclerotherapy has achieved eradication of varices and a reduction in the number of bleeding episodes in uncontrolled surveys.72,73 Data on endoscopic ligation are lacking in adult patients with chronic PVT. For primary prophylaxis of variceal bleeding there are insufficient data on whether beta-blockers or endoscopic therapy should be preferred. Contrasting findings have been reported regarding the feasibility and the outcome of surgical portosystemic shunting, which suggests differences in patient selection or referral.74,75 Data on splenectomy and devascularization are limited. There are anecdotal reports of successful TIPS insertion in patients with a portal cavernoma in the absence of cirrhosis.76 However, this procedure is not technically feasible in most patients. Prevention of Recurrent Thrombosis. Randomized controlled trials of anticoagulation therapy for the prevention of recurrent thrombosis are lacking. The frequent association with permanent prothombotic disorders on the one hand and the risk of intestinal infarction on the other support the use of anticoagulation. However, an increased risk of bleeding from portal hypertension raises concerns. In a retrospective multivariate analysis of a large cohort including patients with chronic or acute PVT, it was found that anticoagulation therapy significantly decreased the Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript risk of recurrent thrombosis without increasing the risk of gastrointestinal
