HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


significantly decreased the Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript risk of recurrent thrombosis without increasing the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.64 The severity of bleeding was similar with or without anticoagulation therapy and there were no bleeding-related deaths in patients receiving anticoagulation. Owing to the scarcity of data, however, an expert panel recommended that anticoagulation therapy be considered only in patients with a documented permanent prothrombotic condition.53 Recently, a retrospective study showed that warfarin administration independently improved survival of patients with chronic portomesenteric venous thrombosis, most of whom had a risk factor for thrombosis. 71 Another uncontrolled retrospective survey found a decreased incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding following initiation of anticoagulation therapy.77 Treatment of Portal Cholangiopathy. In patients with jaundice or recurrent biliary symptoms due to cholangiopathy, insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis after endoscopic extraction of secondary stones resulted in half the patients having no recurrence when the prosthesis was removed after some time.68 The procedure needs to be repeated when symptoms recur. Portosystemic shunting primarily performed to address the biliary complications, has been used where feasible in a limited number of patients; bilioenteric anastomosis was necessary in two of the eight shunted patients.78 Biliary surgery without portal decompression is extremely hazardous. Outcome. Recurrent bleeding from portal hypertension is the most common complication, followed by recurrent thrombosis at splanchnic or extrasplanchnic sites.64,71 However, the current outcome for treated patients with chronic PVT is good. In patients followed up for 5 years, less than 5% died from the classical complications of PVT (intestinal infarction or gastrointestinal bleeding).64 Mortality is related mainly to age, cause of PVT, or unrelated diseases. The long-term prognosis in patients with portomesenteric venous obstruction might be poorer than in those with obstruction limited to the portal vein.71 Prolongation of life expectancy due to better control of bleeding and thrombotic risks probably explains why long term complications are predominantly related to cholangiopathy62,63 and to transformation of underlying myeloproliferative disease into myelofibrosis or acute leukemia.22 Recommendations for treatment of chronic PVT (See also Table 6): 16. Screen all patients with chronic PVT for gastroesophageal varices, and apply treatment for active variceal hemorrhage and for primary and secondary prophylaxis according to guidelines for patients with cirrhosis (Class I, Level B). 17. Consider long-term anticoagulation therapy in patients with chronic PVT, without cirrhosis, and with a permanent risk factor for venous thrombosis
