HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


guidelines for patients with cirrhosis (Class I, Level B). 17. Consider long-term anticoagulation therapy in patients with chronic PVT, without cirrhosis, and with a permanent risk factor for venous thrombosis that cannot be corrected otherwise, provided there is no major contraindication. In adequate prophylaxis for variceal bleeding has been instituted (Class IIa, Level C). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Extrahepatic Portal Vein Obstruction in Children The theory that extrahepatic portal vein obstruction in this age group always results from thrombosis, as opposed to a congenital origin, has not been fully documented and is still debated.79,80 The prevalence of underlying pro-thrombotic diseases was high in most but not all studies.81–86 Primary protein C, protein S, or antithrombin deficiency may be overdiagnosed, as these inhibitors are nonspecifically decreased in many affected children with a negative family screening.81,82 These low plasma levels are further decreased by portosystemic shunting,82 but corrected by surgical restoration of portal venous inflow.87 Occult myeloproliferative diseases have not been assessed in this age group. Umbilical cannulation, omphalitis, and abdominal infections are the most commonly incriminated factors. However, the role of a properly placed, uninfected umbilical catheter, in the absence of underlying thrombophilia84 is probably minimal. In this situation, a portal vein thrombus occurs frequently but full portal vein patency is restored in most infants. The probability of full recanalization is inversely related to the size of the thrombus.88 There are few features of extrahepatic portal vein obstruction that are specific for children. It is unclear whether growth retardation occurs in the absence of recurrent bleeding.89 Band ligation of esophageal varices may be the optimal therapy to prevent first bleed or recurrent bleeding.90 Surgical shunts, when a central vein (mesenteric or splenic vein) is available, have achieved good results,74,91 in contrast to other, atypical shunts, which have invariably thrombosed.75 Recently, mesenteric-to-left portal vein bypass has been reported by several groups with good results in terms of feasibility, prevention of rebleeding, restoration of portal inflow and hepatic function, and improvement in cognitive function. 87,92 Recurrent thrombosis has not been mentioned. Anticoagulation has rarely been considered in children with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction. Outcome may be mostly jeopardized by cholangiopathy in patients whose recurrent bleeding is well controlled with endoscopic therapy.63 Recommendations for the management of chronic PVT in children: 18. When possible, refer children with extrahepatic portal venous obstruction
