HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


in patients whose recurrent bleeding is well controlled with endoscopic therapy.63 Recommendations for the management of chronic PVT in children: 18. When possible, refer children with extrahepatic portal venous obstruction to an expert surgical center for consideration of a mesenteric-to-left portal vein bypass (Class I, Level B). 19. If a mesenteric to left portal vein bypass is not possible in a child with chronic PVT, use band ligation of large esophageal varices for prophylaxis of gastrointestinal bleeding. If band ligation is not feasible, consider a central portosystemic shunt when either the superior mesenteric or splenic vein is patent (Class I, Level B). PVT in Patients with Cirrhosis PVT is most common in patients with pre-existing cirrhosis. The prevalence of PVT increases with the severity of the cirrhosis, being less than 1% in patients with compensated cirrhosis93 but 8%-25% in candidates for liver transplantation.94 In patients with cirrhosis, portal venous obstruction is commonly related to invasion by hepatocellular carcinoma.30,95 Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Neoplastic obstruction should always be considered, especially when serum alpha fetoprotein levels are increased, when the portal vein is larger than 23 mm in diameter, when endoluminal material enhances during the arterial phase of contrast injection,95 or when an arterial-like pulsatile flow is seen on Doppler ultrasound.96 Needle biopsy of an obstructed intrahepatic portal vein is specific but relatively insensitive for diagnostic purposes.31 PVT in patients with cirrhosis is often accompanied by gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites, or encephalopathy.29,97 In many patients, the thrombus is partial, and changes in aspect and location at follow-up imaging. When the thrombus extends to the superior mesenteric vein, the risk of intestinal infarction is high.29 Even in patients with well compensated cirrhosis, an underlying prothrombotic condition is difficult to detect because of a nonspecific decrease in the plasma levels of coagulation inhibitors. In cirrhotic patients with PVT, compared with those without PVT, however, molecular testing shows an increased prevalence of the factor V Leiden, MTHFR, and prothrombin gene mutations, the latter being particularly common.29,98,99 Unlike TIPS, splenectomy and surgical portosystemic shunting strongly increase the risk of PVT in cirrhotic patients. Endoscopic therapy of esophageal varices has been suggested to precipitate the development of PVT, although this has been debated.99 However, the data could also be interpreted as suggesting that endoscopic therapy is an indicator of severe portal hypertension, which might be
