HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


development of PVT, although this has been debated.99 However, the data could also be interpreted as suggesting that endoscopic therapy is an indicator of severe portal hypertension, which might be a risk factor for PVT. Thus, in patients with well-compensated cirrhosis and acute or chronic PVT, there are limited data on the utility of screening for an underlying prothrombotic condition, and on the benefits of anticoagulation. In the absence of robust data, recommendations for or against routine anticoagulation cannot be made. Decisions will need to be made on a case-by-case basis. For example, it is reasonable to consider anticoagulation in the setting of a known prothrombotic condition, or in the setting of SMV thrombosis, but only after adequate prophylaxis for gastrointestinal bleeding has been instituted. There also is limited information on anticoagulation therapy in patients who develop PVT while waiting for a liver transplant. Among 19 such patients given anticoagulation, 10 had recanalization, whereas among 10 historical controls, none had recanalization.94 Post- transplant outcome may be compromised by pretransplant complete PVT.94 Discussion of the techniques that can be employed to cope with complete PVT at transplantation is beyond the scope of these guidelines. PVT After Liver Transplantation PVT is a rare but serious complication following orthotopic liver transplantation. In this setting, the incidence has been reported to be 1.16%-2.7%.100,101 Risk factors that have been identified include modification of the standard end-to-end veno-venous anastomosis of the portal vein due to pathological changes of the vessel wall (mainly in relationship to pre- existing PVT); splenectomy during transplantation; and donor/recipient portal vein diameter mismatch.100,101 Possible consequences of PVT include graft dysfunction, graft loss, portal hypertension and death. Graft loss appears to be particularly associated with complete PVT in the early post-transplant course. Treatment of patients with PVT has usually been Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript regarded as necessary when additional complications such as arterial occlusion or bile duct injuries have occurred. PVT occurring after liver transplantation has been managed surgically by thrombectomy, retransplantation, splenorenal shunt or Wall-stent placement at laparotomy; or non surgically by angioplasty, local high-dose infusion of thrombolytic agents or systemic thrombolytic therapy.100,101 Systematic postoperative screening with duplex Doppler-sonography and multidisciplinary approaches to the treatment of vascular complications (including PVT) after liver transplantation has considerably reduced graft loss and patient mortality.100 Areas for future studies: Tests for improved identification
