HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


and multidisciplinary approaches to the treatment of vascular complications (including PVT) after liver transplantation has considerably reduced graft loss and patient mortality.100 Areas for future studies: Tests for improved identification of primary deficiency in protein C, protein S and antithrombin, and antiphospholipid syndrome in the context of liver disease have to be developed. Predictive factors for recanalization of acute portal vein thrombosis treated with anticoagulation have to be identified. Invasive procedures for portal/mesenteric vein recanalization have to be evaluated in patients predictably nonresponsive to anticoagulation alone. The risk-benefit ratio of anticoagulation in patients with chronic portal vein thrombosis has to be assessed, ideally by means of randomized controlled trials. More studies are needed on the feasibility and long-term results of mesenteric-to-left portal vein bypass in pediatric and adult patient populations. Sinusoidal Obstruction Syndrome (Hepatic Venoocclusive Disease) In North America, Western Europe, and Asia, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS, previously known as hepatic venooclusive disease) occurs most commonly as a complication of myeloablative regimens that are used to prepare patients for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (previously known as bone marrow transplantation), particularly when the transplant is for a malignancy. These “conditioning regimens” are combinations of high-dose chemotherapy drugs or chemotherapy drugs plus total body irradiation. Other causes of SOS include chemotherapeutic agents at more conventional doses, chronic immunosuppression with azathioprine or 6-thioguanine, and ingestion of herbal teas made with pyrrolizidine alkaloids or food sources contaminated by pyrrolizidme alkaloids. Table 7 lists various chemotherapeutic drugs that are associated with SOS. These recommendations focus on the diagnosis and management of SOS after myeloablative conditioning for hematopoietic cell transplantation. Because the incidence of SOS depends on patient risk factors and on choice of conditioning regimen, there is a wide range in incidence between hematopoietic cell transplantation units from 0%-50%. For the more liver-toxic regimens, the incidence is around 20%-40%., which has lead many centers to abandon extremely high-dose conditioning regimens. Regimens known to cause liver injury are those that contain cyclophosphamide in combination with either busulfan or total body irradiation or regimens that include N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N- nitrosourea (BCNU) or multiple alkylating agents. Reduced-intensity conditioning regimens carry little or no risk for SOS and with the ever-increasing use of these regimens, the incidence of SOS continues to drop. Other factors that have contributed to the decline in Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript incidence include avoidance
