HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


drop. Other factors that have contributed to the decline in Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript incidence include avoidance of cyclophosphamide-containing regimens, lower doses of total body irradiation, exclusion of patients with hepatitis C and avoidance of drugs that increase the risk of SOS, such as norethisterone. Pathogenesis. In patients with SOS, evidence of circulatory obstruction precedes liver dysfunction, indicating that this is a primary circulatory disorder. Clinico-pathological studies in patients with SOS after myeloablative conditioning for hematopoietic cell transplantation have demonstrated that SOS occurs in the absence of central vein occlusion in a significant fraction of the patients. Occlusion of the central veins was observed in only 55% of patients with mild or moderate SOS and only 75% of patients with severe SOS.102 These clinical findings suggest that SOS is due to circulatory obstruction at the level of the sinusoid and that involvement of the central vein is associated with more severe disease. Experimental studies in the monocrotaline rat model of SOS also demonstrate that loss of sinusoidal integrity with consequent sinusoidal obstruction is a prerequisite for the development of SOS. Monocrotaline is a pyrrolizidine alkaloid, the group of plant toxins associated with SOS. Monocrotaline is directly toxic to sinusoidal endothelial cells.103 In this model monocrotaline induces rounding up of sinusoidal endothelial cells, which leads to dissection of sinusoidal lining cells that embolize and block the sinusoids.103,104 The experimental model has the same signs, symptoms and histology seen in SOS in humans. Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis. quadrant pain of liver origin, hepatomegaly and jaundice. SOS presents with a wide spectrum of severity and is conventionally divided into mild, moderate and severe disease. 105 Mild SOS is considered disease that meets diagnostic criteria, that does not require treatment for fluid excess or medication for hepatic pain, and that has a self-limiting course. Moderate SOS is disease with evidence of liver injury and that requires treatment for fluid excess or medication for hepatic pain, but that resolves completely. Severe SOS is defined as disease that leads to death or that does not resolve by day 100. Because this classification of research but is not helpful for management decisions in real time. For regimens containing cyclophosphamide, onset is most commonly between 10 and 20 days after initiation of therapy,105 but in other regimens onset can be more than 30 days after
