HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


time. For regimens containing cyclophosphamide, onset is most commonly between 10 and 20 days after initiation of therapy,105 but in other regimens onset can be more than 30 days after myeloablative therapy is started.106,107 SOS is a clinical diagnosis with all the accompanying uncertainty and need for clinical judgment. For the purposes of patient care, a diagnosis can be made with reasonable certainty in a patient who has received a conditioning regimen known to cause liver injury, other likely causes. Conversely, the diagnosis can be ruled out with reasonable certainty in a patient with some of the signs and symptoms of SOS but who is at no or low risk for SOS; for example, SOS is highly unlikely in a patient who has received a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen. Confounding diagnoses that are relatively common in this population include cholestatic jaundice due to sepsis, drug-induced cholestasis, fluid overload due to Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript renal failure or congestive heart failure, liver involvement by viral or fungal infections seen during immunosuppression, and (hyper)acute graft-versus-host disease. The diagnosis becomes more difficult in patients with more than one cause for the signs and symptoms described above and it may be difficult to determine which of the ongoing processes is the predominant cause of illness. As many as 10%-20% of patients with liver dysfunction in the Clinical criteria used for defining populations for research (Table 8) have been published by investigators in Seattle and Baltimore.105,109 By the Seattle criteria, two of three findings must occur within 20 days of transplantation: bilirubin > 2 mg/dL, tender hepatomegaly, and greater than 2% weight gain due to fluid accumulation, with the proviso that other causes of these findings are absent. The original Seattle criteria, developed largely for patients receiving myeloablative regimens containing cyclophosphamide, have a temporal criterion that does not apply to some regimens that do not contain cyclophosphamide. The temporal criteria should be modified for patients receiving regimens known to cause late-onset disease, such as regimens containing thio-TEPA.106 The Baltimore criteria require hyperbilirubinemia > 2 mg/dL plus two of three other findings: (usually painful) hepatomegaly, greater than 5% weight gain and ascites. As described in the previous to be ruled out. How reliable are the clinical criteria for the diagnosis of SOS? First one needs to distinguish the overall incidence of SOS from the
