HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


in the previous to be ruled out. How reliable are the clinical criteria for the diagnosis of SOS? First one needs to distinguish the overall incidence of SOS from the incidence of clinically apparent disease. In a study of transplantation patients who were prospectively evaluated by the Seattle criteria and who died by day 100, 50% of patients with liver dysfunction that did not meet the Seattle criteria had evidence on autopsy of SOS.102 Thus it appears likely that some degree of sinusoidal injury occurs in most patients who receive liver-toxic conditioning regimens, even in the absence of the characteristic symptoms. The current gold standard for confirming the diagnosis of clinically apparent SOS is measurement of the wedged hepatic venous pressure gradient using an occlusive balloon technique and liver histology (obtained by a transvenous route). Studies that examine the reliability of clinical criteria with confirmation by liver biopsy suffer from the problem that disease can be patchy and liver biopsy can be falsely is not possible to assess false negatives by clinical criteria and therefore not possible to assess sensitivity or negative predictive value. More patients fit the Seattle criteria, whereas the Baltimore criteria identify patients with more severe disease.110 The diagnosis may be supported by imaging, which will demonstrate the presence of hepatomegaly and ascites and rule out biliary obstruction due to benign or malignant causes, but imaging is currently not diagnostic by itself. The best-studied modality is gray-scale and color Doppler ultrasonography. The majority of studies suggest that no single ultrasound parameter is diagnostic for SOS.111–113 Findings that are highly suggestive of SOS are reversal of portal venous flow, attenuation of hepatic venous flow, gallbladder wall edema, and perhaps increased resistive indices to hepatic artery flow. A composite score of gray- scale and color Doppler ultrasound criteria has been proposed, but may be too cumbersome Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript umbilical vein is more common in moderate and severe SOS, but this will need to be validated by other investigators.115 When the diagnosis is uncertain in a moderately or severely ill patient, further evaluation by transvenous liver biopsy with hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement can establish the diagnosis. Percutaneous liver biopsy is often contraindicated in this population because of thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy or ascites. Transvenous liver biopsy with hepatic venous pressure gradient using the occlusive balloon technique
