HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


the diagnosis. Percutaneous liver biopsy is often contraindicated in this population because of thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy or ascites. Transvenous liver biopsy with hepatic venous pressure gradient using the occlusive balloon technique may be particularly helpful in distinguishing SOS from graft-versus-host disease. In the setting of hematopoietic cell transplantation, hepatic venous pressure gradient > 10 mm Hg has specificity greater than 90% and positive predictive value greater than 85% for the diagnosis of SOS,116 using the liver biopsy as the gold standard. Reported complications in this population range from 7%-18% and deaths from 0%-3%.116,117 Recommendations: 1. Consider the diagnosis of SOS inpatients in the appropriate clinical scenario who present with tender hepatomegaly, fluid retention and weight gain, and elevated serum bilirubin (Class I, level B). 2. Rule out other common causes of jaundice (such as biliary tract obstruction, hemolysis, sepsis, drug-induced liver injury and viral and fungal infections involving the liver) and weight gain (for example due to fluid overload, renal insufficiency or congestive heart failure) in this population (Class I, Level C). 3. Image the liver with Doppler ultrasound or another modality to rule out other causes and to demonstrate features consistent with SOS (Class I, Level C). 4. In complicated cases, perform a transvenous liver biopsy with hepatic venous pressure gradient to confirm the diagnosis. In hematopoietic cell transplantation patients, a hepatic venous pressure gradient of greater than 10 mm Hg is highly specific for SOS (Class I, Level C). Prognosis One of the reasons for trying to predict outcome is the risk of some of the therapeutic strategies used for SOS. Using mathematical modeling, the severity of SOS due to cyclophosphamide-containing regimens can be predicted based on the slope of bilirubin levels and weight gain over time118: these predictive nomograms are simple to use, but have not been validated for regimens without cyclophosphamide. Other predictors of poor prognosis are higher serum alanine aminotransferase levels,119 higher hepatic venous pressure gradient,117 and multiorgan failure.105 Published incidence rates for SOS after myeloablative conditioning regimens have varied from 0%-50%, largely due to variation in conditioning regimens.105,109,120–123 Case fatality rates vary depending on the diagnostic criteria used for SOS and fatal SOS. Case fatality rates are currently in the range of 15%-20% following high-dose myeloablative conditioning regimens. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Prophylaxis The major strategy for preventing SOS is identification of
