HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


myeloablative conditioning regimens. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Prophylaxis The major strategy for preventing SOS is identification of patients with risk factors for toxic liver injury and avoidance of liver-toxic conditioning regimens in these patients. The major identifiable risk factors in patients are recent treatment with gemtuzumab ozogamicin,124 previous history of SOS, and some forms of pre-existing liver disease.105,122,125,126 Hepatitis C127,128 and hepatic fibrosis predispose to SOS. Cirrhosis is a contraindication to high-dose myeloablative conditioning regimens. Regimens with a lower risk of causing toxic liver injury and strategies to reduce toxicity in high-risk regimens are listed below. are low-intensity immunosuppressive regimens that permit host-donor hematopoietic chimerism; their utility in treating patients with malignancy is through a graft-versus-tumor effect. Reduced-intensity regimens include fludarabine with low dose total body irradiation or fludarabine with busulfan and antithymocyte globulin. These regimens seem to carry little risk for SOS and reduce immediate transplant-related mortality, although they may be associated with more late complications than myeloablative regimens.129,130 For patients at high-risk for SOS, reduced-intensity regimens are the lowest risk option. However there is increased risk of death from liver decompensation in patients with cirrhosis who undergo conditioning with reduced-intensity regimens.130 Other choices that have been reported to reduce the risk of SOS and which should be considered for patients at high-risk for toxic liver injury are lower doses of total body irradiation (12 Gy or lower)131 and targeted dosing of the more toxic drugs. When high-dose cyclophosphamide is used without other hepatotoxic drugs in conditioning regimens for nonmalignant indications for hematopoietic cell transplantation, there is little risk of SOS. However in combination with other hepatotoxic drugs or with total body irradiation, cyclophosphamide is one of the most significant risk factors for SOS.132,133 Metabolism- based dosing of cyclophosphamide has been shown by one group to be feasible, but it remains to be seen whether this approach will be more widely used and whether it then indeed lowers the risk of fatal SOS.134,135 Numerous studies over the years have attempted to reduce the risk of SOS by modification of busulfan dosing, including pharmacokinetic- directed dosing of busulfan,136–139 reversal of the order of drugs in the busulfan- cyclophosphamide regimen with treatment with cyclophosphamide preceding busulfan140 and use of intravenous busulfan instead of oral busulfan.138,141–143 It remains unclear whether adjusting dosing of oral busulfan based on drug disposition
