HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


cyclophosphamide regimen with treatment with cyclophosphamide preceding busulfan140 and use of intravenous busulfan instead of oral busulfan.138,141–143 It remains unclear whether adjusting dosing of oral busulfan based on drug disposition reduces the risk of SOS: some studies have shown benefit139,144,145 and others have not.137,146,147 Studies that found a reduction in SOS with intravenous busulfan used historical controls and the benefit of the intravenous formulation remains to be established. One study that used the intravenous formulation found no relationship between systemic exposure to busulfan and risk of SOS. The highest risk regimens are cyclophosphamide-total body irradiation with total body irradiation greater than 12 Gy and oral busulfan-cyclophosphamide without targeted dosing. These regimens are best avoided in individuals at high-risk for liver injury. Substituting Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript fludarabine for cyclophosphamide (a busulfan/fludarabine conditioning regimen) results in a low incidence of SOS with improved transplant outcome.149,150 Norethisterone was used to prevent menstrual hemorrhage in thrombocytopenic women after hematopoietic cell transplantation. This proved to be a significant risk factor for SOS151 and the use of noresthisterone is now avoided in this population. Prophylactic Medical Therapy Heparin, prostaglandin E1, ursodeoxycholic acid, and pentoxifylline have been examined in randomized controlled trials for their ability to prevent SOS. Heparin infusions or low-molecular weight heparin can be given safely in this patient population and some centers use intravenous heparin or subcutaneous low-molecular weight heparin routinely as prophylaxis for SOS. Two randomized studies found a reduction in nonfatal SOS, but were not powered to show a benefit in reducing fatal SOS.152,153 Four additional studies found no benefit.120,151,154,155 A meta-analysis concluded that there is a statistically nonsignificant decrease in the risk of nonfatal SOS with prophylactic anticoagulation, but concluded that methodological weaknesses and inconsistencies precluded meaningful conclusions from the pooled analysis.156 A randomized control trial of high-risk patients is needed to determine whether heparin does indeed reduce the risk of SOS overall and, more importantly, of fatal SOS. The use of defibrotide for either prophylaxis or treatment of established SOS is described below in the following section on Management of Established Disease. There are four randomized trials in adults that have examined the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid. Ursodeoxycholic acid was reported to reduce the incidence of SOS in two randomized trials.157,158 Subsequently, one large randomized trial found no effect on the incidence of SOS159 and one
