HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


acid. Ursodeoxycholic acid was reported to reduce the incidence of SOS in two randomized trials.157,158 Subsequently, one large randomized trial found no effect on the incidence of SOS159 and one trial that randomized patients to heparin versus heparin plus ursodeoxycholic acid found no benefit from the addition of ursodeoxycholic acid.160 A meta-analysis of three of these randomized trials, notably the three that examined the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid alone, suggested that prophylactic use is an effective prophylaxis for SOS.161 All of the randomized studies on ursodeoxy-cholate , including those in the meta-analysis, share the problem that there are no exclusionary criteria for confounding liver diseases common in this population, notably sepsis, graft-versus-host disease, and drug- induced liver disease. Other concerns are that the endpoint was not fatal SOS but all SOS, including medically trivial cases, and, in some studies, the use of poorly defined criteria for SOS . However the largest randomized trial, which did not find any benefit for SOS, did find that prophylactic use of ursodeoxycholate decreased the frequency of jaundice and lowered peak alanine aminotransferase levels.159 It is therefore now standard practice around the world to use ursodeoxycholate prophylactically in this setting. Prostaglandin E1 was shown to reduce the risk of SOS in one study, although no data were provided on reduction of fatalities from SOS.162 A subsequent study found no suggestion that prostaglandin E1 lowered the risk of severe SOS, but could not fully evaluate this Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript because of severe toxicity from the prostaglandin E1 treatment.163 Prostaglandin E1 also increased cyclosporine levels. Two placebo-controlled randomized trials found no benefit from pentoxifylline in preventing SOS.152,164 One randomized trial showed no benefit from intravenous N-acetylcysteine in preventing SOS, but the incidence of SOS in the untreated group may have been too low to find a real difference.165 Recommendations: 5. Consider regimens that are less likely to cause toxic liver injury in patients with extensive hepatic fibrosis, viral hepatitis, myelofibrosis with extramedullary hematopoeisis, recent treatment with gemtuzumab ozogamicin or a previous history of SOS. Regimens that are less liver toxic include reduced-intensity regimens, regimens without cyclophosphamide, and regimens with lower doses of total body irradiation (Class I, Level B). 6. Although widely used, no recommendation can be made for or against the use of prophylactic pharmacological strategies because none examined to date have
