HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


body irradiation (Class I, Level B). 6. Although widely used, no recommendation can be made for or against the use of prophylactic pharmacological strategies because none examined to date have consistently shown a reduction in the overall risk of SOS or the risk of fatal SOS in randomized controlled trials (Class IIB, Level A). Management of Established Disease SOS is an iatrogenic complication with significant mortality and thus a discouraging problem for the medical team. Perhaps as a result of this, prophylactic therapy and management of established disease have sometimes been adopted based on improvement compared to historical controls rather than after randomized trials have been performed. The incidence of SOS can change substantially in a given center126 and the reason for the change may remain obscure. This variability in incidence of SOS over time and the risk of selection bias makes the use of historical controls for prophylactic and therapeutic trials of SOS particularly unreliable. Patients with severe SOS are deeply jaundiced, but commonly lack some signs of liver failure, such as hyper ammonemia, cerebral edema, and prolonged INR. The cause of death is most commonly multiorgan failure with pulmonary and renal failure. Supportive care for SOS requires maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance. Intravascular volume and renal perfusion need to be maintained while treating extravascular fluid overload. Diuretic therapy is used for reduction of extravascular volume, in conjunction with paracentesis, hemofiltration and hemodialysis to alleviate respiratory impairment by ascites as needed. The use of tissue plasminogen activator with or without heparin has been reported in numerous case reports and some case series, but there are no randomized controlled studies. Response rates in case series vary widely. In the two largest case series of 42 and 17 patients, respectively, 29% of patients survived.166,167 Patients with multiorgan failure requiring supplemental oxygen, dialysis or mechanical ventilation did not respond to tissue plasminogen activator.166 The risk of fatal intracerebral and pulmonary bleeding in Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript thrombocytopenic patients is a major limitation.166,168,169 At this point, thrombolytic therapy is seldom used because of the risk of fatal bleeding. Defibrotide is a mixture of the single-stranded oligode-oxyribonucleotides derived from depolymerization of porcine intestinal mucosa DNA. It has been under study for proposed antishock, anti-ischemic, and endothelium protective activities since the mid-1980s. A wide variety of mechanisms have been suggested including
