HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


of porcine intestinal mucosa DNA. It has been under study for proposed antishock, anti-ischemic, and endothelium protective activities since the mid-1980s. A wide variety of mechanisms have been suggested including increased endothelial cell release of eicosanoids, nitric oxide, or tissue plasminogen activator, reduced endothelial cell release of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), interference with platelet, neutrophil or monocyte adhesion to endothelium, and agonist action through the adenosine receptor.170–180 In the 1990s, it was examined for its cardioprotective effects. Defibrotide has been examined in four uncontrolled trials for therapy with SOS.181–185 Three of the four therapeutic trials were multicenter trials. Three of the studies were performed in patients with moderate to severe SOS, many of whom had multiorgan failure, with day 100 survival of 31%-43%. 181–183 One trial in children examined the benefit of defibrotide in mild, moderate and severe SOS; in the severe group, with patients with multiorgan failure, 36% survived to day 100.185 These uncontrolled trials suggest that unlike tissue plasminogen activator, defibrotide may be useful in patients with multiorgan failure without the high-risk side effect of bleeding. An uncontrolled trial of prophylaxis with defibrotide in pediatric hematopoietic cell transplantation also suggested a benefit compared to historical controls.184 TIPS and surgical shunting preserve hepatocyte function in BCS, but TIPS does not affect outcome in SOS.186,187 In BCS syndrome, hepatocyte necrosis is due to congestion that is alleviated by decompressing the hepatic vasculature. However in SOS damage to hepatocytes is caused by ischemia due to obstruction at the sinusoidal level: protection of the sinusoidal endothelium by various interventions completely prevents sinusoidal obstruction and hepatocyte necrosis.104,188–190 Venous de-compression does not improve blood flow to the hepato-cytes. Although TIPS in SOS does reduce ascites, there is no benefit in survival and this is therefore not considered an appropriate indication for TIPS.186,187 Successful liver transplantation for SOS has been described in case reports.191–193 SOS is usually a complication of the conditioning regimen for hematopoietic cell transplantation for patients with malignancy and the underlying malignancy itself is a contraindication to the liver transplantation. Liver transplantation may be a consideration for patients who receive hematopoietic cell transplantation for a benign condition or in whom the underlying malignancy has a favorable prognosis after transplant. Recommendations: 7. Fluid overload in SOS should be managed with diuretics, paracentesis, hemofiltration, and hemodialysis as needed (Class I, Level C). 8. With the absence of randomized controlled trials, no recommendation can
