HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


Fluid overload in SOS should be managed with diuretics, paracentesis, hemofiltration, and hemodialysis as needed (Class I, Level C). 8. With the absence of randomized controlled trials, no recommendation can be made for or against defibrotidefor the treatment of established SOS (Class IIb, Level B). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 9. Patients who undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation for a condition with a favorable prognosis may be considered for liver transplantation (Class I, Level C). 10. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunts (TIPS) or tissue plasminogen activator are not recommended for the therapy of SOS (Class III, Level B). Areas for future studies: Randomized controlled trials in patients at high risk for toxic liver injury would establish that there is indeed benefit from the therapeutic use of defibrotide and determine the true frequency of a therapeutic response. Similarly, a placebo-controlled randomized study would establish the potential for primary prophylactic use of defibrotide, i.e., defibrotide given before a liver-toxic conditioning regimen. Budd-Chiari Syndrome Definition. International expert panels have agreed that “Budd-Chiari syndrome” be used as an eponym for “hepatic venous outflow tract obstruction”, independent of the level or mechanism of obstruction.53,194 Cardiac and pericardial diseases and sinusoidal obstruction syndrome are excluded from this definition. BCS is a rare disease in population groups with a high populations with a lower standard of living.195,196 Obstruction of the hepatic venous outflow tract can be classified according to its location: small hepatic veins (HV), large HV, inferior vena cava (IVC) and any combination thereof. 197 Indeed, there are differences in presentation and geographical distribution among these different categories. As a rule, pure IVC or combined IVC/HV block predominates in Asia, whereas pure HV block predominates in Western countries.196 Causes. BCS is further divided into “secondary” BCS when related to compression or invasion by a lesion originating outside the veins (benign or malignant tumor, abscess, cyst, etc.); and “primary” BCS when related to a primarily venous disease (thrombosis or phlebitis). Secondary Budd-Chiari Syndrome. Hepatocellular carcinoma, renal and adrenal adenocarcinoma, primary hepatic hemangiosarcoma, epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, sarcoma of the IVC, right atrial myxoma, and alveolar hydatid disease may cause BCS through invasion of the venous outflow.196 Parasitic and nonparasitic cysts and abscesses can produce compression and thrombosis of the hepatic venous outflow tract.198,199 Large nodules of focal nodular hyperplasia in a central location may cause compression of the
