HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


Clinical and Laboratory Features In most cases, the underlying disorders causing thrombosis of the hepatic venous outflow are unrecognized at presentation. Presentation ranges from complete absence of symptoms to fulminant hepatic failure, through acute (rapid) or chronic (progressive) development of symptoms over weeks to months before diagnosis is made. The apparent age of the macroscopic and microscopic damage to the veins of the liver may differ from the apparent duration of symptoms.206,228 Asymptomatic BCS accounts for up to 20% of cases.229 The absence of symptoms is strongly associated with large hepatic vein collaterals.229 Classical signs and symptoms of BCS include fever, abdominal pain, ascites, lower extremity edema, gastrointestinal bleeding, and hepatic encephalopathy,206,230,231 each of which may be absent in patients with overt BCS. Jaundice is relatively uncommon. Marked dilation of subcutaneous veins on the trunk has a high specificity but a low sensitivity for IVC block. Serum aminotransferases and alkaline phosphatase can be normal or increased. Levels of serum albumin, serum bilirubin, and prothrombin can be normal or abnormal, and in some patients are markedly abnormal. The protein level in ascitic fluid varies from patient to patient. Ascites protein content above 3.0 g/dL and serum-ascites albumin concentration gradient ≥ 1.1 g/dL are suggestive of BCS, cardiac disease, or pericardial disease. Serum creatinine level can be elevated, usually due to prerenal dysfunction. The course of these manifestations can be steadily progressive, or marked by exacerbations and remissions. The disease can run a long insidious course, or a short period of prodrome followed by a rapid Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript downhill course. Portal venous obstruction is common in patients with severe forms of the disease.230,232–234 Imaging Features X-ray venography has been the gold standard for the evaluation of the hepatic veins. Hepatic venograms can be obtained after cannulation of the veins through the retrograde approach using the transjugular, cephalic, or femoral route,235 or through the direct approach using percutaneous transhepatic puncture.236 Three patterns of opacification have been regarded as specific at retrograde catheterization235: (1) a fine “spider-web” network pattern without filling of venous radicals; (2) a coarse network of collateral veins which arch outward from the catheter tip and then come together again near the site of entry of the HV into the IVC; and (3) a patent vein upstream from a stricture. Direct percutaneous venography can show a
