HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


the arterial phase of contrast injection) are common in patients with longstanding BCS (see below).232,234 Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Histopathological Features Thrombosis of small veins is uncommonly observed in small liver biopsy specimens. Congestion, liver cell loss, and fibrosis in the centrilobular area are considered characteristic features for BCS.197 Central to central fibrosis develops in areas where there has been bridging necrosis. Ultimately, a cirrhotic pattern may be seen. However, there may be considerable variation in the degree of these changes from one area to the other. Thrombosis of intrahepatic portal veins is common in the most advanced cases and is associated with fibrous enlargement of the portal tracts. Portovenous and portoportal bridging fibrosis may develop. Parenchymal extinction refers to an area where liver cells have disappeared and are replaced by connective tissue. This change is found in areas where the corresponding hepatic veins and portal veins are simultaneously obliterated. Nodular regenerative hyperplasia, and macroregenerative nodules are common in patients with longstanding BCS.232,234 These architectural changes appear to be related to the obstruction of an intrahepatic portal vein branch and to increased arterial inflow in the corresponding area.232,234 Macroregenerative nodules may strongly resemble focal nodular hyperplasia, histopathologically and at imaging. Diagnosis For providing direct evidence of an obstructed hepatic venous outflow tract, Doppler- sonography, MRI and CT scan have the advantages of being non invasive or minimally invasive. The examiner’s experience and awareness of a clinical suspicion of BCS appear to be key factors for a high diagnostic yield at Doppler sonography. However, there may be limitations to the study related to the patient’s body habitus. Absence of visualization, or tortuosity of the hepatic veins at gray-scale real-time sonography albeit with flow signals at Doppler imaging are common but not specific, being also observed in advanced cirrhosis of other origins. However, a distinctive feature for BCS is the association with intrahepatic or subcapsular hepatic venous collaterals, which is found in more than 80% of the cases. MRI is not as effective as sonography in demonstrating intrahepatic collaterals.240 MRI might be more accurate than direct inferior venacavagraphy for characterizing solid endoluminal material. In the assessment of hepatic veins uisng CT scan, there are problems of false positive and indeterminate results in approximately 50% of the cases.240 There have been no clinical studies using the most recent techniques for
