HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


uisng CT scan, there are problems of false positive and indeterminate results in approximately 50% of the cases.240 There have been no clinical studies using the most recent techniques for computed tomography. Other limitations of CT scan are irradiation and potential renal toxicity from iodinated contrast agents. Direct X-ray venography is needed for establishing a diagnosis of BCS in difficult cases, and also for precise delineation of obstructive lesions before planning treatment. Diagnostic pitfalls include failure to cannulate the hepatic vein ostia, and a distorted appearance of the hepatic veins. Complications of venous cannulation with thromboembolism appear uncommon although this statement needs to be verified. Anticoagulation likely increases the risk of hematoma at the puncture site. Percutaneous venous puncture should delay initiation of thrombolytic therapy. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Indirect evidence for the diagnosis of BCS can be derived from an altered perfusion pattern at MRI or CT scan, or from caudate lobe enlargement. However, these two features are encountered in patients with other chronic liver diseases.247 An altered perfusion pattern is also observed in other situations where portal venous perfusion is compromised.247,248 One of these situations, constrictive pericarditis, mimics hepatic venous obstruction, clinically, and can be missed at echocardiography.249 In the patient presenting with acute or chronic liver disease, Doppler sonography by an experienced operator has sufficed to establish or rule out BCS in most patients when the operator was aware of the diagnostic suspiscion. The role of MRI or CT scan has then been mainly to give images that are more appropriate for multidisciplinary discussion than sonography. When the patient with unexplained liver disease has had MRI or CT scan that suggests BCS, then Doppler sonography by an experienced operator is used as a confirmatory procedure for a detailed characterization of venous anomalies. As venous thrombosis is rarely seen at liver biopsy, the main yield of this procedure is to show indirect, but strong, evidence for hepatic venous outflow tract obstruction in the form of congestion, liver cell loss, and fibrosis in the centrilobular area. The main differential diagnoses for these features are heart failure, constrictive pericarditis, circulatory failure, and SOS. Sinusoidal dilatation, with or without predominance in the centrilobular area, can be found in a number of systemic and hepatic conditions in the absence of hepatic venous obstruction.250 Although venular and perivenular fibrosis without
