HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


without predominance in the centrilobular area, can be found in a number of systemic and hepatic conditions in the absence of hepatic venous obstruction.250 Although venular and perivenular fibrosis without congestion is occasionally found in patients with longstanding suprahepatic IVC obstruction,251 the absence of congestion in the centrilobular area is a strong argument against the diagnosis of HV thrombosis.206,228 At a late stage, hepatic vein thrombosis complicated by cirrhosis is difficult to differentiate from cardiac cirrhosis, or from cirrhosis complicated by hepatic vein thrombosis.252 Liver biospy remains the only means to diagnose the rare form of BCS due to involvement of the small hepatic veins with patent large veins,197 although differentiation of this form from sinusoidal obstruction syndrome is not always feasible.197,253 Considerable sample variation,232,234 and lack of independent prognostic value when tested for prognostication and therapeutic indications. The risk of bleeding from the liver biopsy puncture site may delay the initiation of anticoagulation or thrombolytic therapy. Therefore the diagnostic yield of liver biopsy should be balanced against its impact on therapy. When a confirmation is needed because Doppler sonography, MRI, or CT scan does not establish a diagnosis of BCS, liver biopsy may be used first when the large HVs and IVC appear clearly patent. Venography may be preferred as a first procedure when the aspect of the HVs is abnormal but not diagnostic, as may occur in patients with cirrhosis. In such patients, demonstration of patent HVs at transjugular venography may be followed by transvenous liver biopsy in the same session. Recommendations for diagnosis of BCS: 4. Consider a diagnosis of BCS in the following settings: Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (a) An acute or chronic illness occurs with upper abdominal pain, ascites, or liver enlargement; (b) A liver disease occurs in a patient with known risk factors for thrombosis; (c) A liver disease occurs in a patient with an extensive network of subcutaneous veins of the trunk suggesting inferior vena cava obstruction; (d) A liver disease remains unexplained after other common or uncommon causes have been excluded (Class I, Level C). 5. Consider only direct visualization of obstruction, and/or collaterals, of a hepatic vein or inferior vena cava, as definite evidence for the diagnosis ( Class I, Level C). 6. Consider Doppler-sonography by an experienced examiner, aware of the diagnostic suspicion, as a most effective
