HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


inferior vena cava, as definite evidence for the diagnosis ( Class I, Level C). 6. Consider Doppler-sonography by an experienced examiner, aware of the diagnostic suspicion, as a most effective and reliable diagnostic means. Consider MRI or CT scan as a confirmatory study or, if an experienced Doppler- sonography examiner is not available, as an alternative (Class I, Level C). 7. Consider performing a liver biopsy only when an obstructed hepatic venous outflow tract has not been demonstrated with noninvasive imaging (Class I, Level C). 8. Consider X-ray venography as a diagnostic procedure in patients where the diagnosis remains uncertain (Class I, Level B). 9. When making a decision regarding whether or not to perform an invasive diagnostic procedure, consider the potential renal toxicity of iodinated contrast agents and a possible need for rapid anticoagulation and/or pharmacological thrombolysis following the invasive procedure (Class I, Level C). 10. Do not regard liver nodules enhancing at the arterial phase of contrast injection as hepatocellular carcinoma without additional support for this diagnosis (Class I, Level C). Therapy This section will focus on treatment for primary BCS. Medical Therapy Underlying Risk Factors for Thrombosis.—Oral contraceptives are generally contraindicated in patients with BCS. It is not clear whether pregnancy should be considered contraindicated in patients whose underlying risk factors for thrombosis are well controlled, as there are reports of successful and uncomplicated pregnancies in patients with BCS given anticoagulation throughout the pregnancy.256 It is logical to treat underlying myeloproliferative diseases. The cell count threshold where treatment should be initiated, as well as the target counts to be reached with therapy, have not been assessed. Low-dose acetyl salicylic acid has been shown to be beneficial to prevent Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript arterial disease in patients with polycythemia vera, but data on venous thrombosis are less clear.257 For most other risk factors for BCS, the only available treatment is anticoagulation. Anticoagulation Therapy.—Indefinite anticoagulation therapy is generally recommended after an episode of idiopathic DVT in patients in whom a permanent risk factor is present and when thrombophilia is not curable.50 This might be extrapolated to patients with BCS. However, there have been no prospective randomized controlled trials of anticoagulation in patients with BCS. Two retrospective studies with multivariate analysis have attempted to evaluate the impact of anticoagulation on mortality from BCS. In a enrolled.255 Permanent
