HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


observed in 27 patients (11%). Two patients with intracranial bleeding died and the mortality attributed to anticoagulants was 1%.265 Other available data are from an experience in percutaneous angioplasty where univariate analysis disclosed that lack of anticoagulation therapy for at least 6 months was associated with reobstruction.266 Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript There has been no report of bleeding-related death in patients with BCS on anticoagulation, but there have been few studies on this particular issue. A recent study disclosed a high rate of anticoagulation related complications in patients undergoing transhepatic interventional therapy. Moreover, a surprisingly high rate of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was observed, mainly with unfractionated heparin.267 There has been little evaluation of the optimal level of anticoagulation in patients with BCS. The above mentioned studies have used conventional targets for thrombosis in other venous beds, namely anti Xa level 0.5-0.8 IU/mL for heparins and INR 2 to 3 for vitamin K antagonists.267 It remains to be assessed whether current INR for monitoring patients on vitamin K antagonists without liver disease are appropriate for patients with BCS receiving these agents. Thrombolysis.—The limited amount of available data on efficacy and tolerance of pharmacologic thrombolysis have been recently reviewed, and found to be inconclusive.268 There is some indication that in situ infusion of thrombolytic agents is associated with sustained patency of recently thrombosed veins when thrombolysis is coupled with restoration of a high blood flow velocity by means of angioplasty or stenting.268 Medical Treatment for Portal Hypertension.—Guidelines for the management of portal hypertension-related complications in patients with cirrhosis of other causes53,70 have usually been followed in BCS patients. However, as circulatory changes seen in patients with BCS differ from those seen in patients with cirrhosis of other causes,269 the effects of pharmacological therapy for portal hypertension might differ in these two populations. Angioplasty and Stenting.—The rationale for recanalization has been to decompress the liver without compromising, and even while restoring, hepatic blood flow. Patients with focal or segmental obstruction of the hepatic venous outflow tract are theoretically eligible for recanalization. Short-length stenosis is present in 25%-30% of patients with pure hepatic vein block270; and in up to 60% of patients with IVC block, most of whom have an associated HV block.271 Surgery for HV or IVC angioplasty and for hepatoatrial anastomosis have been abandoned over time. Data on percutaneous maneuvers
