HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


with IVC block, most of whom have an associated HV block.271 Surgery for HV or IVC angioplasty and for hepatoatrial anastomosis have been abandoned over time. Data on percutaneous maneuvers come from a limited number of retrospective uncontrolled studies. Percutaneous angioplasty has usually been performed through a transvenous route, with or without stent insertion. A transhepatic approach with stenting has also been used when a long segment of the HV was occluded. Data can be analyzed according to the main level of obstruction: HVs or IVC. With respect to HVs, angioplasty272–274 or stenting266,275–277 was reported in 14 and 24 patients, respectively, with a follow-up averaging 2 years. The overall technical success rate was unclear. Severe procedure-related complications seem to be rare with percutaneous transluminal approach,237 which might not be the case with a percutaneous, transhepatic approach.266,272 Immediate improvement in signs, symptoms, and liver function generally occurs. Reobstruction was more common in patients undergoing primary angioplasty alone than in those undergoing primary stenting. Prognostic factors for reobstruction of the hepatic Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript although the frequency of this cannot be evaluated. Clinical failure has been treated successfully with surgical mesocaval shunts in selected cases.237 No patient was reported to require liver transplantation. Periprocedural and total mortality appear to be low and not related to the procedure. However, no evaluation based on initial severity of the disease is possible. It should be remembered that patients with short-length stenoses of the hepatic veins, eligible for, but untreated with recanalization procedures, have a better outcome than other patients.270 Publication biases cannot be ruled out. IVC angioplasty with266,276,278–280 or without272,278,281–293 stenting was reported in 296 and 157 patients, respectively. Information on the outcome beyond 36-48 months is limited. The overall technical success rate was about 95%. Severe procedure-related complications were more common when IVC recanalization was combined with hepatic vein recanalization through the transhepatic approach266 than when the attempt was limited to a transvenous approach. Immediate improvement in signs, symptoms and liver function generally occurred. Reobstruction was usual after primary angioplasty alone but uncommon after primary stenting. However, the final patency rate (about 85%) was similar with both techniques (probably owing to revision with stent insertion for reobstruction after angioplasty alone). Factors for reobstruction might be HV stenting (as opposed to IVC stenting), and lack of anticoagulation therapy for at least
