HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


to revision with stent insertion for reobstruction after angioplasty alone). Factors for reobstruction might be HV stenting (as opposed to IVC stenting), and lack of anticoagulation therapy for at least 6 months, and not the degree or the type of obstruction.266 Periprocedural and overall mortality was low and not related to the procedure. Only one patient was reported to undergo subsequent liver transplantation. No evaluation of the outcome based on initial severity of the disease is possible from the available data. Portosystemic Shunting.—The rationale for side-to-side portosystemic shunting has been to decompress the liver using the portal venous system as an outflow tract, at the expense of decreased portal venous inflow. Depending on the patency of the inferior vena cava, and on technical limitations related to caudate lobe enlargement, several variants of surgical side-to-side shunting have been used. Overall perioperative mortality has been high, averaging 25% (reviewed by Langlet and Valla294). The rate of shunt dysfunction due to early or late thrombosis or to late stenosis has reached 30% in series with long term follow- up.261,295,296 The impact of surgical portosystemic shunting on survival has been assessed in four multicenter, retrospective, multivariate analyses. A study of 45 patients with liver biopsy available at the time of diagnosis found portosystemic shunting to be a significant factor for survival (P = 0.008), in addition to Child-Pugh score and prothrombin time.254 A study of 120 patients with a patent portal vein, found surgical shunting to be of no independent prognostic value after adjustment for Child-Pugh score, response of ascites to diuretics and serum creatinine.255 A study of 123 patients seen since 1985 with a patent portal vein disclosed no independent prognostic value of surgical shunting after adjustment for Child-Pugh score, ascites score, serum creatinine, and the clinicopathological form (acute, chronic, or acute on chronic).297 The most recent study, of 237 patients diagnosed between 1984 and 2001, found surgical shunting to lack independent prognostic value after adjustment for encephalopathy, ascites, prothrombin time and bilirubin (all independent determinants of survival).230 However, in the latter study an improved survival with surgical Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript shunting was suggested for patients in prognostic class II (with intermediate prognosis) (RR 0.63; 95% CI, 0.26-1.49). In these four studies, surgical shunting was considered on an intention-to-treat basis, i.e., without consideration for shunt patency. Recent data in
