HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


short-length venous stenoses amenable to angioplasty/stenting; (3) in patients not suited for, or unresponsive to angioplasty/stenting, insertion of a TIPS should be considered; (4) and in patients unresponsive to TIPS, liver transplantation should be considered. The definition for response to therapy was not stated. A recent proposal for such a definition needs validation. 267 Two recent clinical studies provide support to the strategy described above. Between 1984 and 2004 in Birmingham, 61 of 111 primary patients with BCS were treated with anticoagulation plus stent/angioplasty and/or TIPS. The cohort included 33 patients seen after 1999, when a treatment algorithm similar to this strategy came into place.313 Between 1997 and 2004 in Clichy, France, 51 patients were treated according to this strategy.267 The outcome in these two cohorts (5-year survival greater than 85%) may be compared with other cohorts where the distribution of patients according to prognostic classes was reported. Such comparisons have undisputed limitations. However, the outcome was clearly better in these two cohorts than in those managed mainly with medical therapy or surgical shunting. 230,255,297 In particular, the improvement was most marked in patients with the poorest prognostic class.319 From the relatively limited but consistent data available, it appears that the first step of the strategy (medical therapy) is associated with steady improvement in 20% of patients without any need for additional therapy.267,288,320 In Western countries where pure hepatic vein block predominates, percutaneous recanalization appears to achieve a complete response in an additional 20% of patients; TIPS successfully treats an additional 65%; and liver transplantation is performed in the rest.267 By contrast, in Asia where suprahepatic IVC block predominates, percutaneous recanalization can be expected to achieve a complete response in 60% of patients, whereas the place of TIPS, derivative surgery, and transplantation remain unclear.282,288 Data on patients with BCS with fulminant hepatic failure are scarce, because this condition appears to be extremely rare.321 In these patients, it is unclear whether an attempt at TIPS Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript should be used prior to emergency liver transplantation. Furthermore, it remains to be clarified whether TIPS in this setting should be considered only a bridge to liver tansplantation or might be a definitive treatment for those patients who clearly and rapidly improve following TIPS placement.309 Current Outcome and Prognosis Natural history is poorly known as there has been no
