HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


might be a definitive treatment for those patients who clearly and rapidly improve following TIPS placement.309 Current Outcome and Prognosis Natural history is poorly known as there has been no cohort study of untreated patients. There has been continued improvement in outcome over the last four decades. In the most recently reported cohorts, overall 5-year survival rates over 80% have been achieved. 230,267,305,310,313 Serum albumin, bilirubin, prothrombin, ascites, and encephalopathy, or their combination as Child-Pugh score, have generally been found to be independent prognostic factors. Prognostic scores based on a combination of these factors have been developed. individual management. Histological variables were repeatedly shown to lack independent prognostic value, once components of the Child-Pugh score were taken into account. 230,254,255 In addition, the site of hepatic venous outflow tract obstruction, and the association with PVT did not appear to bear prognostic value independent of the components of the Child-Pugh score.230,255,288 Hepatocellular carcinoma appears to be rare and is mainly observed in patients with long- standing disease, particularly in relationship to suprahepatic IVC obstruction.209,322–324 However, its differentiation from benign macroregenerative nodules is challenging. A rising serum alpha fetoprotein level appears to be highly specific for the diagnosis but insufficiently sensitive.322,324,325 Patients with splanchnic vein thrombosis and myeloproliferative disease are at risk of subsequent development of leukemia or myelofibrosis. Hematological progression occurred after a mean follow-up of 6.6 years in 7 of 31 such patients versus none of 63 patients without evidence of myeloproliferative disease.22 Therefore, in adequately treated patients, long-term prognosis might be jeopardized more by subsequent neoplastic disease than by liver failure. Despite this risk of hematological progression, survival after liver transplantation for BCS has been similar to that for other liver diseases.265 Recommendations for therapy of Budd-Chiari syndrome (see also Table 6): 11. Correct without delay the underlying risk factors for venous thrombosis, whenever possible (Class I, Level C). 12. Initiate anticoagulation therapy immediately. Use low molecular weight heparin, targeting anti-Xa activity to 0.5–0.8 IU/mL. Change to an oral anticoagulation agent when clinically appropriate, targeting the INR to between 2–3 (Class I, Level B). 13. Maintain permanent anticoagulation therapy, unless a major contra-indication is present or a complication of anticoagulation therapy occurs (Class I, Level C). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 14. Treat complications of portal hypertension as recommended for other types of liver disease until more
