HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 14. Treat complications of portal hypertension as recommended for other types of liver disease until more data are available (Class I, Level C). 15. Check for a venous obstruction amenable to percutaneous angioplasty/stenting in all symptomatic patients. Treat accordingly (Class I, Level C). 16. In patients without ongoing improvement on anticoagulation therapy (with or without angioplasty), consider TIPS insertion (Class I, Level C). 17. Consider liver transplantation: (a) if TIPS insertion fails or does not improve the patient’s condition. (b) in patients with fulminant hepatic failure (Class I, Level C). 18. Consider initial management for recently diagnosed BCS in close connection with a transplant center (Class III, Level C). 19. Monitor patients with long-standing, well controlled BCS for late development of hepatocellular carcinoma and transformation of underlying myeloproliferative disease (Class I, Level C). Special Groups Children. Data on BCS in children are scarce. Series of consecutive cases date back to the early 1990s. 206,326–328 There appears to be a predominance of obstruction at the level of the suprahepatic inferior vena cava. The etiology remains unclear as underlying prothrombotic diseases have not been routinely investigated. There are, however, isolated case reports of an association with factor V Leiden or prothrombin gene mutation, antiphopholipid syndrome, or celiac disease. Surgical as well as percutaneous therapy (TIPS or recanalization), and thrombolysis have been claimed beneficial in selected cases. Combined Portal Vein and Hepatic Venous Outflow Tract Obstruction. Extrahepatic PVT has been found in about 15% of unselected patients with BCS.233,329 Disease is usually more severe in these patients than in those with a patent extrahepatic portal vein. TIPS, however, has been possible and apparently effective in a handful of patients76 whereas surgical portosystemic shunting and liver transplantation apparently had poor results.233,329 PVT was present before transplantation in 47 of 248 patients in the European survey on transplantation; however, the impact of PVT on the outcome of liver transplantation was not reported.265 Areas requiring future studies: Tests for improved identification of primary deficiency in protein C, protein S and antithrombin, and antiphopholipid syndrome in a context of liver disesase have to be developed. Accuracy of most recent generation CT technology for BCS diagnosis has to be evaluated and compared with that of Doppler ultrasound and MRI. Risk factors and diagnostic features for hepatocellular carcinoma need assessment, particularly in Hepatology. Author manuscript;
