HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


BCS diagnosis has to be evaluated and compared with that of Doppler ultrasound and MRI. Risk factors and diagnostic features for hepatocellular carcinoma need assessment, particularly in Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript relationship to benign macroregenerative nodules. The risk/benefit ratio of anticoagulation requires further evaluation, particularly in the setting of interventional radiology or surgery. Improved prognostic models are needed for optimal timing and targeting of invasive therapeutic options. Long-term outcome of, and therapy for, underlying blood diseases have to be clarified. Congenital Vascular Malformations Vascular malformations of the liver result in abnormal shunting of blood in or around the liver. They are increasingly being discovered in patients undergoing ultrasonography or other imaging studies of the liver for other reasons. Given the vascular anatomy of the liver, functional shunting can occur from the hepatic artery to the hepatic vein (arteriovenous or arteriohepatic shunt), from the hepatic artery to the portal vein (arterioportal shunt) and/or from the portal vein to the systemic circulation (portosystemic or portohepatic shunt). Although all these shunts can be acquired, as those associated with cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma, or those that occur after blunt or penetrating liver trauma (including liver biopsy, transhepatic cholangiography, or biliary surgery), most are congenital.330 In liver involvement by hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), the three types of shunt may coexist and, although it is a congenital disorder, symptoms appear in adults. Although the condition is rare, there has been a recent interest in pathophysiology, consensus conferences among experts involved in the care of these patients.331,332 Consensus reached at these conferences form the bases for the recommendations set forward. Isolated congenital vascular malformations are those not associated with HHT and are usually diagnosed in infants or children. These isolated malformations are very rare and their diagnosis and management have been mostly anecdotal. Interestingly, liver vascular malformations are associated with nodular lesions of the liver such as nodular regenerative hyperplasia or focal nodular hyperplasia, particularly in patients with isolated congenital portosystemic shunts333–336 and in patients with liver involvement by HHT,337–339 most probably as a result of heterogenous liver blood perfusion. I. Liver Involvement By Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia HHT, or Rendu-Osler-Weber disease, is a rare (1-2 cases/10,000) genetic disease with an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, characterized by widespread cutaneous, mucosal and visceral arteriovenous malformations that can involve lung, brain and/or liver. In most HHT families,
