HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


which has not been described in HHT. Liver biopsy in the diagnosis of liver vascular malformations in HHT is unnecessary as it is often misinterpreted, it does not provide as much information as an imaging study and may be dangerous.338,345 Screening for LVMs in patients with HHT who have no clinical evidence of liver involvement is not recommended because the prevalence of liver involvement is high and there is no effective treatment for asymptomatic VMs. Screening should only be done in the context of research studies or when the presence of liver involvement is a decisive factor in establishing a diagnosis of “definite” HHT in patients who only meet one or two HHT diagnostic criteria or in whom genetic testing is inconclusive or unavailable.331,332 Recommendations: 1. Screening for liver involvement in patients with HHT is not recommended except in patients in whom the presence of liver vascular malformations would be key in establishing a definite diagnosis of HHT (Class III, Level C). 2. The diagnosis of liver involvement in HHT should be made radiographically: by Doppler ultrasound, CT scan or angiography (Class I, Level C). The diagnosis is based on finding heterogeneous enhancement or hypervascularization of the liver and common hepatic artery enlargement (class I, Level B). Liver biopsy should be avoided, as it is not useful in the diagnosis of liver involvement by HHT and could be complicated by bleeding (class III, Level B). 3. Isolated liver masses in patients with HHT should not be regarded as hepatocellular carcinoma without additional support for the diagnosis (Class I, Level B). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment. No treatment is recommended for patients with asymptomatic liver involvement by HHT. In presentation.354 The majority of patients with high-output heart failure respond to standard therapy with salt restriction, diuretics, beta-blockers, digoxin and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and includes correction of anemia and arrhythmias that often trigger symptomatic heart failure. Complications of portal hypertension (bleeding from gastroesophageal varices, ascites) should follow the same recommendations put forward for cirrhotic patients.71,345,355 Abdominal pain from biliary ischemia is treated with analgesics with the addition of systemic antibiotics when associated with cholangitis. To avoid cholangitis, patients with biliary abnormalities should not be subjected to invasive biliary imaging procedures such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiography.338 As in any cholestatic disease, urosdeoxycholic acid can be used although there is no
