HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


biliary abnormalities should not be subjected to invasive biliary imaging procedures such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiography.338 As in any cholestatic disease, urosdeoxycholic acid can be used although there is no evidence demonstrating a beneficial effect. In patients with active biliary ischemia/necrosis with developing or growing biliary cysts whose pain is not responding to analgesics and/or who develop signs of infection, biliary drainage should be considered with chronic administration of antibiotics. Transarterial embolization or surgical ligation of the hepatic artery has been used mostly in the therapy of high-output heart failure, but also in cases of portal hypertension and mesenteric “steal” syndrome. Amelioration or resolution of symptoms is transient and treatment is associated with significant morbidity and mortality mostly in the form of biliary and/or hepatic necrosis. Over a third of patients who have undergone this procedure have experienced complications that led to liver transplantation or death.345 Hepatic artery embolization should be considered mainly in nontransplant candidates who have failed maximal medical therapy. The procedure is contraindicated in patients with portovenous shunts and in those with biliary symptoms/signs.331 Orthotopic liver transplant has been proposed as the only definitive curative option for liver involvement in HHT. Until recently, most published accounts of liver transplantation for HHT had been single-case reports, the most common reason for liver transplantation being hepatobiliary necrosis after hepatic artery embolotherapy. In these cases, the survival was 90% in a median followup of 24 months.345 The analysis of 40 patients with liver HHT who underwent liver transplantation reported to the European Liver Transplant Registry were recently published.356 Although the procedure is demanding and associated with large intraoperative bleeding, the overall survival rate is 80% in a median follow-up of 58 months. either alone or in combination with other presentations. Survival in this subgroup appeared to be the best with an overall median survival of 87% in a median followup period of 47 months (93% in those with isolated heart failure).354 However, it is uncertain whether maximal medical therapy had been attempted in these patients. Conversely, the worst post- transplant survival appears to occur in patients with the portal hypertension presentation with an overall median survival of 63% in a median followup period of 47 months.354 In a recent conference on Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) exceptions for liver transplantation in the United States, it was proposed that patients with HHT should continue Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC
