HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


on Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) exceptions for liver transplantation in the United States, it was proposed that patients with HHT should continue Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript to be addressed by the Regional Review Boards and additional priority for liver transplantation be assigned on a case-by-case basis.357 Given the fast and catastrophic evolution of acute biliary necrosis associated with liver failure,358–360 it was suggested that patients with acute biliary necrosis be assigned a MELD score of 40, while those with high- output heart failure that are symptomatic despite maximal medical therapy could be assigned a MELD score of 22. If an increased MELD score is provided, the MELD score should increase by an incremental 10% mortality risk score at 3-month intervals on a case-by-case basis after the regional review board has evaluated all of the information defined above for each 3-month cycle.357 Right heart catheterization should always be performed in patients with HHT being evaluated for liver transplantation to exclude significant pulmonary hypertension and allowed in those with a pulmonary vascular resistance <240 dynes.sec.cm −5.331 Anecdotal reports of bevacizumab, an antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have shown that 3-month courses of this antiangiogenic drug are associated with amelioration361 and even normalization of cardiac output362 as well as reduction in liver volume and LVMs and improvement in liver enzymes and performance status.362 Further experimental and human studies are needed before this therapy can be widely recommended in these patients but it indicates that active angiogenesis may play a role in the growth and regression of liver vascular malformations in HHT. Recommendations: 4. Treatment is not indicated in patients with HHT who have asymptomatic liver involvement (Class III, Level C). 5. In patients with HHT who have symptomatic liver involvement, treatment depends on presentation: a. Heart failure and portal hypertension are treated according to standards of care (Class I, Level A). b. Biliary disease is treated with ursodeoxycholic acid and with analgesics for right upper quadrant pain (Class I, Level C). 6. Hepatic artery embolization should be avoided in patients with liver involvement by HHT, as it is a palliative measure associated with significant morbidity. It is also contraindicated in patients with portosystemic shunting and in those with biliary presentation. (Class III-Level B) It can be considered in nontransplant candidates with intractable heart failure and hepatic
