HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


is also contraindicated in patients with portosystemic shunting and in those with biliary presentation. (Class III-Level B) It can be considered in nontransplant candidates with intractable heart failure and hepatic artery “steal” syndrome (Class IIa, Level C). 7. Liver transplantation is the only curative treatment and should be considered for acute biliary necrosis syndrome and intractable heart failure or portal hypertension (Class I, Level C). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript II. Isolated Congenital Liver Shunts Congenital Arteriovenous (Hepatic Artery to Hepatic Vein) Malformations are very rare and consist of discrete abnormalities that, unlike arteriovenous malformations associated that of high-output heart failure occurring in a neonate. Magnetic resonance imaging appears to be the most useful tool to make the diagnosis.363 Treatment initially consists of the conservative management of heart failure. In patients who fail to respond to this therapy, embolization and surgical resection are treatment options. Congenital Arterioportal Malformations are also very rare and cause portal hypertension manifested within the first year of life with splenomegaly, hypersplenism and/or variceal hemorrhage. Doppler ultrasound is the single most useful diagnostic method.363 Lesions should be treated as soon as they are diagnosed, by embolization of the feeding artery with or without resection. Liver transplantation has been mentioned as a therapeutic option if embolization is unsuccessful. Congenital Portosystemic Shunts are very rare anomalies that result from developmental abnormalities of the portal venous system. Two types of congenital portosystemic shunt have been described: extrahepatic364,365 and intrahepatic (includes patent ductus venosus).366 Most portosystemic shunts are discovered incidentally. Portosystemic shunting, by bypassing the liver where ammonia is metabolized, causes an increase in plasma ammonia that will ultimately affect cognition. Patients with congenital portosystemic shunt may develop symptoms early in life or remain asymptomatic until the sixth or seventh decades. Symptoms include fatigue, mental retardation, and bouts of portosystemic encephalopathy. Neuropsychological tests may reveal cognitive deficits similar to those present in patients with cirrhosis and minimal hepatic encephalopathy.367 It has been suggested that the diameter of the shunt could determine the clinical course: patients with large shunts may have persistent manifestations starting from childhood, while those with small in-trahepatic shunts may develop recurrent episodes of portosystemic encephalopathy that initiate in adult-hood.367 Mental retardation would result from hyperammonemia during brain development. Nephrolithiasis can also develop as a result of hyperammonemia. MRI is recommended in the diagnosis and classification
