HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author manuscript, author, liver, manuscript author, pvt, portal, sos, hepatic, risk, vein, disease, level, anticoagulation


that initiate in adult-hood.367 Mental retardation would result from hyperammonemia during brain development. Nephrolithiasis can also develop as a result of hyperammonemia. MRI is recommended in the diagnosis and classification of portosys-temic shunt. Treatment in symptomatic patients consists of surgical or laparoscopic ligation of the shunt or obliteration by interventional radiology using metallic coils, although this last procedure carries the risk of coil migration into pulmonary arteries. Preoperative evaluation of portal vein patency, portal pressure (before and after ligation) and determination of the type of portosystemic shunt by angiography is crucial.365 Orthotopic liver transplantation may be the only treatment option when there is an absent portal vein or with intractable portosystemic encephalopathy.368 Recommendation: 8. Congenital portosystemic shunting should be investigated in patients with compatible with hepatic encephalopathy in the absence of cirrhosis (Class I, Level C). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Acknowledgment: This guideline was produced in collaboration with the Practice Guidelines Committee of the AASLD. This committee in concert with George B. McDonald, M.D., supplied extensive peer-review of the manuscript. Members of the AASLD Practice Guidelines Committee include Margaret C. Shuhart, M.D., M.S., (Committee Chair), Gary José Franco, M.D., Steven-Huy B. Han, M.D., Stephen A. Harrison, M.D., Charles D. Howell, M.D., Simon C. Ling, MBChB, MRCP, Lawrence U. Liu, M.D., Paul Martin, M.D., Robert S. O’Shea, M.D., Nancy Reau, M.D., Abbreviations AASLD American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases BCS Budd-Chiari syndrome CT computed tomography DVT deep vein thrombosis HHT hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia HV hepatic vein IVC inferior vena cav LVM liver vascular malformation MELD Model for End-Stage Liver Disease MRI magnetic resonance imaging NRH nodular regenerative hyperplasia PVT portal vein thrombosis SOS sinusoidal obstruction syndrome TIPS transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt
