Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


ABSTRACT Pediatric endocrine disorders are frequently seen in tropical countries. While broadly the spectrum of pediatric endocrine disorders in the tropics is not entirely different from that seen in other parts of the world, some aspects of these disorders are unique to the tropics. Many pediatric endocrine disorders are underreported from the tropics, presumably because of limited access to medical care in terms of both diagnostic and therapeutic facilities. Lack of formal training of pediatricians and physicians in pediatric endocrinology may be a contributor. Some conditions such as exogenous Cushing syndrome are seen very frequently in tropics because of easy access and unrestrained use of glucocorticoids by quacks/ faith healers. Malnutrition is an important contributor to short stature in many tropical countries where a large section of the population is living in abject poverty. Iodine deficiency disorders are seen in many countries despite iodine fortification of salt or other edible items. Lack of universal screening for congenital hypothyroidism often leads to late detection of this disorders contributing to significant morbidity and mortality. Vitamin D deficiency and nutritional rickets is rampant even in areas where sunlight is abundant year around. Since most of the pediatric endocrine disorders are easily treatable and can have severe consequences when diagnosis or treatment is delayed, increasing the awareness of these disorders in the healthcare workers in the tropics is necessary. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PITUITARY DISEASE The common pituitary disorders reported from the tropics include craniopharyngiomas, growth hormone deficiency, pituitary adenomas (including prolactinomas), and Cushing’s disease. Craniopharyngiomas Craniopharyngiomas are common suprasellar tumors in childhood. A retrospective analysis of 62 pediatric (onset <18 years) craniopharyngiomas was reported from a tertiary care hospital from India. The presenting features included central diabetes insipidus (6.5%), central hypothyroidism (43.5%), secondary adrenal insufficiency (32%), and delayed puberty (24%). On follow up 90% had some form of anterior pituitary deficiency and 22.6% developed obesity. GH therapy was given to 14% of cases. Incomplete surgical removal was frequent and radiotherapy was used in many cases ( 1 ). Another study from Egypt reported 137 patients with pediatric craniopharyngiomas. They were treated with surgery alone ( 65 ), radiotherapy after surgery ( 71 ), or surgery for Ommaya insertion with intracystic interferon injection ( 1 ). Subtotal resection was seen in 58 patients (42.33%) while 48 cases (35.04%) had gross total
