Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


( 71 ), or surgery for Ommaya insertion with intracystic interferon injection ( 1 ). Subtotal resection was seen in 58 patients (42.33%) while 48 cases (35.04%) had gross total resection/near total resection. The 5-year progression-free survival (PFS) was 52.3%, ( surgery alone 34.49% and radiotherapy after surgery 72.25% ) ( 2 ). Both craniopharyngiomas and gliomas were most common supratentorial pediatric brain tumors in Nigeria ( 3 ). In a study of 37 pediatric craniopharyngiomas who underwent surgery, gross total resection was possible in 43.2%, near total resection in six patients 16.2%. and subtotal resection (STR) in 40.5%. The recurrence-free survival rate was 81.1% and 70.3% at 5- and 10-year follow-up, respectively. Diabetes insipidus, anterior pituitary hormone deficits, and obesity were common in follow up ( 4 ). In a study from Pakistan, craniopharyngiomas were 14.3% of the reported pediatric intracranial tumors ( 5 ). Another study from Pakistan has reported the use of gamma knife radiosurgery in craniopharyngiomas. The patients included 17 children. Nearly 80% of the patients achieved tumor control with gamma knife ( 6 ). An uncommon variant called papillary craniopharyngiomas has been reported in 13 cases from Pakistan ( 7 ). Growth Hormone Deficiency And Related Disorders Isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) and combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) are the two presentations of growth hormone (GH) deficiency. The mutations involved in IGHD are GH 1 and GHRHR while CPHD is associated with mutations in transcription factor genes PROP1 , POU1F1 , and HESX1. Genetic analysis performed in 51 patients with CPHD at a tertiary care center in India reported that 10 (20%) patients had POU 1F1 and PROP1 mutations and of these 5 were novel and 2 previously reported. No mutations were identified in HESX1 ( 8 ). A study of growth hormone deficient patients from South India reported that smaller pituitary size was associated with worse height deficits and bone age delays. However, they had a better response to GH therapy ( 9 ). Children with IGHD had several biochemical and cardiac parameters that may be associated with an increased CVD risk in later life. This included higher waist-hip-ratio, total cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, serum homocysteine, C-reactive protein (CRP), and pro-brain natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP). Left ventricular mass (LVM) and interventricular septal thickness were significantly lower ( 10 ). A novel POU 1F1 c.605delC mutation in combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) was identified by Sanger sequencing
