Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


ventricular mass (LVM) and interventricular septal thickness were significantly lower ( 10 ). A novel POU 1F1 c.605delC mutation in combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) was identified by Sanger sequencing carried out in 160 trios and 100 controls. In vitro studies showed that the this mutation codes for a truncated protein with reduced transactivation capacity on downstream targets like growth hormone ( GH ) and prolactin ( PRL ) ( 11 ). Laron dwarfism first reported among Israeli Jewish children is a rare disorder characterized by low IGF-1 and high GH levels. A case series of nine such cases (6 male, 3 female) was reported from South India. The short stature was extreme with a mean height Z score of 7.7 (SD 0.8). Clinical features included characteristic facial features, microcephaly, micropenis and developmental delay. All children had typical hormonal profile of low IGF-1 and elevated GH ( 12 ). Laron syndrome has been reported from Africa and South America ( 13 )( 14 )( 15 ). Pituitary Adenomas While adult pituitary tumors are relatively common, pediatric pituitary adenomas (PPA) are less common. A retrospective study of 74 cases of PPA was published from a center in North India. The median age was 15 years and 42% were females. Headache and menstrual abnormalities were common presentations. Corticotroph adenomas (32.4%) and somatotropinomas (25.7%) were among the common types. TSHoma and pituitary blastomas were very few. In 81% cases, transsphenoidal surgery was performed while adjuvant medical management and radiotherapy was required in 25% and 18% respectively. Remission rates in Cushing's and acromegaly were 62.5% and 57.8%, respectively, and post operative hormone deficits were seen in 33% ( 16 ). Giant prolactinoma (GP) are rare pituitary tumors in childhood and adolescence. A series of 18 cases of GP has been reported from India. GP constituted 20% of pediatric prolactinomas at this center. The authors conducted a systematic review including these 18 and 77 other cases from the literature. They found a male predominance with pubertal arrest/delay. Dopamine agonist (DA) monotherapy showed good results as monotherapy ( 17 ). Cushing’s Disease Cushing’s disease is an important cause of hypercortisolism in children. It is caused by an ACTH secreting pituitary adenoma. A retrospective study of 48 pediatric cases of Cushing’s disease who underwent transsphenoidal adenectomy between 1998 and 2008 was published from India. Weight gain, round facies, and short stature were the most common clinical manifestations.
