Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


pediatric cases of Cushing’s disease who underwent transsphenoidal adenectomy between 1998 and 2008 was published from India. Weight gain, round facies, and short stature were the most common clinical manifestations. Low dose dexamethasone suppression test and midnight cortisol showed 100% sensitivity for establishing hypercortisolism, while midnight ACTH had 100% sensitivity for confirming ACTH dependence. Magnetic resonance imaging and unstimulated BIPSS were used to confirm Cushing’s disease. Post surgical remission was 56% after first transsphenoidal adenectomy with higher remission rate of 75% in those with microadenoma. Eight patients were given radiotherapy and four of these achieved remission ( 18 ). GROWTH AND PUBERTAL DISORDERS Short stature and delayed puberty are commonly seen in children visiting pediatric endocrine clinics in the tropics. Short Stature Malnutrition, systemic illnesses, endocrine disorders, and syndromic disorders are among the major causes of short stature in the tropics. MALNUTRITION Malnutrition in early childhood is an important cause of short stature in tropical counties. The role of early childhood undernutrition on physical growth and cognitive achievement was assessed in a nationwide population-based cohort study in India. Data on undernutrition was taken from Human Development Survey (IHDS) in 2004 to 2005 while the outcomes on physical and cognitive outcomes during preadolescent (8 to 11 years) years was assessed in 2011 to 2012. The study assessed 7868 children and 4334 were undernourished. Undernourished children had 1.73 times increased odds of short stature. It was associated with decreased odds of achieving a higher reading and arithmetic outcomes. The findings were worse in female children.( 19 ) SYNDROMIC SHORT STATURE AND OTHER CAUSES Noonan syndrome (NS), an autosomal dominant disorder, is caused by mutations in genes associated with the RAS / mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. A large series of 363 patients with Noonan’ syndrome was published from India. The exons of PTPN11 gene were sequenced in all patients. Congenital cardiac anomalies (mostly right sided defects) were present in 84% of patients. The downward-slanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, low-set posteriorly rotated ears, short stature, pectus excavatum, and unilateral or bilateral cryptorchidism were common clinical findings. The most common variants in this series were in exon 8 (c.922A > G, c.923A > G), observed in 22 of the affected. Thirty-two previously described pathogenic variants in eight different exons in PTPN11 gene were detected in 107 patients ( 20 ). Similar findings were reported from a study in Morocco ( 21 ). Noonan syndrome has
