Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


in eight different exons in PTPN11 gene were detected in 107 patients ( 20 ). Similar findings were reported from a study in Morocco ( 21 ). Noonan syndrome has been described in Latin America, Africa and other countries in Asia. The facial characteristics of Noonan syndrome cases worldwide were similar to those of European descent ( 22 ). Achondroplasia is a skeletal dysplasia that is a common cause of disproportionate short stature. In a study of forty cases with disproportionate short stature from India , achondroplasia was the most common skeletal dysplasia with c. 1138 G>A, p. Gly380Arg mutation seen in all cases ( 23 ). Achondroplasia has been reported from Pakistan and Africa also ( 24 , 25 ). Idiopathic short stature (ISS)refers to the short stature where all the conventional clinical and biochemical work up is normal. Genetic studies in 61 patients with ISS in India showed that four patients had a heterozygous variant in SHOX gene while two had novel, likely pathogenic variants, in the IGFALS gene ( 26 ). Thalassemia is a frequent cause of short stature and pubertal delay. Inadequate chelation therapy and lack of awareness among treating physicians on endocrine complications lead to higher prevalence of undiagnosed endocrine issues in these children. In a study from central India, short stature (88%), delayed puberty (71.7%), hypothyroidism (16%), and diabetes mellitus (10%), were reported in children with thalassemia ( 88 ). Puberty Pubertal disorders can be broadly classified as delayed puberty and early (precocious puberty). Secular trends of gradual reduction in the age of puberty have started becoming apparent in tropics. SECULAR TRENDS IN PUBERTY The age of normal puberty has shown a decline in many tropical countries- a trend which mimics that witnessed in the developed world decades earlier. Data regarding normal puberty from Egypt suggests that in girls with BMI ≥85th percentile all pubertal stages started earlier as compare to girls with BMI less than 85 th centile. No such association between BMI and pubertal stage was noticed in males ( 27 ). A decline in the age of pubertal maturation of girls in Nigeria was also reported. The median age at beginning of breast maturation (B2) and menarche were 9 and 12 years respectively. The age at menarche was significantly associated with overweight/obesity and high social class ( 28 ). Similar findings have been reported from India where a study of 2010
