Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


years respectively. The age at menarche was significantly associated with overweight/obesity and high social class ( 28 ). Similar findings have been reported from India where a study of 2010 school girls reported that median age of thelarche and menarche was 10.8 and 12.4 years with obese girls showing a six month earlier onset of thelarche and menarche when compared to those with normal BMI ( 29 ). Similar findings were reported from Western India ( 30 ). School girls in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia also had earlier onset of puberty similar to that seen developed countries ( 31 ). DELAYED PUBERTY Delayed puberty is a common pubertal disorder. It may be a normal variant such as constitutional delay in growth and puberty or represent a pathology. Pathological causes are classified as hypogonadotropic or hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. In a retrospective study of 136 patients with delayed puberty from Sudan, permanent or functional hypogonadotropic hypogonadism was seen in 37.5 and 36% while hypergonadotropic hypogonadism was seen in 11.7%. Constitutional delay in growth and puberty was present in 14.7%. Type 1 diabetes and celiac disease were common systemic illnesses ( 32 ). A study of 42 cases of delayed puberty from India (19 boys, 23 girls) underlying systemic illnesses were the dominant cause of pubertal delay in girls (11/23) while the major cause in boys were endocrinopathies (6/19). Malnutrition, chronic infections, and anemia were common systemic illnesses ( 33 ). An unusual association of hypopituitarism along with Turner syndrome was reported in six Tunisian patients ( 34 ). A study of 11 Turner syndrome patients was reported from Cameroon, seven had monosomy while four had mosaic Turner syndrome. Most of these had presented with delayed puberty or short stature. Other clinical features were short neck, forearm carrying-angle deformity, a low hairline, and a webbed neck. Horse shoe kidney was found in two cases but none had cardiac abnormalities. The average age at diagnosis was 18.4 years indicating a delay in the diagnosis ( 35 ). Differentiation between CDGP and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is challenging in tropical countries. Most patients do not have regular height measurements and estimation of growth velocity in the years preceding to the presentation is often not possible. GnRH stimulation test has been employed but has limited utility because of significant overlap in the hormonal levels between the two groups. GnRHa-stimulated inhibin B (GnRH-iB) has been developed as a convenient test to
