Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


been employed but has limited utility because of significant overlap in the hormonal levels between the two groups. GnRHa-stimulated inhibin B (GnRH-iB) has been developed as a convenient test to differentiate between CDGP and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. A cut-off value of 113.5 pg/ml in boys and 72.6 pg/ml in girls could predict spontaneous pubertal onset with 100% sensitivity and specificity ( 36 ). PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Precocious puberty is a common pubertal disorder. It is classified as central precocious puberty (caused by premature activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis) or peripheral precocious puberty (due to secretion of gonadal steroids from other causes without activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis). A retrospective analysis of 55 children (36 girls) with precocious puberty was reported from India. Central precocious puberty occurred in 62% (34 cases, out of which 19 were idiopathic) while peripheral precocious puberty was found in 14 children. The commonest cause of peripheral precocious puberty was congenital adrenal hyperplasia (46%) ( 37 ). A rare case of precocious pseudopuberty due to a virilizing adrenocortical carcinoma progressing to central precocious puberty after surgery has also been reported ( 38 ). Idiopathic precocious puberty responds well to GnRH analogue therapy as reported from a series for India ( 39 ). There appears to be an increase in the incidence of central precocious puberty especially in girls in the COVID-19 lockdown in India as compared to the pre-lockdown period ( 40 ). DISORDERS OF BONE AND MINERAL METABOLISM Vitamin D deficiency and nutritional rickets are very common in tropics. Primary hyperparathyroidism and less common forms of rickets like vitamin D resistant and hypophosphatemic rickets also occur. Vitamin D Deficiency And Nutritional Rickets Tropical countries have high prevalence of nutritional rickets. The human body can generate vitamin D in the skin from sunlight. Although tropical countries get abundant sunlight, vitamin D deficiency (VDD) is common. Harsh summers limit sunlight exposure in many tropical countries. Adequate sunlight exposure was found in only 27% neonates in Ethiopia ( 41 ). In some countries, atmospheric pollutions limits sunlight penetration in winters ( 42 ). Darker skin color with high melanin content, different socio-cultural factors, and genetic variation also contribute to vitamin D deficiency. Infants are at a high risk of vitamin D deficiency which could be due to low vitamin D content in breastmilk, and inadequate vitamin D content of complementary foods and maternal vitamin D deficiency. Routine vitamin D supplementation at
