Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


61 ). Pseudohypoparathyroidism may also present with bony deformities resembling rickets ( 62 ). Hereditary vitamin-D resistant rickets was reported in eight patients in Tunisia. Two mutations in vitamin D receptor gene were found: p.K45E (5 patients with alopecia) and a novel p.T415R mutation located in the ligand-binding domain. X linked hypophosphatemic rickets is the most common cause of phosphopenic rickets. It can be caused by loss of function mutations in the PHEX gene which leads to an increase in the phosphaturic hormone fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23). Two novel mutations in the PHEX gene has been reported from two families from India ( 63 ). A family suffering from XLH has been reported from Pakistan ( 64 ). Idiopathic tumoral calcinosis (ITC) refers to the deposition of calcium hydroxyapatite crystals or amorphous calcium usually in juxta-articular tissue in a tumor-like fashion. ITC has been reported in an 8-year-old child who had the symptoms at 4 years of age ( 65 ). THYROID Common thyroid disorders in pediatric age group include hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency disorders, thyroiditis, and thyroid cancer. Congenital Hypothyroidism Congenital hypothyroidism can be a devastating disease if not diagnosed and treated on time. Congenital hypothyroidism is much more common in tropical countries as compared to developed world. The prevalence in India is estimated to be one in 1000-1500 births ( 66 ). The Indian Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Endocrinology (ISPAE) has published guidelines on screening, diagnosis, and management of congenital hypothyroidism ( 66 , 67 ). High prevalence of CH has been reported from Sri Lanka as well as Iran ( 68 , 69 ). A cut off of ≥20 mIU/L for capillary TSH screening for CH beyond 24 hours of life has been proposed in the India for deciding on recalling the patient for further workup while a repeat capillary sample was advised for TSH values between 10 and 20 mIU/L ( 70 ). Despite the above research, most tropical countries do not have universal screening for CH. This contributes to significant morbidity due to this potentially treatable condition. Iodine Deficiency Disorder Iodine deficiency disorders are among the top causes of thyroid disease worldwide. Several tropical countries are affected by IDD. India and Pakistan have both initiated fortification of common salt with iodine. This measure has been successful in reducing total goiter rate in children, indicating an improvement in iodine status. However, several underprivileged populations in both
