Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


fortification of common salt with iodine. This measure has been successful in reducing total goiter rate in children, indicating an improvement in iodine status. However, several underprivileged populations in both countries have evidence of iodine deficiency ( 71 , 72 ). Africa also had a high prevalence of mild to moderate iodine deficiency but several iodine fortification programs have been started which resulted in improvement in the overall iodine status. Some high risk populations such as pregnant females may still face iodine deficiency ( 73 ). Thyroiditis A case series of 97 children with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis aged 5-12 years has been reported from India. The children were followed up for a six-month period. Goiter was seen in 89 while eight had an atrophic form. The mean age was 9.9 years and the male to female ratio was 1:5.4. Overt hypothyroidism was present in 73.4% while hyperthyroidism was seen in 3.1%. 13.2% were subclinical hypothyroidism and 10.3% were euthyroid. A large percentage of subclinical hypothyroid and euthyroid children developed overt hypothyroidism in the 6 month follow up. ( 79 ) It is possible that the prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis has increased after iodine fortification of the diet. In a case control study, 43 children with goiter and autoimmune thyroiditis were compared with 43 children with euthyroid goiter without autoimmune thyroiditis. Urinary iodine concentration (UIC) was significantly higher in children with autoimmune thyroiditis. A positive correlation between UIC and antimicrosomal antibody titers was found. A UIC ≥300 μg/L was strongly associated with autoimmune thyroiditis ( 80 ). Hypothyroidism Acquired hypothyroidism in most tropical countries is now predominantly autoimmune, barring those where severe iodine deficiency is still prevalent. The control of hypothyroidism with levothyroxine therapy in children in tropical countries is often poor because of poverty, lack of proper advice, and reduced access to laboratory testing. Research work on treatment of hypothyroidism is being done. Both bedtime and early morning intake of thyroxine had equal efficacy in maintaining a normal TSH in children with hypothyroidism in a randomized controlled trial from North India ( 78 ). Van Wyk Grumbach syndrome is a syndrome characterized by prolonged untreated hypothyroidism, short stature, and isosexual precocious puberty. This syndrome is considered to be rare with very few cases reported so far in recent times. However, many cases of Van Wyk Grumbach have been reported from tropical countries like India and Sri Lanka ( 74 , 75
