Pediatric Endocrinology- A Tropical Perspective
KEYWORDS: pubmed, india, children, reported, pediatr, deficiency, vitamin, puberty, indian, pediatric, patients, study, common, rickets, syndrome


few cases reported so far in recent times. However, many cases of Van Wyk Grumbach have been reported from tropical countries like India and Sri Lanka ( 74 , 75 , 76 ). A case series of this rare syndrome has been reported from Pakistan ( 77 ). This illustrates that availability of trained physicians as well as laboratory facilities is still a challenge in tropical countries. Hyperthyroidism Pediatric hyperthyroidism has been reported in the tropics. Graves’ disease is the most common cause of pediatric hyperthyroidism. The factors differentiating pediatric Graves from adult disease are predominance of neuropsychiatric symptoms, gradual and often insidious onset, and absence of infiltrative ophthalmopathy. In a seven-year period, 24 children with hyperthyroidism were reported in a study from India. Twenty of these had Graves’ disease while one had toxic nodular goiter and one had neonatal Graves’ disease while the remaining two were factitious. Behavioral problems, excitability, hyperkinesis, and irritability were most common symptoms. Ocular involvement was present in 85% while 30% had cardiac involvement. Goiter was noted in 18 out of 24 cases. Carbimazole was used for treatment and remission occurred in seventeen cases ( 81 ). Neonatal thyrotoxicosis has been reported from India ( 82 ). A case of a three and a half-year-old boy who had an autonomous functioning thyroid nodule which was cured by radioiodine ablation has been reported from India ( 83 ). Radioiodine therapy has been used for pediatric and adolescent Graves’ disease. Carbimazole therapy does not appear to influence the outcome of radioiodine therapy ( 84 ). Thyroid storm precipitated by empyema thoracis has been reported in a 16 year old girl ( 85 ). Thyroid Cancer Thyroid cancer is not common in pediatric populations and usually occurs as papillary carcinoma (PTC). A publication from a oncology center in India reports that pediatric differentiated thyroid cancer has high rates of extrathyroidal involvement as well as lymph node and distant metastasis ( 86 ). These findings however are not unique to tropical countries as similar profile has been reported from other parts of the world. Pediatric PTC often do not have TERT promoter mutations and have a lower prevalence of BRAFV600E mutation as reported in a study from India ( 87 ). Globally, the mortality rates of pediatric PTC are similar to that of adult PTC. The data on survival in pediatric PTC from tropical countries is limited. REFERENCES 1.
