Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47 CASE REPORT Endoscopic ultrasound navigated application of botulinum toxin in severe esophageal motility disorder Diana Vážanová1 · Martin Ďuriček1 · Peter Uhrík1 · Peter Bánovčin1 Received: 3 March 2024 / Accepted: 12 November 2024 / Published online: 3 December 2024 © The Author(s) 2024 Abstract The use of botulinum toxin in the therapy of esophageal motility disorders is reserved for elderly and comorbid patients considered risky for endoscopic or surgical treatment. However, there is a lack of data on the treatment of motility disorders outside the Chicago classification. We present the case of a 56-year-old patient with dysphagia and non-cardial chest pain (Eckardt 8). High resolution manom- etry ruled out achalasia or other motility disorder, but confirmed a localized 7-cm-long spastic segment in the upper to middle third of esophagus. We considered endoscopic or surgical therapy in this location too risky, therefore we decided to apply botulinum toxin into this segment. The spasm on high resolution manometry correlated with the thickened muscularis propria layer according to the endoscopic ultrasound. We used endoscopic ultrasound for the navigation of botulinum toxin application into the muscularis propria layer. We applied 100 IU of botulinum toxin into four quadrants, 20 and 24 cm from front teeth (12.5 IU for 1 application). The therapy led to improvement of symptoms (Eckardt 3) and to restitution of propulsive peristalsis with complete elimina- tion of spastic segment. The worsening of symptoms appeared after 2 years, with subsequent recurrence of motility disorder fulfilling criteria of type II achalasia. Presenting this case, we wanted to point at the unique use of botulinum toxin as useful treatment in selected cases of unclas- sified esophageal motility disorder as a bridge therapy. Moreover, endoscopic ultrasound could be used to guide precise application of botulinum toxin. Keywords Botulinum toxin · Endoscopic ultrasound · Motility disorder of esophagus Introduction weight loss one month after the application in patients with distal esophageal spasm (DES) and hypercontractile esopha- The role of botulinum toxin in the treatment of esopha- gus (HE) . Conversely, botulinum toxin did not show any geal motility disorders has been repeatedly discussed , superior role to saline injection regarding non cardiac chest although without any encouraging recommendation for its pain, heartburn, and regurgitation. Here we present a case routine use [2–4]. The most researched role was in patients report describing the endoscopic ultrasound-navigated appli- with achalasia , where
