Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


its pain, heartburn, and regurgitation. Here we present a case routine use [2–4]. The most researched role was in patients report describing the endoscopic ultrasound-navigated appli- with achalasia , where the botulinum toxin is applied into cation of botulinum toxin in severely symptomatic patient the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). The level of evidence with unclassified esophageal motility disorder. To the best in the non-achalasia esophageal motility disorders is some- of our knowledge, this is the first use of EUS navigation of what scarce. The landmark study by Vanuytsel et al. con- botulinum toxin application into the esophagus in its motil- firmed the effect of botulinum toxin injected in the esopha- ity disorder. geal body in the improvement of dysphagia and reversal of Case report * Diana Vážanová We state that subject of this case report gave written Slovakia Vol.:(0123456789) 4 4 Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47 for evaluation to our tertiary center/motility laboratory due nitroglycerine 15 min. before main dishes as an empirical to dysphagia for solids and liquids, non-cardiac chest pain therapy with limited symptomatic effect. We performed related to eating that had been lasting for 4 months and upper endoscopy (Fig. 2) that revealed no narrowing of the regurgitation with no effect of proton pump inhibitors. No lumen however there was pseudodiverticular dilatation of weight loss was reported. Eckardt score was 8. Her past esophageal lumen and tertiary spasms below. We repeated medical history included arterial hypertension, alcohol HRM to exclude the development of achalasia or Jackham- use disorder, and depressive disorder. Her medical history mer esophagus, but its finding was almost unchanged, (IRP included proton pump inhibitors, hypotensive medication, slightly elevated − 18.8 mmHg with signs of propulsive peri- venlafaxine, mirtazapine, and alprazolam. Importantly, the stalsis, spastic segment still present, mean DCI 2903 mmHg patient reported no opiate use. High-resolution manometry and DL 8.6 s). (HRM) showed normal LES integrated relaxation pressure Considering high symptom burden and not yet classifi- (IRP 10.4 mmHg), signs of propulsive peristalsis and no able motility disorder we decided to apply botulinum toxin panesophageal pressurization (Fig. 1), however, it revealed into the esophageal body. To secure its strict application into a 7 cm long spastic segment extending from 23 to 30 cm the bounded segment of thickened muscle layer of the esoph- from the nostrils (maximum pressure of 322 mmHg dur- agus (that was believed to be the major cause of
