Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


cm the bounded segment of thickened muscle layer of the esoph- from the nostrils (maximum pressure of 322 mmHg dur- agus (that was believed to be the major cause of symptoms) ing the motility study within this segment), elevated dis- we decided to use EUS (endoscopic ultrasound) navigation. tal contractile interval (DCI, maximum of 7762 mmHg in Because of the EUS probe compression, the submucosal and a single swallow, mean value 5482 mmHg). The spastic mucosal layer are visible only as a thin hyperechogenic and segment (Fig. 1) was in manometric study clear in 80% of hypoechogenic lines between probe and muscularis propria 5 ml swallows in the upright position. Distal latency (DL) (Fig. 3). After localizing the thickened part of the esopha- was normal (8.9 s). Neither achalasia, nor any other spastic geal wall (20–30 cm from front teeth according to the EUS), motility disorder could have been confirmed. The barium we applied botulinum toxin into 4 quadrants at the level of swallow study showed free passing of the contrast agent 24 cm from front teeth (muscularis propria layer thickness into the stomach. Due to inconclusive results, we proceeded 8.8 mm) (Fig. 3) and 20 cm from front teeth (muscularis to contrast CT scan that revealed esophageal wall thicken- propria layer thickness 4.9 mm). Botox Allergan (Allergan ing of 8 mm in the proximal part (maximal thickness of Pharmaceuticals Ireland) was dissolved in 8 ml of sterile 15 mm) corresponding to the spastic segment revealed by saline solution, resulting in 12.5 IU/1 ml for the single HRM. While performing investigations, we administered application. Indeed, EUS-FNI (endoscopic ultrasound–fine needle injection) technology was employed with the use of the Olympus MAJ-67 needle. At the checkup 3 weeks after the procedure the patient reported improvement of symp- toms and restoration of propulsive peristalsis on HRM with total elimination of spastic segment (Fig. 4). The Eckardt score was 3. Gradual worsening of symptoms occurred Fig. 1 HRM study from the first visit of patient, where the relaxation pressure of lower esophageal sphincter was in physiological range Fig. 2 Upper endoscopy with no stenosis of the lumen and pseudo- (IRP 10,4 mmHg) with a 7 cm long spastic segment from 23 to 30 cm diverticular dilatation in the upper third of the esophagus, 2 arrows from nostrils point at spastic segment and a star points at pseudodiverticulum Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47 45
