Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


diverticular dilatation in the upper third of the esophagus, 2 arrows from nostrils point at spastic segment and a star points at pseudodiverticulum Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47 45 2 years after botulinum toxin injection, with Eckhardt score 8 (03/2021). The COVID-19 pandemic postponed scheduled visits of the patient and as late as in 05/2022 during another follow-up visit HRM revealed features fulfilling the diagno- sis of II type achalasia (Fig. 5), with panesophageal pres- surization in 40% of swallows, IRP was 21 mmHg. As the diagnosis of achalasia based on the HR manometry image was clear, we did not further confirm it with esophagogram and proposed peroral endoscopic myotomy to the patient. Discussion Fig. 3 EUS image of thickened muscular layer of the upper third of Our case report describes the use of EUS to guide intramus- the esophagus, white two-sided arrow points at muscularis propria, cular application of the botulinum toxin in patient with yet white arrow points at mucosal and submucosal layer represented by hyperechogenic and hypoechogenic line between the muscularis pro- unclassified esophageal motility disorder. pria and the probe The therapeutic potential for botulinum toxin in esopha- geal motility disorders has been first described in achalasia patients . Its time-limited effect has been demonstrated in multiple studies [8–10]. This restricted its utilization for elderly and/or comorbid patients in whom no requirement for anesthesia and low incidence of undesirable effects outnum- bers the transient effect [1, 9–11]. In achalasia, it is applied into the LES region, while in distal esophageal spasm and Jackhammer esophagus it is injected into the esophageal Fig. 5 HRM image with panesophageal pressurization and ele- Fig. 4 HRM study 3 weeks after the botulinum toxin application and vated LES relaxation pressure suggesting type II. Achalasia (IRP restoration of the propulsive peristalsis, normal LES relaxation pres- 21 mmHg). HRM high resolution manometry, LES lower esophageal sure sphincter, IRP integrated relaxation pressure 4 6 Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47 body. For all above mentioned indications, botulinum toxin Author contributions The manuscript has been read and approved by is applied endoscopically into the muscularis propria layer. all the authors and it has not been published in another journal. DV performed motility studies and wrote the manuscript. MD performed Some significant landmarks in the area of botulinum motility studies, guided the management of the patient, co-wrote the toxin utilization in esophageal motility disorders could be
