Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


the manuscript. MD performed Some significant landmarks in the area of botulinum motility studies, guided the management of the patient, co-wrote the toxin utilization in esophageal motility disorders could be manuscript. PU performed EUS study and botulinum toxin application. highlighted based on our case. From the motility point of PB guided the management of the patient, co-wrote the manuscript. view, the possibility to apply botulinum toxin in a disorder Funding Open access funding provided by The Ministry of Education, with spastic component that is not yet classified according Science, Research and Sport of the Slovak Republic in cooperation to the Chicago classification. Although one might argue that with Centre for Scientific and Technical Information of the Slovak during the second visit of the patient the manometric find- Republic. ing was esophageal outflow obstruction, we considered the Declarations spasm in the mid esophagus more relevant for the symp- toms, and therefore, a target for therapy. Significant symp- Conflict of interest The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare. tom improvement further supports our approach. From the indications for the use of botulinum toxin not only in elderly cedures used in my case report were in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human experimentation comorbid patients, but also for younger subjects with yet (Institutional and National) and with the Helsinki Declaration of 1964 unspecified motility defect. As it is shown by the natural and later versions. course of the disease, this approach led to substantial symp- tom improvement until the motility disorder developed into Informed consent Informed consent was obtained from patient who was included in our case report. achalasia. Last but not least, our case points out the possibility of Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- significantly more precise EUS navigation of botulinum bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta- toxin application rather than more common endoscopic tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long navigation. Although the use of EUS is in the esophagus, as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, it has been mostly indicated for sampling lymph nodes or provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are metastases in neoplastic lesions . EUS-guided tissue included in the article’s Creative Commons licence,
