Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2025) 18:43–47
KEYWORDS: botulinum, toxin, motility, botulinum toxin, esophageal, achalasia, endoscopic, disorder, segment, use, application, patient, spastic, esophagus, disorders


indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are metastases in neoplastic lesions . EUS-guided tissue included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated acquisition (TA) using fine needle aspiration (FNA) or fine otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in needle biopsy (FNB) has been also widely used for subepi- the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not thelial lesions (originating in the submucosa or muscularis permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a propria) . We took the advantage of the fact that the copy of this licence, visit muscle layer was significantly thickened in our patient in the level of the spastic segment (similarly to thickened muscle at the level of the lower esophageal sphincter in patients with achalasia) . Our approach might prevent complications References (e. g. mediastinitis due to paraesophageal application) not only in unclassified motility disorders, but also patients with 1. Heddle R, Cock C. Role of botulinum toxin injection in treatment distal esophageal spasm or Jackhammer esophagus that are of achalasia. Ann Esophagus. 2020;3:26. more commonly indicated for botulinum toxin application. 2. Weusten B, Barret M, Bredenoord, et al. Endoscopic management of gastrointestinal motility disorders—part 1: European Society The relief of symptoms of our patient was considerable. of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) Guideline. Endoscopy. Importantly, the effect was also confirmed by HRM with 2020;52:498–515. complete (although transient) elimination of the spastic seg- 3. Zaninotto G, Bennett C, The BG, et al. ISDE achalasia guidelines. ment that limits the possibility of the placebo effect. Dis Esophagus. 2018;2018:31. diagnosis and management of achalasia. Am J Gastroenterol. 2013;108:1238–49. Conclusion 5. Sadowski DC, Ackah F, Jiang B, et al. Achalasia: incidence, prevalence and survival. A population-based study: achalasia and epidemiology. Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2010;22:e256–61. We suggest that in selected cases botulinum toxin injection 6. Vanuytsel T, Bisschops R, Farré R, et al. Botulinum toxin reduces dysphagia in patients with nonachalasia primary esophageal might be used in motility disorders outside the Chicago clas- motility disorders. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013;11:1115-21. sification, possibly with EUS navigation securing accurate e2. application. This approach allows to gain time while the 7. Eckardt AJ, Eckardt VF. Treatment and surveillance strate- motility disorder is not yet developed. gies in achalasia: an update. Nat Rev
