TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 Neurotrophin-4 Deficient Mice Have a Loss of Vagal Intraganglionic Mechanoreceptors from the Small Intestine and a Disruption of Short-Term Satiety Edward A. Fox,1 Robert J. Phillips,2 Elizabeth A. Baronowsky,2 Mardi S. Byerly,1 Sarahlouise Jones,2 and Terry L. Powley2 1BehavioralNeurogeneticsLaboratoryand2LaboratoryofRegulatoryPsychobiology,DepartmentofPsychological Sciences,PurdueUniversity,WestLafayette,Indiana47907 Intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) and intramuscular ar- pattern analyses revealed that NT-4 mutants had increased rays (IMAs) are the two putative mechanoreceptors that the meal durations with solid food and increased meal sizes with vagus nerve supplies to gastrointestinal smooth muscle. To liquid food. However, daily total food intake and body weight examine whether neurotrophin-4 (NT-4)-deficient mice, which remained normal because of compensatory changes in other have only 45% of the normal number of nodose ganglion meal parameters. These findings indicate that NT-4 knock-out neurons, exhibit selective losses of these endings and poten- mice have a selective vagal afferent loss and suggest that tially provide a model for assessing their functional roles, we intestinalIGLEs(1)mayparticipateinshort-termsatiety,prob- inventoriedIGLEsandIMAsinthegutwall.Vagalafferentswere ablybyconveyingfeedbackaboutintestinaldistensionortran- labeledbynodoseganglioninjectionsofwheatgermagglutin- sit to the brain, (2) are not essential for long-term control of in–horseradish peroxidase, and a standardized sampling pro- feedingandbodyweight,and(3)playdifferentrolesinregula- tocol was used to map the terminals in the stomach, duode- tionofsolidandliquiddietintake. num,andileum.NT-4mutantshadasubstantialorgan-specific reductionofIGLEs;whereasthemorphologiesanddensitiesof Key words: autonomic nervous system; food intake; meal bothIGLEsandIMAsinthestomachweresimilartowild-type pattern; gastrointestinal tract; intraganglionic laminar endings; patterns, IGLEs were largely absent in the small intestine (90 knock-out mice; myenteric neurons; vagus nerve; visceral and 81% losses in duodenum and ileum, respectively). Meal afferents VagalafferentsareessentialforCNScoordinationofhomeosta- accumulationandmovementoffoodinthestomachandintestine sis.Asubsetofvagalafferentsthathavebeenimplicatedaskeyto (Phillips and Powley, 2000) and may therefore be involved in gastrointestinal(GI)regulationandingestivebehaviorconsistsof regulation of feeding, especially in the control of meal size or the two morphologically distinct classes of mechanoreceptors short-termsatiety. suppliedtothemusclewalloftheGItract.Oneclassiscomprised Investigationsintosuchafferentfunctionsrequireindependent of intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) (Fig. 1) that inner- manipulations of sensory and motor pathways. Two strategies vatemyentericganglia(Nonidez,1946;Rodrigoetal.,1975,1982; havebeendevelopedtolimitthedegreeofvagalmotordamage, Neuhuber, 1987; Zagorodnyuk and Brookes, 2000) and are dis- and results obtained with these methods have been consistent tributedthroughouttheGItract(Fig.1)(Foxetal.,2000;Wang with a feedback role for vagal GI afferents. One approach in- and Powley, 2000). The other consists of intramuscular arrays volves systemic application of the excitotoxin capsaicin to selec- (IMAs) that have a much more restricted distribution that is tivelydamagesensoryneuronswithunmyelinatedaxons(Carobi, limited to the stomach and adjacent sphincters (Fig. 1). In par- 1996).Whenofferedanoveldiet,ratsdeafferentedinthismanner ticular, IMAs are concentrated in the circular or longitudinal ate a larger meal than controls . However, musclelayersoftheforestomachandloweresophagealandpylo- thisoverconsumptionwastransient,possiblybecausevagalaffer- ric sphincters, where they form appositions with muscle fibers entsthatremainintactcompensate(Chavezetal.,1997;Schwartz and/or interstitial cells of Cajal (Fig. 1) (Berthoud and Powley, et al.,
