TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


Mice were adapted to the test room and test cages for 1 week before testing. During that week animals to be nucleus of the vagus nerve (dmnX). Inspection of the cross testedonthesoliddietreceivedthreepre-exposurestothetestdiet(10 sectionsofthemedullainasmallsampleofcasesdidnotreveal 8606 J.Neurosci.,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 Foxetal.•NT-4LossAltersMechanoreceptorsandFoodIntake Figure4. Therewasnosignificantlossofvagalpreganglionicneuronsin thedorsalmotornucleusofthevagus(dmnX).Photomicrographsofthe longitudinalcolumnofneuronsthatformsthedmnXononesideofthe Figure3. NeuronlossinthenodosegangliaofNT-4mutants.Photomi- dorsomedialmedullaincoronalsectionsstainedwithcresylviolet(medial crographsofparaffinsectionsofnodosegangliastainedwithcresylviolet is to the right and dorsal is toward the top of each image). The dmnX fromawild-typemouse(A)andanNT-4mutantmouse(B)illustratethe consists of dark-stained medium-sized neurons that form a spindle- sensory neuron loss (on average, 57%) observed in the mutants. The shapednucleusincrosssection,especiallyatmid-longitudinallevels(C). vagusnerveentersthegangliafromtheleftintheseimages,asindicated bythestainedSchwanncells.Scalebar,100(cid:1)m. AsshowninD,thedmnXtapersatcaudallevelssothatitsmedial–lateral extentisreduced.Thefourthventricle(A,B)orcentralcanal(C,D)is locatedoutofviewmedialtoeachimage.Comparisonoftheseimagesof thedmnXfromawild-typemouse(A)andanNT-4mutantmouse(B–D) a loss of dmnX motorneurons (Fig. 4), although we cannot ex- illustrates the normal cytoarchitecture and neuron density of vagal cludethepossibilitythatasubtlechangewouldbedetectedwith preganglionicneuronsthatwereobservedinmutants.A(wildtype)and amoreextensiveandquantitativesurvey. B(NT-4mutant)arefromsimilarlevelsofthedmnXslightlyanteriorto the level of the area postrema, whereas C (NT-4 mutant) is from the The 57% loss of afferent neurons in the nodose ganglion, mid-areapostremalevel,andD(NT-4mutant)isfromthecaudalarea combinedwithnoapparentlossofvagalpreganglionicneuronsin postrema level. The unstained circular region at the lateral edge of the the dmnX, suggests that the vagal lesion that results from defi- dmnX in C is a cross-sectioned blood vessel, an element that is often ciencyofNT-4issensory-specific. presentinthisregionofthedmnX.Scalebar,50(cid:1)m. NT-4 knock-out produced loss of vagal mechanoreceptors that is specific to IGLEs and to found that IGLEs are relatively evenly distributed across the theintestines forestomach, corpus, antrum, and proximal small intestine. NT-4 knock-out has no significant effect on stomachIGLEs Therefore, IGLE densities in the several compartments of the IGLEs form a continuous network of sensory nerve terminals stomachwereexaminedtodeterminewhethergastricIGLEsare that innervate ganglia throughout the myenteric plexus of the affectedbyNT-4deletion.Inboththewild-typeandNT-4mutant esophagus, stomach, and intestine, a network that is only inter- mice, the morphology and distributions of IGLEs in the fores- rupted for short distances in the vicinity of major sphincters. In tomach,corpus,andantrumwereverysimilartoeachotherand ourpreviouscharacterizationofIGLEsinseveralstrainsofmice to those previously observed in other mouse strains (Fox et al., (Foxetal.2000),including129wild-typemice,wefoundthatthey 2000). IGLE density was also quantitatively similar in mutants consist of laminar aggregates of numerous, fine terminal puncta andcontrolsineachofthethreestomachregions,althoughthere that encapsulate all or part of a myenteric ganglion. We also was a nonsignificant trend in NT-4 mutants toward decreased Foxetal.•NT-4LossAltersMechanoreceptorsandFoodIntake J.Neurosci.,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 8607 et al., 2000). These results suggest that the absence of NT-4 during development does not impair the differentiation or sur- vivalofeitherofthetwomajorclassesofvagalmechanoreceptors thatsupplythestomach. NT-4-deficient mice exhibit almost complete loss of IGLEs in the smallintestine In contrast to the sparing of the gastric mechanoreceptor popu- lations, intestinal mechanoreceptors were largely eliminated by NT-4 deficiency. Basically, although the number of endings was altered,theoveralldistributionsofIGLEsintheduodenumwere similar to those observed previously in wild-type mice, and they weresimilarinthewild-typeandNT-4mutantanimals.Because
