TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


mechanoreceptor popu- lations, intestinal mechanoreceptors were largely eliminated by NT-4 deficiency. Basically, although the number of endings was altered,theoveralldistributionsofIGLEsintheduodenumwere similar to those observed previously in wild-type mice, and they weresimilarinthewild-typeandNT-4mutantanimals.Because theleftandrightnodosegangliahavebeenshowntogiveriseto topographically distinct, although partially overlapping, IGLE populationsintheduodenumandbecausetheseprojectionsmay exhibitotherlateralityeffects[unlikethevagalprojectionstothe stomachthatforthemostpartaresymmetrical(Berthoudetal., 1997a; Fox et al., 2000; Wang and Powley, 2000)], we examined intestinalinnervationpatternsinseparategroupsofanimalswith leftandrightnodoseinjections. In the case of animals with left nodose injections, intragangli- onic laminar endings were located throughout the 4 cm of the duodenumexaminedbutweremoreconcentratedintheanterior 1–2cm(datanotshown).However,thenumbersofIGLEswere dramatically reduced in mutants as compared with wild types (90%; p (cid:5) 0.0001) (Figs. 8A,B, 9A). In the NT-4 mutants, the small number of IGLEs present were normal in morphology Figure 5. IGLE and myenteric neuron densities in the stomach were exceptthattheyappearedtobereducedinsurfaceareatoabout similarinwild-typeandNT-4-deficientmice.GraphsofcountsofIGLEs halfthatobservedinwildtypes(Fig.10A,B). (A)inthedorsalwallofeachstomachcompartment(forestomach,cor- The pattern of results in mice with right nodose ganglion pus,andantrum)andmyentericneurons(B)ineachstomachcompart- ment(neuroncountswerepooledfromboththedorsalandventralwalls injections of WGA-HRP replicated and extended the findings ofthestomachbecausethesecountswerenotsignificantlydifferentinany with left nodose injections. The overall pattern of topographic of the stomach compartments). There were no significant differences organization of IGLEs in the duodenum was similar in NT-4 between mutants and controls in any of the stomach compartments mutantsandwildtypes.Consistentwithpreviousobservationsin (two-way ANOVA with repeated measures over GI compartment; IGLEs, genotype (cid:4) compartment, p (cid:3) 0.18; myenteric neurons, geno- other strains of mice and rats (Wang and type(cid:4)compartment,p(cid:3)0.36). Powley, 2000), the IGLE density was much lower in the most proximal duodenum in both mutants and controls with right IGLE density in the antrum, the most distal stomach compart- nodoseinjections,comparedwithleftnodoseinjections(Fig.9A). ment(50%)(Figs.5A,6). Intraganglioniclaminarendingswerelocatedthroughoutthe8cm of the duodenum examined and were more evenly distributed NT-4 deficiency does not affect vagal intramuscular-type throughout the length of the duodenum as compared with left mechanoreceptors in thestomach nodose injections (data not shown). Nevertheless, there was a To ascertain whether NT-4 deficiency affected IMA-type vagal substantial decrease in IGLE innervation of the duodenum in mechanoreceptors, the other major vagal sensory terminal type mutantswithrightnodoseganglioninjections(90%;p(cid:3)0.0031) found in the muscle wall of the stomach, we compared the (Fig.9A).Inconjunctionwiththepreviousfindingsforthestom- morphology,distribution,andregionaldensitiesofIMAsinwild- ach,thedramaticreductionofendingsintheduodenumsuggests typeandNT-4mutantmice.Inourpreviouscharacterizationof that the loss of IGLEs is restricted to the small intestine and IMAsinseveralstrainsofmice(Foxetal.,2000),including129 thereforeisorgan-specific. wild-typemice,wefoundthatIMAsconsistedofvariablelength An additional experiment was performed to address the con- telodendria(longrectilinearnerveterminalprocessesofanIMA cernthatadeficitintherateofaxonaltransportofWGA-HRPin receptor) that ran parallel to either circular (referred to as cir- mutantscouldproduceanapparentdecreaseininnervationofa cular IMAs) (Fig. 2, top panel) or longitudinal (referred to as more distal organ (duodenum) as compared with normal inner- longitudinal IMAs) (Fig. 1, top panel) smooth muscle fibers. vation of a more proximal organ (stomach), when in fact its Typically, all
