TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


distal organ (duodenum) as compared with normal inner- longitudinal IMAs) (Fig. 1, top panel) smooth muscle fibers. vation of a more proximal organ (stomach), when in fact its Typically, all of the associated telodendria that formed a wild- innervationdensityisalsonormal.Toaddressthispossibility,the type IMA ran in the same direction and often they were inter- ileum, which is distal to the duodenum, was also sampled for connected by oblique or perpendicular crossbridge fibers. In the IGLEsinthemutantandwild-typemicethatwereinjectedinthe present study, we determined that IMA morphology (Fig. 7, right nodose ganglion. WGA-HRP-labeled IGLEs with normal compare A, B) and density (p (cid:3) 0.67) (Fig. 7C) were similar in structure were present in the ileum of both mutants and wild wild-type and mutant mice. IMA distributions in both groups types, although again there was a reduction in the number of werealsosimilartoeachotherandtothosepreviouslydescribed IGLEsinNT-4-deficientmice(81%;p(cid:3)0.0002)(Fig.9B).These inmousestrains,includingthe129strain(datanotshown)(Fox results suggest that the loss of IGLEs extends at least as far 8608 J.Neurosci.,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 Foxetal.•NT-4LossAltersMechanoreceptorsandFoodIntake Figure6. ThemorphologyofIGLEsinthestomach.IGLEmorphologyinthestomachaslabeledbyWGA-HRPwassimilarinwild-type(A,C)and NT-4mutantmice(B,D).GroupsofIGLEsdistributefromaxonsthatarisefromnearbyfiberbundles.AandBarelow-magnification(scalebar,200 (cid:1)m),whereasCandDarehigh-magnification(scalebar,100(cid:1)m)darkfieldphotomicrographsofIGLEsfromthestomachcorpus. caudal as the ileum. Because the ileum of mutants contained (Saffrey and Burnstock, 1994; Esteban et al., 1998; Zhou et al., labeled IGLEs, and because the ileum lies further from the 1998; Lommatzsch et al., 1999; De Giorgio et al., 2000). There- injection site than does the duodenum, a deficit in the rate of fore,thedistributionandregionaldensitiesofmyentericneurons WGA-HRPtransportisnotlikelytoaccountforthedevastation stainedwithcuprolinicbluewerecharacterizedintheforestom- of intestinal vagal sensory innervation that occurred in NT-4 ach,corpus,antrum,duodenum,andileumofwild-typeandNT-4 mutants. mutantmicetodeterminewhethersuchalossoccurred.Although there were trends toward reduced myenteric neuron numbers in Loss of intestinal IGLEs produced by NT-4 deficiency the duodenum (13%) and the antrum (40%) of mutants, they was not associated with a significant loss of myenteric neurons werenotsignificant(Figs.5B,9C). TheintimaterelationshipbetweenIGLEsandmyentericneurons Bundles of afferent fibers in the duodenum muscle in wild-type mice raises the possibility that the loss of most wall were substantially reduced in NT-4mutants IGLEsfromthemyentericgangliaofthesmallintestineofNT-4 Injection of WGA-HRP into the left nodose ganglion of NT-4 mutantsmightleadtofaileddifferentiationordevelopmentofthe mutantsandwild-typemiceproduceddenselabelingofsensory subpopulation of myenteric neurons that are normally closely axons in the WGA-HRP-labeled whole mounts that permitted apposedtoIGLEs.Thepotentialforsuchatrophicorfunctional visualizationoftheirdistributionpatternsadjacenttoandwithin relationshipbetweenIGLEsandmyentericneuronsissupported the subdiaphragmatic esophagus, lower esophageal sphincter by the presence of several peptide neurotransmitters in vagal (LES),stomach,pylorus,andduodenum.Inwild-typemice,these afferents that include IGLEs , by electron distributions were similar to the patterns in C57 mice as previ- microscope evidence for synaptic contacts between IGLEs and ously reported . This innervation pattern was myenteric neurons (Neuhuber, 1987), and by the presence of also similar in NT-4 mutant mice in the esophagus and most neurotrophinsandtheirreceptorsinbothvagalafferents(Ernfors regionsofthestomach.However,WGA-HRP-labeledfiberbun- et al., 1992; Wetmore and Olson, 1995; Zhuo and Helke,
