TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


(Neuhuber, 1987), and by the presence of also similar in NT-4 mutant mice in the esophagus and most neurotrophinsandtheirreceptorsinbothvagalafferents(Ernfors regionsofthestomach.However,WGA-HRP-labeledfiberbun- et al., 1992; Wetmore and Olson, 1995; Zhuo and Helke, 1996; dles in the duodenum were sparse in the mutants, and the few Helke et al., 1998; Zhou et al., 1998) and the myenteric plexus bundles present were often smaller in diameter than is typical Foxetal.•NT-4LossAltersMechanoreceptorsandFoodIntake J.Neurosci.,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 8609 Figure 8. There was a substantial loss of IGLEs in the duodenum of NT-4-deficient mice. Low-magnification darkfield photomicrograph of IGLEslabeledwithWGA-HRP(someIGLEsareidentifiedbyarrows)in awild-type(A)andanNT-4mutant(B)mouse.Eachfieldislocatedin the same region of the duodenum, a region that normally has a high densityofIGLEs.OnlyonelabeledIGLEispresentinthisregionofa mutantduodenum(B).Scalebar,0.5mm. ceptors focused there. Because the majority of vagal afferents innervatingthemucosaalsocoursethroughthemyentericplexus connectives,thescarcityofaxonsinthemusclewallsuggeststhe possibility that the NT-4 knock-out eliminates vagal afferents to the mucosa as well as to the muscle wall. Further work will be necessarytodeterminethestatusofthismucosalinnervation. Figure7. IMAmorphologyanddensityinthestomachweresimilarin NT-4-deficient mice have a selective feeding deficit in wild-type and NT-4-deficient mice. A, B, Darkfield photomicrographs regulation of mealduration from the forestomachs in the region of peak circular IMA density of a The present finding of near complete organ-specific vagal deaf- wild-type (A) and an NT-4 mutant (B) mouse illustrate the similar densitiesofcircularIMAs(labeledwithWGA-HRP)thatwereobserved ferentationinNT-4-deficientmiceprovidedauniqueopportunity ineachgroupofmice.TheIMAsarethelargelyrectilinearprocessesthat toexploretheroleofIGLEinnervationofthesmallintestinein sweep across the image (oriented horizontally and diagonally). A small regulationofingestivebehavior,potentiallywithouttheconfound numberofsensoryaxonbundlesandIGLEsarealsopresent.Scalebars, 100(cid:1)m.C,GraphofcircularIMAdensityinthestomach.Therewasno ofvagalefferentdamage.Therefore,mealpatternanalyseswere differencebetweenNT-4mutantsandcontrols(unpairedttest;p(cid:3)0.66). used to assess the effects of IGLE loss in the intestine on food intake patterns. Several parameters were assessed daily for 2 weeksinNT-4mutantandcontrolmicefedbalancedandnutri- (Fig.11,compareA,B).Thisdramatic79%lossofvagalsensory tionally complete solid or liquid diets. These measures included axonbundleslimitedtothesmallintestine(meanbundledensity, firstmealsize(intakeduringinitial30minofdarkphaseaftera wildtype,22.03(cid:6)1.55/mm2;NT-4mutant,4.6(cid:6)1.3/mm2;p(cid:3) 6 hr fast during lights-on), meal size, meal duration, meal fre- 0.00014;two-wayANOVA,repeatedmeasuresoverrostral–cau- quency,intermealinterval,intakerate,andbodyweight.Thedata dal duodenum levels) is consistent with the loss of mechanore- are presented as averages of these measures over the last 6 d of 8610 J.Neurosci.,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615 Foxetal.•NT-4LossAltersMechanoreceptorsandFoodIntake Figure10. MorphologyofIGLEsinthesmallintestineofwild-typeand NT-4 mutant mice. High-magnification darkfield photomicrographs of IGLEslabeledwithWGA-HRP(eachpairofarrowsindicatestheextent oflongaxisofthedenseterminalpunctathatcompriseoneIGLE)inthe duodenum of a wild-type (A, oriented horizontally) and an NT-4- deficient(B,orienteddiagonally)mouse.InA,adensebundleoflabeled axonscoursesverticallyattheleftoftheimage.InB,asingleaxonrunning diagonallygivesrisetotheIGLEandthencontinueson;additionalaxons coursediagonallyabovetheIGLE.Scalebar,100(cid:1)m. testing (days 9–14) to ensure that the food intake patterns had stabilized so that the influence of any potential differences in learning ability between mutants and controls wouldbeminimized.Thesignificanteffectsaregraphed,andthe nonsignificantdatathataredescribedarepresentedinTable2. Themajorityofthefoodintakeparameterscharacterizedwere similarinwild-typeandNT-4mutantmice.Themostprominent Figure9. QuantificationofIGLEsandmyentericneuronsintheduode- num and ileum of wild-type and NT-4-deficient mice (*p (cid:5) 0.05). A, difference that was observed was a significant 76% increase in GraphofthecountsofIGLEsintheduodenumofmutantsandcontrols meal duration in the NT-4-deficient mice tested with the solid afterWGA-HRPinjectionsineithertheleftortherightnodoseganglion diet(p(cid:3)0.01)(Fig.12A).Despitethisdramaticincreaseinmeal illustratethesubstantialIGLElossinNT-4-deficientmice(90%;ttest; duration, there was no consistent increase in meal size in the leftnodoseinjections,p(cid:5)0.0001;rightnodoseinjections,p(cid:3)0.0031). mutants and no difference in total daily intake
