TheJournalofNeuroscience,November1,2001,21(21):8602–8615
KEYWORDS: cid, nt-, cid cid, mice, vagal, meal, igles, loss, mutants, neurons, duodenum, nodose, fig, foxetal, wild-type


mutants (the intact class may correspond to rapidly adapting afferents) . Several mechanisms could account for differential survival of gastricandintestinalmechanoreceptors.Thetimetablesforneu- rotrophindependencyofnodosecellsandfortheirtargetinner- vationmayfavorsurvivalofmoreproximalIGLEs(i.e.,gastric). Forinstance,gastricafferentsaremorelikelythanintestinalones toreachtheirtargetorganbeforenodosecelldeath(seeabove), and therefore have more opportunity to be rescued by a target- derived factor other than NT-4. BDNF, for example, might be able to compensate for NT-4 loss. BDNF and NT-4 share the same high-affinity receptor, trkB, and BDNF is present in the musclewalloftheGItract(Hoehneretal.,1996;Lommatzschet al., 1999). The shared trkB receptor underlies the ability of BDNF and NT-4 to substitute for one another to promote sur- vival of nodose ganglion neurons in vitro (Davies et al., 1993; Ibanezetal.,1993;Buj-Belloetal.,1994;Hertzbergetal.,1994; Thaler et al., 1994), and of NT-4 to substitute for some BDNF functions in vivo, including normalizing the loss of nodose neu- rons in BDNF knock-out mice . Alternatively, gastric and intestinal IGLEs may represent different receptor phenotypeswithdifferentpropertiesthatinfluencetheirsurvival in the absence of NT-4. For instance, gastric and intestinal IGLEs might have different neurotrophin dependencies (e.g., gastric IGLE neurons might be among the BDNF-dependent pool of nodose cells) (Conover et al., 1995; Liu et al., 1995; Ericksonetal.,1996;ElShamyandErnfors,1997)orneurochem- icalproperties(e.g.,gastricandintestinalIGLEsaredifferentially sensitivetocapsaicin)(Berthoudetal.,1997b). Loss of vagal IGLE innervation of the small intestine disrupts regulation of short-termsatiety NT-4 deficiency was associated with increases in meal duration withsolidfoodandinmealsizewithliquidfood,suggestingthat the intestinal IGLE pathway contributes to regulation of short- termintake.Despitethesechanges,normaltotaldailyintakesand bodyweightsweremaintainedbycompensatorychangesinother mealparameters(e.g.,decreasedintakerateandmealfrequency for solid food) implying that long-term controls that govern homeostasis can operate normally in the absence of intestinal IGLEs. This is an important dissociation because it is often Figure 12. Short-term satiety was disrupted in NT-4 mutant mice as showningraphsofthemealparametersthatweresignificantlydifferent difficulttoexperimentallyseparatetheactionsofshort-termcon- between mutants and controls (*p (cid:5) 0.05). Two-way ANOVA with trols(regulateintakeinindividualmeals)andlong-termcontrols repeated measures over days was used for all comparisons. A, Meal (regulate intake integrated over many meals) in spontaneously durationwasalmostdoubledinmutantsrelativetocontrolsconsuminga solid pellet diet (p (cid:3) 0.01). B, Average meal size was (cid:7)10% larger in feeding animals. For example, experimental manipulations (or NT-4-deficientmiceconsumingtheIsocalliquiddiet(p(cid:3)0.007).C,First pathologies)thatalterfeedingpatternsareoftenassociatedwith meal size was (cid:7)50% larger in NT-4 mutants compared with wild-type changes in body weight (for examples, see Kissileff et al., 1979; mice (p (cid:3) 0.04) consuming the liquid diet, indicating that the rate of Strohmayer and Smith, 1987), and therefore the meal pattern intakeofmutantswashigherduringthefirst30minoffoodexposureeach changes attributable to the direct effect of the manipulation day. cannot be distinguished from the changes that result from the effectsofalteredbodyweightonlong-termregulation.Basedon Farinas et al., 1996; Liebl et al., 1997). The small number of the hypothesis that IGLEs transduce muscle stretch or tension intestinalIGLEsthatremaininNT-4-deficientmicemayrepre- producedbydistensionorperistalticcontractionthatoccurswith sent a subpopulation
