Bioresorbable stent implantation to treat coronary artery disease
KEYWORDS: coronary, artery, coronary artery, bioresorbable, stent, bioresorbable stent, procedure, risk, disease, evidence, artery disease, stent implantation, implantation treat, implantation, stents


stent implantation to treat coronary artery disease (IPG732) guidewire is used to dilate the coronary artery stenosis. A bioresorbable stent mounted on a balloon catheter is passed over the guide wire into the relevant segment of the artery. Then, it is expanded by inflation of the balloon inside it. The balloon is then deflated and removed with the guide wire. The stent acts as a scaffold to hold the vessel open. Additional imaging, such as intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography, is sometimes used to guide the procedure. This is to optimise positioning and deployment of the stent in the target coronary artery. 2.6 Bioresorbable stents are absorbed over time. Most bioresorbable stents are also drug-eluting, with a view to reducing the risk of restenosis. Antiplatelet medicines such as aspirin and clopidogrel are usually prescribed for at least 6 months after the procedure. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 13 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 1 health technology assessment, 2 randomised controlled trials, 3 systematic reviews with meta-analysis, 5 case series and 2 case reports. It is presented in the summary of key evidence section in the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.2 The professional experts and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: reduced coronary insufficiency symptoms, maintenance of coronary patency, a reduced myocardial infarction rate and reduced mortality. 3.3 The professional experts and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: death, myocardial infarction, in-stent thrombosis and need for further intervention. 3.4 Patient commentary was sought but none was received.
