Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, cardiac, coronary, left, right, volume, ventricular, blood, pressure, aortic, contraction, anterior, posterior, artery, muscle


rate which may result in inadequate perfusion. 1.3.2 Coronary veins Most of the heart’s venous drainage is fulfilled by the tributaries of the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus runs in the posterior atrioventricular groove. It opens into the right atrium just to the left of the opening of the inferior vena cava. Its orifice is guarded by the Thebesian valve. Its tributaries are: • the great cardiac vein in the anterior interventricular groove • the middle cardiac vein in the inferior interventricular groove • the small cardiac vein that accompanies the marginal artery along the inferior border of the heart • the oblique vein which descends obliquely on the posterior side of the left atrium. The remaining venous drainage is fulfilled by: • the anterior cardiac veins (3 or 4 of them) draining a large proportion of the anterior surface of the heart directly into the right atrium • small veins (venae cordis minimae) within each chamber wall draining directly into their respective chambers. 7 ChAPter 1 // AnAtoMy And PhySioLogy of the CArdioVASCuLAr SySteM 1.4 Conducting system of the heart Conducting system In A Heartbeat SA node depolarisation → atrial contraction → AV node activation (0.1 s delay) → bundle of His → left and right bundle branches → Purkinje fibres → ventricular contraction Figure 1.6 – The conducting system of the heart. The sinoatrial (SA) node (the ‘pacemaker of the heart’) is situated at the junction of the superior vena cava and the right atrium. This is where the electrical cycle begins. 1. The SA node initiates contraction by depolarising both atria, causing them to contract and pump blood into the ventricles. 2. The atrial action potential activates the AV node which lies in the interatrial septum immediately above the opening of the coronary sinus. 3. The AV node introduces a delay of 0.1 seconds before relaying the impulse to the bundle of His. This delay allows the ventricles to fill. 4. Depolarisation then spreads through the bundle of His (which then divides into the left and right bundle branches) and Purkinje fibres to reach the ventricular muscle. 5. This activates the ventricles and causes them to contract. In a normal heart, the total time taken for the action potential to travel from the SA node to the end of the Purkinje fibres is about 0.22 seconds. A normal sinus rhythm is approximately 72 beats per min, which
