Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, cardiac, coronary, left, right, volume, ventricular, blood, pressure, aortic, contraction, anterior, posterior, artery, muscle


action potential to travel from the SA node to the end of the Purkinje fibres is about 0.22 seconds. A normal sinus rhythm is approximately 72 beats per min, which equates to 0.83 seconds for each cardiac cycle. 8 1.6 // the CArdiAC Cy CLe 1.5 Nerve supply of the heart • While the conductive system of the heart has its proprietary intrinsic pacemaker, the autonomic nervous system is important in the rate of impulse formation, conduction and contraction strength • The heart’s nerve supply is derived from the vagus nerve (parasympathethic cardio- inhibitor) and the C1-T5 sympathetic ganglia (cardio-accelerator) via the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses • Many drugs used in cardiology target the receptors shown in Table 1.1 (e.g. beta-blockers). Table 1.1 – Actions of the autonomic nervous system on the heart Sympathetic stimulation via β-adrenoceptors Parasympathetic stimulation via M receptors 1 2 ↑ Heart rate ↓ Heart rate ↑ AV conduction ↓ AV conduction ↑ Contractility ↓ Contractility ↑ Excitability ↓ Excitability // Why? // Cardiac pain is not found exclusively in the chest but often radiates down the medial side of the left arm and up to the neck and jaw. This is because radiation occurs to areas that send sensory impulses to the same level of the spinal cord that receives cardiac sensation. The sensory fibres from the heart travel up to T1-4, hence radiating to the medial left arm via dermatomes T1-4. Cardiac vagal afferent fibres synapse in the medulla and descend to the upper cervical spinothalamic tract cell, contributing to the pain felt in the neck and jaw. 1.6 The cardiac cycle The cardiac cycle In A Heartbeat Four phases: Ventricular diastole (relaxation) Isovolumetric Ventricular filling ventricular relaxation • Ventricles relax • AV valves open • Aortic & pulmonary valves close – • Atria contract, filling ventricles S “dub” • Maximally filled volume = end-diastolic volume 2 9 ChAPter 1 // AnAtoMy And PhySioLogy of the CArdioVASCuLAr SySteM Ventricular systole (contraction) Isovolumetric Ventricular ejection ventricular contraction • Ventricles contract • Aortic & pulmonary valves open • AV valves close – S “lub” • Blood flows into aorta & pulmonary trunk 1 • Residual volume after ejection = end-systolic volume • Isovolumetric means that the ventricles contract or relax with no corresponding change in ventricular volume. There are periods during these phases when all valves are closed. Conversely, there is never a point in
