Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, cardiac, coronary, left, right, volume, ventricular, blood, pressure, aortic, contraction, anterior, posterior, artery, muscle


in cardiac output. Afterload • Afterload is the degree of heart muscle stretching (wall stress) during systole • It is inversely related to stroke volume • It is affected by the forces that oppose ejection of blood out of the ventricles • Factors increasing afterload include: raised aortic pressure aortic stenosis increased systemic vascular resistance such as during hypovolaemic shock ventricular dilatation • Factors decreasing afterload include: vasodilator drugs e.g. nitrates, calcium channel blockers (non-rate limiting) vasodilator metabolites in septic shock. 15 ChAPter 1 // AnAtoMy And PhySioLogy of the CArdioVASCuLAr SySteM Contractility • The contractility of the heart is the force of myocardial contraction • The ejection fraction on echocardiography can be used as a measure of contractility • Factors increasing contractility include: increased preload (Frank–Starling mechanism) sympathetic stimulation raised extracellular calcium drugs e.g. inotropes, digoxin hormones e.g. catecholamines, thyroxine, growth hormone, glucagon • Factors decreasing contractility include: reduced preload (Frank-Starling mechanism) parasympathetic stimulation decreased extracellular calcium cardiac ischaemia hypoxia hypercapnia acidosis drugs e.g. beta-blockers, anaesthetics, antiarrhythmics. 1.10 Blood pressure Blood pressure In A Heartbeat • Blood pressure sensed by baroreceptors (carotid sinus, aortic arch) • Low BP → baroreceptor reflex → ↑ vasoconstriction, ↑ HR, ↑ contractility Renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system: • renin → angiotensin I → angiotensin II → vasoconstriction + water retention → ↑ BP 1.10.1 Definitions • Blood pressure is the pressure exerted by circulating blood against the vessel walls • It can be calculated using the formula: Blood pressure (BP) = Cardiac output (CO) × systemic vascular resistance (SVR) • The systolic pressure is the maximum pressure recorded during systole • The diastolic pressure is the minimum pressure recorded during diastole • The pulse pressure is the systolic pressure minus the diastolic pressure can be examined when feeling a patient’s pulse at a normal blood pressure of 120/80 mmHg, the pulse pressure is 40 mmHg a narrow or wide pulse pressure is pathological (refer to Chapter 2). 1.10.2 Regulation of blood pressure Blood pressure regulation is an important part of homeostasis to ensure adequate perfusion to all parts of the body and preserving organ function. Blood pressure is regulated by regulating cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance. 16
