Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


ABSTRACT Lipoprotein apheresis (LA) involves the physical removal of lipoproteins from the blood and is employed only in patients where lifestyle and pharmacologic treatment is not capable of decreasing lipoproteins to acceptable levels. There are a number of different guidelines for the use of LA. The FDA has approved the use of LA for patients with homozygous or heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and LDL-C levels >300mg/dL, patients with heterozygous FH with LDL-C > 100mg/dL with coronary artery disease or peripheral artery disease, or patients with FH who have LDL-C ≥ 100 mg/dL and established CAD or PAD and an Lp(a) above a threshold (commonly ~ 60 mg/dL). In other countries the guidelines are more liberal. Lipoproteins may be removed from the circulation by precipitation, adsorption, or filtration. A number of different systems are currently available for LA (heparin precipitation, binding to polyacrylate anions or dextran sulfate, filters that remove lipoproteins based on size, and columns containing antibodies to apolipoprotein B or lipoprotein (a)). The effect of these different LA methods on LDL-C and lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) levels are very similar with LDL-C and LP(a) levels decreasing by 50-85%. Over 8-13 days the LDL-C and Lp(a) levels increase and may return to baseline levels but in some patients the baseline levels are reduced below the starting values. Triglyceride levels decrease by approximately 50% and HDL-C levels may also decrease depending on the method of apheresis. Triglyceride and HDL-C levels return to baseline levels by 24 hours. LA is generally well tolerated. There are no large, randomized studies examining the effect of apheresis on cardiovascular events but there are other types of studies demonstrating the benefits of LA on atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease including observational studies in patients with homozygous FH, studies examining the effect of apheresis on the progression of atherosclerosis, and studies comparing rates of cardiovascular events pre-apheresis and during apheresis. While these studies do not definitively demonstrate that LA decreases cardiovascular events, the results of these studies coupled with the randomized studies of LDL-C lowering with drugs makes it extremely likely that lowering LDL-C levels with LA will reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. Whether lowering Lp(a) levels with LA will reduce cardiovascular events is less certain but given the epidemiology data, genetic studies, basic science experiments, and animal experiments it is very likely that lowering elevated Lp(a) will also have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes. Thus, in carefully
