Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


the epidemiology data, genetic studies, basic science experiments, and animal experiments it is very likely that lowering elevated Lp(a) will also have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes. Thus, in carefully selected patient’s LA is a useful procedure to lower LDL-C and Lp(a) levels thereby reducing the risk of cardiovascular events. With the availability of drugs that in combination are very effective in lowering LDL-C and the development of drugs that markedly reduce Lp(a) levels the number of patients that will need LA should decrease markedly. Finally, plasmapheresis has been utilized to rapidly decrease plasma triglyceride levels in patients with very high triglyceride levels and pancreatitis. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Lipoprotein apheresis (LA) involves the physical removal of lipoproteins from the blood and is employed in patients where lifestyle and pharmacologic treatment is not capable of decreasing lipoproteins to acceptable levels ( 1 - 5 ). LA is not widely used but in selected patients can have dramatic effects on lipoprotein levels and clinical benefit ( 1 - 5 ). INDICATIONS LA is only recommended after maximal lifestyle and drug treatment fails to achieve acceptable lipoprotein levels. There are a number of guidelines and recommendations for the use of LA. In the United States the Food and Drug Administration has approved the use of LA for a limited number of patient categories ( Table 1 ) ( 5 ). Table 1. Patients Approved for LA by the FDA View in own window 1) Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) homozygotes with LDL-C > 500mg/dL 2) FH heterozygotes with LDL-C > 300mg/dL 3) FH heterozygotes with LDL-C > 100mg/dL with CAD or PAD 4) Patients with FH who have LDL-C ≥ 100 mg/dL and established CAD or PAD and an Lp(a) above a threshold (commonly ≈ 60 mg/dL) Patients must be on diet and maximally tolerated drug therapy CAD = coronary artery disease; PAD = peripheral artery disease. In other countries the guidelines are more liberal. For example, in Germany LA is accepted for additional indications ( Table 2 ) ( 6 ). Table 2. Indications for LA in Germany View in own window 1) Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) 2) Heterozygous FH or other severe hypercholesterolemia if, despite ≥ 12 months of maximal tolerated diet + lipid-lowering therapy, LDL-C targets are not achieved 3) Lp(a): independent of LDL-C concentrations patients with
