Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


FH or other severe hypercholesterolemia if, despite ≥ 12 months of maximal tolerated diet + lipid-lowering therapy, LDL-C targets are not achieved 3) Lp(a): independent of LDL-C concentrations patients with progressive cardiovascular disease and Lp(a) concentrations > 60 mg/dL. Initiation of LA treatment should be considered when diet and lipid lowering drugs are ineffective In general, patients with homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) who do not have an adequate response to lipid lowering drugs are candidates for LA and this should be initiated as soon as possible. Additionally, apheresis can be considered in patients with elevated cholesterol levels if atherosclerotic vascular disease is present and progressive and if LDL-C treatment goals are not achieved despite maximal drug therapy. The use of LA solely for the lowering of Lp(a) varies depending upon location. As noted in table 2 , in Germany an elevated Lp(a), independent of LDL-C concentrations, in patients with progressive cardiovascular disease is an indication for LA. In the United States the widespread use of LA is limited by the high expense of this treatment and by the small number of centers that perform this procedure (in the US fewer than 60 centers with approximately 600 patients) ( 2 ). In contrast, in Germany there are over 350 centers that perform LA and the number of patients treated is over 3,000 ( 4 , 7 ). In pregnant women with homozygous or heterozygous FH LA when available can be utilized to lower LDL-C levels as the use of many drugs is relatively contraindicated during pregnancy ( 8 ). In children with homozygous (FH) and very high LDL-C levels LA treatment can be initiated prior to puberty ( 9 , 10 ). It is likely that in the future the need for LA will be markedly diminished by the recent development of new drugs for lowering LDL-C levels ( 11 ). For example, in patients with heterozygous FH the use of PCSK9 inhibitors will markedly reduce the need for LA ( 11 ). In patients with heterozygous FH on LA, treatment with a PCSK9 inhibitor resulted in 63% to 77% being able to discontinue LA ( 11 , 12 ). In patients with homozygous FH the availability of PCSK9 inhibitors, lomitapide, and evinacumab might also decrease the need for LA ( 11 ). Additionally, in the future drugs that specifically and markedly lower Lp(a) may become available ( 13 , 14
