Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


and evinacumab might also decrease the need for LA ( 11 ). Additionally, in the future drugs that specifically and markedly lower Lp(a) may become available ( 13 , 14 ). Thus, in the future the number of patients that require LA should be limited with the majority of patients having homozygous FH. LA METHODS Lipoproteins may be removed from the circulation by precipitation, adsorption, or filtration ( Table 3 ) ( 2 - 4 , 7 ). A number of different systems are currently available for LA ( Table 3 ) ( 2 - 4 , 7 ). Table 3. LA Systems View in own window HELP: Heparin-induced extracorporal LDL precipitation Based on the precipitation of apolipoprotein B containing lipoproteins in acidic conditions by forming complexes with other proteins DALI: Direct adsorption of lipoproteins Positively charged apolipoprotein B binds to negatively charged polyacrylate anions Liposorber: Dextran sulfate Positively charged apolipoprotein B binds to negatively charged dextran sulfate MONET: Lipid filtration Series of filters eliminate lipoproteins based on size TheraSorb: Apolipoprotein B antibodies Plasma is passed through columns containing apolipoprotein B antibodies that bind lipoproteins Lipopac: Apoprotein (a) antibodies (this is only used for research purposes) Plasma is passed through columns containing apoprotein (a) antibodies that bind Lp(a) LA is typically carried out on a weekly or biweekly schedule. A typical session is 1.5 – 4 hours. Venous blood is utilized and anticoagulation is required. Some methods utilize plasma (immunoadsorption, filtration, dextran sulfate (Liposorber), HELP) while others utilize whole blood (DALI and dextran sulfate (Liposorber D)) ( 2 - 4 , 7 ). In the United States HELP precipitation and dextran sulfate adsorption (Liposorber) are approved by the FDA ( 2 ). A schematic of the Liposorber system is shown in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Liposorber System ( http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/pdf12/H120005b.pdf ). EFFECT OF LA ON LIPOPROTEINS While there are several different LA methods (see table 3 ), the effect of these different methods on plasma lipoprotein levels are similar except for modest differences in their effect on HDL-C levels ( 2 - 4 , 15 - 17 ). Soon after LA, LDL-C and Lp(a) levels are decreased by 50-85% ( 2 - 5 , 15 ). Over 8-13 days the LDL-C and Lp(a) levels increase such that they may be only modestly decreased or return to baseline prior to the next LA session ( 2 , 4 , 18 ,
