Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


LDL-C and Lp(a) levels increase such that they may be only modestly decreased or return to baseline prior to the next LA session ( 2 , 4 , 18 , 19 ). The mean time-averaged LDL-C reduction is ≈35% in patients with homozygous FH and 22% in patients with heterozygous FH with biweekly LA while the mean time-averaged LDL-C reduction with weekly LA is 46% in homozygous FH and 31% in heterozygous FH ( 5 ). Lp(a) levels tend to rebound more slowly than LDL ( 2 , 4 , 19 ). After chronic LA the pretreatment levels of LDL and Lp(a) in some patients may be reduced by 20 to 40% ( 2 , 4 , 19 ). Weekly apheresis is more effective in lowering baseline lipoprotein levels than biweekly apheresis. The concomitant use of drug therapy is beneficial, slowing the rebound in lipoprotein levels, even in patients with homozygous FH ( 2 , 4 , 19 ). In a systemic review of children with homozygous FH LA resulted in a 60-70% reduction in LDL-C ( 20 ). Triglyceride levels may decrease by 50% with LA but the plasma triglyceride levels return to baseline levels by 24 hours ( 2 , 4 ). HDL-C levels also may transiently decrease by 5-20% but return to baseline within 24 hours ( 2 , 4 ). The explanation for the decrease in HDL-C is uncertain, but may be due to hemodilution, activation of hepatic triglyceride lipase, or the decreased activity of LCAT ( 2 ). Notably the acute decrease in HDL-C is greater than the decrease in apolipoprotein A-I ( 2 ). Table 4. Effect of LA on Plasma Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total cholesterol ↓↓↓ LDL-C ↓↓↓ Lp(a) ↓↓↓ HDL-C ↓ Triglycerides ↓↓ The commonly used LA methods are not typically used to remove chylomicrons. Instead in patients with markedly elevated triglycerides and severe pancreatitis plasma exchange may be used to rapidly remove chylomicrons and lower plasma triglyceride levels ( 21 , 22 ). There is little evidence that this is beneficial in reducing the severity of the pancreatitis ( 23 ). TARGET LEVELS OF LIPOPROTEINS DURING LONG TERM LA The following goals of therapy have been suggested ( Table 5 ) ( 19 ). It should be recognized that these goals are not based on randomized controlled outcome trials but are suggestions by experts. Table 5.
