Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


suggested ( Table 5 ) ( 19 ). It should be recognized that these goals are not based on randomized controlled outcome trials but are suggestions by experts. Table 5. Lipoprotein Targets During Long Term Apheresis View in own window Patient Group Lipoprotein Baseline + (% decrease*) Interval Mean + (% decrease*) FH Homozygote LDLc <332mg/dL (>55) <254mg/dL (>65) FH Heterozygote LDLc --- <101mg/dL (>60) Increased Lp(a) Lp(a) --- <50mg/dL * Compared with baseline off all lipid lowering treatment. + Baseline levels are immediately before apheresis and interval mean is the level obtained by integrating the area under the post apheresis rebound curve. PLEOTROPIC EFFECTS OF LA In addition to decreasing lipoprotein levels, LA has other effects ( Table 6 ) ( 1 , 2 , 24 ). LA removes both LDL-bound PCSK9 and apoB-free PCSK9 ( 25 ) resulting in an approximately 50% decrease in PCSK9 levels with the recovery to the pre-treatment level within 24 hours ( 24 , 25 ) Table 6. Pleotropic Effects of LA View in own window Decrease in C-reactive protein, SAA, and other inflammatory markers Decrease in fibrinogen and other coagulation factors Decrease in plasminogen and other fibrinolytic proteins Decrease complement Decrease in plasma and blood viscosity Decrease in PCSK9 levels Increased nitric oxide production It should be noted that the levels of these proteins rapidly return towards normal and the clinical significance of these changes is unknown. EFFECT OF LA ON ATHEROSCLEROSIS AND CARDIOVASCULAR OUTCOMES There are no large, randomized outcome studies examining the effect of LA on cardiovascular event rates. Performing such a study would be very difficult and given the abundance of evidence that marked hypercholesterolemia causes cardiovascular events randomizing patients with very high levels of LDL-C to a group that is not treated would raise ethical concerns. However, there are a large number of other types of studies that provide insights into the benefits of LA on atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. Observational Studies in Patients with Homozygous FH In 1985 Thompson and colleagues reported that plasma exchange for a mean of 8.4 years decreased peak serum cholesterol levels by 37% in five patients with homozygous FH and resulted in 5.5 year longer survival than their five respective homozygous siblings ( 26 ). In a larger group of patients with homozygous FH, Keller also reported that survival was improved in the patients treated with LA compared to those treated only
