Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


demonstrating no significant improvement but no progression with LA. In 1998 Richter and colleagues described the effect of LA in 34 patients with coronary heart disease and heterozygous FH not adequately responsive to lipid-lowering drugs ( 32 ). Baseline LDL-C levels were 269 +/- 62 mg/dL and the calculated-on treatment interval mean LDL-C was 129 +/- 23mg/dL. Coronary angiography revealed regression of lesions in 4 patients (11.8%) and no progression in 19 patients (55.8%). In a multicenter study Stefanutti et al reported on the effect of LA on the progression of coronary artery lesions in 19 patients ( 33 ). The levels of LDL-C decreased from 130mg/dL pre-apheresis to 41mg/dL post apheresis. Similarly, Lp(a) levels pre-apheresis decreased from 125mg/dL to 34mg/dL post apheresis. Of note, during apheresis both the pre-apheresis LDL-C and Lp(a) levels were lower than baseline values (LDL: 152mg/dL decreasing to 130mg/dL; Lp(a) 172mg/dL decreasing to 125mg/dL). Coronary catheterization revealed that 94.5% of the lesions were stable over 3.1 years. In 2022 Safarova et al reported the results of LA for 10 plus years on carotid intima medial thickness (CIMT) in 10 patients with severe hypercholesterolemia ( 34 ). Pretreatment LDL-C was 214mg/dL and 40% of the patients had an Lp(a) >60 mg/dL. As expected, LDL-C and Lp(a) levels decreased (over 70% decrease immediately after apheresis). The percentage of patients with CIMT above their “vascular age” decreased from 80% to 30% over the treatment course and the estimated annual rate of change in mean common CIMT was minus 4 µm/year. In general, these angiographic studies suggest that LA has beneficial effects on atherosclerosis. It should be recognized that in many of the patients in the studies described above one would expect worsening of atherosclerosis and therefore the lack of progression in these patients suggests benefit. That these studies demonstrate either regression or decreased progression in these high-risk patients indicate LA is having beneficial effects on atherosclerosis. Studies Comparing Pre-LA Cardiovascular Event Rates to Cardiovascular Event Rates During LA A number of small studies have compared the rate of cardiovascular events prior to the initiation of LA with the rate of cardiovascular events during LA treatment. These studies have consistently shown that the rate of cardiovascular events is reduced during apheresis. A larger German Registry study also found evidence supporting a reduction in cardiovascular events during apheresis. Studies Focusing on LDL-C Gordon and colleagues reported the long term effects
