Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


during apheresis. A larger German Registry study also found evidence supporting a reduction in cardiovascular events during apheresis. Studies Focusing on LDL-C Gordon and colleagues reported the long term effects of LA in 49 patients with homozygous (n=10) or heterozygous FH (n=39) ( 35 ). As expected, there was a 76% decrease in LDL-C levels immediately following apheresis and in patients with homozygous FH there was a progressive decrease in pretreatment LDL-C levels. In patients with heterozygous FH there was no change in pretreatment LDL-C levels. The rate of cardiovascular events during therapy with LDL apheresis and lipid-lowering drugs was 3.5 events per 1,000 patient-months of treatment compared with 6.3 events per 1,000 patient-months for the 5 years before LDL apheresis therapy (P=0.17). Sachais and colleagues retrospectively studied 34 FH patients treated with biweekly LA at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania ( 36 ). As expected, there was a marked reduction of LDL-C level after apheresis and in some but not all patients there was a long-term reduction in their pre-apheresis LDL-C levels. There was a marked decrease in cardiovascular events (3.2-fold decrease) defined as myocardial infarction, stroke, transient ischemic attack or rupture of aortic aneurysm. Similarly, there was also a 20-fold decrease in the need for cardiovascular interventions (coronary artery bypass surgery, carotid endarterectomy, and coronary artery angioplasty or stent placement). Berent et al in an observational study of 30 patients reported that the incidence of cardiovascular disease 2 years after initiating apheresis compared to the 2 years prior to was reduced by 78% ( 37 ). Sampietro et al studied 30 patients with hypercholesterolemia resistant or intolerant to lipid lowering drugs and compared the before and after beginning LA ( 38 ). They reported a marked reduction in events with LA (0.13 vs. 0.58 per year (p < 0.001). Studies Focusing on LDL-C and Lp(a) In a single center study Koziolek and colleagues determined the incidence of major cardiovascular events in 38 patients who were treated during a 20 year period ( 39 ). LDL-C and Lp(a) were reduced by approximately 60%. Major cardiovascular events decreased from 7.02% events per patient per year at the start of lipid apheresis to 1.17% during lipid apheresis. Similarly, the rate of myocardial revascularization decreased from 22.8% to 3.8% per patient per year. A multicenter study by von Dryander and colleagues examined the occurrence of cardiovascular events before apheresis and
