Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


demonstrated regression. In contrast, in the control group seven patients (64%) had progression and four (36%) stayed unchanged. The frequency of regression or no change was greater in the apheresis group than in the control group (P < 0.004). It should be recognized that this was not a randomized study and there may have been subtle differences between the two groups. Mabuchi and colleagues described the effects of LA on coronary artery disease in 43 patients with heterozygous FH treated with cholesterol lowering drug therapy plus apheresis vs. 87 patients with heterozygous FH treated with drug therapy alone ( 56 ). The patients were not randomized and there were differences in smoking, baseline LDL levels, and percent of patients with coronary artery bypass surgery between the apheresis vs. the drug only group. In the patients treated with apheresis the decrease in LDL-C was 58% (LDL-C on treatment 122mg/dL) while in the drug only group the decrease in LDL-C was 28% (LDL-C on treatment 168mg/dL). Major cardiovascular events including nonfatal myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, coronary artery bypass grafting, and death from coronary heart disease were 72% lower in the LA group (10%) compared to the drug therapy alone group (36%) (p=0.0088). The lack of randomization and differences in the treatment groups limit the conclusions of this study. Matsuzaki et al determined the effect of LA for one year in 18 patients with heterozygous FH on minimal lumen diameter (MLD) measured by coronary angiogram and plaque area (PA) measured by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) ( 57 ). All patients were offered LA therapy and 11 patients elected to be treated with medication plus apheresis and 7 patients elected medications alone. The two groups were similar. The apheresis group showed a 34.3% reduction in LDL-C from 213 +/- 25 mg/dL to 140 +/- 27 mg/dL) after one-year. The medication alone group showed no change in LDL-C levels (174mg/dL at baseline and 181mg/dL at one year). Analysis of minimal lumen diameter (MLD) by coronary angiogram revealed an increase in MLD in the apheresis group and a decrease in the medication only group (P=0.008). Analysis of plaque area (PA) by IVUS revealed a decrease in the apheresis group and an increase in the medication only group (p=0.017). Once again, the lack of randomization and the potential for subtle differences in the two groups limit the conclusions of this study. While the four studies described
