Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


only group (p=0.017). Once again, the lack of randomization and the potential for subtle differences in the two groups limit the conclusions of this study. While the four studies described above were not randomized controlled trials, they nevertheless suggest that LA has beneficial effects on the progression of atherosclerosis and the occurrence of cardiovascular events. In a 2-year randomized trial by Kroon and colleagues 42 men with severe coronary atherosclerosis were randomized to simvastatin 40mg daily (n=21) or simvastatin 40mg daily plus LA (n=21) ( 58 ). Baseline LDL-C levels were approximately 300mg/dL and were reduced by 47% in the simvastatin group and 63% in the simvastatin plus apheresis group. No significant differences in quantitative coronary angiographic end points were observed between the two groups. However, in the simvastatin plus apheresis group bicycle exercise testing revealed a 39% increase in the time to 0.1 mV ST-segment depression and the maximum level of ST depression decreased significantly by 0.07 mV versus no changes in the simvastatin only group. Moreover, regional myocardial perfusion improved in the LDL apheresis group and remained unchanged in the medication group ( 59 ). Additionally, mean intima-media thickness decreased by 0.05 +/- 0.34 mm in the apheresis group and increased by 0.06 +/- 0.38 mm in the simvastatin-only group (P < 0.001) while the number of patients with hemodynamically significant stenosis in the aorta-tibial vessels decreased from 9 to 7 in the apheresis group and increased from 6 to 13 in the simvastatin alone group (P = 0.002) ( 60 ). Thus, this study showed that apheresis resulted in functional improvements and a decrease in atherosclerosis in non-coronary vessels. Atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries was not improved by apheresis during this 2-year study. Nevertheless, this randomized trial demonstrates that LA has benefits in patients with marked elevations in LDL-C levels. Studies Focusing on Lp(a) Ezhov and colleagues studied 30 patients who had coronary heart disease with Lp(a) levels ≥50 mg/dL and LDL-C levels ≤ 100 mg/dL on chronic statin therapy ( 61 ). Subjects were allocated to treatment with weekly apheresis with an immunoadsorption column specific for Lp(a) (“Lp(a) Lipopak”(®), POCARD Ltd., Russia) plus atorvastatin (n=15) or atorvastatin monotherapy (n=15). As expected in the apheresis group Lp(a) level decreased by an average of 73 ± 12% to a mean of 29 ± 16 mg/dL while there was no significant change in the atorvastatin monotherapy group. Moreover, carotid
