Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


level decreased by an average of 73 ± 12% to a mean of 29 ± 16 mg/dL while there was no significant change in the atorvastatin monotherapy group. Moreover, carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) did not change in the atorvastatin alone group but in the apheresis group CIMT at 9 and 18 months decreased from baseline by -0.03 ± 0.09 mm (p = 0.05) and -0.07 ± 0.15 mm (p = 0.01), respectively. Additionally, clinical status was improved, with less angina in the apheresis group. This controlled trial demonstrates that lowering Lp(a) by apheresis has beneficial effects on atherosclerosis as determined by measuring CIMT. In contrast, a study by Thompson and colleagues did not demonstrate a benefit of lowering Lp(a) by LA ( 62 ). In this trial patients with heterozygous FH were randomized to simvastatin 40mg daily plus apheresis (n=20) or simvastatin plus colestipol (n=19). LDL-C levels were slightly lower in the apheresis group (125mg/dL vs. 133mg/dL, p= 0.03) while Lp(a) levels were reduced by 33% (14mg/dL vs. 21mg/dL, p=0.03). After a mean of 2.1 years there were no differences in quantitative coronary angiography between the two groups. The results of this study suggest no benefit to lowering Lp(a) levels. However, it should be noted that in this study the Lp(a) levels were not very high and therefore this study did not examine the effect of lowering Lp(a) levels in patients with elevated levels. Additionally, the differences in Lp(a) were small. Finally, in a small study by Khan and colleagues randomized 20 patients with refractory angina and elevated Lp(a) >500 mg/L (normal <300 mg/L) and an LDL-C level less than 156mg/dL (4.0 mmol/L), despite optimal lipid lowering drug therapy to LA or a sham procedure ( 63 ). The reported that total carotid wall volume, a marker of atherosclerosis, increased in the sham group but decreased in the LA group (P < 0.001 between groups) suggesting that apheresis reduces atherosclerotic burden. Summary In conclusion, while the studies described above are not perfect and do not definitively demonstrate that LA decreases cardiovascular events, the results of the LA studies coupled with the randomized studies of LDL-C lowering with statins and other drugs makes it extremely likely that lowering LDL-C levels with LA will reduce the risk of cardiovascular events ( 11 ). Whether lowering Lp(a) levels with LA is somewhat less certain, as to date no intervention to lower Lp(a) levels
