Lipoprotein Apheresis
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, apheresis, ldl-c, pubmed, cardiovascular, group, events, cardiovascular events, ldl-c levels, coronary, treatment, study, decrease, studies


LA will reduce the risk of cardiovascular events ( 11 ). Whether lowering Lp(a) levels with LA is somewhat less certain, as to date no intervention to lower Lp(a) levels has been shown to reduce events. Nevertheless given the epidemiology data, genetic studies, basic science experiments, and animal experiments it is very likely that lowering elevated Lp(a) will have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with high Lp(a) levels ( 64 , 65 ). OTHER BENEFITS OF LA Randomized controlled trials have shown that a single LA was beneficial in restoring hearing in patients with acute hearing loss ( 66 , 67 ). Additionally, LA has been shown to induce remission in approximately 50% of patients with drug-resistant nephrotic syndrome ( 1 , 68 ). The FDA has approved LA for new onset focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in pediatric patients who are resistant to standard treatment ( 1 ). A meta-analysis has also reported benefit in adult patients with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ( 69 ) SIDE EFFECTS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS LA in general is well tolerated. During apheresis a decrease in blood pressure may occur in some patients ( 2 , 3 , 7 , 15 ). Additionally, with long standing apheresis iron deficiency anemia may occur ( 70 ). Heparin is used during most LA procedures and therefore LA is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to heparin or bleeding issues. LA using polyacrylate and dextran sulfate columns converts kininogen to bradykinin leading to marked increases in bradykinin levels ( 71 ). Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inactivates bradykinin and therefore treatment with ACE inhibitors is contraindicated in patients receiving LA with polyacrylate or dextran sulfate as the resulting very high levels of bradykinin may lead to severe hypotension and an anaphylactoid reaction ( 2 , 3 , 71 , 72 ). However, in these patient’s angiotensin receptor blockers can be safely used. CONCLUSION LA is a well-tolerated procedure that markedly lowers LDL-C and Lp(a) levels in patients who do not obtain acceptable levels with maximal lifestyle and drug therapy. Studies strongly suggest that LA will decrease the progression of atherosclerosis and reduce cardiovascular events. Therefore, LA is a potential treatment in selected patients with drug resistant elevations in LDL-C and/or Lp(a) levels. Studies have shown that LA safely reduces LDL-C levels and xanthomas in children with homozygous FH ( 20 ). ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern
