NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. Published in final edited form as: Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2012 December ; 24(12): 1054–1068. doi:. Epigenetics and chromatin dynamics: a review and a paradigm for functional disorders Tamas Ordog, Sabriya Syed, Yujiro Hayashi, and David T. Asuzu Rochester, MN 55905, USA Abstract Background—Motility and functional gastrointestinal disorders have high prevalence in the advances in our understanding of the cellular and molecular basis of gastrointestinal neuromuscular functions, many of these diseases still defy mechanistic explanations. The biopsychosocial model underlying the current classification of functional gastrointestinal disorders recognizes and integrates the pathogenetic role of genetic, environmental and psychosocial factors but has not been associated with specific molecular mechanisms. Purpose—Here we propose that this integrative function is encoded in the chromatin composed of the DNA and associated histone and nonhistone proteins and noncoding RNA. By establishing epigenetically heritable “molecular memories” of past stimuli including environmental challenges, the chromatin determines an individual’s responses to future insults and translates them into high- order outputs such as symptoms and illness behavior. Thus, surveying epigenetic signatures throughout the genome of affected cells in individual patients may make it possible to better understand and ultimately control the phenomena described by the biopsychosocial model. In this review we provide a high-level but comprehensive description of the concepts and mechanisms underlying epigenetics and chromatin dynamics, describe the mechanisms whereby the environment can alter the epigenome and identify aspects of functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders where epigenetic mechanisms are most likely to play important roles. Keywords Functional gastrointestinal disorders; nucleosome; DNA methylation; histone modifications; histone variants; chromatin remodeling; noncoding RNA; environmental epigenetics The digestive tract is arguably the most complex organ system in our body consisting of cells that derive from all three germinal layers and possessing its own nervous and endocrine systems. Digestive diseases are correspondingly diverse in their etiology, pathogenesis and manifestations. Disorders such as gastroparesis, chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo- obstruction, Hirschsprung’s disease and fecal incontinence originate from the gut’s neuromuscular compartment and involve smooth muscle cells, enteric neurons and mesenchymal cells such as interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), and are thus termed motility disorders. Another, overlapping group of abnormalities such as functional dyspepsia, Phone: (507) 538-3906, fax: (507) 255-6318. DISCLOSURES Competing Interests: the authors have no competing interests. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript irritable bowel syndrome, gastroesophageal reflux and chronic
