NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


determined that naked DNA can carry and propagate genetic information, conclusive evidence that adult somatic nuclei contain all information required for embryonic development and function in the adult was first provided by experiments demonstrating that a nucleus taken from a somatic cell and introduced into an enucleated oocyte was competent to direct embryogenesis.9 A corollary to this concept is that the genome of differentiated cells is identical to that of the zygote from which it has developed.10 Despite this genetic homogeneity, cells of the same multicellular organism, including our more than 200 cell types, display an astonishing level of phenotypic heterogeneity, which is determined by the body of their transcribed genes.11 The study of the mechanisms underlying phenotypic specification of diverse cells from the same zygotic genome during morphogenesis was first termed “epigenetics” by C. H. Waddington.12 Everyday experience indicates that cell identities, once established, are typically maintained for a lifetime and, in many cases, through a number of divisions. The idea that regulatory signals can be inherited in addition to genetic information has led to the current, most widely cited definition of epigenetics as “the study of mitotically and/or meiotically heritable changes in gene function that cannot be explained by changes in DNA sequence” (Riggs et Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript al., 1996; quoted in ref.12). This concept and the underlying mechanisms provide an explanation for many—albeit not all—instances of non-Mendelian inheritance such as phenotypic differences between monozygotic twins. Furthermore, it also implies the retention of the normal or pathological phenotypes even in the absence of the signal responsible for their initiation. In this sense, epigenetic inheritance constitutes a form of “cellular memory”, a mechanistic basis for persistent, non-genetically determined biological response to developmental cues or changes in the external environment. Demanding heritability as part of the definition of epigenetic signaling may, in a first approximation, limit the utility of epigenetics as a conceptual framework for physiologists, who often study nonproliferating, terminally differentiated cells. However, it appears likely that terminally differentiated cells such as neurons may have co-opted the same mechanisms for the long-term stabilization of their own transcriptome that in other cells maintain epigenetic states through cell divisions.13 Therefore, in the context of post-mitotic cells, the term “epigenetic” is best used mechanistically, i.e., in reference to the specific molecular mechanisms that establish and maintain,
