NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


nuclei, decondensed, open or euchromatin (Figure 2) is ~10 times less dense than metaphase chromosomes and is more sensitive to deoxyribonuclease 1 (DNase1) treatment. Although it occupies most of the nuclear volume, it consists mainly of coding sequences that represent less than 2% of the genome. Sequences in the euchromatin are Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript either actively transcribed or inactive but poised for gene expression. In contrast, condensed or heterochromatin, which is localized along the nuclear envelope and in discrete clumps particularly at centromeres (Figure 2), is about as dense as metaphase chromosomes and consist of genomic sequences that are either permanently silenced (constitutive heterochromatin) or repressed in a cell-specific manner (facultative heterochromatin).15 Transposing expressed genes from euchromatin to or near centromeric or telomeric heterochromatin confers epigenetic repression to these genes leading to phenomena called position-effect variegation and telomere-position effects, respectively.15 Structure and organization of chromatin The fundamental repeating unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, a nucleoprotein particle consisting of an octamer formed by two copies each of the core histones H2A, H2B, H3 and H4 around which the DNA double helix is wrapped20 (Figure 1). Nucleosomes can be isolated by light treatment with micrococcal endonuclease, which cuts the intervening or linker DNA, leaving ~200 base pairs (bp) associated with the protein complex. Further digestion reduces the nucleosomal DNA to a length of 145–147 bp, which takes 1.67 left- handed turns around the histone core with entry and exit points located on the same side. The core histones form two types of subcomplexes: a relatively stable (H3-H4) tetramer held together by interactions between H3 molecules and two H2A-H2B dimers (Figure 3). The (H3-H4) tetramer accounts for the diameter of the core, forming a horseshoe-shaped structure that guides the central DNA gyre and which alone can organize DNA into particles. The two H2A-H2B dimers together form a second “horseshoe” that fits obliquely between the arms of the (H3-H4) tetramer to complete a disc-shaped globular structure. Each heterodimer binds 2.5 helical turns of the DNA through ionic interactions between the basic histones and the negative charges of the phosphodiester backbones.20 Through these interactions the octamer locks the DNA into a negatively supercoiled configuration.21 This arrangement alters the geometry of the double helix and, thereby, the accessibility of the sequences involved. Conversely, physical characteristics of specific DNA sequences
