NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


DNA into a negatively supercoiled configuration.21 This arrangement alters the geometry of the double helix and, thereby, the accessibility of the sequences involved. Conversely, physical characteristics of specific DNA sequences can influence where and how nucleosomes are assembled (Supplementary Note 2). Each histone also has a highly conserved, flexible, N-terminal “tail” rich in amino acid residues that can be covalently modified (Figure 1).17 Histones H2A and H2B also have C-terminal tails containing modifiable residues. The DNA entering and exiting the nucleosome, as well as the central gyre can also be bound by the more variable linker (H1) histones (Figure 1). H1 histones facilitate the formation of higher-order chromatin structures and thus contribute to transcriptional regulation.22 DNA more-or-less periodically wrapped around histone octamers can be recognized by electron microscopy as a ~10-nm, bead-on-a-string fiber23 (Figure 1). Dynamic repositioning, disassembly and reformation of nucleosomes is required for the binding and progression of DNA and RNA polymerases.16 A more compact structure that can be seen in isolated interphase chromatin or in vitro is the 30-nm fiber (Figure 1). The most likely arrangement underlying this fiber is a solenoid formed by 6–8 nucleosomes per counterclockwise turn, which probably form a two-start helix.24 This structure may represent an intermediate state between repressed and transcriptionally poised chromatin. Higher-level structures observed by light or electron microscopy can be formed by folded 30-nm fibers, which are then organized into 300–700-nm looped chromatin domains anchored to the nuclear periphery or other matrix such as lamins15 (Figures 1 and 2). The ultimate condensation that occurs during the formation of metaphase chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis facilitates the faithful segregation of the genetic material into daughter cells (Figure 1). Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Histone modifications A prominent feature of the core histones is the high number and diversity of covalently modified residues they can possess, predominantly, but not exclusively, in their “tails”, which are exposed on the surface of the nucleosomes and thus are more accessible for enzymes (Figure 1).17 The nomenclature for these modifications25 identifies, in this order, the histone, the modified residue, the type of modification and the level of modification when more than one moiety can be accommodated. Thus, for example, H3R17me2a stands for Histone 3 dimethylated (me2) on aRginine 17 in an asymmetrical fashion, i.e., with both methyl groups occurring on the
