NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


(ES) cells, almost 25% of 5meC is associated with CHG or CHH sequences (where H is A, C or T), which disappear during differentiation.43 In human somatic cells, 5meC represents approximately 1% of all DNA bases and is present in 70–80% of all CpG dinucleotides.10 However, CpG doublets are present at only ~20% of the frequency that would be expected from the proportion of C·G base pairs.44 Excepted from this rule are the so-called CpG islands (CGIs): ~1-kb G·C-rich regions occurring at the 5′ ends of many mammalian genes, which contain CpG at the expected frequency. Unlike the mostly methylated CpG sites scattered throughout the genome, CGIs are predominantly nonmethylated, regardless of their activity. The apparent depletion of CpG sites outside these islands is due to the mutagenic nature of 5meC: whereas both C and 5meC can undergo spontaneous deamination into U and T, respectively, the removal of T from T·G Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript mismatches is less efficient than the removal of U from U·G pairs, resulting in C·G to T·A point mutations and eventual global loss of CpG sites. The palindromic CpG sites can be methylated on one or both strands of the DNA. Initial establishment of 5meCpG on unmodified DNA is rather slow and usually occurs at sites that are already repressed by other, less permanent mechanisms.10 De novo methylation is catalyzed by DNA methyltransferases DNMT3A and DNMT3B, which are excluded from promoters containing nucleosomes bearing activating marks and are preferentially recruited to heterochromatic regions. In contrast, methylation of the complementary strand at the same palindromic site is rapid and highly efficient. This maintenance methylation is due to DNMT1, which is preferentially recruited to hemimethylated CpGs by UHRF1 (ubiquitin- DNMT3B.33 As a result, most CpG sites are fully (symmetrically) methylated. The same mechanism is also responsible for the semiconservative copying of parental strand 5meCpG patterns onto the progeny strand at the time of DNA replication, ensuring their inheritance at mitosis or meiosis. The different roles and kinetics of de novo and maintenance methylation steps, together with the longevity of 5meC marks make DNA methylation an ideal—and quintessential— mechanism mediating epigenetic memory: whereas slow establishment at genes that are already silent ensures that it locks in, rather than sets up, repressed transcriptional states, rapid reproduction on nascent DNA strands facilitates its propagation across
