NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


annotated genes. Many of the remaining (“orphan”) CGIs may be tissue-specific, developmentally regulated51 or alternative promoters of known genes or noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs).44 Intragenic CGIs may also represent cryptic promoters of alternative transcripts, whereas intergenic CGIs might function as boundaries or insulators of transcriptional domains. CGI promoters often lack core promoter elements and may permit initiation at several locations. CGIs are generally permissive for transcription initiation regardless of whether the genes they regulate are expressed or repressed as evidenced by the binding of RNA polymerase II at promoters of inactive genes.52 Consistent with this, CGIs often contain binding sites for certain ubiquitous transcription factors, they are relatively nucleosome-deficient, and their nucleosomes show high levels of activating histone marks.44,53 However, some CGIs become methylated and permanently silenced during normal development, particularly those that are already silent in ES cells. DNA methylation, once established, is not readily removed except during early development. Yet, most CGIs remain unmethylated while the rest of the CpG sites become methylated. Since direct removal of the methyl group is unlikely because it is thermodynamically unfavorable,10 it has been speculated that ongoing DNA template-based processes may maintain the unmethylated state with relatively little energy.44 However, the most important mechanisms may involve the recently discovered α-ketoglutarate- and Fe(II)-dependent dioxygenase TET1 (ten-eleven translocation 1), which is mainly expressed in ES cells, and the ubiquitous TET2 and TET3.41 Indeed, TET2 mutations may lead to CGI hypermethylation in cancer. These enzymes oxidize 5meC to 5hmeC and, eventually, caC, which are not recognized by 5meC-binding proteins. 5hmeC may not be maintained during DNA replication, thus leading to passive demethylation. In addition, 5hmeC may be an intermediate to active demethylation involving glycosylation or deamination into 5hmeU (which is then removed by base excision and repair) or by the formation and subsequent decarboxylation of caC. Besides cancer and Rett syndrome, abnormal methylation has been shown to contribute to a variety of diseases and developmental syndromes including imprinting disorders, repeat- instability diseases, as well as DNMT- and chromatin-remodeling protein-related diseases.48. Integrated view of epigenetic states and epigenomes cooperate to establish “epigenetic states” for specific genes.54 Together, the chromatin states of all genes make up the individual cells’ epigenetic programs (epigenomes) that bring about cell type-specific functions from a single program that confers totipotency to the same genome in the zygote.15 This concept naturally raises the question whether an individual cell’s epigenome can be predicted by analyzing
