NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: dna, manuscript, author, author manuscript, epigenetic, histone, nih-pa, nih-pa author, chromatin, cells, manuscript nih-pa, genes, cell, changes, mechanisms


pain of esophageal origin.92 The underlying changes in chromatin remain to be studied. As discussed earlier, low maternal nurturing leads to increased stress responses later in life due to increased glucocorticoid receptor promoter DNA methylation in the hippocampus.72 Recently, similar changes were detected in peripheral blood T lymphocytes in patients with irritable bowel syndrome 93 and also in colon-innervating nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurons of chronically stressed rats.94 Downregulation of glucocorticoid receptor expression in the central amygdala may also Neurogastroenterol Motil. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 December 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript involve H3K9 deacetylation as shown in a rodent model of visceral hyperalgesia.95 Nutrients and bacterial products are also likely to have major impact on gastrointestinal motor functions e.g. by modulating immune responses in the offspring after exposure during pregnancy and lactation96 or by directly influencing chromatin-modifying enzymes.97 Some of these products may even modulate hippocampal gene expression and behavior.98 Since microbial populations differ considerably e.g. in patients with diarrhea- and constipation- predominant irritable bowel syndrome,99 findings in animal models may also apply to patients. In summary, motility and functional gastrointestinal disorders represent a fertile area for epigenetic research, which, in turn, may break existing barriers to understanding and controlling these common problems and mitigate their significant societal impact. The rapidly falling costs of next-generation sequencing methods is shifting focus from PCR- based detection of genomic sequences targeted by histones and nonhistone proteins to unbiased, genome-wide approaches but these methods demand strong bioinformatics support with all its associated costs. A potential problem that affects not only research but also interventions targeting epigenetic phenomena is the general lack of specificity of epigenetic drugs arising, to a great extent, from the promiscuous nature of their targets. While these caveats may temper enthusiasm toward epigenetic research, rapid advance in the field can be expected to solve many of these potential problems in the near future and open new opportunities. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Acknowledgments The authors are very grateful to Mr. David A. Factor (Mayo Clinic Media Support Services) for the artwork. We feedback on the manuscript. Work in the authors’ laboratory and this review was supported, in part, by National Institutes of Health grants R01 DK058185 and P01 DK068055 and by the Mayo Clinic Center for Individualized Medicine. DTA received support from National Institutes of Health grant
