Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


The Growing Burden of Risk from High Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, and Bodyweight Anthony Rodgers, Carlene M. M. Lawes, Thomas Gaziano, and Theo Vos Highbloodpressure,cholesterol,andbodyweightareresponsi- investments.Anotherapproachisanevolutionoftheindividual- bleforalargeandincreasingproportionoftheglobalburdenof based strategy in which treatments are targeted to those at high disease.Althoughhistoricallytheseriskshavebeenregardedas absolute risk ofcardiovascular disease (CVD) rather than those “Western,”their impact is now recognized as global: they are with single risk-factor levels above traditional thresholds,such already leading causes of disease in middle-income countries as hypertension or obesity (Jackson and others 1993).Such an and of emerging importance in low-income countries approach appears to be highly cost-effective,with the potential (Ezzatiandothers2004;WHO2002).Thischapterpresentsan to substantially reduce CVD rates when combined with popu- evidenced-basedreviewof theimpactof highbloodpressure, lationwide interventions (Murray and others 2003). cholesterol,and bodyweight;the cost-effectiveness of relevant interventions;andtheeconomicbenefitsofinterventions.The chapter focuses on personal interventions—that is,those that EPIDEMIOLOGY aremediatedlargelybyinterpersonalactionsandtakeplaceat theindividuallevel.Assuch,thechaptershouldbeconsidered Elevated blood pressure, cholesterol, and bodyweight are all ascomplementarytochapter44onlifestyles,whichaddresses established risk factors for CVD and, in the case of body- populationwideinterventions. weight, for other diseases, such as diabetes, certain cancers, Prevention strategies have been broadly classified as indi- and osteoarthritis. The associations between blood pressure vidual based (also known as high risk) or population based (Asia Pacific Cohort Studies Collaboration 1999, 2003a; .The former typically involve screening to detect Prospective Studies Collaboration 2002); cholesterol (Asia individuals above a certain threshold level ofan individual risk Pacific Cohort Studies Collaboration 2003b; Law, Wald, and factor—for example, people with hypertension—followed by Thompson 1994; Prospective Studies Collaboration 1995); personal interventions for those individuals. In contrast, the and body mass index (BMI) (Asia Pacific Cohort Studies population-based approach aims at lowering mean risk-factor Collaboration 2004; Willett and others 1995) and CVD are levels and shifting the population distribution of exposure in direct and continuous from relatively low levels,indicating that a favorable direction . One example would be by optimal levels are about 115/75 millimeters of mercury reducing salt content in manufactured foods,thereby lowering (mmHg),3.8 millimoles per liter (mmol/l),and 21 kilograms blood pressure levels on a populationwide basis. Such an per square meter (kg/m2),respectively (figure 45.1). approach has the potential to produce large and lasting changes Although some studies suggest J- or U-shaped associations in disease incidence but requires substantial sociopolitical (Calle and others 1999; Cruickshank 1994; D’Agostino and a. Blood pressure b. Cholesterol c. Body mass index Relative risk of coronary heart disease Relative risk of coronary heart disease Relative risk of coronary heart disease 4.0 4.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Hypertension Hyper-
