Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


child mortality and very low adult mortality; B (cid:2)low child mortality and low adult mortality; C (cid:2)low child mortality and high adult mortality; D (cid:2)high child mortality and high adult mortality; E (cid:2)high child mortality and very high adult mortality. a. The high-mortality developing countries include those in Africa, America D, the Eastern Mediterranean D, and Southeast Asia D. b. The low-mortality developing countries include those in America B, Eastern Mediterranean B, Southeast Asia B, and the Western Pacific B. c. The developed countries include those in America A, Europe, and the Western Pacific A. and others 2004;WHO 2002).The burden for blood pressure burden can be attributed to those risks.In addition,more than was related to deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) three-quarters oftype 2 diabetes is caused by high bodyweight from IHD,stroke,hypertensive disease,and other CVD; end- (Ezzati and others 2004; WHO 2002). Hence the economic points for cholesterol included IHD and stroke;and endpoints impact ofnonoptimal levels ofthose risks will be at least two- for BMI were IHD, stroke, hypertensive disease, diabetes, thirds that due to CVD and diabetes. A recent report high- certain cancers,and osteoarthritis.Globally,7.1 million deaths lighted the economic impact ofCVD in developing economies, were attributed to high blood pressure in 2000,4.4 million to noting that a high proportion of the CVD burden occurs high cholesterol,and 2.6 million to high BMI.This burden was among adults of working age (Leeder and others 2004). In shared approximately equally among the sexes.A large fraction Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa, conservative occurred in middle age,especially in developing countries,and this factor,together with the frequently debilitating nature of nonfatal CVD,accounted for a large number ofDALYs. Cardiovascular disease More of the DALY burden was experienced in developing 100% countries than in developed countries,reflecting the large pop- ulations in developing countries and their already high risk- factor levels. In all regions, most CVD is attributable to the Systolic blood Cholesterol over combined effects ofhigh blood pressure,cholesterol,and body- pressure over 3.8 mmol/l 115 mmHg weight levels (figure 45.2). 28% 45% Table 45.2 shows the burden resulting from the overlapping or multicausal etiology of diseases.Analyses of the combined impact of these and other major cardiovascular risks indicate Body mass index (cid:1)21 kg/m2 that the joint contribution ofestablished risks is responsible for 15% 83 to 89 percent ofthe IHD burden and 70 to 76 percent ofthe stroke burden worldwide (Ezzati and others 2003; Ezzati and others 2004). Source:
