Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


High blood pressure (49), high cholesterol (56), 83–89 high BMI (21), low fruit and vegetable intake (31), physical inactivity (22), tobacco (12), alcohol (2) Source:Ezzati and others 2003. Note:See notes to table 45.1 for a breakdown of the regional groupings. estimates indicated that at least 21 million years offuture pro- for2to8percentof allhealthcareexpendituresindeveloped ductive life are lost because of CVD each year. Although no countries.Forexample,in1991,2.5percentofhealthcarecosts detailed data exist on the direct economic burden of the indi- in New Zealand were attributable to obesity (Swinburn and vidual risk factors,the costs of CVD treatment in developing others1997),andin1996,US$22billionwasattributedtoobe- countries are significant. In South Africa, for example, 2 to sity-relatedCVDintheUnitedStates,equivalentto17percent 3percent of gross domestic product was devoted to the direct ofCVD-relatedhealthexpenditures(G.Wangandothers2002). expenditures (Pestana and others 1996). For many middle- income countries, high body mass is already an important INTERVENTIONS cause ofhealth inequities (Monteiro and others 2004). Current expenditure in developed countries provides an Dataonthechoiceofinterventionsforbloodpressure,choles- indicationof possiblefutureexpenditureindevelopingcoun- terol,andbodyweightandtheireffectivenessarenowpresented. tries.Forexample,estimateddirectandindirectcostsof CVD in the United States were US$350 billion in 2003. In 1998, Choice and Classification of Interventions US$109billionwasspentonhypertension,orabout13percent ofthehealthcarebudget(HodgsonandCai2001).Studiesare A variety of population-based and personal interventions limitedbutsuggestthatobesity-relateddiseasesareresponsible could potentially be used to address the risks associated with 854 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Anthony Rodgers, Carlene M. M. Lawes, Thomas Gaziano, and others high blood pressure,cholesterol,and bodyweight.Of the per- chapter discusses the cost-effectiveness of efforts to manage sonal interventions discussed in this section—lifestyle and those without previous CVD,and chapter 33 reviews the man- dietary, pharmacological, and surgical interventions—two agement ofthose with known vascular disease.A unifying sys- main strategies exist for choosing whom to treat:those above tem targeting treatments at those at highest risk, either with certain threshold values of single risk-factor levels and those CVD or multiple risk factors,is likely to be highly cost-effective above certain values ofabsolute cardiovascular (or global) risk, because more than 75 percent of events occur in the 5 to 10 which is determined by the levels ofmultiplefactors. percent of people with CVD or specific clusters of risk factors Targeting treatments by levels ofa single risk factor (such as (Haq and others 1999;Tosteson and others 1997). hypertension) does not effectively focus on overall risk of The limitations of the individual-risk-factor approach, of other risk factors.For example,the predicted 10-year CVD have any biological justification,have motivated the adoption risk for someone with an SBP of140/90 mmHg can vary from ofstrategies that take other risk factors into account.Although 5 to 50 percent depending
