Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


way that mote healthy lifestyles among schoolchildren and their fam- may be independent of weight loss. High levels of alcohol ilies.Nissinen,Berrios,and Puska (2001) report a significant intake are associated with blood pressure elevation, which is positive effect on some risk factors for the intervention reversible by reducing intake . schools. Dietary approaches to lowering total cholesterol and low- • In Mauritius, government-led initiatives resulted in a density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol typically involve reduced change in the composition ofcooking oil from mostly palm intake ofdietary fats,particularly saturated fats.Evidence sug- oil,which is high in saturated fatty acids,to wholly soybean gests a dose-response relationship between saturated fatty acid oil,which is high in unsaturated fatty acids.From 1987 to intake and LDL cholesterol levels (NCEP Expert Panel 2002). 1992,total cholesterol concentrations fell significantly,and Plant sterols and stanols have recently been incorporated into the estimated intake ofsaturated fatty acids decreased,with foods such as margarine and can reduce LDL cholesterol much ofthis finding reportedly resulting from the change in byabout 10 percent;however,this approach is currently rela- cooking oil (Uusitalo and others 1996). tively expensive . Dietary advice may also suggest increasing the intake of viscous fiber—for instance, in the An effective populationwide intervention draws together form of cereal grains, fruits, and vegetables—because these different kinds of feasible activities that combined produce a dietary sources may enhance the lowering of LDL cholesterol. synergistic effect (Nissinen, Berrios, and Puska 2001; Puska Maintaining bodyweight in the desirable range and engaging in 1999).Eventhoughtheprojectsandtrialswereundertakenina moderate physical activity complement these dietary strategies rangeofdifferentcommunitiesandusedavarietyofmethods (NCEP Expert Panel 2002). and interventions, several common themes emerge. Some of Increases in obesity have been related to declines in energy the important elements of a successful program that enables expenditure (for example, reductions in physical activity and individualstoadopthealthierlifestylesincludethefollowing: adoption of a more sedentary lifestyle) and a higher intake of energy-dense but micronutrient-poor foods, such as most • clear responsibility for coordinating prevention efforts,with processedfoods(WHO2003b).Avarietyoftrialshaverecorded ing out long-term education programs combination of interventions (NHLBI Obesity Education • intersectoral collaboration,with multiple messages sourced Initiative Expert Panel 1998). These interventions include ties, nonhealth government agencies, schools, workplaces, caloric intake and a reduction in saturated fats and total fats. religious organizations,and voluntary agencies An increase in physical activity is an important component of • collaboration with the food industry to ensure the availabil- weight-loss therapy. Behavioral strategies revolving around ity of reasonably priced healthier food options, with food self-monitoring of eating habits,stress
