Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


channel blockers,which reduce the last has been withdrawn because of a reported association heart failure less than other agents (although this result may be between the drugs and valvular heart disease). Overall, trials partly caused by misclassification,because a known side effect suggest only modest weight-loss effects, with an average net of calcium channel blockers is ankle edema, which is a diag- weight loss of 1.5 kg after eight weeks and 2 to 3 kg after one nostic component of heart failure). Because all agents lower year (NHLBI Obesity Education Initiative Expert Panel 1998). blood pressure by about the same modest amount and because A systematic review of orlistat trials indicated a pooled net their effects on blood pressure are additive (Law and others weight loss of1.2 kg at 12 weeks,2.9 to 3.4 kg at one year,and 2003),the key issue seems to be which combinations oftwo or 2.5 to 2.4 kg at two years (O’Meara and others 2001).Results of more drugs should be provided and how long-term adherence a systematic review oftrials assessing sibutramine were similar can be maximized. (O’Meara and others 2002),with fewer data available on long- Over the past three decades,numerous trials have assessed term sustained weight loss. the effect of different cholesterol-lowering interventions (Law, Investigators have also undertaken several randomized con- Wald, and Rudnicka 2003; Law,Wald, and Thompson 1994). trolled trials to assess the effects ofdifferent surgical interven- The placebo-controlled trials can be broadly classified into tions,generally in individuals with a BMI equal to or greater those testing fibrates,statins,and other interventions (mostly than 35 or 40 kg/m2.Weight loss resulting from gastric bypass dietary interventions,but also some other interventions such as varied from 50 to 100 kg six months to a year following surgery resins and niacin).The statins are the most effective in lower- (NHLBI Obesity Education Initiative Expert Panel 1998). ing total and LDL cholesterol, with reductions of more than Overall, several trials suggest that surgery resulted in about 1 mmol/l in most trials. A good correlation has been found 23to 37 kg more weight loss than conventional treatment and between reduction in total cholesterol and relative risk reduc- that this loss was maintained for eight years (Clegg and others tion. This finding suggests, as for trials investigating blood 2002).Furthermore,gastric bypass surgery appears to be more pressure lowering, that even though some drugs are more beneficial than gastroplasty or jejunoileal bypass. effective in achieving greater reductions in risk
