Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


makers to understand the constituent costs so that they can ease management therapies; and implementing automated examine where cost reductions may be most beneficial.Fourth, telephone assessment and self-care education calls with nurse it clarifies what expenditures may be required as a result of follow-up (Haynes and others 2003). changes in decisions about the treatment ofrisk factors.Finally, many people in developing countries do not have access to interventions may include the use of guidelines, peer review hospitals for acute management of CVD events.Nonetheless, and audit, and prompts to remind physicians to review risks increased expenditure on treating risk factors may lead to and medications (Ebrahim 1998; NCEP Expert Panel 2002). significant reductions in the costs oftreating subsequent CVD These strategies obviously do not address issues pertaining to events for many countries.Ultimately,the net effect is reflected resources and access in poor countries. in cost-effectiveness analyses.Unless otherwise stated,costs are Several trials and overviews have attempted to assess the in 2001 U.S.dollars. value of different interventions to improve compliance and The costs of personal interventions include the costs of adherence;however,issues have arisen in connection with the patient screening (identifying high-risk patients), drugs and generalizability of the interventions, the low statistical power inmany trials,the lack of description of all parts of interven- tory tests, and travel. Annual drug costs for medications to tions, and the assessment of complex interventions without lower blood pressure and cholesterol vary widely by country assessment of the separate effects of the intervention compo- and depend on whether generics are available and used. For nents.Haynes and others’(2003) systematic review concludes example, according to the International Drug Price Indicator that,overall,no single approach to improving adherence can be recommended. Simpler treatment regimens can sometimes 2002 of generic 40 mg lovastatin ranged from US$14 in improve adherence and treatment outcomes for both short- Barbados to US$217 in Costa Rica,and on-patent statins can and long-term treatments. Several complex strategies, cost almost a US$1,000 a year in the United States. Because including combinations ofmore thorough patient instructions drug costs vary by up to two orders ofmagnitude across coun- and counseling,easier access to care,reminders,close follow- tries, results of cost-effectiveness analyses are particularly up,supervised self-monitoring,family therapy,and rewards for sensitive to their input prices. Table 45.3 presents some success can improve adherence and treatment outcomes in sample prices. The costs of these medications have dropped some patients.However,even the most effective interventions considerably in recent years, and now the annual
