Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


ratio of exchange rate to purchasing-power parity rate; drug costs are not converted, assuming drugs to be imported at world prices. The share of drug costs in total treatment cost, as a function of risk, is taken from the estimates for India in table 45.6 and assumed to be the same for all regions. b. Dominated strategies were both less effective and more costly than comparator strategies. c. Treating SBP greater than 140 mmHg or 160 mmHg or total cholesterol greater than 5.7 mmol/l or 6.2 mmol/l (220 or 240 mg/dlL). d. Risk refers to 10-year risk of CVD greater than or equal to the number listed. of thestandarddosesof hydrochlorothiazide,atenolol,lisino- fitsseenfromasocietalperspectiveandwiththeintervention pril,lovastatin,andaspirinonoverallmorbidityandmortality runfor10years.Wecalculatedestimatesforonerepresentative intreatingthosewithoutpriorCVD.Wedidnotincludefolate countryfromeachregionwheredemographicandriskfactor becausenorandomizedtrialshadshownthatitreducedCVD dataexisted.UnliketheWHO-CHOICEanalysis,thisanalysis eventsatthetimeoftheanalysis.Theassumptionsoftherela- separateduseof theinterventionaccordingtothosewithand tive risk reductions were based on those of Wald and Law withoutestablishedCVD.Table45.5presentstheresults. (2003).Thestrategiescomparedwerefortreatingvarioushigh- Table 45.6 shows the breakdown ofevents averted and costs riskpopulations(absoluteriskforCVDgreaterthan15,25,and for India. Even though the absolute numbers differ for other 35percentover10years.Weappliedthemodeltoapopulation countries,the relative differences between the different groups of1millionadultsovertheageof35,withthecostsandbene- receiving the “polypill”compared with the groups not receiving The Growing Burden of Risk from High Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, and Bodyweight | 861 Box 45.1 Example of Country-Specific Analysis: South Africa In another analysis,researchers compared than40percenthadanincrementalcost-effectivenessratio the approach based on absolute risk with blood pressure ofUS$700perQALYgainedcomparedwithnotreatment. guidelines in South Africa. The analysis used country- TheabsoluteriskofCVDgreaterthan30,20,and15per- specific epidemiology and, where available, applied local cent had larger and increasing cost-effectiveness ratios. cost data.The study compared six strategies for initiating Treatmentsbasedonthe1995SouthAfricanguidelinesand drug treatment—two different blood pressure levels the Joint National Commission VI guidelines were both (160/95 mmHg and 140/90 mmHg) and four different morecostlyandresultedinfewerQALYgainsthanthe15 levels of absolute CVD risk over 10 years (40,30,20,and percent absolute-risk strategy and were therefore domi- 15 percent)—to a strategy of no treatment.The method- natedbythelesscostlyabsolute-risktreatmentstrategies. ology differed from the WHO-CHOICE study because of Furthermore, the results showed that the cost- the availability of local data.Data on diabetes prevalence effectiveness ratios were quite sensitive to the costs of were included to further refine risk estimates. Also the treatment for hypertension, especially medication costs. actual mix of medications was used to assess costs with Further analysis revealed a threshold point for an annual actual current drug-use patterns,which included the use treatment cost ofUS$53.Below this threshold,the 40 per- ofsome nongeneric medications. cent absolute-risk strategy cost less and increased the The table displays the results. The four absolute-risk number of life years gained compared with the no pri- strategieshadthefourlowestincrementalcost-effectiveness mary prevention strategy
