Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


school- tries, the transition of CVD to becoming a disease of the based educational program to reduce obesity among middle poor has already begun—a transition already seen in devel- school students reported a cost of US$4,300 per QALY (L. oped countries around the world. A recent analysis of the Wang and others 2003). However, this analysis assumed that distribution of major cardiovascular risks by poverty levels the weight loss would be maintained throughout adulthood, has shown that many cardiovascular risks already affect the but the high relapse rates found in weight reduction studies poor in the world’s poorest countries (Ezzati and others 2004; Further research is needed to evaluate the benefits of low-cost solutions relevant for most or all of those at risk in weight reduction in relation to reducing CVD events and the developing countries, in contrast to the investments in high- long-term sustainability of weight loss before reliable cost- tech treatment interventions that have commonly occurred to effectiveness estimates can be made. date. The Growing Burden of Risk from High Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, and Bodyweight | 863 ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF INTERVENTION new paradigm and its advantages over traditional para- digms, such as hypertension treatment. One barrier to Inthecost-effectivenessanalyses,mostofthegainsarereported adopting preventive therapy based on absolute risk has in cost savings either from particular interventions, such as been its relative complexity compared with dichotomous decreased hospitalizations resulting from the improved combi- diagnosis-based strategies, such as hypertension–no nation therapy ofthe polypill,or from a more efficient means hypertension. of screening those at highest risk through an absolute-risk º Develop simple methods for predicting absolute risk approach.Those who do not die from the sequelae of poorly usingstraightforward,inexpensive,directmeasures,such controlled risk factors for CVD suffer from serious chronic ill- asphysicalexamination,clinicalhistory,andon-sitetests. ness,such as stroke and congestive heart failure.Those chronic Thesemethodswouldlikelyinvolvelow-costalgorithms diseases can result in significant impairments,thereby prevent- completedbyamultipurposehealthcareworkerinvolv- ing those affected from continuing to work and sometimes also ing,forexample,thecollectionofdataonage,sex,tobacco requiring the services of other family members, who them- use, blood pressure, waist circumference, and urine selves end up having to leave the workforce. Further losses dipstick results. The development of different levels of resulting from disability include the loss of wages for major screeningprotocolmayalsobeneededincertainsettings. wage earners and their families and the state’s losses in terms of º Calibrate existing algorithms for different disease rates disability compensation. Leeder and others (2004) estimate and cardiovascular profiles in developing countries. that in 2000 the cost of CVD disability payments
