Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


º Calibrate existing algorithms for different disease rates disability compensation. Leeder and others (2004) estimate and cardiovascular profiles in developing countries. that in 2000 the cost of CVD disability payments in South º Develop treatment algorithms that can easily be adopted Africa equaled US$70 million. in resource-poor settings by,for example,multipurpose However,many other indirect economic gains or losses are health care workers. not included in the economic analysis,such as gains or losses in º Develop methods for predicting absolute risk on the productivity.Leeder and others (2004) report that,at current basis ofthe probability oflost healthy life years as well as CVD mortality rates,the potential productive years oflife lost the probability of a clinical event. This strategy could (defined as those years between the ages of 35 and 64) will mean developing an index of healthy life years at risk nearly double by 2030.Those later adult working years are par- from a cardiovascular event in the next five years,which ticularly important,given the many years ofinvestment in skills would require taking case fatalities into consideration through formal education and experience that would be lost. and discounting.A major barrier to adopting a strategy Preventing CVD would therefore improve the size and skills of based on absolute risk has been the absence of a time- the workforce and would therefore aid economic development. based measure and,hence,the equal value placed on pre- For those reasons, the Commission for Macroeconomics and venting an event at a young and at an old age. Health has recommended that any intervention that costs less • Develop and evaluate combination treatments: than triple a country’s per capita gross domestic product be º Carry out new research on the ideal combinations for regarded as cost-effective .Many ofthe combina- different patient groups and populations at different tion cardiovascular preventive approaches outlined in this stages ofthe health transition.Local initiatives would be chapter comfortably satisfy that criterion. needed to determine the ideal combination of medica- tions based principally on cost,tolerability,and ability to RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA lower risk-factor levels.One default set of interventions could be an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor Thecost-effectivenessdatareviewedinthischapterindicatethat (for example,enalapril or lisinopril);a diuretic (such as the best use of resources for personal-level interventions for hydrochlorothiazide or chlothalidone); a statin (for preventingCVDmediatedbyhighbloodpressure,cholesterol, instance, simvastatin or lovastatin); and low-dose andbodyweightwouldbecombinationmedicationstargetedto aspirin. thoseathighabsoluterisk.Thisstrategyrepresentsaconsider- º Measure the potential costs and benefits ofadding other abledeparturefromexistingparadigms,suchashypertension active agents,such as vitamins or diabetic medications. treatment.Research and development is therefore required in
