Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, pressure, blood, blood pressure, high, cholesterol, disease, countries, interventions, cvd, treatment, costs, percent, levels, developing


lovastatin); and low-dose andbodyweightwouldbecombinationmedicationstargetedto aspirin. thoseathighabsoluterisk.Thisstrategyrepresentsaconsider- º Measure the potential costs and benefits ofadding other abledeparturefromexistingparadigms,suchashypertension active agents,such as vitamins or diabetic medications. treatment.Research and development is therefore required in º Quantify the extent of improved access, acceptability, severalareastodevelop,implement,andevaluatethisstrategy. and tolerability for people with symptomatic vascular Thisresearchcouldincludeseveralthemesasfollows: disease who have established indications for those medications. • Refine absolute risk-based treatment in developing country º Evaluate the benefits and costs in developing countries settings: with large-scale clinical trials and demonstration º Evaluate optimal communications to the public and to projects, both among patients who have established health professionals that explain the rationale for this indications (compared with usual care) and among those 864 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Anthony Rodgers, Carlene M. M. Lawes, Thomas Gaziano, and others who do not have clear indications but are still at high risk REFERENCES (compared with a placebo). Alderman,M.H.1996.“Blood Pressure J-Curve:Is It Cause or Effect?” º Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of a polypill Current Opinion in Nephrology and Hypertension5 (3):209–13. versus unit-of-use packs and other novel delivery Anderson, K. M., P. M. Odell, P. W. Wilson, and W. B. Kannel. 1991. strategies. “Cardiovascular Disease Risk Profiles.” American Heart Journal 121 • Investigate weight-loss initiatives: (1,part 2):293–98. º Develop strategies to improve the effectiveness of per- Appel,L.J.,T.J.Moore,E.Obarzanek,W.M.Vollmer,L.P.Svetkey,F.M. sonal interventions to reduce bodyweight in developing Patterns on Blood Pressure: DASH Collaborative Research Group.” countries. New England Journal ofMedicine336 (16):1117–24. º Evaluate the use of gastric surgery for weight loss in the Asia Pacific Cohort Studies Collaboration. 1999. “Determinants of extremely obese in selected settings. Cardiovascular Disease in the Asia Pacific Region: Protocol for a Collaborative Overview ofCohort Studies.”CVD Prevention2:281–89. • Assess technology: ———.2003a.“Blood Pressure and Cardiovascular Disease in the Asia º Screenwhichtechnologiesshouldbetransferredtodevel- Pacific Region.”Journal ofHypertension21:707–16. opingcountriesonthebasisofcost-effectivenesscriteria. ———.2003b.“Cholesterol,Coronary Heart Disease,and Stroke in the º Design new technologies specifically for use by commu- Asia Pacific Region.”International Journal ofEpidemiology32:563–72. Participants.”International Journal ofEpidemiology33:1–8. º Carry out a critical evaluation of community health Assmann,G.,P.Cullen,and H.Schulte.2002.“Simple Scoring Scheme for workers versus trained health professionals in delivering Calculating the Risk ofAcute Coronary Events Based on the 10-Year simplified screening and treatment regimens. Follow-up of the Prospective Cardiovascular Munster (PROCAM) º Provide guideline assistance for CVD prevention and Study.”Circulation105:310–15. management to regional and country-specific ministers Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment Trialists’Collaboration.2003.“Effects of Different Blood-Pressure-Lowering Regimens on Major ofhealth and policy makers. Cardiovascular Events:Results ofProspectively Designed Overviews of º Support demonstration projects
