Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


Acute coronary syndromes result from acute obstruction of a coronary artery. Consequences depend on degree and location of obstruction and range from unstable angina to non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), and sudden cardiac death. Symptoms are similar in each of these syndromes (except sudden death) and include chest discomfort with or without dyspnea, nausea, and diaphoresis. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography (ECG) and biomarkers. Treatment is with antiplatelets, anticoagulants, nitrates, beta-blockers, and, for STEMI, emergency reperfusion via fibrinolytic drugs, percutaneous intervention, or, occasionally, coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Classification of Acute Coronary Syndromes Acute coronary syndromes include Unstable angina Non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) These syndromes all involve acute coronary ischemia and are distinguished based on symptoms, ECG findings, and cardiac biomarker levels. It is helpful to distinguish the syndromes because prognosis and treatment vary. Unstable angina (acute coronary insufficiency, preinfarction angina, intermediate syndrome) is defined as one or more of the following in patients whose cardiac biomarkers do not meet criteria for myocardial infarction (MI): Rest angina that is prolonged (usually > 20 minutes) New-onset angina of at least class 3 severity in the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) classification (see table Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification System for Angina Pectoris) Increasing angina, ie, previously diagnosed angina that has become distinctly more frequent, more severe, longer in duration, or lower in threshold (eg, increased by ≥ 1 CCS class or to at least CCS class 3) ECG changes such as ST-segment depression, ST-segment elevation, or T-wave inversion may occur during unstable angina but they are transient. Of cardiac biomarkers, creatine kinase MB fraction (CK- MB) is not elevated but cardiac troponin, particularly when measured using high-sensitivity troponin tests (hs-cTn), may be slightly increased. Unstable angina is clinically unstable and often a prelude to myocardial infarction or arrhythmias or, less commonly, to sudden death. Non–ST-segment elevation MI (NSTEMI, subendocardial MI) is myocardial necrosis (evidenced by cardiac biomarkers in blood; troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB will be elevated) without acute ST- segment elevation. ECG changes such as ST-segment depression, T-wave inversion, or both may be present. ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI, transmural MI) is myocardial necrosis with ECG changes showing ST- segment elevation that is not quickly reversed by nitroglycerin or showing new left bundle branch block. Troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB are elevated. Both types of MI may or may
