Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


that is not quickly reversed by nitroglycerin or showing new left bundle branch block. Troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB are elevated. Both types of MI may or may not produce Q waves on the ECG (Q wave MI, non-Q wave MI). Etiology of Acute Coronary Syndromes The most common cause of acute coronary syndromes is An acute thrombus in an atherosclerotic coronary artery Atheromatous plaque sometimes becomes unstable or inflamed, causing it to rupture or split, exposing thrombogenic material, which activates platelets and the coagulation cascade and produces an acute thrombus. Platelet activation involves a conformational change in membrane glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptors, allowing cross-linking (and thus aggregation) of platelets. Even atheromas causing minimal obstruction can rupture and result in thrombosis; in > 50% of cases, pre-event stenosis is < 40%. Thus, although the severity of stenosis helps predict symptoms, it does not always predict acute thrombotic events. The resultant thrombus abruptly interferes with blood flow to parts of the myocardium. Spontaneous thrombolysis occurs in up to one third of patients (1); 24 hours later, thrombotic obstruction is found in only about 30%. However, in virtually all cases, obstruction lasts long enough to cause varying degrees of tissue necrosis. Rarer causes of acute coronary syndromes are Coronary artery embolism Coronary spasm Spontaneous coronary artery dissection 2/19 Coronary arterial embolism can occur in mitral stenosis, aortic stenosis, infective endocarditis, nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (marantic endocarditis), or atrial fibrillation. Cocaine use and other causes of coronary spasm can sometimes result in myocardial infarction. Spasm- induced MI may occur in normal or atherosclerotic coronary arteries. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection is a non-traumatic tear in the coronary intima with creation of a false lumen. Blood flowing through the false lumen expands it, which restricts blood flow through the true lumen, sometimes causing coronary ischemia or infarction. Dissection may occur in atherosclerotic or non-atherosclerotic coronary arteries. Non-atherosclerotic dissection is more likely in pregnant or postpartum patients and/or patients with fibromuscular dysplasia or other connective tissue disorders. Myocardial infarction in the absence of coronary artery disease (MINOCA) Myocardial infarction in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease (MINOCA) is found in about 5% to 6% of patients with acute MI who undergo coronary angiography (2). Patients with MINOCA tend to be younger, female, and without dyslipidemia, and they have myocardial necrosis without significant coronary atherosclerosis. Plaque disruption and coronary vasospasm are common in MINOCA. Coronary
