Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


Patients with MINOCA tend to be younger, female, and without dyslipidemia, and they have myocardial necrosis without significant coronary atherosclerosis. Plaque disruption and coronary vasospasm are common in MINOCA. Coronary thrombosis or embolism and spontaneous coronary artery dissection are causes of MINOCA. Pathophysiology of Acute Coronary Syndromes Initial consequences vary with size, location, and duration of obstruction and range from transient ischemia to infarction. Measurement of high sensitivity troponin indicates that some cell necrosis probably occurs even with mild ischemia; thus, ischemic events occur on a continuum, and classification into subgroups, although useful, is somewhat arbitrary. Sequelae of the acute event depend primarily on the mass and type of cardiac tissue infarcted. Myocardial dysfunction Ischemic (but not infarcted) tissue has impaired contractility and relaxation, resulting in hypokinetic or akinetic segments; these segments may expand or bulge during systole (called paradoxical motion). The size of the affected area determines effects, which range from minimal to mild heart failure to cardiogenic shock; usually, large parts of myocardium must be ischemic to cause significant myocardial 3/19 dysfunction. Some degree of heart failure occurs in about two thirds of patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction. It is termed ischemic cardiomyopathy if low cardiac output and heart failure persist. Ischemia involving the papillary muscle may lead to mitral valve regurgitation. Dysfunctional wall motion can allow mural thrombus formation. Myocardial infarction (MI) Myocardial infarction is myocardial necrosis resulting from abrupt reduction in coronary blood flow to part of the myocardium. Infarcted tissue is permanently dysfunctional; however, there is a zone of potentially reversible ischemia adjacent to infarcted tissue. MI affects predominantly the left ventricle (LV), but damage may extend into the right ventricle (RV) or the atria. Infarction may be Transmural: Transmural infarcts involve the whole thickness of myocardium from epicardium to endocardium and are usually characterized by abnormal Q waves on ECG. Nontransmural (subendocardial): Nontransmural infarcts do not extend through the ventricular wall and cause only ST-segment and T-wave (ST-T) abnormalities. Because the transmural depth of necrosis cannot be precisely determined clinically, infarcts are usually classified as STEMI or NSTEMI by the presence or absence of ST-segment elevation or Q waves on the ECG. Necrosis of a significant portion of the interventricular septum or ventricular wall may rupture, with dire consequences. A ventricular aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm may form. Electrical dysfunction Electrical dysfunction can be significant in any form of acute coronary syndrome. Ischemic and necrotic
