Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


wall may rupture, with dire consequences. A ventricular aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm may form. Electrical dysfunction Electrical dysfunction can be significant in any form of acute coronary syndrome. Ischemic and necrotic cells are incapable of normal electrical activity, resulting in various ECG changes (predominantly ST-T abnormalities), arrhythmias, and conduction disturbances. ST-T abnormalities of ischemia include ST- segment depression (often downsloping from the J point), T-wave inversion, ST-segment elevation (often referred to as injury current), and peaked T waves in the hyperacute phase of infarction. Conduction disturbances can reflect damage to the sinus node, the atrioventricular (AV) node, or specialized conduction tissues. Most changes are transient; some are permanent. Symptoms and Signs of Acute Coronary Syndromes Symptoms of acute coronary syndromes depend somewhat on the extent and location of obstruction and are quite variable. Painful stimuli from thoracic organs, including the heart, can cause discomfort described as pressure, tearing, gas with the urge to eructate, indigestion, burning, aching, stabbing, and sometimes sharp needle-like pain. Many patients describe their symptoms as discomfort rather than pain. Except when infarction is massive, recognizing the amount of ischemia by symptoms alone is difficult. 4/19 Symptoms of ACS are similar to those of angina and are discussed in more detail in sections on unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction. Of note, some patients with coronary artery disease (particularly patients with diabetes) have silent myocardial ischemia, which is typically detected during stress testing. Complications After the acute event, many complications can occur. They usually involve Electrical dysfunction (eg, conduction defects, arrhythmias) Myocardial dysfunction (eg, heart failure, interventricular septum or free wall rupture, ventricular aneurysm, pseudoaneurysm, mural thrombus formation, cardiogenic shock) Valvular dysfunction (typically mitral regurgitation) Electrical dysfunction can be significant in any form of ACS, but usually, large parts of myocardium must be ischemic to cause significant myocardial dysfunction. Other complications of ACS include recurrent ischemia and pericarditis. Pericarditis that occurs 2 to 10 weeks after an MI is known as post-MI syndrome, or Dressler syndrome. Diagnosis of Acute Coronary Syndromes Serial ECGs Serial cardiac biomarkers Immediate coronary angiography for patients with STEMI or complications (eg, persistent chest pain, hypotension, markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers, unstable arrhythmias) Delayed angiography (24 to 48 hours) for patients with NSTEMI or unstable angina without complications noted above Acute coronary syndromes should be considered in males, usually those > age 30 years, and females usually > age 40 years (younger in patients with
