Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


angina without complications noted above Acute coronary syndromes should be considered in males, usually those > age 30 years, and females usually > age 40 years (younger in patients with diabetes), whose main symptom is chest pain or discomfort. Pain must be differentiated from the pain of disorders such as pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, pericarditis, rib fracture, costochondral separation, esophageal spasm, acute aortic dissection, renal calculus, splenic infarction, or various abdominal disorders. In patients with previously diagnosed hiatus hernia, peptic ulcer, or a gallbladder disorder, the clinician must be wary of attributing new symptoms to these disorders. (For approach to diagnosis, see also Chest Pain.) The approach is the same when any ACS is suspected: initial and serial ECG and serial cardiac biomarker measurements, which distinguish among unstable angina, NSTEMI, and STEMI. Every emergency department should have a triage system to immediately identify patients with chest pain for rapid assessment and ECG. Pulse oximetry and chest x-ray (particularly to look for mediastinal widening, which suggests aortic dissection) are also done. ECG 5/19 ECG is the most important test and should be done as soon as possible (eg, within 10 minutes of presentation). It is the center of the decision pathway because fibrinolytics benefit patients with STEMI but may increase risk for those with NSTEMI. Also, urgent cardiac catheterization is indicated for patients with acute STEMI but not for those with NSTEMI. For STEMI, initial ECG is usually diagnostic, showing ST-segment elevation ≥ 1 mm in 2 or more contiguous leads subtending the damaged area (see figure Acute Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction). Acute Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction (tracing obtained within a few hours of onset of illness) There is striking hyperacute ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, V , and V and reciprocal 4 6 depression in other leads. Pathologic Q waves are not necessary for the diagnosis. The ECG must be read carefully because ST- segment elevation may be subtle, particularly in the inferior leads (II, III, aVF); sometimes the reader’s attention is mistakenly focused on leads with ST-segment depression. If symptoms are characteristic, ST-segment elevation on ECG has a specificity of up to 94% and a sensitivity of up to 55% for diagnosing MI (1). Serial tracings (obtained every 8 hours for 1 day, then daily) showing a gradual evolution toward a stable, more normal pattern or development of abnormal Q waves over a few days (see figure Inferior (Diaphragmatic)
