Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


hours for 1 day, then daily) showing a gradual evolution toward a stable, more normal pattern or development of abnormal Q waves over a few days (see figure Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction) tends to confirm the diagnosis. Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (after the first 24 hours) Significant Q waves develop with decreasing ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF. Because nontransmural (non–Q wave) infarcts are usually in the subendocardial or midmyocardial layers, they do not produce diagnostic Q waves or distinct ST-segment elevation on the ECG. Instead, they commonly produce only varying degrees of ST-T abnormalities that are less striking, variable, or nonspecific and sometimes difficult to interpret (NSTEMI). If such abnormalities resolve (or worsen) on repeat ECGs, ischemia is very likely. However, when repeat ECGs are unchanged, acute MI is unlikely and, if still suspected clinically, requires other evidence to make the diagnosis. A normal ECG taken 6/19 when a patient is free of pain does not rule out unstable angina; a normal ECG taken when a patient is experiencing pain, although it does not rule out angina, suggests that the pain is not ischemic. If right ventricular (RV) infarction is suspected, a 15-lead ECG is usually recorded; additional leads are placed at V4R, and, to detect posterior infarction, V8 and V9. ECG diagnosis of myocardial infarction is more difficult when a left bundle branch block configuration is present because the ECG changes resemble changes due to STEMI (see figure Left Bundle Branch Block). ST-segment elevation concordant with the QRS complex strongly suggests MI as does > 5-mm ST- segment elevation in at least 2 precordial leads. But generally, any patient with suggestive symptoms and new-onset (or not known to be old) left bundle branch block is treated as for STEMI. Left Bundle Branch Block CLINICAL CALCULATORS M.I. Prediction Decision TreeCalc CLINICAL CALCULATORS Non Q Wave Myocardial Infarction Prediction Cardiac biomarkers Cardiac biomarkers (serum biomarkers of myocardial cell injury) are Cardiac enzymes (eg, CK-MB [creatine kinase MB isoenzyme]) Cell contents (eg, troponin I, troponin T, myoglobin) 7/19 These biomarkers are released into the bloodstream after myocardial cell necrosis. The biomarkers appear at different times after injury, and levels decrease at different rates. Sensitivity and specificity for myocardial cell injury vary significantly among these biomarkers. Assays that measure cardiac troponins (cTn), which have been in use for many years, are sensitive and specific. Newer, highly sensitive assays
