Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


myocardial cell injury vary significantly among these biomarkers. Assays that measure cardiac troponins (cTn), which have been in use for many years, are sensitive and specific. Newer, highly sensitive assays of cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) that are also very precise are preferred. These assays can reliably measure cTn levels (T or I) as low as 0.003 to 0.006 ng/mL (3 to 6 pg/mL); some research assays go as low as 0.001 ng/mL (1 pg/mL). The less sensitive cTn tests were unlikely to detect cardiac troponins except in patients who had an acute cardiac disorder. Thus, a "positive" cTn test (ie, above the limit of detection) was very specific. However, hs-cTn tests can detect small amounts of troponin in many healthy people. Thus, troponin levels detected with hs-cTn tests need to be referenced to the normal range, and are defined as "elevated" only when higher than 99% of the reference population. Furthermore, although an elevated troponin level indicates myocardial cell injury, it does not indicate the cause of the damage (although any troponin elevation increases the risk of adverse outcomes in many disorders). In addition to acute coronary syndromes, many other cardiac and non-cardiac disorders can elevate cardiac troponin levels (see table Causes of Elevated Troponin Levels); not all elevated levels detected with hs-cTn represent myocardial infarction, and not all myocardial necrosis results from an acute coronary syndrome event even when the etiology is ischemic. However, by detecting lower levels of troponin, hs-cTn assays enable earlier identification of MI than other assays, and have replaced other cardiac biomarker tests in many centers. Patients suspected of having an ACS should have an hs-cTn assay done on presentation and again 2 to 3 hours later. Troponin should be measured at 0 and 6 hours if a standard cTn assay is used. An hs-cTn level must be interpreted based on the patient's pre-test probability of disease, which is estimated clinically based on Risk factors for ACS Symptoms ECG findings A high pre-test probability plus an elevated troponin level detected with an hs-cTn assay is highly suggestive of ACS, whereas a low pre-test probability plus a normal hs-cTn assay result is unlikely to represent ACS (2). Diagnosis is more challenging when test results are discordant with pre-test probability, in which case serial hs-cTn assays often help. A patient with low pre-test probability and an initially slightly elevated troponin level detected with hs-cTn that remains stable on
