Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


uncomplicated NSTEMI or unstable angina whose symptoms have resolved typically undergo angiography within the first 24 to 48 hours of hospitalization to detect lesions that may require treatment. Other tests Routine laboratory tests are nondiagnostic but, if obtained, show nonspecific abnormalities compatible with tissue necrosis (eg, increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, moderately elevated white blood cell count with a shift to the left). A fasting lipid profile should be obtained within the first 24 hours for all patients hospitalized with ACS. Myocardial imaging is not needed to make the diagnosis if cardiac biomarkers or ECG is positive. However, in patients with myocardial infarction, bedside echocardiography is invaluable for detecting mechanical complications. Before or shortly after discharge, patients with symptoms suggesting an ACS 10/19 but with nondiagnostic ECGs and normal cardiac biomarker levels should have a stress imaging test (radionuclide or echocardiographic imaging with pharmacologic or exercise stress). Imaging abnormalities in such patients indicate increased risk of complications in the next 3 to 6 months and suggest need for angiography (3), which should be done before discharge or soon thereafter, with PCI or CABG done as necessary. Right heart catheterization using a balloon-tipped pulmonary artery catheter can be used to measure right heart, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressures and cardiac output. This test is not routinely recommended and should be done only if patients have significant complications (eg, severe heart failure, hypoxia, hypotension) and by clinicians experienced with catheter placement and management protocols. Treatment of Acute Coronary Syndromes Prehospital care: Oxygen, aspirin, and nitrates and triage to an appropriate medical center Pharmacologic therapy: Antiplatelet agents, antianginal drugs, anticoagulants, and in some cases other medications Often, angiography to assess coronary artery anatomy Often, reperfusion therapy: Fibrinolytics, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) Supportive care Post-discharge cardiac rehabilitation and chronic management of coronary artery disease Treatment, including pharmacologic therapy, is designed to relieve distress, interrupt thrombosis, reverse ischemia, limit infarct size, reduce cardiac workload, and prevent and treat complications. An acute coronary syndrome is a medical emergency; outcome is greatly influenced by rapid diagnosis and treatment. Treatment occurs simultaneously with diagnosis. Contributing disorders (eg, anemia, heart failure) are aggressively treated. 11/19 Because the chest pain of myocardial infarction usually subsides within 12 to 24 hours, any chest pain that remains or recurs later is investigated. It may indicate such complications as recurrent ischemia, pericarditis, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, gastritis,
