Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


usually subsides within 12 to 24 hours, any chest pain that remains or recurs later is investigated. It may indicate such complications as recurrent ischemia, pericarditis, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, gastritis, or ulcer. Prehospital care Oxygen Aspirin Nitrates Triage to appropriate medical center A reliable IV route must be established, oxygen given (typically 2 L by nasal cannula) if patients are hypoxemic, and continuous single-lead ECG monitoring started. Prehospital interventions by emergency medical personnel—including ECG, chewed aspirin (160 to 325 mg), pain management with nitrates (see Medications for Acute Coronary Syndromes), early thrombolysis when indicated and possible, and triage to the appropriate hospital where primary PCI is available—can reduce risk of mortality and complications (1, 2). Although opioids have long been used to treat pain in patients with acute coronary syndromes, data suggest that morphine attenuates activity of some P2Y12 receptor inhibitors and may contribute to worse patient outcomes (3, 4). Early diagnostic data and response to treatment can help determine the need for and timing of revascularization when primary percutaneous coronary intervention is not possible. Hospital admission Pharmacologic therapy with antiplatelets, anticoagulants, and other medications based on reperfusion strategy Risk-stratify patient and choose a reperfusion strategy (fibrinolytics or cardiac angiography with PCI or CABG for patients with STEMI and cardiac angiography with PCI or CABG for patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI) On arrival to the emergency department, the patient's diagnosis is confirmed. Pharmacologic therapy and choice of revascularization depend on the type of acute coronary syndrome as well as the clinical picture (see figure Approach to Acute Coronary Syndromes). Approach to pharmacologic therapy is discussed in Medications for Acute Coronary Syndrome, and choice of reperfusion strategy is further discussed in Revascularization for Acute Coronary Syndromes. 12/19 Approach to Acute Coronary Syndromes * Morphine should be used judiciously (eg, if nitroglycerin is contraindicated or if the patient has symptoms despite nitroglycerin therapy). Data suggest that morphine attenuates activity of some P2Y12 receptor inhibitors and may contribute to worse patient outcomes. † Complicated means that the hospital course was complicated by recurrent angina or infarction, heart failure, or sustained recurrent ventricular arrhythmias. Absence of any of these events is termed uncomplicated. ‡ CABG is still generally preferred to PCI for patients with the following: Left main or left main equivalent disease Left ventricular dysfunction Diabetes Also, lesions that are long or near bifurcation points are often not amenable to PCI. CABG
