Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


with the following: Left main or left main equivalent disease Left ventricular dysfunction Diabetes Also, lesions that are long or near bifurcation points are often not amenable to PCI. CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; GP = glycoprotein; NSTEMI = non–ST-segment elevation MI; MI = myocardial infarction; PCI = percutaneous intervention; STEMI = ST-segment elevation MI. When the diagnosis is unclear, bedside cardiac biomarker measurements can help identify low-risk patients with a suspected ACS (eg, those with initially negative cardiac biomarkers and nondiagnostic ECGs), who can be managed in 24-hour observation units or chest pain centers. Higher-risk patients should be admitted to a monitored inpatient unit or critical care unit (CCU). Several validated tools can help stratify risk. Thrombolysis in MI (TIMI) risk scores may be the most widely used. Patients with suspected NSTEMI and intermediate or high risk should be admitted to an inpatient care unit or CCU. Those with STEMI should be admitted to a CCU. Only heart rate and rhythm recorded by single-lead ECG are consistently useful for routine, continuous monitoring. However, some clinicians recommend routine multilead monitoring with continuous ST- segment recording to identify transient, recurrent ST-segment elevations or depressions. Such findings, even in patients without symptoms, suggest ischemia and identify higher-risk patients who may require more aggressive evaluation and treatment. Qualified nurses can interpret the ECG for arrhythmia and initiate protocols for its treatment. All staff members should know how to do CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation). Supportive care Patients with successful, uncomplicated primary PCI for acute MI may be ambulated quickly and be safely discharged in 2 to 4 days. If reperfusion is not successful or complications are present, patients require longer monitoring for hemodynamic and electric instability while also initiating ambulation. Prolonged bed rest results in rapid physical deconditioning, with development of orthostatic hypotension, decreased work capacity, increased heart rate during exertion, and increased risk of deep venous thrombosis. Prolonged bed rest also intensifies feelings of depression and helplessness. Anxiety, mood changes, and denial are common. A mild tranquilizer (usually a benzodiazepine) is often given, but many experts believe such agents are rarely needed. Reactive depression is common by the third day of illness and is almost universal at some time during recovery. 14/19 After the acute phase of illness, the most important tasks are often management of depression, rehabilitation, and institution of long-term preventive programs. Overemphasis on bed rest, inactivity, and the seriousness of
