Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


the acute phase of illness, the most important tasks are often management of depression, rehabilitation, and institution of long-term preventive programs. Overemphasis on bed rest, inactivity, and the seriousness of the disorder reinforces anxiety and depressive tendencies, so patients are encouraged to sit up, get out of bed, and engage in appropriate activities as soon as possible. The effects of the disorder, prognosis, and individualized rehabilitation program should be explained to the patient. Maintaining normal bowel function with stool softeners (eg, docusate) to prevent straining is important. Urinary retention is common among older patients, especially after several days of bed rest or if atropine was given. A catheter may be required but can usually be removed when the patient can stand or sit to void. For patients who smoke, smoking cessation should be addressed during the hospitalization. All caregivers should devote considerable effort to making smoking cessation permanent. Although acutely ill patients have little appetite, tasty food in modest amounts is good for morale. Patients are usually offered a soft diet of 1500 to 1800 kcal/day with sodium reduction to 2 to 3 g. Sodium reduction is not required after the first 2 or 3 days if there is no evidence of heart failure. Patients are given a diet low in cholesterol and saturated fats, which is used to teach healthy eating. For patients with diabetes and STEMI, intensive glucose control is not recommended; guidelines call for an insulin-based regimen to achieve and maintain glucose levels < 180 mg/dL (9.9 mmol/L) while avoiding hypoglycemia. Rehabilitation and Post-Discharge Treatment Functional evaluation Changes in lifestyle: Regular exercise, diet modification, weight loss, smoking cessation Medications: Continuation of antiplatelets, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and statins 15/19 Functional evaluation Patients who did not have coronary angiography during admission, have no high-risk features (eg, heart failure, recurrent angina, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation after 24 hours, mechanical complications such as new murmurs, shock), and have an ejection fraction > 40% whether or not they received fibrinolytics usually should have stress testing of some sort before or shortly after discharge (see table Functional Evaluation After Myocardial Infarction). TABLE Functional Evaluation After Myocardial Infarction If ECG Is Not Exercise Capacity If ECG Is Interpretable Interpretable Submaximal or symptom- Exercise echocardiography Able to exercise limited stress ECG before or nuclear scanning or after discharge Pharmacologic stress Pharmacologic stress Unable to exercise testing (echocardiography testing (echocardiography or nuclear scanning) or nuclear
