Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, acute, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, ecg, myocardial infarction, acute coronary, elevation, angina, troponin, st-segment, syndromes, artery


echocardiography Able to exercise limited stress ECG before or nuclear scanning or after discharge Pharmacologic stress Pharmacologic stress Unable to exercise testing (echocardiography testing (echocardiography or nuclear scanning) or nuclear scanning) Activity Physical activity is gradually increased during the first 3 to 6 weeks after discharge. Resumption of sexual activity, often of great concern to the patient and partner, and other moderate physical activities may be encouraged. If good cardiac function is maintained 6 weeks after acute myocardial infarction, most patients can return to all their normal activities. A regular exercise program consistent with lifestyle, age, and cardiac status reduces risk of ischemic events and enhances general well-being. Supervised cardiac rehabilitation programs decrease mortality after revascularization (1). Risk factor modification The acute illness and treatment of ACS should be used to strongly motivate the patient to modify risk factors. Evaluating the patient’s physical and emotional statuses and discussing them with the patient, advising about lifestyle (eg, smoking, diet, work and play habits, exercise), and aggressively managing risk factors may improve prognosis. Medications Several medications clearly reduce mortality risk post-MI and are used unless contraindicated or not tolerated: Aspirin and other antiplatelet agents Beta blockers Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors 16/19 Statins Other medications that can reduce cardiovascular events include: PCSK9 inhibitors, when added to statins when further reduction in lipid levels is needed Aspirin and other antiplatelet agents reduce mortality and reinfarction rates in patients after myocardial infarction. Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg once a day is recommended long-term. Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor blocker (eg, ticagrelor, clopidogrel) for up to 1 year is recommended (2, 3). Beta-blockers are considered standard therapy. Most available beta-blockers (eg, acebutolol, atenolol, metoprolol, propranolol, timolol) reduce post-MI mortality rate by about 25% (4). ACE inhibitors are also considered standard therapy and are given to all post-MI patients if possible, particularly if ejection fraction post MI is < 40%. These agents may provide long-term cardioprotection by improving endothelial function. If an ACE inhibitor is not tolerated because of cough or rash (but not angioedema or renal dysfunction), an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) may be substituted. Statins are also standard therapy and are routinely prescribed for MI patients with coronary artery disease, regardless of lipid levels (5). Reducing cholesterol levels after MI reduces rates of recurrent ischemic events and mortality in patients with elevated or normal cholesterol levels. The statin should be continued
