454 Gut 1996; 38: 454-458
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, showed, failure, hepatitis, acute, cases, inr, case, transplantation, cell, acute liver, survived, hyperthermia, serum


454 Gut 1996; 38: 454-458 Acute liver damage and ingestion ecstasy AJEllis, JAWendon, B Portmann, RogerWilliams Abstract The social use of 3,4 methyldioxymetham- Eight cases ofecstasy related acute liver phetamine (MDMA), otherwise known as damage referred to a specialised liver 'ecstasy', and other drugs with similar effects unit are described. Two patients pre- such as 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine sented after collapse within six hours of (MDA) and 3,4-methylenedioxyethampheta- ecstasy ingestion with hyperthermia, mine (MDEA) is widespread in the United hypotension, fitting, and subsequently Kingdom and Europe. Ecstasy is taken at disseminated intravascular coagulation 'rave-parties' foritsamphetamine-like stimula- with rhabdomyolysis together with bio- tory effect allowing users to dance for pro- chemicalevidenceofseverehepaticdam- longed periods with increased energy and age. One patient recovered and the other reduced awareness of fatigue. Publications to with evidence ofhyperacute liver failure date have brought attention to patients col- was transplanted but subsequently died, lapsing with hyperthermia complicated histological examination showing wide- with disseminated intravascular coagulation spreadmicrovesicularfattychange. Four and rhabdomyolysis.' 2 Other complications patientspresentedwithacuteliverfailure reported include cerebral haemorrhage, hypo- without hyperthermia. All four fulfilled natraemia, and cardiac arrhythmias.3-5 Seven criteria for transplantation, one patient cases of ecstasy related hepatotoxicity were survived after transplantation, one died reported in a study of telephone referrals to before a donor organ became available, The National Poisons Information Service, and two died within one month post- two ofwhich were subsequently described in transplantation of overwhelming sepsis. more detail in correspondence columns as Histological examination showed sub- single cases with liver dysfunction.6-8 Six massive lobular collapse. Two patients furthercaseshavebeendescribedassinglecase presentedwith abdominalpain andjaun- reports9 12 making 13 possible cases in total dice andrecovered over a period ofthree (Table). weeks; histologicalexamination showeda This paper describes eight patients referred TheInstituteofLiver lobular hepatitis with cholestasis. to a single centre with evidence of acute liver Studies,King'sCollege Patients developing jaundice or with evi- damage temporally related to the ingestion of HospitalandKing's dence of hepatic failure particularly ecstasy, two cases presenting with hyper- CollegeSchoolof encephalopathy and prolongation of the thermia and six with an acute hepatitic illness. Medicineand Dentistry, London international normalised ratio, or both, Five patients developed encephalopathy and AJEllis whether or not preceded by hyperther- severe coagulopathy sufficient to merit listing JAWendon mia, should be referred to a specialised fortransplantation. BPortmann RogerWilliams liver unit as liver transplantation probably provides the only chance of Correspondenceto: ProfessorRogerWilliams recovery. Case histories CBE,InstituteofLiver (Gut 1996;38:454-458) Studies,King'sCollege HospitalSchoolofMedicine Case 1 andDentistry,Bessemer A 21 year oldwoman collapsed
