454 Gut 1996; 38: 454-458
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, showed, failure, hepatitis, acute, cases, inr, case, transplantation, cell, acute liver, survived, hyperthermia, serum


rose to 18 I/min and donor organbecame available. despiteuseoffreshfrozenplasmaandcryopre- cipitate, the INR remained grossly prolonged at 8.4. Toxicology showed serum MDMA Case3 A diagnosis of hyperacute liver failure was with a six day illness characterised by nausea made with criteria fortransplantation fulfilled, and lower back pain with vomiting and the and a donor organ became available on the development ofjaundice. Ten days before this fourth day of admission. Postoperatively illnessshehadtakenasinglecapsuleofecstasy. cardiovascular stability improved and graft Shewasadmittedtothelocalhospitalandafter function was good but she remained feverish. 10 days developed encephalopathy and was Despite treatment with broad spectrum anti- transferred to King's College Hospital. On biotics and systemic antifungal treatment she admission ascites was detectable clinically and died of sepsis on day 13 post-transplant. investigations showed a white cell count Examination of the explanted liver showed a 11.7X109/l, INR 6.5, urea 7.4 mmol/1, creati- pale liver on cut section with light microscopy nine 163 pumol/I, amylase 23 IU/i, serum albu- showing enlarged and ballooned hepatocytes min 37 g/dl, bilirubin 406 gumol/l, AST 828 resulting from microvesicular fatty infiltration. IU/1, alkaline phosphatase 90 IU/1, and GGT Scattered eosinophilic single cell necrosis was 78 IU/1. Abdominalultrasoundwasunremark- evident with small foci ofcollapse due to cell able and serological tests excluded known drop out. Inflammation was minimal (Fig 1). hepatotropic viruses includinghepatitis C. She was ventilated and with criteria for liver trans- plantation fulfilled was listed for urgent ortho- Case2 topic liver transplantation, which was carried An 18 year old girl noted progressive jaundice outon day 5 afteradmission. Aftersurgery she over a four week period with malaise, pale developed fluctuating increases of AST stools, and dark urine. She took ecstasy on a (119-820 IU/1). Rejection was excluded by regular basis and continued to do so after the liverbiopsy and there were no features ofgraft appearance ofjaundice. Blood tests performed reinfection with virus. Angiography showed byherdoctorshowed a serumbilirubin of277 patent recipient vessels. Despite appropriate gmol/l and anAST of1575 IU/1. Three weeks antibiotics she continued to deteriorate and latershebecame confusedandbythistime the died 25 days post-transplantation of over- serum bilirubin was 452 gumoi/i, AST 3160 whelming sepsis. Histological examination of IU/1, and INR 4.0. On arrival she was the explantedlivershowedwidespread cellloss encephalopathic (grade II) andhaemodynami- with islands of surviving cells composed of cally stable. Renal function was good with a vesiculated or ballooned hepatocytes (Fig 2). serum creatinine 91 pumol/1, urine output >50 ml/h. Her encephalopathy worsened within 24 hours necessitating
