454 Gut 1996; 38: 454-458
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, showed, failure, hepatitis, acute, cases, inr, case, transplantation, cell, acute liver, survived, hyperthermia, serum


Acuteliverdamageandecstasyingestion 457 showed extensive collapse with small areas of terminals in addition to high exercise levels, regeneration. Biopsy specimens taken in the inadequate fluid replacement, and the high postoperative period from both donor and ambient temperatures often found at native livers showed severe cholestasis com- 'raves'.16 17 Clinical features include cerebral patible with sepsis. oedema, hypotension, and tissue hypoxia with impaired myocardial contractility secondaryto thermalinjury, asare seeninacuteliverfailure. Case 8 The coagulopathy arises from a combination A 24 year old woman presented to casualty in of hepatic necrosis, endothelial cell damage, grade III encephalopathy having recently and thermal inactivation of clotting factors, arrived in England after a two month holiday platelets, and megakaryocytes. inthe Caribbean. Shehadbeen seen oneweek Survival in patients with heatstroke present- earlier at a local hospital with a non-specific ing with a core temperature above 42°C is illness and jaundice. There was no hepato- poor2 18 and severe hepatic necrosis has been splenomegaly and investigations showed a reported in such patients.'920 Patients devel- white cell count of 18X109/1, INR >15, urea oping acute liver failure may benefit from 0.5 mmol/l, creatinine 52 ,umol/l, glucose 1.2 transplantation but identification of which mmol/l, albumin 37 g/l, bilirubin 407 ,umol/l, cases should be selected is complicated by the GGT 123 IU/1. Fulfillingcriteriafortransplan- changes in heatstroke and those ofacute liver tation she was placed on the urgent list and a failure. We have considered as possible candi- liver became available after 48 hours. Because dates patients with a core temperature of of a mismatch in size between donor and >41'C along with biochemical changes recipient she received a reduced graft. In the compatible with the worst prognosis after postoperative phase there were no episodes of paracetamol overdose, namely systemic rejection and she was discharged home well acidosis (pH <7.3) or renal failure (serum after five weeks. All tests for known causes of creatinine >300 Rumol/l), grade III encephalo- acuteliverfailurewerenegative andinasubse- pathy and an INR >7.21 Inthe onlyother case quent outpatient visit she admitted to having report ofliver transplantation after heatstroke taken two to four tablets of ecstasy in the six injury, the patient died after 41 days.22 The weeks prior to her admission. Histological histological findings of diffuse microvesicular examination showed a small shrunken liver fatty infiltration in case 1, although consistent with diffusely collapsed parenchyma. Com- with a mitochondrial defect (such as in Reye's plete cell drop out was evident with
