454 Gut 1996; 38: 454-458
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, showed, failure, hepatitis, acute, cases, inr, case, transplantation, cell, acute liver, survived, hyperthermia, serum


small shrunken liver fatty infiltration in case 1, although consistent with diffusely collapsed parenchyma. Com- with a mitochondrial defect (such as in Reye's plete cell drop out was evident with a wide- syndrome), have also been reported in young spread mixed cell infiltrate, denser in the military recruits with fatal heatstroke.23 periportal areas. The findings were consistent Whetherecstasyisdirectlyhepatotoxicinthese with drug orviral induced fulminant hepatitis. cases or results in liver injury over and above thatresultingfromthehyperthermiais difficult to determine. Discussion Ofthe remaining six cases, four had severe Referralstoourunitwithacuteliverfailureand liver damage progressing to acute liver failure a history of ecstasy use are increasing. Five in the absence of a hyperthermic episode. cases were referred in 1994 and 1993 with All other causes of acute liver failure were priortothatonlysinglecasesin 1989 and 1991 excludedincludinghepatitisA, B, C, E,herpes respectively. Ecstasy was the sole agent that viruses, autoimmune disease, Wilsons's could be incriminated in causing the liver disease, and other potentially hepatotoxic damage in eightpatients, the otherfourhaving drugs. The illness was characterised by also taken a paracetamol overdose with a malaise, nausea and vomiting, hyperbiliru- appropriate to paracetamol ingestion. Of the lowed by the development of encephalopathy eight cases with ecstasy as the sole aetiological and sepsis. One patient survived after trans- agent, two had presented with hyperthermia, plantation, one diedofcerebraloedemabefore hypotension, and collapse, four with evidence a donor organ became available, and the other ofacute liver failure without preceding hyper- two died as a result of continuing sepsis thermia, and two with a less severe hepatitis. between three and four weeks post-transplan- On the basis of the patterns of liver damage tation. The survival rate after transplantation described, the 13 casespreviouslyreported can (one ofthree, 33%) in this group is similar to be classified similarly with two cases ofhyper- that of other reported series of drug induced thermia with liver injury,9 10 two reports of acute liver failure and most probably reflects acute liver failure without hyperthermia,6 11 the duration of illness before transplantation and nine cases of apparent drug related and a combination of poor nutrition and hepatitis.6-8 12 sepsis.Theremainingtwocasespresentedwith The clinical features ofthose cases present- a milder illness consistent with a less severe ing with hyperthermia are similar to those processofhepaticdamageandrecoveredspon- previously reported in heatstroke, namely taneously over a period ofthree weeks without hypotension, coagulopathy, renal impairment, developing severe coagulopathy or encephalo- andevidence ofsevereliverinjury.13-15 Ecstasy pathy. In those cases with acute liver damage users maybe
