Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


consensus and Alpha-blockers for CPPS (better than placebo; however, non-RCT evidence considerable heterogeneity in trials and of borderline clinical importance for some outcomes).......... 8 Key points • Chronic prostatitis is a syndrome of pain and urinary symptoms, and occurs either with recurrent bacterial infection (chronic bacterial prostatitis [CBP]) or as pain without evidence of bacterial infection (chronic pelvic pain syndrome [CPPS]). Occasionally, there may be positive bacterial cultures from prostatic secretions in CPPS, but no evidence that these are causative of the men's symptoms. Bacterial infection can result from urinary tract instrumentation, but the cause and natural history of CPPS are unknown. • Chronic bacterial prostatitis has identifiable virulent micro-organisms in prostatic secretions. Oral antimicrobial drugs are beneficial for CBP, although trials comparing them with placebo or no treatment have not been found. Clinical success rates with oral antimicrobials have reached about 70% to 90% at 6 months in studies comparing different regimens. Trimethoprim and quinolones are most commonly used.These should be used above other antibiotics given their ability to penetrate the prostate, except in circumstances where specific bacterial sensitivities indicate otherwise. Although we don’t know from clinical trials whether local injections of antimicrobial drugs or transurethral resection of the prostate improve symptoms compared with no treatment in people with CBP, these should be considered for those that fail oral antibiotics. Men's health .................................................. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .................... 1 .................... Clinical Evidence 2015;08:1802 Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome • Effective treatment regimens for chronic pelvic pain syndrome remain to be defined, and strategies are based on symptomatic control and anxiety relief. Alpha-blockers have been found in some RCTs to have some efficacy in symptom relief of CPPS; however, there are studies that show no effect.To date, we don't know how effective alpha-blockers are in people with CPPS. We don't know whether 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors, NSAIDs, pentosan polysulfate, allopurinol, transurethral microwave thermotherapy, sitz baths, mepartricin, or quercetin reduce symptoms in men with CPPS. Clinical context GENERAL BACKGROUND Chronic prostatitis can cause pain and urinary symptoms, and can occur either with an active infection (chronic bacterial prostatitis [CBP]) or with only pain and no evidence of bacterial causation (chronic pelvic pain syndrome [CPPS]). Bacterial prostatitis is characterised by recurrent urinary tract infections or infection in the prostate with the same bacterial strain, which often results from urinary tract instrumentation. However, the cause and
