Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


Bacterial prostatitis is characterised by recurrent urinary tract infections or infection in the prostate with the same bacterial strain, which often results from urinary tract instrumentation. However, the cause and natural history of CPPS are unknown and not associated with active infection. FOCUS OF THE REVIEW CBP and CPPS can often be confusing for practitioners to manage given the disparate presentation of men's symptoms.This overview attempts to clarify and inform current management based on the most current literature. COMMENTS ON EVIDENCE There were 33 studies included in this overview, some of which are case-control studies. No placebo-controlled studies were found; however, control groups are probably unnecessary to evaluate the efficacy of antibiotics in CBP, as would be the case in other fields. SEARCH AND APPRAISAL SUMMARY The update literature search for this overview was carried out from the date of the last search, August 2010, to February 2014. For more information on the electronic databases searched and criteria applied during assessment of studies for potential relevance to the overview, please see the Methods section. Searching of electronic databases retrieved 131 studies. After deduplication and removal of conference abstracts, 67 records were screened for inclusion in the overview. Appraisal of titles and abstracts led to the exclusion of 51 studies and the further review of 16 full publications. Of the 16 full articles evaluated, three systematic reviews and one RCT were included at this update. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Although there are no placebo-controlled studies, it is well established that appropriate antibiotic treatment for CBP is associated with improved outcomes in terms of elimination of infection from the prostate and ancillary cystitis or other related symptoms. CPPS is a syndrome with an unclear aetiology that does not have any effective treatments. Chronic abacterial prostatitis is another term for CPPS; however, it is inaccurate as bacteria not responsible for the symptoms may occasionally be localised in the prostate. It is possible, but there is currently no evidence that an in- fection leads to the syndrome. DEFINITION Chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP) is characterised by recurrent infections with documented positive cultures of expressed prostatic secretions. It is asymptomatic until the patient has a urinary tract infection with associated symptoms such as suprapubic, lower back, or perineal pain, with or without mild urgency and increased frequency of urination and dysuria. However, it will be asymptomatic between acute infective episodes. Chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS) is characterised by
