Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


pain, with or without mild urgency and increased frequency of urination and dysuria. However, it will be asymptomatic between acute infective episodes. Chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS) is characterised by pelvic or perineal pain in the absence of pathogenic bacteria in expressed prostatic secretions. It is often associated with irritative and obstructive voiding symptoms including urgency, frequency, hesitancy, and poor interrupted flow. Symptoms can also include pain in the suprapubic region, lower back, penis, testes, or scrotum and painful ejaculation. CPPS may be inflammatory (white cells present in prostatic secretions) or non-inflammatory (white cells absent in prostatic secretions). A classification system for the prostatitis syndromes has been developed by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH). INCIDENCE/ One community-based study in the US (cohort of 2115 men aged 40–79 years) estimated that 9% PREVALENCE of men have a diagnosis of either type of prostatitis at any one time. Another observational study found that, in men presenting with genito-urinary symptoms, 8% of those presenting to urologists and 1% of those presenting to primary-care physicians were diagnosed as having CBP or CPPS. However, most cases were abacterial; therefore, these studies are generally examining the © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 2 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome prevalence of CPPS (formerly known as 'abacterial prostatitis'). CBP, although easy to diagnose, is rare. AETIOLOGY/ Organisms commonly implicated in bacterial prostatitis include Escherichia coli, other gram-negative RISK FACTORS enterobacteriaceae, occasionally Pseudomonas species, and, rarely, gram-positive enterococci. Risk factors for chronic bacterial prostatitis include urethral catheterisation or instrumentation, condom drainage, dysfunctional voiding (high-pressure urination), and unprotected anal intercourse. The cause of CPPS is unclear, although it has been suggested that it may be caused by undocu- mented infections with Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Mycoplasma ho- minis, and Trichomonas vaginalis. Viruses, Candida (in immunosuppressed people), and parasites have also rarely been implicated. Non-infectious factors might also be involved, including inflammation, autoimmunity, hormonal imbalances, pelvic floor tension myalgia, intraprostatic urinary reflux, and psychological disturbances. In one case-control study (463 men with CPPS; 121 asymptomatic age-matched controls), when compared with controls, men with CPPS reported a significantly higher lifetime prevalence of non-specific urethritis; CVD; neurological disease; psychiatric conditions; and haematopoietic, lymphatic, or infectious disease (non-specific urethritis: 12% with CPPS v 4% with no CPPS; P = 0.008; CVD: 11% with CPPS v 2% with no CPPS; P = 0.004; neurological
