Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


lymphatic, or infectious disease (non-specific urethritis: 12% with CPPS v 4% with no CPPS; P = 0.008; CVD: 11% with CPPS v 2% with no CPPS; P = 0.004; neurological disease: 41% with CPPS v 14% with no CPPS; P <0.001; psychiatric conditions: 29% with CPPS v 11% with no CPPS; P <0.001; haematopoietic, lymphatic, or infectious disease: 41% with CPPS v 20% with no CPPS; P <0.001). Further studies are necessary to determine whether these factors play a role in the pathogenesis of CPPS. PROGNOSIS The natural histories of untreated CBP and CPPS remain ill-defined. CBP usually causes recurrent UTI in men, whereas CPPS does not. Several investigators have reported an association be- tween CBP, CPPS, and infertility. One study found that CPPS had an impact on quality of life similar to that of angina, Crohn's disease, or a previous MI. AIMS OF The aims of intervention are different and depend on the disease process. In CBP, the aim is to INTERVENTION eliminate bacteria from the prostate, resulting in no further UTIs, with minimum adverse effects. In CPPS, the aim is clinically significant improvement in symptoms with minimum adverse effects. scores, and urodynamics; does not include bacteriological cure rate);bacteriological cure rate (for chronic bacterial prostatitis question only); clearance of previously documented organisms from prostatic secretions, microbiological eradication rates, negative bacterial culture;recurrence rate;quality of life;adverse effects. METHODS Search strategyBMJ Clinical Evidence search and appraisal February 2014. Databases used to identify studies for this systematic review include: Medline 1966 to February 2014, Embase 1980 to February 2014, The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2014, issue 1 (1966 to date of sessment (HTA) database.Inclusion criteria Study design criteria for inclusion in this review were systematic reviews and RCTs published in English, at least single-blinded, and containing 20 or more individuals (10 in each arm), of whom more than 80% were followed up.There was no minimum length of follow-up.We excluded all studies described as 'open', 'open label', or not blinded unless blinding was impossible. BMJ Clinical Evidence does not necessarily report every study found (e.g., every systematic review). Rather, we report the most recent, relevant and comprehensive studies identified through an agreed process involving our evidence team, editorial team, and expert contributors.Evidence evaluation A systematic literature search was conducted by our evidence team, who then assessed titles and abstracts, and finally selected articles for full text appraisal against inclusion and exclusion criteria agreed
