Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


A systematic literature search was conducted by our evidence team, who then assessed titles and abstracts, and finally selected articles for full text appraisal against inclusion and exclusion criteria agreed a priori with our expert contributors. In consultation with the expert contributors, studies were selected for inclusion and all data relevant to this overview extracted into the benefits and harms section of the overview. In addition, information that did not meet our predefined criteria for inclusion in the benefits and harms section, may have been reported in the 'Further information on studies' or 'Comment' section.Adverse effects All serious adverse effects, or those adverse effects reported as statistically significant, were included in the harms section of the overview. Pre-specified adverse effects identified as being clinically important were presents data on selected adverse effects reported in included studies, it is not meant to be, and cannot be, a comprehensive list of all adverse effects, contraindications, or interactions of included drugs or interventions. A reliable national or local drug database must be consulted for this infor- expert contributors may have provided additional comment and analysis of the evidence, which may include additional studies (over and above those identified via our systematic search) by way of background data or supporting information. As BMJ Clinical Evidence does not systematically © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 3 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome search for studies reported in the Comment section, we cannot guarantee the completeness of the studies listed there or the robustness of methods. Our expert contributors add clinical context and interpretation to the Clinical guide sections where appropriate.Data and qualityTo aid readability of the numerical data in our reviews, we round many percentages to the nearest whole number. Readers should be aware of this when relating percentages to summary statistics such as relative risks (RRs) and odds ratios (ORs).BMJ Clinical Evidence does not report all methodological details of included studies. Rather, it reports by exception any methodological issue or more general issue that may affect the weight a reader may put on an individual study, or the generalisability of the result.These issues may be reflected in the overall GRADE analysis.We have performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions included in this review (see table, p 29).The categorisation of the quality of the evidence (high, moderate, low, or very low) reflects the
