Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


of the quality of evidence for interventions included in this review (see table, p 29).The categorisation of the quality of the evidence (high, moderate, low, or very low) reflects the quality of evidence available for our chosen outcomes in our defined populations of interest.These cate- gorisations are not necessarily a reflection of the overall methodological quality of any individual subset of the total outcomes reported, and population included, in any individual trial. For further details of how we perform the GRADE evaluation and the scoring system we use, please see our website (www.clinicalevidence.com). QUESTION What are the effects of treatments for chronic bacterial prostatitis? OPTION ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS (ORAL) FOR CBP........................................ • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • Oral antimicrobial drugs are beneficial in men with CBP, although studies comparing them with placebo or no treatment have not been found. • Clinical success rates with oral antimicrobials have reached about 70% to 90% at 6 months in studies comparing different regimens. • Antimicrobial selection must be appropriate for the person. Appropriate selection includes: a person with a doc- umented infection on localisation culture, bacteria that are susceptible to the therapy, and an antimicrobial that can penetrate the prostate. However, despite this there will still be some treatment failure due to sequestration of bacteria within the prostate. • Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) and quinolones are most commonly used. Benefits and harms Oral antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no antimicrobial drugs: We found one systematic review (search date 2012), which identified no RCTs. - - Oral antimicrobial drugs versus each other: of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIH-NIDDK) consensus definition of chronic bacterial prostatitis, or chronic bacterial prostatitis according to an earlier definition (pathogenic bacteria recovered in significant numbers from a purulent prostatic fluid in the absence of concomitant urinary tract infection or significant signs). Many of the included RCTs were open-label, which was outside the inclusion criteria of this overview.The review included two double-blind RCTs of sufficient quality, which we have reported directly from the original RCT reports. The review reported pooled data for bacteriological cure, which we have also reported. - Symptom improvement Oral antimicrobial drugs compared with each otherWe don't know whether levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin differ in symptoms, or clear improvement without need for additional antimicrobial drugs), or whether levofloxacin and prulifloxacin differ in effectiveness at improving symptoms
