Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


men). After treatment with either amoxicillin-clavulanic acid or clindamycin for 3 to 6 weeks, all men had a decrease or total elimination of symptoms, and no anaerobic bacteria were detected in prostatic secretions. Higher cure rates with quinolones may be explained by greater penetration into the prostate. We reviewed only studies that used standard methods to localise infection to the prostate. Clinical guide Most clinicians agree that antimicrobial drugs are the preferred treatment for chronic bacterial prostatitis. If the bacteria are susceptible to many antimicrobials, oral fluoroquinolones or not improve after eradication of bacteria, alternative treatments should be investigated. OPTION ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS (LOCALLY INJECTED) FOR CBP........................... • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We don't know whether local injections of antimicrobial drugs improve symptoms compared with no treatment as we found no direct information from RCTs. Benefits and harms Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no antimicrobial drugs: We found one systematic review (search date 2012), which found no RCTs. - - Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus each other: We found one systematic review (search date 2012), which found no RCTs. - - - - Comment: We found one small RCT (50 men with prostatic secretions sensitive to amikacin) comparing anal submucosal injection of amikacin with intramuscular amikacin. It found that anal submucosal injection significantly improved symptom score and bacteriological cure rate at 3 months compared with intramuscular injection (NIH-CPSI score: 9.0 with anal submucosal injection of amikacin daily for 10 days v 22.5 with intramuscular amikacin daily for 10 days; P <0.05; negative bacterial culture, 28/30 [93%] with anal submucosal injection of amikacin daily for 10 days v 7/20 [35%] with intra- muscular amikacin daily for 10 days; P <0.05). Another small cohort study (24 men with refractory chronic bacterial prostatitis) found that eradication of infection was eventually achieved, after an unstated period, in 15 men, with gentamicin 160 mg plus cefazolin 3 g injected directly into the prostate through the perineum. Clinical guide There is limited evidence that local injection of antimicrobial drugs improves bacterial eradication rates compared with the standard treatment of oral antimicrobial drugs, and treatments of this type remain experimental. However, if first-line therapy for CBP with oral antimicrobial treatment fails, a local injection of antimicrobial therapy is reasonable. An additional advantage is that direct injection allows bypassing of
