Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


experimental. However, if first-line therapy for CBP with oral antimicrobial treatment fails, a local injection of antimicrobial therapy is reasonable. An additional advantage is that direct injection allows bypassing of the prostatic capsule and thus allows use of other antimicrobials. A third-line option is chronic oral antibiotic suppression to prevent recurrent cystitis.There is the potential for side effects with any medication, thus the risks of chronic antibiotic use (such as tendon damage with quinolones) must be weighed against the potential benefits. However, a chronic suppression approach only mandates adequate drug levels in the urine and does not require penetrance of the prostate, thus many antibiotic choices with a safer side effect profile are available, such as nitrofu- rantoin and cephalosporins. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 7 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome OPTION TRANSURETHRAL RESECTION OF THE PROSTATE FOR CBP........................ • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We found no direct information from RCTs about transurethral resection of the prostate in the treatment of men with chronic bacterial prostatitis. Benefits and harms Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP): We found no systematic review or RCTs on the effects of TURP in men with chronic bacterial prostatitis. - - - - Comment: One RCT in men with benign prostatic hypertrophy found no significant difference in the incidence of impotence or urinary incontinence between TURP and watchful waiting. One retrospective study reported 40% to 50% cure rates in 50 men with chronic prostatitis treated with TURP. However, proof of bacterial prostatitis was not obtained in many of the men. Ac- cording to current practice, there is a second-line role for local eradication of infected prostatic tissue by TURP in cases of failure of oral antimicrobials. A third-line option is chronic oral antibiotic sup- pression to prevent recurrent cystitis. QUESTION What are the effects of treatments for chronic pelvic pain syndrome? OPTION ALPHA-BLOCKERS FOR CPPS.................................................. • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • The effectiveness of alpha-blockers in people with CPPS is inconclusive; the data from RCTs fluctuate between effective and ineffective, most probably because of the heterogeneity of participants in the RCTs. Benefits and harms Alpha-blockers versus placebo: We found two systematic reviews (search date 2010; and 2011),
