Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


The RCT found no significant dif- ference in the incidence of ad- verse effects (mostly gastrointesti- nal disturbances) between groups 272 men with pro- Adverse effects P = 0.79 statitis for at least RCT 38/138 (28%) with alfuzosin 2 years, and with no previous treat- 39/134 (29%) with placebo ment with an al- Not significant pha-blocker The most commonly reported adverse effect was pain, and the In review body system most commonly af- fected by adverse effects was the gastrointestinal system 100 men aged Adverse effects 20–45 years, with RCT with tamsulosion CPPS NIH catego- ry IIIA or IIIB, pain with placebo or discomfort for at least 3 months 13 people with tamsulosion and two people with placebo had ad- verse effects, most of which were classified as mild or moderate Two people with tamsulosin and one with placebo withdrew be- cause of adverse effects (further details not reported) - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - - Alpha-blockers versus each other: We found no systematic review or RCTs of sufficient quality (see comment). - - - © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 13 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome Further information on studies Heterogeneity For total symptom scores, the review reported that meta-regression did not identify the source of heterogeneity. Sensitivity analysis using four 'higher-quality' RCTs did not affect the significance of the result, the Eggar test indicated publication bias (P = 0.03), and an analysis adjusted for possible publication bias re- sulted in no evidence of treatment benefit (P = 0.39). For the pain analysis, sensitivity analysis using four 'higher-quality' RCTs did not affect the significance of the result, the Eggar test suggested publication bias due to small study effect (P = 0.02), and an analysis adjusted for possible publication bias resulted in no evidence of treatment benefit (P = 0.06). For voiding scores, the heterogeneity test statistic was not reported. Sensitivity analysis using four 'higher-quality' RCTs did not affect the significance of the result, the Eggar test suggested publication bias due to small study effect (P = 0.02), and an analysis adjusted for possible publication bias re- sulted in no evidence of treatment benefit (P = 0.10).Methods Of the eight included RCTs, three had unclear sequence generation and six had unclear allocation concealment. HeterogeneityThe review reported that it found no evidence of publication bias in NIH-CPSI
