Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


0.10).Methods Of the eight included RCTs, three had unclear sequence generation and six had unclear allocation concealment. HeterogeneityThe review reported that it found no evidence of publication bias in NIH-CPSI total score, pain, voiding, or quality of life analyses. It reported that factors influencing the heterogeneity included inadequate sequence generation, lack of concealed allocation, study duration, and requiring an NIH-CPSI cut-off score for study entry. The RCT noted that there were no significant differences between groups in peak urinary flow, post-voiding residual volume, and International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) over the course of the trial. It noted that the dose of tamsulosin commonly used in China and used in the trial was lower than that used in other countries, and the results might be different with different drug dosages and in different populations. - - Comment: The first review reported that, although alpha-blockers improved outcomes, the magnitudes of treatment effects are distorted by publication bias and small study effects. It noted that some RCTs were unclear in randomisation sequence generation; hence, selection bias or confounding might be present.The second review noted variability in the entry criteria for RCTs, potential effects of age (above or less than 50 years), whether men were alpha-blocker naïve, variations in study quality, and that placebo effects needed to be taken into account in interpreting results. It observed that the variability in response could suggest that CPPS is actually comprised of a number of sep- arate disease entities with discrete causes that require different treatments. Alpha-blockers versus placebo The largest randomised, multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to date showed no overall difference between placebo and alpha-blocker therapy (alfuzosin 10 mg/day). Both groups showed a similar response rate, defined as a decrease of four or more points on the NIH-CPSI of 49% at 12 weeks. Other trials looked at response periods greater than 3 months; thus, it is difficult to generalise the results to longer periods of treatment. Additionally, people with a lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) component may be a subgroup that would benefit, although the literature does not currently support this premise. Alpha-blockers versus each other or versus antimicrobials We found one five-armed open-label RCT that did not meet the inclusion criteria for BMJ Clinical Evidence. The RCT divided participants into groups depending on prostatitis type (IIIA or IIIB), and randomly allocated them to treatment with either tamsulosin, treatment with a combination of tamsulosin plus
