Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


Evidence. The RCT divided participants into groups depending on prostatitis type (IIIA or IIIB), and randomly allocated them to treatment with either tamsulosin, treatment with a combination of tamsulosin plus levofloxacin, or, for only the people with type IIIA disease, levofloxacin alone. All groups had a decrease in symptom scores, but improvements in symptom scores in the combined treatment group were superior to those in the single treatment groups. Combination therapy improved pain, urinary symptoms, and quality-of-life scores compared with levofloxacin alone (P <0.05).The authors conclude that tamsulosin and levofloxacin are both effective in the treatment of, and may have an additional effect in, the treatment of non-bacterial prostatitis. Drug safety alert A drug safety alert has been issued on risk of intra-operative floppy iris syndrome during cataract surgery with tamsulosin ( intraoperative-floppy-iris-syndrome-ifis). Clinical guide Many clinicians believe that alpha-blockers are the appropriate first-line treatment for CPPS, despite the lack of strong RCT evidence. Clinical practice suggests that alpha-blockers may help some and not others within the CPPS syndrome, due to the heterogeneity of the patient population.With a low side effect profile, it is an appropriate first-line therapy even despite the lack of strong RCT evidence. However, if alpha-blockers fail to improve symptoms, as determined by the NIH-CPSI, alternative treatments should be investigated. Although one trial suggested efficacy with a combi- © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 14 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome nation of alpha-blocker and antimicrobial, in the absence of robust evidence the clinician must weigh the potential harm (i.e., side effect profile of ciprofloxacin) with the small potential for benefit. OPTION 5 ALPHA-REDUCTASE INHIBITORS FOR CPPS..................................... • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We don't know whether 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors reduce symptoms in men with CPPS. Benefits and harms 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors versus placebo: We found one systematic review (search date 2010), which identified two RCTs. We have reported the RCTs directly from their original reports. - Symptom improvement 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors compared with placeboWe don't know whether finasteride is more effective than placebo at improving symptoms in men with CPPS (low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 41 men Symptom scores, 1 year Reported as significant RCT In review with finasteride P value not reported
