Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


placebo: We found one systematic review (search date 2011), which identified one RCT. We have reported the RCT directly from its original report. - Symptom improvement Mepartricin compared with placeboWe don't know whether oral mepartricin is more effective than placebo at improving symptoms in men with CPPS (low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 26 men Median score improvement in P = 0.009 RCT In review the National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) for mepartricin pain –7 with mepartricin –2 with placebo 26 men Median score improvement in P = 0.0018 RCT In review the total NIH-CPSI score mepartricin –15 with mepartricin –5 with placebo 26 men Median score improvement in P = 0.2891 RCT In review the NIH-CPSI for urinary dys- function Not significant –5 with mepartricin –4 with placebo - Recurrence rate - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Quality of life Mepartricin compared with placebo Oral mepartricin may be more effective than placebo at improving quality of life (measured by NIH-CPSI) in men with CPPS (low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Quality of life 26 men Median score improvement in P = 0.0046 RCT In review the NIH-CPSI for quality of life mepartricin –5 with mepartricin –1 with placebo - Adverse effects - © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 18 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Adverse effects 26 men Adverse effects RCT In review with mepartricin with placebo The RCT found 2 cases of mild epigastric pain and nausea; however, no one discontinued treatment because of adverse effects - - - Further information on studies The review noted that the RCT had unclear allocation concealment and inadequate blinding. - - Comment: Mepartricin has been shown to form a complex with oestrogen when taken orally, leading to faecal oestrogen excretion and lower plasma oestrogen levels. Clinical guide Mepartricin remains an experimental drug, but some physicians believe that it should be considered as a second-line treatment if alpha-blockers fail to provide symptomatic relief. OPTION NON-STEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS FOR CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME. • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We don't
