Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


weeks P >0.2 RCT In review with pentosan polysulfate Not significant with placebo 100 men Proportion of people with no P = 1.0 RCT In review adverse effects, after 16 weeks of treatment with pentosan polysulfate Not significant with placebo Absolute results not reported - - - Further information on studies The RCT found no significant difference between pentosan polysulfate and placebo in other, more objective and standardised outcomes.The analysis in the RCT was not by intention to treat; six people were excluded from the analysis for non-compliance or because they had bacterial prostatitis. - - Comment: None. OPTION QUERCETIN FOR CPPS........................................................ • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We don't know whether quercetin reduces symptoms in men with CPPS. Benefits and harms Quercetin versus placebo: We found one systematic review (search date 2010), which included one RCT. We have reported that RCT from its original report. - Symptom improvement Quercetin compared with placeboWe don't know whether oral quercetin (a bioflavonoid) and placebo differ in effec- tiveness at improving symptoms in men with CPPS as we found insufficient evidence from one small RCT (very low- quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 33 men Mean improvement in total Na- P = 0.003 RCT In review tional Institutes of Health- Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) scores, 1 quercetin month from 21 to 13 with quercetin from 20.2 to 18.8 with placebo © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 23 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours 33 men Clinically meaningful improve- P = 0.001 RCT In review ment (more than 25% improve- ment in NIH-CPSI scores), 1 month quercetin 67% with quercetin 20% with placebo Absolute numbers not reported 33 men Urinary dysfunction, 1 month Reported as not significant RCT In review with quercetin P value not reported Not significant with placebo Absolute results not reported - Recurrence rate - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Quality of life - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Adverse effects - Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Adverse effects 33 men Adverse effects RCT In review with
