Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


reference on this outcome. - Adverse effects - Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Adverse effects 33 men Adverse effects RCT In review with quercetin with placebo 1 man reported headaches taking quercetin, and 1 man noted tin- gling of extremities No one stopped treatment be- cause of adverse effects, and all symptoms resolved after cessa- tion of treatment - - - - Comment: Despite lack of evidence, some physicians recommend a trial of quercetin, a naturally occurring bioflavinoid with antioxidant properties. OPTION SITZ BATHS FOR CPPS........................................................ • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We found no direct information from RCTs about sitz baths in the treatment of men with CPPS. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 24 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome Benefits and harms Sitz baths: We found no systematic review or RCTs on the effects of sitz baths in men with CPPS. - - - - Comment: None. OPTION TRANSURETHRAL MICROWAVE THERMOTHERAPY FOR CPPS....................... • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome, see table, p 29. • We don't know whether transurethral microwave thermotherapy (TUMT) reduces symptoms in men with CPPS. Benefits and harms Transurethral microwave thermotherapy versus sham treatment: We found one systematic review (search date 1999, 1 double-blind RCT). The RCT included in the review compared TUMT with sham treatment. - Symptom improvement TUMT compared with sham treatmentTUMT may be more effective than sham treatment at 21 months at increasing the proportion of men with an improvement of symptoms (measured by subjective global assessment) in men with CPPS. However, evidence was weak (very low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 20 men Proportion of men with im- Reported as significant RCT In review provement of a subjective P value not reported global assessment by >50%, mean of 21 months TUMT 7/10 (70%) with TUMT 1/10 (10%) with sham treatment - Recurrence rate - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Quality of life TUMT compared with sham treatmentTUMT may be more effective than sham treatment at 3 months at improving quality of life (measured on a 10-point scale) in men with CPPS (very low-quality evidence). Ref Results
