Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, placebo, review, cpps, rct, prostatitis, pain, reported, bacterial, analysis, effects, bacterial prostatitis, significant, adverse


treatmentTUMT may be more effective than sham treatment at 3 months at improving quality of life (measured on a 10-point scale) in men with CPPS (very low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Quality of life 20 men Improvement in quality of life P <0.05 RCT In review on a scale of 1–10 (lower score favourable), 3 months TUMT from 4.4 to 3.0 with TUMT from 5.2 to 5.2 with sham treat- ment © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 25 Men's health Chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome - Adverse effects - Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Adverse effects 20 men Adverse effects RCT In review with TUMT with sham treatment 4 men complained of transient (resolved in 3 weeks) adverse effects, including haematuria (2 men), UTI, impotence, urinary retention, urinary incontinence, and premature ejaculation (each occurring in 1 man) The RCT did not report on whether these men were treated with active or sham treatment - - - - Comment: TUMT caused persistent elevation of leukocytes in the prostatic fluid, which could indicate tissue damage. GLOSSARY Sitz bath A warm water bath taken in the sitting position.The water covers only the hips and buttocks. Low-quality evidence Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. NIH classification system Category I: acute bacterial prostatitis is an acute infection of the prostate. Category II: chronic bacterial prostatitis is a recurrent infection of the prostate. Category III: chronic non-bacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) is where there is no demonstrable infection. Subgroups of this class are: (A) inflam- matory CPPS (leukocytes seen in semen, prostatic fluid, or urine after prostatic massage); and (B) non-inflammatory CPPS (no leukocytes seen). Category IV: asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis, no subjective symptoms but leukocytes found in prostate/prostatic secretions during work-up for other disorders (e.g., on prostate biopsy for prostate cancer). National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) Includes nine items across three domains: pain (4 items; 0–21), urinary symptoms (2 items; 0–10), and quality of life impact (3 items; 0–12). In all domains, higher scores indicate worse outcomes. Very low-quality evidence Any estimate of effect is very uncertain. SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors for CPPS One systematic review added. Categorisation unchanged
