Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: cid, pneumonia, respiratory, sci, patients, infections, acute, risk, respiratory infections, persons, cap, population, mortality, care, persons sci


of all persons with SCI. Most have focused on epidemiologic aspects of respiratory infections. There re- mains a need to conduct clinical trials of preventive measures and treat- ments to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with respiratory infections in this population. Predisposing factors for persons with spinal cord injury SCI can cause multiple alterations in normal physiology that may in- creasethelikelihoodofthedevelopmentofrespiratoryinfections(incidence) or increase the chance of dying from an infection (case fatality). The most obvious of these dysfunctions caused by SCI is weakness of the respiratory muscles.IftheneurologiclevelisatC5orrostral,theremaybesomedegree ofdiaphragmweaknessorevencomplete paralysiswithhigher levelmotor- complete injuries. At lower neurologic levels, diaphragm innervation is in- tact,andthisnormallyissufficienttomaintainatleast60%ofthepredicted vital capacity. Ventilatory failure caused by inspiratory muscle weakness can occur immediately after injury or develop over the first week after the injury.Patientswhorequiremechanicalventilation aresusceptible toventi- lator-associatedpneumonia (VAP). Overthefirst weekstomonths afterin- jury, many patients with partially intact diaphragm innervation acquire the abilitytospontaneouslyventilate,whichisinpartcausedbystrengthrecov- ery in the diaphragm. Approximately 7% of persons with SCI will be ven- tilator dependent when discharged from rehabilitation . Patients with reduced inspiratory muscle strength are predisposed to microatelectasis, which may promote the development of pneumonia in atelectatic segments of the lung. SevereexpiratorymuscleweaknessismoreprevalentinpersonswithSCI andislikelythemostimportantfactorincreasingtheincidenceandcasefa- tality for pneumonia. Expiratory muscle weakness, resulting in low volun- tary cough peak expiratory flow, is strongly associated with unsuccessful ACUTERESPIRATORYINFECTIONS 205 extubationandincreasedin-hospitalmortalityinthegeneralpopulation. Because the primary expiratory muscles, the internal intercostals and ab- dominals, have thoracic innervation, they will be paralyzed completely in all patients with motor-complete tetraplegia. Expiratory strength increases incrementallywitheachadditionalneurologiclevelandisessentiallynormal at the T12 neurologic level and below; therefore, patients with high-level paraplegia have a similar degree of weakness to those with low-level tetra- plegia. The main consequence of expiratory muscle weakness is a reduced peak cough flow, which is ineffective for clearance of bronchial secretions. With a peak cough flow of less than 2.7 L/sec (160 L/min), there is inade- quate airflow to mobilize secretions out of the bronchi and trachea . To compensate for weak cough strength, aggressive multimodal respiratory therapyinterventionsarerequiredforsecretionmobilization.Measures to promote secretion mobilization are listed in Table 1. Other than respiratory muscle weakness, additional factors predispose patients to respiratory complications. Reduced sympathetic innervation to the lungs occurs with injuries above the mid-thoracic level. The unopposed vagal parasympathetic input in patients with tetraplegia leads to broncho- constriction and increased bronchial mucus secretion . In patients with acute tetraplegia, bronchial mucus production may exceed 1 L per day, and the secretions are often tenacious, likely because of an altered
