Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: cid, pneumonia, respiratory, sci, patients, infections, acute, risk, respiratory infections, persons, cap, population, mortality, care, persons sci


immediately by outpatient care with a diagnostic code for pneumonia. No significant association was found between the identification of a specific pathogen and mortality in 260 hospitalized SCI patients with CAP. The mean length of stay was 13.5 days, and the overall case fatality was 8.5%. In that study, a causative pathogen was identified in 24% of cases, with pneumococcustheleadingcauseofpneumonia(32%ofcases),asistruefor the general population with CAP. Pseudomonas, which is an uncommon pathogen for CAP in the general population, was the second most com- monly identified pathogen, occurring in 21% of cases. This finding should prompt clinicians to consider whether their patient with pneumonia has risk factors for HCAP rather than CAP. Pseudomonas colonization of the perineum,lowerurinarytract,andurinecollectionsystemiscommoninper- sonswithSCIandmaybeariskfactorforPseudomonaspneumoniainthis population . More well-recognized risk factors for gram-negative pneu- monia, such as antibiotic treatment or hospitalization in the prior 30 days, pulmonary comorbidity, or aspiration , are relatively common in this population as well. In the general population, the relative risk of death is elevated by a factor of 2.6 to 6.4 with Pseudomonas pneumonia when compared with other pathogens . AnadditionalVAstudycharacterizedtheclinicalmanagementofCAPat three VA hospitals with specialized SCI services . It used abstraction of individual electronic medical records for SCI veterans who received outpa- tient or inpatient treatment of CAP during the study period. Cases were identifiedinitiallyfromVAadministrativedatabasesusingthesamemethod usedbyChangandcoauthors,withtheadditionofcasesthatsolelyre- ceived an outpatient diagnosis of pneumonia but did not require hospitali- zation. Medical records were then reviewed to confirm the diagnosis of tion, and treatments were abstracted from the records. Of the 41 patients, ACUTERESPIRATORYINFECTIONS 209 32 (78%) were hospitalized and only 9 (22%) were treated as outpatients. Because these patients were treated at hospitals with specialized SCI ser- vices, this may indicate that SCI specialists are more likely to recommend admission for treatment of HAP. The mean length of stay for hospitalized patients was 19.7 days. The antibiotic coverage received was in accordance with recommendations from the Infectious Disease Society of America for only one half of the patients . After accounting for the relatively high rate of fluoroquinolone resistance at the participating institutions, only 24%ofpatientsreceivedreliableantipseudomonalcoverage.Thein-hospital mortalityrate was 7.3%, andafter3yearsoffollow-up,42.1% ofhospital- ization survivors had died. GeneralpopulationstudieshavebeenusedtodevelopCAPtreatmental- gorithms, involving decisions whether to hospitalize the patient and choice of empiric antibiotic coverage for the most common pathogens. Unfortu- nately, it is not clear which of these principles may be directly applied to thepopulationwithSCIresidinginthecommunity.Forexample,thePneu- monia PORT algorithm assigns no increased risk for either expiratory dys- function or marginal
