Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: cid, pneumonia, respiratory, sci, patients, infections, acute, risk, respiratory infections, persons, cap, population, mortality, care, persons sci


lower respiratory infections (98% of which was acute bronchitis) and 72 to 75 visits per year per 1000 veterans for upper respira- tory infections. The mortality rate during the 60 days after the visit was 1.6% for acute bronchitis and 0.7% for upper respiratory tract infections. Only 3.5% of patients seen for acute bronchitis were hospitalized on the dayoftheiroutpatientvisit;however,21.9%requiredhospitalizationduring the subsequent 60 days. These findings indicate that for persons with SCI, ACUTERESPIRATORYINFECTIONS 211 acute bronchitis is associated with a small increase in mortality, and that hospitalizationisrelativelycommonafteranoutpatientevaluationforbron- chitis.Thestudydesignprecludeddeterminingwhetherpneumoniawasmis- diagnosedasacutebronchitisinanyofthesepatientsorwhetherpneumonia subsequently developed as a consequence of retained excess bronchial secretions. Prevention of respiratory infections in outpatients with spinal cord injury Although respiratory infections are an important source of morbidity and mortality in persons with SCI, it is challenging to conduct prospective researchonpreventivestrategies.Becauseofthelackofresearchinthispop- ulation, the recommendations for prevention are primarily derived from other patient populations, knowledge of pathophysiologic alterations that risk for severe respiratory infections. Influenza vaccine reduces influenza-related hospitalizations, deaths, and secondarycomplicationsinelderlypatientswithandwithouthigh-riskmed- ical conditions such asdiabetes. Currently,the Centers forDiseaseControl and Prevention (CDC) recommend annual influenza vaccination for other groups at risk for severe complications from influenza, including those with chronic pulmonary or vascular diseases and residents of chronic care facilities . In 2005, the CDC extended the recommendation to include children and adults with SCI . Pneumococcus is the leading cause of CAP for both the general popu- lation and persons with SCI. Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine has been shown to reduce the risk of invasive (ie, bacteremic) pneumococcal disease and is considered cost effective for elderly persons. It is also recom- mended for persons aged 2 years or older who have chronic illnesses in- cluding pulmonary diseases . Based on these recommendations, it is routinely offered to persons with SCI, the majority of who have some de- gree of respiratory impairment. However, only a minority of pneumococ- cal pneumonias result in bacteremia. The vaccine has not been found to be effective for noninvasive disease, and in elderly patients the rate of CAP and pneumonia hospitalization is unaffected by pneumococcal vaccination . Aggressivemobilizationofsecretionscouldplayanimportantrole inre- ducingrespiratoryinfectionsinoutpatientswithSCI.Asmallproportionof patients, primarily those with cervical level injuries, appear to benefit from routine bronchial secretion clearance even in the absence of an acute respi- ratory infection. This typically can be achieved using quad coughing or mechanical insufflation-exsufflation on a daily basis. More commonly, assistanceforsecretionmobilizationonlybecomesnecessarywhenarespira- tory infection develops. As noted earlier, viral upper respiratory infections 212 BURNS or acute bronchitis
