Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: cid, pneumonia, respiratory, sci, patients, infections, acute, risk, respiratory infections, persons, cap, population, mortality, care, persons sci


personswithnewtetraplegia,andtheyareamoreimportantdeterminantof cost than is the injury level . Most published findings on pneumonia in personswithSCIcomefrompatientsundergoingacutecareandinitialreha- bilitationatMSCIShospitals.JacksonandGroomesfounda31.4%rate ofpneumoniaduringacutecareandrehabilitation.Fishburnandcolleagues reportedacombinedrateof50%forpneumoniaoratelectasisduringthe firstmonthafterinjury,witha74%rateinpatientswithhigh-leveltetraple- gia. While receiving inpatient rehabilitation after acute care, 21.6% of pa- tients with complete tetraplegia will have atelectasis or pneumonia . Of note, 80% of pneumonias that develop soon after injury are left sided . This has been attributed to difficulty with clearing secretions from the left bronchialtreeusingtrachealsuctioningbecauseofthemoreacutetakeoffan- gleoftheleftmainstembronchus. There are no published data on etiologic organisms for pneumonia that develops during acute care or initial rehabilitation phases in person with SCI. These patients likely have a similar risk as other hospitalized patients for colonization with multidrug-resistant bacteria after 5 or more days of hospitalization. Therefore, the choice of empiric antibiotic coverage should be identical to that for HAP in neurologically intact patients and based in part on duration of hospitalization . Hospital-acquired pneumonia in chronic spinal cord injury The high incidence and case fatality for CAP is likely to be the primary reasonthatpneumoniaisaleadingcauseofdeathafterSCI.However,HAP couldpotentiallyaccountforasubstantialproportionofthepneumonia-re- lateddeathsinpersonswithchronicSCI.Todate,nostudieshaveexamined the epidemiology, pathogens, or risk factors for HAP in the chronically in- jured population. Many risk factors for HAP in the general population are prevalentinhospitalizedpersonswithchronicSCI.Theseincludeexpiratory dysfunction, prolonged antibiotic treatment, sedating medications, and su- pine position during feeding. Summary RespiratoryinfectionsarecommoninpersonswithSCI.Pneumonia,and toalesserdegree,acutebronchitis,areassociatedwithsignificantmorbidity and mortality. Guidelines for treatment of CAP were developed for use in the general population and may not be appropriate for persons with SCI. Optimal management of respiratory infections must take into account the severe expiratory dysfunction that is highly prevalent in this population as wellasrisk factors forHCAPinoutpatientswhohavepneumonia. Persons with SCI should be informed of their risk of respiratory infections and be encouragedtoseekpromptevaluationbyphysicianswhoareknowledgeable about complications of SCI. ACUTERESPIRATORYINFECTIONS 215
