J. Anat. (1985), 141, pp. 171-179 171
KEYWORDS: culture, edge, labelling, hours, tissue, organ, organ culture, experiments, mucosa, ofthe, cells, trauma, kinetic, indices, changes


central inactivity. Although hyperbaric oxygen does increase the depth of edge labelling its effects are unphysiological and toxic (MacDougall & Coupland, 1967; Heppleston & Simmett, 1964; Haugaard, 1968). Steel (1977) has emphasised the different rationale between short term 'flash Newcastle uponTyne,NEI 4LP, England. 172 C. J. PRITCHETT AND OTHERS labelling' in vitro studies where kinetic indices have not had time to change after excision from the host and may for a brief time (perhaps an hour or less) represent in vivo levels, and the longer term in vitro experiments lasting several hours where ongoing proliferative behaviour is monitored. Clearly such experiments provide more kinetic information, but whether this information is useful depends on pro- liferative indices being stable and similar to those in vivo. These aims are difficultto achieve. In view ofthe difficulties relating to the determination ofproliferative indices in vitro, it was considered necessary to follow mitotic and labelling indices through at least the first 24 hours in organ culture, using a proven organ culture technique and a tissue that could be easily orientated. The objectives were to try to define the adaptive kinetic changes in colorectal mucosa and to find a period ofproliferative stability comparable to the kinetic state in vivo. MATERIALS AND METHODS Mitotic index in vivo Mitotic index was determined in sigmoidoscopic or colonoscopic biopsies from twelve patients whose rectosigmoid mucosa was histologically normal. Immediate fixation in formalin was used to prevent the disappearance of mitotic figures, a phenomenon which has been observed when fixation is delayed (Bullough, 1950), and toensure that thecalculated Im truly represented the in vivo values. A minimum of 2000 epithelial cells per specimen was counted, and the proportion in mitosis expressed as a percentage. Organ culture technique: preparation ofsections Six resection specimens were obtained from patients undergoing surgery for carcinoma of the descending colon, sigmoid or rectum. They were taken directly from the operating theatre and were rapidly cleaned, cooled and transported to the laboratoryinicecoldbufferedHank'ssolution(Sigma). Mucosawhichwasnormal in appearance, as far removed from the tumour as possible, was gently stripped from the submucosa. Multiple pieces roughly 15 mm square were cut with a razor blade and placed, luminal surfaces uppermost, on micropore filters (Millipore, type SS 3 0,um).Thefilterswereplacedonstainlesssteelgridsinsilicapetridishesandhoused in Trowell jars (Trowell, 1959). The culture medium (Hodges & Melcher, 1976) consisted of Waymouth MB 752 medium (Gibco) containing 10-15% fetal calf serum, and supplemented with 300,ug/ml ascorbic acid (Sigma), 3 0,ug/ml hydro-
