J. Anat. (1985), 141, pp. 171-179 171
KEYWORDS: culture, edge, labelling, hours, tissue, organ, organ culture, experiments, mucosa, ofthe, cells, trauma, kinetic, indices, changes


apparently committed to DNA synthesis are in- hibited. Only mitosis, a process resistantto the mostadverseconditions, is observed and this rapidly disappears since the duration ofmitotic phase is short. The wave of edge labelling appearing after one hour could represent cells, previously blocked by the trauma ofexplantation,resuming DNA synthesis,or might representanewwave ofactivity stimulated by the trauma oftissue cutting. The recovery ofmitosis com- mences at about 5 hours, initially in the tissue edge, just when edge labelling is begining to decline. This, and the relative levels of I, and Im, suggests that separate cohorts ofcells are being observed through two 'windows' in the cell cycle and that the peaks are too close together to represent a singlecohort passingfrom S, through G2to theMphase, aprocesswhichshouldtake atleast 12 hours(Deschner&Lipkin, 1978). The effects ofgrowth control substances and trauma can be so rapid as to suggest a direct action on the control ofcell movement from the G2 to the Mphase. During investigations on the physiology ofmitosis in mouse ear epidermis in vitro, Gelfant (1959) noticed that mitotic activity was consistently influenced by trauma and not by culture techniques ornutritional requirements. He showed thatamitotic gradient appeared within five hours of cutting the epidermis in vitro; the response was not affected by plugging the cut with wax to exclude oxygen and nutrients. Since five hours is too short a period for cells to leave G1 and pass through S and G2 to the Mphase, Gelfant(1962) and laterRajewsky (1965) proposed that somecells, already arrested in G2, were stimulated into mitosis while other cells were switched into S from the G1 phase within an hour. Other workers have noticed the rapid stimula- tion of DNA synthesis by trauma, for example in the regenerating liver by Bucher (1963) and in thecornea ofrabbits by Harding& Srinivasan (1961), in vivosituations Kinetics ofhuman colorectal mucosa 177 where anoxiacannotbeincriminated. Thelatterworkersclearly showedthat, follow- ing a small wound in the corneal epithelium, a wave ofDNA synthesis, indicated by 3HTdR labelling, commenced at 12-14 hours after the trauma and moved outwards in concentric rings at a rate of 17pm per hour. Ten hours later, a wave ofmitosis was apparent. Adding to the evidence that tritiated thymidine uptake here repre- sentedapredivisionstatewasthefactthatpairsoflabellednuclei,indicatingdaughter cells, appeared 24 hours after trauma. Wessels (1964) described similar phenomena in embryonicmouse pancreas in organculture, but heexplained these edge effects in terms neither of trauma nor central anoxia, but as a germ layer at the edge ofthe tissue
