J. Anat. (1985), 141, pp. 171-179 171
KEYWORDS: culture, edge, labelling, hours, tissue, organ, organ culture, experiments, mucosa, ofthe, cells, trauma, kinetic, indices, changes


similar phenomena in embryonicmouse pancreas in organculture, but heexplained these edge effects in terms neither of trauma nor central anoxia, but as a germ layer at the edge ofthe tissue fragments. While traumatic stimulation of DNA synthesis and mitosis has most frequently been studied in the epidermis (Bullough, 1961; 1965), it has been observed in many other organs, and would seem to be a desirable homeostaticmechanism particularly in rapidly dividing tissue normally subjected to trauma. In the gastrointestinal tract, for example, McMinn & Johnson (1958) noticed large numbers of mitoses in the edges ofwounds in the cat oesophagus after 48 hours while Block, Seiter & Oehlert, (1963)showedalabellingresponseinrattonguewithinanhourofinjury. Hunt(1958) showed similar changes in injured rat stomach. Ithas beenacommonexperience toseelarge risesinI,shortlyafterexplantation of tissue into culture, several times higher than the subsequent rise in mitotic index (Simnett & Heppleston, 1968), and the present experiments confirm this. Several mechanisms have been cited to explain this; for example, the larger duration ofthe Sthan theMphase, arrestin G2phase, ordevelopmentofpolyploidy and incorpora- tion of3HTdR into metabolic DNA or even RNA (Maurer, 1981). In the present study even when central labelling did return, the grain counts were much lower in central areas than in the periphery. The explanation for this may be the presence ofa pool ofendogenous 'cold' (unlabelled) thymidine, possibly from cell damage, in the centre ofthe tissue explants, causing a competitive inhibition of 3HTdR uptake (Maurer, 1981). The decline oflabelling indices, and to a lesser extent mitosis, in the latter parts of the experiments may well represent limitations in the survival capabilities of colorectal mucosa in this particular system, or limitations ofthe labelling technique in organ culture, or both. The important observation is that kinetic changes are rapid and complex andthat some central DNA synthesis does return at a time when the mitotic index is representative ofin vivo values, and when the tissue appears to be histologically well preserved. Some of these changes may be due to lack of dif- fusion ofessential nutrients, buttraumaisalso an important stimulus tocell division and thismay belargely responsible for theedgeeffect in small explants. Ifcolorectal mucosa in this particularorgan system is allowed to settle for 12-24 hours, many of the difficulties that have thwarted previous attempts at in vitro kinetic studies dis- appear. SUMMARY In organ culture tissues undergo adaptive changes which complicate the assess- ment ofproliferative indices. In the present study, a technique devised to preserve collagen metabolism and mesenchymal stroma in
