Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatic, hht, pulmonary, hypertension, observed, telangiectasia, hereditary, shunt, blood, arterial, mmhg, hemorrhagic, right, hereditary hemorrhagic


Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483 CASE REPORT Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia with hepatic arteriovenous shunt diagnosed due to liver damage Satoru Hagiwara1 · Toru Takase2 · Itsuki Oda3 · Yoriaki Komeda1 · Naoshi Nishida1 · Akihiro Yoshida1 · Tomoki Yamamoto1 · Takuya Matsubara1 · Masatoshi Kudo1 Received: 13 November 2023 / Accepted: 11 January 2024 / Published online: 4 March 2024 © The Author(s) 2024 Abstract A 53-year-old woman was diagnosed with liver dysfunction in August 20XX. Computed tomography (CT) revealed multiple hepatic AV shunts, and she was placed under observation. In March 20XX + 3, she developed back pain, and CT performed during an emergency hospital visit showed evidence of intrahepatic bile duct dilatation. She was referred to our gastroen- terology department in May 20XX + 3. We conducted investigations on suspicion of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) with hepatic AV shunting based on contrast-enhanced CT performed at another hospital. HHT is generally discovered due to epistaxis, but there are also cases where it is diagnosed during examination of liver damage. Keywords Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia · Hepatic arteriovenous shunt · Liver damage Introduction report a case of Osler-Rendu-Weber disease with a hepatic AV shunt complicated by pulmonary arterial hypertension, Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), also known which was diagnosed as a result of liver damage. as Osler-Rendu-Weber disease , is a systemic vascu- Case report recurrent epistaxis, peripheral vasodilation of the skin and mucosa, visceral lesions [arteriovenous malformations (AVMs)], and autosomal dominant inheritance . HHT The patient was a 53-year-old woman who presented with a is broadly classified into two types based on the causative chief complaint of fatigue. There was no relevant past medi- gene: ENG in HHT1, and ACVRL-1 in HHT2 [5–7]. Pul- cal history. The family history included a grandfather who monary hypertension is an important complication of HHT died due to arachnoid hemorrhage. She reported a negative . Pulmonary hypertension is broadly divided into pul- history for habits such as smoking and drinking. The his- monary arterial hypertension, which causes stenosis due tory of presenting illness was as follows. In August 20XX, hypertension, which occurs due to increased cardiac output and the patient visited a nearby doctor. Computed tomogra- due to arteriovenous shunts. However, some cases mani- phy (CT) revealed multiple AV shunts in the liver, and the fest as a mixture of both of these patterns . Herein, we patient was placed under observation. In March
