Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatic, hht, pulmonary, hypertension, observed, telangiectasia, hereditary, shunt, blood, arterial, mmhg, hemorrhagic, right, hereditary hemorrhagic


was elevated to 46 mmHg (normal value 30 mmHg). The peripheral blood sampling. As a result, 2 variants were left ventricular ejection fraction was maintained at 65%. detected. The first, NM_001204.7 BMPR2 c.165 T > C Cardiac catheterization showed that the mean pulmonary p.Asn55 = , was a silent mutation, and the allele frequency arterial pressure was mildly elevated at 25 mmHg (normal in gnomAD was 0.000033, with a benign rating on ClinVar. Fig. 3 Upper endoscopy (May 20XX + 3) Scattered telangi- ectasia is evident mainly in the gastric antrum, in addition to the gastric mucosal findings associated with HHT. Fig. 4 Head MRA examination (June 20XX + 3) a High-signal intensity is observed in the bilateral globus pallidus on T1-weighted imaging. b MRA shows decreased signal intensity in the left internal carotid artery (C3), suggesting the possibil- ity of stenosis. MRA magnetic resonance angiography Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483 481 The other variant was NM_000118.3 ENG c.1429- malformations in 74% of HHT cases . These hepatic 9_1629-6dupATGGG, whose ClinVar evaluation was “con- vascular malformations are a frequent occurrence in HHT2 flicting interpretations of pathogenicity.” The allele frequency and rare in HHT1 . Vascular lesions show diffuse dis- in gnomAD was 0.000092. No clear pathogenic variants were tribution and range from telangiectasia without shunts to detected. large vascular malformations with shunts. Hepatic vas- cular malformations include hepatic artery-portal vein Genetic counseling shunts, hepatic artery-HV shunts, and portal vein-HV shunts, with the hepatic artery-portal vein shunt being the Genetic counseling was performed before genetic testing while most common, although a combination of these may also were disclosed. Before the test, we explained the immutability, cardiac right heart failure, portal hypertension, hepatic commonality, predictability, ambiguity, and ease of genetic encephalopathy, and biliary ischemia due to the “steal” testing. Since the patient was concerned about the effect of the phenomenon, depend on the type of shunt . In this above-mentioned mutations on her blood relatives, she seemed patient, contrast-enhanced abdominal CT revealed that the to be interested in genetic testing and consultation for her hepatic artery-HV shunt was the primary cause, which was children. The patient’s eldest and fourth daughters were also associated with high cardiac output and pulmonary arterial present when the results were disclosed. We explained the con- hypertension. Furthermore, multiple intrahepatic bile duct flicting interpretations of pathogenicity, the disease overview dilatation was present due to biliary tract ischemia
