Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatic, hht, pulmonary, hypertension, observed, telangiectasia, hereditary, shunt, blood, arterial, mmhg, hemorrhagic, right, hereditary hemorrhagic


when the results were disclosed. We explained the con- hypertension. Furthermore, multiple intrahepatic bile duct flicting interpretations of pathogenicity, the disease overview dilatation was present due to biliary tract ischemia arising of HHT, and the possibility of updating variant evaluation. from the hepatic artery “steal” phenomenon. In addition, By providing an opportunity to consult with the blood rela- T1-weighted head MRI showed high-signal intensity in the tives before the test, we were able to share the test results with bilateral globus pallidus, suggesting manganese deposi- them. tion. Since 98% of manganese absorbed from the gastro- intestinal tract is excreted in the bile, manganese deposi- Clinical course after referral tion in the globus pallidus primarily reflects the portal vein-HV shunt . Since the portal vein-HV shunt is HHT with hepatic AV shunt was suspected based on the results slightly difficult to visualize even on contrast-enhanced additional tests were performed. Upper endoscopy performed tutes supportive evidence of portal vein-HV shunting. in May 20XX + 3 depicted scattered telangiectasia mainly in Therefore, in this patient, a hepatic artery-HV shunt and the gastric antrum as well as gastric mucosal findings associ- portal vein-HV shunt were present. The serum albumin ated with HHT. Head MRA was performed in June 20XX + 3, level was markedly decreased, along with a decrease in the and high-signal intensity was observed in the bilateral globus BCAA/tyrosine ratio, which seems to reflect the decrease pallidus on T1-weighted imaging. These findings are reflec- in the liver synthesis ability due to the portal vein-HV vein-HV shunts, consistent with HHT. Since the hepatic AV scribed a BCAA preparation. What is interesting about shunt was significant, echocardiography was performed in this case is that HHT was diagnosed as a result of liver June 20XX + 3, revealing elevation in the estimated right ven- damage. Hepatic vascular malformations are observed in tricular pressure. Furthermore, right heart catheterization was approximately 30–70% of cases of HHT, but there are no performed in August 20XX + 3, and the mean pulmonary arte- reports of liver damage being the trigger for the diagnosis rial pressure was found to be high at 25 mmHg, and the pulmo- of HHT. Therefore, it seems important to suspect HHT nary artery wedge pressure was decreased to 13 mmHg. Fur- as a differential diagnosis of liver damage for early diag- thermore, since the cardiac output value was as high as 11.1, nosis of HHT.
