Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatic, hht, pulmonary, hypertension, observed, telangiectasia, hereditary, shunt, blood, arterial, mmhg, hemorrhagic, right, hereditary hemorrhagic


was decreased to 13 mmHg. Fur- as a differential diagnosis of liver damage for early diag- thermore, since the cardiac output value was as high as 11.1, nosis of HHT. In this case, hepatic artery-HVshunts and a diagnosis of hypercardiac pulmonary arterial hypertension portal vein-HVshunts were present throughout the liver, associated with a hepatic AV shunt was made. Administration and it is highly likely that ischemia to hepatocytes and of macitentan 10 mg/day, an endothelin receptor antagonist, bile duct cells was the cause of liver damage. Pulmonary was initiated for pulmonary hypertension. arterial hypertension is a rare complication of HHT, whose diagnosis is based on the elevation of the mean pulmo- nary artery pressure to 20 mm Hg or higher on right heart Discussion catheterization. Revuz et al. reported that the frequency of pulmonary arterial hypertension in HHT is 4%, but the Hepatic vascular malformations are observed in 3–31% actual prevalence is thought to be much higher due to low of patients with HHT . Recent advances in diag- screening rates . Pulmonary hypertension associ- nostic imaging have reportedly detected hepatic vascular ated with HHT includes pulmonary arterial hypertension, 4 82 Clinical Journal of Gastroenterology (2024) 17:477–483 which causes stenosis due to remodeling of the pulmonary ceutical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., GE Healthcare blood vessels, and pulmonary hypertension due to hyper- Japan Corporation and Eisai Co., Ltd. cardiacity caused by the arteriovenous shunts. Pulmonary Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- hypertension caused by a hepatic AV shunt is said to be a bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta- common occurrence in HHT . In this case, right heart tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long catheterization revealed a mildly elevated mean pulmonary as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes artery pressure of 25 mmHg (normal value < 20 mmHg), were made. The images or other third party material in this article are and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 13 mmHg (a included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated value of less than 15 mmHg is denoted as pulmonary otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in arterial hypertension), leading to the diagnosis of pulmo- the article’s Creative Commons licence and your
