World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


World Journal of W J G S Gastrointestinal Surgery Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastrointest Surg 2024 February 27; 16(2): 601-608 DOI: ISSN 1948-9366 (online) CASE REPORT Postoperative encapsulated hemoperitoneum in a patient with gastric stromal tumor treated by exposed endoscopic full-thickness resection: A case report Hui-Fei Lu, Jing-Jing Li, De-Bin Zhu, Li-Qi Mao, Li-Fen Xu, Jing Yu, Lin-Hua Yao and hepatology China Provenance and peer review: Unsolicited article; Externally peer reviewed. Huzhou 313000, Zhejiang Province, China. Peer-review model: Single blind Peer-review report’s scientific Abstract quality classification BACKGROUND Grade A (Excellent): 0 Gastric stromal tumors, originating from mesenchymal tissues, are one of the Grade B (Very good): B most common tumors of the digestive tract. For stromal tumors originating from Grade C (Good): C the muscularis propria, compared with conventional endoscopic submucosal Grade D (Fair): D dissection (ESD), endoscopic full-thickness resection (EFTR) can remove deep Grade E (Poor): 0 lesions and digestive tract wall tumors completely. However, this technique has major limitations such as perforation, postoperative bleeding, and post-polypec- P-Reviewer: Duan JX, China; tomy syndrome. Herein, we report a case of postoperative serous surface bleeding Martino A, Italy; Soldera J, Brazil which formed an encapsulated hemoperitoneum in a patient with gastric stromal Peer-review started: October 3, this complication are described. CASE SUMMARY First decision: December 6, 2023 A 47-year-old male patient had a hemispherical protrusion found during gastric Revised: December 28, 2023 endoscopic ultrasonography, located at the upper gastric curvature adjacent to the Article in press: January 16, 2024 19.3 mm × 16.1 mm in size and originated from the fourth ultrasound layer. enlargement or distant metastasis. Using conventional ESD technology for mucosal pre-resection, exposed EFTR was performed to resect the intact tumor in order to achieve a definitive histopathological diagnosis. Based on its morphology and immunohistochemical expression of CD117 and DOG-1, the lesion was proven to be consistent with a gastric stromal tumor. Six days after exposed EFTR, CT showed a large amount of encapsulated fluid and gas accumulation around the stomach. In addition, gastroscopy suggested intracavitary bleeding and abdominal puncture drainage indicated serosal bleeding. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with serosal bleeding resulting in encapsulated WJGS 601 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR abdominal hemorrhage after exposed EFTR for a gastric stromal tumor. The patient received combined treatments, such as hemostasis under gastroscopy,
