World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR abdominal hemorrhage after exposed EFTR for a gastric stromal tumor. The patient received combined treatments, such as hemostasis under gastroscopy, gastrointestinal decompression, and abdominal drainage. All examinations were normal within six months of follow-up. CONCLUSION This patient developed serous surface bleeding in the gastric cavity following exposed EFTR. Serosal bleeding resulting in an encapsulated hemoperitoneum is rare in clinical practice. The combined treatment may replace certain surgical techniques. Key Words: Exposed endoscopic full-thickness resection; Gastric stromal tumors; Hemoperitoneum; Abdominal infection; Complication; Postoperative bleeding; Case report ©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. Core Tip: Postoperative bleeding is a common complication after exposed endoscopic full-thickness resection (EFTR), and is most commonly seen in the gastrointestinal tract. In the present case, following exposed EFTR for a gastric stromal tumor, bleeding was noted in both the gastric cavity and the serosal surface, which resulted in an encapsulated hemoperitoneum. The patient subsequently recovered after comprehensive treatment with gastrointestinal decompression, endoscopic hemostasis, B-ultrasound-guided abdominal puncture drainage, and anti-infection therapy. Citation: Lu HF, Li JJ, Zhu DB, Mao LQ, Xu LF, Yu J, Yao LH. Postoperative encapsulated hemoperitoneum in a patient with gastric stromal tumor treated by exposed endoscopic full-thickness resection: A case report. World J Gastrointest Surg 2024; 16(2): 601-608 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Gastric stromal tumors, which are derived from mesenchymal tissues, are one of the most commonly diagnosed gastrointestinal tumors[1-4]. They typically occur in the gastric fundus, anterior wall of the gastric corpus, and anterior wall of the gastric antrum. On account of their origin in the stomach wall, gastric stromal tumors can be classified into stromal tumors originating from the muscularis mucosa and those originating from the muscularis propria. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has been extensively performed to treat those tumors derived from the superficial muscularis mucosa. By contrast, for gastric stromal tumors derived from the deep layers of the muscularis propria, especially those that grow outside the cavity, ESD may result in perforation and incomplete tumor excision. Thus, muscularis propria-derived gastric stromal tumors are regarded as contraindications to endoscopic resection[10, 11]. Moreover, these tumors are clinically removed by surgical or laparoscopic procedures. Recently, exposed endoscopic full-thickness resection (EFTR) for the treatment of gastric stromal tumors originating from the muscularis propria has obtained satisfactory therapeutic effects[12-14]. This report describes a case of postoperative encapsulated hemoperi- toneum in a
