World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


(EFTR) for the treatment of gastric stromal tumors originating from the muscularis propria has obtained satisfactory therapeutic effects[12-14]. This report describes a case of postoperative encapsulated hemoperi- toneum in a patient with a gastric stromal tumor treated by exposed EFTR. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints A 47-year-old male patient was first admitted to our department for further evaluation and treatment of a gastric mass patient was re-admitted to our department due to fatigue and anorexia for 2 d. History of present illness The patient did not have symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting. History of past illness The patient had a history of hypertension and took medication regularly. Personal and family history The patient was a non-smoker and did not drink alcohol. He had no significant family history. WJGS 602 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR Physical examination Both during the first and second hospitalization, physical examination revealed no obvious abnormalities, and his abdomen was soft without tenderness and no palpable mass. Laboratory examinations Before exposed EFTR in the first hospitalization, laboratory tests demonstrated normal routine blood tests, coagulative function, liver function, and renal function. Moreover, common serum tumor markers, including alpha-fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate antigen 19-9, were normal. Following exposed EFTR in the first hospitalization, on the day after surgery, the patient’s temperature was 37.5 °C, and routine blood tests showed the following: White blood cell (WBC) count: 14.5 × 109/L; neutrophil/granulocyte (NE) ratio: 85.6%; hemoglobin (HB): 127 g/L; and hypersensitive C reactive protein (hsCRP): 25.89 mg/L, which suggested post-polypectomy syndrome with fever and signs of inflammation. On the third day after surgery, all laboratory examin- ations showed normal results. During the second hospitalization, laboratory examinations showed WBC count: 19.7 × 109/L; NE ratio: 82.9%; HB: 134 g/L; and hsCRP: 206.06 mg/L. Blood chemistry tests demonstrated signs of inflammation/infection. On the second day, laboratory examinations revealed WBC count: 12.3 × 109/L; NE ratio: 87.6%; HB: 114 g/L; and hsCRP: 161.16 mg/L. Blood tests indicated inflammatory and infectious complications; therefore, abdominal puncture fluid culture and blood culture were performed. Both aerobic and anaerobic cultures of the puncture fluid indicated infection with Klebsiella pneumoniae and Streptococcus parahaemolyticus, sensitivity to carbapenems, and negative blood culture. Imaging examinations Prior to exposed EFTR, endoscopic examination revealed a hemispherical protrusion, approximately 16 mm in diameter, located at the upper gastric
