World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


parahaemolyticus, sensitivity to carbapenems, and negative blood culture. Imaging examinations Prior to exposed EFTR, endoscopic examination revealed a hemispherical protrusion, approximately 16 mm in diameter, located at the upper gastric curvature adjacent to the stomach fundus, with a smooth surface mucosa and poor mobility (Figure 1A). Gastric endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) examination revealed a mass 19.3 mm × 16.1 mm in size, derived from the muscularis propria, which grew outside the cavity. The echo pattern of the mass was uniform and at a low level (Figure 1B); however, the results of EUS were insufficient for diagnosis. Gastric computed tomography (CT) illustrated a well-demarcated mass 16 mm × 15 mm in size, demonstrating mild enhancement, with an intact mucosal line. Additionally, the CT scan showed no significant evidence of lymph node enlargement or distant metastasis (Figure 2A). Following exposed EFTR, abdominal CT illustrated that titanium endoclips remained in the stomach, with a large amount of encapsulated fluid and gas accumulation around the stomach (Figure 2B). Emergency gastroscopy also revealed a small amount of dark red bloody liquid in the lower part of the stomach and duodenum. After surgery, multiple metal endoclips were observed on the surface of the wound, with obvious swelling of the anal mucosa and a small amount of bleeding on the surface. The wound was cauterized with hemostatic forceps and re-clamped with metal endoclips. Ultrasound examination showed that a mixed mass of gas and liquid was detected around the upper abdominal cavity and stomach, which was approximately 80 mm × 151 mm in size with an alveolate-like shape inside. These imaging features guided treatment by abdominal puncture drainage and gastrointestinal decompression. FINAL DIAGNOSIS After preliminary examinations, exposed EFTR was performed to complete tumor excision and obtain histopathological results (Figure 3). On gross examination, the tumor was a well-shaped firm mass, white and yellow in color. Histopatho- logical results illustrated that the tumor was located in the muscularis propria and was a spindle cell tumor, arranged in a bundle-like interweaving pattern with mild nuclear atypia (Figure 3A and B). Immunohistochemical staining was performed to determine tumor diagnosis, which displayed positive CD117 and DOG1 (Figure 3C and D). Due to these results, the histopathological diagnosis was in accordance with a gastric stromal tumor. According to these examinations, during the second hospitalization, the patient was treated for postoperative complic- ations including delayed bleeding, encapsulated hemoperitoneum, and abdominal infection following exposed EFTR for
