World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


stromal tumor. According to these examinations, during the second hospitalization, the patient was treated for postoperative complic- ations including delayed bleeding, encapsulated hemoperitoneum, and abdominal infection following exposed EFTR for a gastric stromal tumor. TREATMENT During the first hospitalization, the patient underwent exposed EFTR without laparoscopic assistance under general anesthesia during tracheal intubation on November 11, 2022. Following complete resection of the tumor, a metal clamp was applied to the defect wound in the gastric wall under endoscopy, with gradual clamping of the wound from both sides to the center. During the operation, close observation of changes in the abdomen was of vital significance, with the application of a 20G needle to puncture the right upper abdomen to alleviate pneumoperitoneum. Postoperative treatment included maintaining a semi-reclined position, fasting, gastrointestinal decompression, intravenous infusion of 1.0 g cefotiam for anti-infection, intravenous infusion of omeprazole for acid suppression, and fluid replacement to maintain electrolyte balance. On the first and second day, 150 mL and 400 mL of yellow green liquid was drained by gastrointestinal decompression, respectively. On the third day, the gastrointestinal decompression tube was removed, followed by intake of a liquid diet and then a semi-liquid diet. After drinking and eating, the patient had no abnormal abdominal signs, and all laboratory examinations were normal. He was discharged on the 4th d after surgery. WJGS 603 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR Figure 1 Preoperative endoscopic examination results. A: Endoscopic image showing a hemispherical protrusion, approximately 16 mm in diameter, located at the upper gastric curvature adjacent to the stomach fundus, with a smooth surface mucosa and poor mobility; B: Endoscopic ultrasound image showing a mass 19.3 mm × 16.1 mm in size, derived from the muscularis propria, which partly grew outside the cavity. The echo pattern of the mass was uniform and at a low level. Figure 2 Abdominal computed tomography examination. A: Gastric computed tomography (CT) illustrated a well-demarcated mass, 16 mm × 15 mm in size, demonstrating mild enhancement, with an intact mucosal line; B: Abdominal CT revealed a large amount of encapsulated fluid and gas accumulation around the stomach. During the second hospitalization, according to the blood chemistry tests, the patient received treatment with cefoperazone sodium and sulbactam sodium for injection to control infection. An intravenous infusion of omeprazole for acid suppression was also given, and other
