World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


chemistry tests, the patient received treatment with cefoperazone sodium and sulbactam sodium for injection to control infection. An intravenous infusion of omeprazole for acid suppression was also given, and other therapies were adopted to maintain electrolyte balance. Additionally, based on the endoscopic and imaging results, the patient received gastrointestinal decompression, and 210 mL of dark red bloody liquid was intermittently drained over 12 h. The patient was given norepinephrine nasal feeding and hemostasis treatment intermittently. On the second day of hospitalization, the antibiotic was upgraded to meropenem for anti- infection treatment. The subsequent findings of abdominal puncture fluid culture and blood culture demonstrated the correctness of changing the medication. Under ultrasound guidance, a puncture tube was placed to drain abdominal fluid, and dark red bloody liquid was extracted, which further confirmed the diagnosis of postoperative bleeding both in the gastric cavity and on the serosal surface after exposed EFTR, which formed an encapsulated hemoperitoneum in the abdominal cavity. The amount of encapsulated fluid in the abdominal cavity was reduced by gastrointestinal decompression drainage and abdominal puncture drainage, during which 0.9% physiological saline was used for intermittent flushing and drainage. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP After comprehensive treatment by endoscopic hemostasis, abdominal puncture and drainage, and anti-infection, this treatment regimen was considered efficacious. The patient gradually recovered following bleeding and abdominal infection caused by exposed EFTR and was ultimately discharged on the 13th d after admission. WJGS 604 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR Figure 3 Postoperative pathological examination results. A and B: The tumor was located in the muscularis propria and was a spindle cell tumor, arranged in a bundle-like interweaving pattern with mild nuclear atypia (H&E, original magnification × 100); C and D: Immunohistochemical staining of tumor cells showed diffuse positivity for CD117 (C) and DOG1 (D), which were diffusely expressed on the surface of cell membranes. Based on the Chinese expert consensus on the endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (2020, Beijing), it is recommended that such patients undergo endoscopic examination within 1 year after endoscopic treatment, to evaluate wound healing and tumor recurrence at 3 mo, 6 mo, and 12 mo after surgery. CT scans can be performed every 6-12 mo within 5 years after surgery, but our patient’s compliance was poor. The most recent gastroscopy review at 11 mo after surgery did not show
