World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


can be performed every 6-12 mo within 5 years after surgery, but our patient’s compliance was poor. The most recent gastroscopy review at 11 mo after surgery did not show tumor recurrence, and routine blood examinations indicated that hsCRP was completely normal. Additionally, abdominal ultrasound indicated that there was no obvious mass echo or liquid in the abdominal cavity. DISCUSSION For gastric stromal tumors originating from the muscularis propria that grow in an extraluminal manner or are closely connected to the serosal layer, routine ESD is prone to perforation and incomplete tumor resection[9,15-17]. Instead, exposed EFTR without laparoscopic assistance is capable of completely removing the tumor and reducing the recurrence rate. Therefore, exposed EFTR, as a new minimally invasive technology, has therapeutic potential for patients with gastrointestinal submucosal tumors[20-23]. In addition, compared with surgical procedures, exposed EFTR has advantages such as less trauma and maintains the original anatomy and function of the stomach to an extent. However, the most crucial issue for exposed EFTR is ensuring the complete closure of the gastric resection site in order to decrease the probability of complications, such as delayed hemorrhage, perforation, infections, and abdominal abscesses [26-29]. Furthermore, serious complications may be life-threatening. Thus, the prevention and treatment of complic- ations are of vital significance. practice, hemorrhage is divided into intraoperative bleeding and delayed bleeding based on the time of bleeding[33-35]. Moreover, according to the bleeding location, it can be classified into intracavitary bleeding and serosal bleeding. Postoperative bleeding has a close association with the location of the lesion, and patients with tumors located at the junction of the gastric fundus are prone to delayed bleeding after exposed EFTR. In this case, the lesion was located at the junction of the gastric fundus. After surgery, the gastric wall defect was completely clamped from both sides of the wound to the center with metal clips under direct vision via the endoscope, and postoperative hemorrhage subsequently occurred. Previous reports have shown that postoperative bleeding after exposed EFTR is mainly manifested as hematemesis, melena, hematochezia, and decreased blood pressure. However, in this patient, poor appetite and fatigue were the main symptoms, with bleeding in both the gastric cavity and the serous surface. Additionally, serous surface bleeding led postoperative bleeding in this patient may have been the result of the abundant blood supply to the gastric body and the WJGS 605 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu
