World Journal of
KEYWORDS: exposed, gastric, eftr, exposed eftr, bleeding, patient, abdominal, postoperative, tumor, endoscopic, treatment, stromal, gastric stromal, encapsulated, tumors


bleeding in this patient may have been the result of the abundant blood supply to the gastric body and the WJGS 605 February 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 2 Lu HF et al. A rare postoperative complication of exposed EFTR large diameter of the arteries. The large wound surface in exposed EFTR can easily cause extra-serous blood vessel injury and slow recovery of the full-layer defect of the stomach wall, and the wound surface of the stomach body can easily cause blood vessel exposure or even blood vessel destruction after overeating. All these reasons could have led to postoperative hemorrhage in this patient. In this case, gastrointestinal decompression drainage of bright red bloody fluid illustrated intracavitary bleeding. Thus, we achieved cessation of bleeding under endoscopy. With regard to a treatment strategy for serous surface bleeding forming an encapsulated hemoperitoneum in the abdominal cavity after exposed EFTR, to date, there is no relevant bloody fluid via abdominal ultrasound. In addition, we adopted intermittent postoperative saline irrigation, clamping, or opening of drainage tubes to monitor bleeding and reduce infection. The encapsulated effusion sac gradually shrank and then disappeared completely. The combination therapy approach involving abdominal puncture and drainage under ultrasound guidance combined with antibiotics for anti-infection treatment proved to be effective in this patient. There are potential effects when adopting ultrasound-guided puncture and drainage for intra-abdominal hemorrhage. First, it can clarify the nature of intra-abdominal effusion and monitor bleeding. Second, intermittent drainage and flushing can reduce the incidence of infection and facilitate the absorption of intra-abdominal hemorrhage. Third, puncture fluid culture is capable of determining the source of infection and providing guidance for the utilization of sensitive antibiotics. However, reducing postoperative bleeding at the origin is of vital importance. The adoption of closure techniques is capable of achieving a full-thickness post-EFTR defect closure for the purpose of reducing EFTR-related complications. To date, the closure of transmural defects after exposed EFTR is largely achieved through through-the-scope (TTS) clips or clips combined with endoloops. However, owing to the superficial bite of the clips, full thickness defect closure is difficult to achieve by these techniques. Thus, an appropriate closure approach is crucial for exposed EFTR to promote its effectiveness and safety. Compared with both TTS clips and endoloops, the Ovesco over-the-scope clip system and OverStitch endoscopic suturing system have the significant advantages of realizing full-thickness closure and incorporating the muscularis propria layer, but the main
