GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


reach those in greatest need and are sustainable in the long term. Integrating private partnerships for increasing access to antiretroviral drugs and strengthening health and community systems to deliver comprehensive and quality services are key elements of an effective response. Countries have asked WHO to provide timely and practical guidance, guidance that keeps pace with the latest scientific evidence and enables services to be delivered equitably and sustainably to all populations in all countries. I believe these landmark guidelines go a long way towards meeting that request. The new guidelines support evidence-based interventions that can improve efficiency and effectiveness – so that more can be achieved with the resources at hand. At the same time, implementation of the guidelines will require increased investment from countries and shared responsibility. Implementing these guidelines fully will have an unprecedented impact on preventing people from becoming newly infected and reducing the number of people dying from HIV-related causes over the coming years. The number of people eligible for ART increases from 28 million to all 37 million people currently living with HIV globally. iv Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Expanding access to treatment is at the heart of a new treatment targets for 2020 with the aim of ending the AIDS epidemic as a public health threat by 2030. The 90–90–90 targets include 90% of the people living with HIV know their HIV status, 90% of the people who know their HIV status receiving ART and 90% of the people receiving ART having suppressed viral loads. I am convinced that the future of the HIV response will follow the pattern of the recent past: that is, a constant willingness to build on past successes and rise to new challenges. This can fuel the momentum needed to push the HIV epidemic into an irreversible decline. I strongly encourage countries and their development partners to seize this unparalleled opportunity. Dr Margaret Chan Director-General World Health Organization v vi Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection 4.2 What to expect in the first months of ART . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 4.3 When to start ART . . . . . . . . . . .
