GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


fumarate TPV tipranavir xii Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection DEFINITION OF KEY TERMS General HIV refers to the human immunodeficiency virus. There are two types of HIV: HIV-1 and HIV-2. HIV-1 is responsible for the vast majority of HIV infections globally. Acute infection is the period between a person being infected with HIV and HIV antibodies being detectable by a serological assay. Age groups and populations The following definitions for adults, adolescents, children and infants are used in these guidelines for the purpose of implementing recommendations for specific age groups. It is acknowledged that countries may have other definitions under national laws: • An adult is a person older than 19 years of age. • An adolescent is a person 10–19 years of age inclusive. • A child is a person 1 to younger than 10 years of age. • An infant is a child younger than 1 year of age. Key populations are groups that have a high risk and disproportionate burden of HIV in all epidemic settings. They frequently face legal and social challenges that increase their vulnerability to HIV, including barriers to accessing HIV prevention, treatment and other people who inject drugs, (3) people in prisons and closed settings, (4) sex workers and (5) transgender people. Vulnerable populations are groups of people that are vulnerable to HIV in certain situations or contexts, such as adolescents (especially adolescent girls in sub-Saharan Africa), orphans, people with disabilities and migrant and mobile workers. They may also face social and legal barriers to accessing HIV prevention and treatment. These populations are not affected by HIV uniformly in all countries and epidemics and may include key populations. Each country should define the specific populations that are vulnerable and key to their epidemic and response, based on the epidemiological and social context. Substantial risk of HIV infection is provisionally defined as an incidence of HIV higher than 3 per 100 person-years in the absence of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). Individual risk varies within groups at substantial risk of HIV infection depending on individual behaviour and the characteristics of sexual partners. People at substantial risk of HIV infection are present in most countries, including some (but not all) people identified with key and vulnerable populations and some people not so identified. xiii Definition of key terms Serodiscordant couples are couples in which one partner is living
