GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


not all) people identified with key and vulnerable populations and some people not so identified. xiii Definition of key terms Serodiscordant couples are couples in which one partner is living with HIV and the other is HIV-negative. A couple refers to two people in an ongoing sexual relationship; each of these people is referred to as a partner in the relationship. How individuals define their relationships will vary according to their cultural and social context. Antiretroviral therapy ARV (antiretroviral) drugs refer to the medicines used to treat HIV. ART (antiretroviral therapy) refers to the use of a combination of three or more ARV drugs for treating HIV infection. ART involves lifelong treatment. Synonyms are combination ART and highly active ART. Use of ARV drugs for HIV prevention refers to the HIV prevention benefits of ARV drugs and includes ARV drugs for preventing the mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV, ARV drugs to reduce the transmission of HIV to serodiscordant sexual partners and ARV drugs to prevent the acquisition of HIV when a person is exposed (post- exposure prophylaxis (PEP) and PrEP). Viral suppression refers to a viral load below the detection threshold using viral assays. Viral failure refers to the inability to achieve or maintain viral suppression below a certain threshold. Viral failure is defined by a persistently detectable viral load exceeding 1000 copies/mL (two consecutive viral load measurements within a 3-month interval with adherence support between measurements) after at least 6 months of using ART. Universal access to ART is defined broadly as a high level of treatment coverage (80% or more of the eligible population) that is accessible and affordable. It does not necessarily mean 100% coverage. Prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV refers to the use of ARV drugs to prevent the transmission of HIV from the mother during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Previous WHO guidelines have used the terms “options A, B and B+” to refer to different approaches to the prevention of the mother-to-child transmission of HIV. HIV testing and prevention Combination prevention refers to a combination of behavioural, biomedical and structural approaches to HIV prevention to achieve maximum impact on reducing HIV transmission and acquisition. Early infant diagnosis is the testing of infants to determine their HIV status following possible exposure to HIV during pregnancy, delivery and postpartum through breastfeeding. Point-of-care testing is conducted at or near the site at which care is being provided. The
