GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


HIV status following possible exposure to HIV during pregnancy, delivery and postpartum through breastfeeding. Point-of-care testing is conducted at or near the site at which care is being provided. The test results are usually returned rapidly so that clinical decisions can be made in a timely and cost-effective manner. xiv Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection PEP of HIV is the use of ARV drugs by people who are not infected with HIV but who may have been exposed to HIV to block HIV infection. (PrEP): Oral PrEP of HIV is the use of ARV drugs by people who are not infected with HIV to block the acquisition of HIV. Rapid diagnostic test: in vitro immunochromatographic or immunofiltration diagnostic test for detecting HIV-1 and -2 antibodies and/or HIV p24 antigen. Health workforce Community health workers are health workers who have received standardized and nationally endorsed training outside the nursing, midwifery or medical curricula. Lay provider is any person who performs functions related to health-care delivery and has been trained to deliver specific services but has not received a formal professional or paraprofessional certificate or tertiary degree. Midwives are health workers who have successfully completed a midwifery education programme recognized in the country in which the programme is located. This includes Non-physician clinicians are professional health workers capable of many of the diagnostic and clinical functions of a physician but who are not trained as physicians. for HIV care and treatment in some countries. Nurses are people who have been authorized to practise as a nurse or trained in basic auxiliary nurses, dental nurses and primary care nurses. Task shifting and task sharing are the rational redistribution of tasks between cadres providers. Service delivery Adherence is the extent to which a person’s behaviour – taking medication, following a diet and/or changing lifestyle – corresponds with agreed recommendations from a health worker. Continuum of HIV care refers to a comprehensive package of HIV testing, prevention, treatment and care services provided for people at risk of acquiring HIV and people living with HIV and their families. Examples of these services include combination HIV prevention, including PrEP; HIV testing and linkage to care; managing opportunistic infections and other comorbid conditions; initiating, maintaining and monitoring ART; switching to second-line and third-line ART; and palliative care. xv Definition of key terms Dispensing ART includes dispensing medication to people
