GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


and other comorbid conditions; initiating, maintaining and monitoring ART; switching to second-line and third-line ART; and palliative care. xv Definition of key terms Dispensing ART includes dispensing medication to people who are already receiving ART between regular clinic visits and assessing any new signs and symptoms and providing adherence monitoring and support. Distribution of ART is the process of physically transporting ART from one geographical point to another. The following should be distinguished: • wholesaler distribution: distributing a large quantity of ARV drugs over long distances; caregivers, ARV drugs that are known to the users and have proven to be the appropriate choice of treatment regimen with the means available; and • community distribution: distributing limited quantities of ARV drugs over limited geographical distances destined for specific people who are already receiving ART. Integrated health services are health services that are managed and delivered in a prevention, diagnosis, treatment, disease management, rehabilitation and palliative care to their needs, throughout their whole life. Linkage is defined as a process of actions and activities that supports people testing for HIV and people diagnosed with HIV in engaging with prevention, treatment and care services as appropriate for their HIV status. For people with HIV, it refers to the period beginning with HIV diagnosis and ending with enrolment in care or treatment. Retention in HIV care means a person living with HIV who is enrolled in HIV care routinely attends these services in accordance with the need. This excludes people who have died or who were lost to follow-up. People-centred health services involve an approach to care that consciously adopts the perspectives of individuals, families and communities and sees them as participants as well as beneficiaries of trusted health systems that respond to their needs and preferences in humane and holistic ways. People-centred care requires that people have the education and support they need to make decisions and participate in their own care. It is organized around the health needs and expectations of people rather than diseases. A public health approach addresses the health needs of a population or the collective health status of the people rather than focusing primarily on managing individual cases. This approach aims to ensure the widest possible access to high-quality services and medicines at the population level, based on simplified and standardized approaches, and to strike a balance between implementing the best-proven standard of care and what is feasible
