GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


De Lussigny (UNITAID, Switzerland), Peter Ghys (UNAIDS, Switzerland), Peter Godfrey Fausett (UNAIDS, Switzerland), Michael Hahn (UNAIDS, Switzerland), Chewe Luo (UNICEF, USA), Atienno Ojoo (UNICEF, Denmark), Carlos Passerelli (UNAIDS, Switzerland), Annette Reinisch (Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Switzerland) and Landry Tsague (UNICEF). Funding Grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, United States Agency for International Development and United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provided funding for these guidelines. xxi EXECUTIVE SUMMARY These guidelines provide guidance on the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, the use of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection and the care of people living with HIV. They are structured along the continuum of HIV testing, prevention, treatment and care. Rationale WHO first published guidelines on the use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV infection among adults and adolescents in 2002, and on the use of ARV drugs to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission in 2004. The 2006 updates of the guidelines introduced In 2013, for the first time, WHO revised and combined these and other ARV-related guidance documents into consolidated guidelines that address the use of ARV drugs for HIV treatment and prevention across all age groups and populations, based on the HIV service continuum. This edition updates the 2013 consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs following an extensive review of evidence and consultations in mid-2015, shared at the end of 2015, and now published in full in 2016. Consolidated simplified guidance was developed in response to expressed needs of operational aspects of care. Continuing with this approach allows all guidelines impacting on the continuum of HIV care to be harmonized based on a public health approach. Several significant developments have occurred in the HIV field since 2013. In treatment, strong evidence has emerged to show that using ART earlier results in better clinical outcomes for people living with HIV compared with delayed treatment. Further, safer and more efficacious ARV drugs are becoming available and a newer class of drugs – integrase inhibitors – is becoming more affordable for low- and middle-income countries. Most countries have moved or are moving to provide lifelong ART regardless of CD4 cell count to all pregnant and breastfeeding women, and many are moving to implement viral load testing as the preferred means of monitoring people who are taking ART. New point-of-care viral
