GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


count to all pregnant and breastfeeding women, and many are moving to implement viral load testing as the preferred means of monitoring people who are taking ART. New point-of-care viral load testing technologies offer further potential to expand this approach. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate alone or in combination with emtricitabine for use as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV acquisition in a wide variety of settings and populations. New innovative approaches to HIV testing are being implemented, including home testing, community-based testing and self-testing. The opportunity to use ARV drugs for treating and preventing HIV more effectively are growing rapidly. Although countries are at different stages of ART coverage and implementation of the 2013 guidelines, there is a consistent trend towards initiating treatment earlier and xxii Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection expanding the use of ARV drugs for HIV prevention to achieve greater impact. This is accompanied by strong recognition that expanding access to HIV testing, treatment and prevention in settings with the highest burden of HIV infection and for the most vulnerable populations, along with greater efforts to address stigma and discrimination, are essential to ensure continued focus and to accelerate the response to the epidemic. These guidelines present several new recommendations, including the recommendation to provide lifelong ART to all children, adolescents and adults, including all pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV, regardless of CD4 cell count. WHO has also expanded earlier recommendations to offer PrEP to selected people at substantial risk of acquiring HIV. Alternative first-line treatment regimens are recommended, including an integrase inhibitor as an option in resource-limited settings and reduced dosage of a key recommended first-line drug, efavirenz, to improve tolerability and reduce costs. Because ART and the use of PrEP contained in these guidelines were released in September 2015. Implementing all the recommendations in these guidelines at the national and global levels will have important implications for programme priority-setting, funding and service delivery. As in 2013, operational guidance is included to help countries as they work to implement new approaches and strengthen the treatment cascade. These guidelines include 10 new recommendations to improve the quality and efficiency of services to people living with HIV. Implementation of the recommendation on universal eligibility for ART will mean that more people will start ART earlier. Importantly, in this guidance WHO emphasizes the need for differentiated approaches to care
