GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


of the recommendation on universal eligibility for ART will mean that more people will start ART earlier. Importantly, in this guidance WHO emphasizes the need for differentiated approaches to care for people ART distribution. Such efficiencies are essential if countries with a high burden of HIV infection are to manage their growing numbers of people receiving ART and reduce the burden on people receiving treatment and health facilities. The second edition of the consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs is being published in a changing global context for HIV and for health more broadly. The goal of providing HIV treatment to 15 million people by the end of 2015 has been achieved. From 2016, countries need to further accelerate efforts to meet the ambitious Fast-Track target for 2020, including achieving major reductions in the number of people dying from HIV related causes and the 90–90–90 treatment target: ensuring that 90% of the people living with HIV know their HIV status; 90% of the people living with HIV who know their HIV status are accessing treatment; and 90% of people living with HIV who are receiving treatment have suppressed viral load. The clinical and operational recommendations in these guidelines together with two sets of consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services and strategic information published in 2015 should contribute strongly to achieving these goals in the coming years and to other health and development priorities in the Sustainable Development Goals. The forthcoming Global Health Sector Strategy on HIV 2016–2021 describes WHO’s contribution to achieving the HIV- and health-related Sustainable Development Goals. Process of guideline development This edition of the guidelines was revised in accordance with procedures established by the WHO Guidelines Review Committee. New clinical and operational recommendations in the guidelines are based on the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, xxiii Executive summary Development and Evaluation) approach to reviewing evidence. Modelling, expert consultations and country case studies have all strongly informed the guidelines. The process has also identified key gaps in knowledge that will help to guide the future HIV research agenda. Audience The primary audience for these guidelines is national HIV programme managers in low- and middle-income countries. The guidelines will also be a useful resource for clinicians and should help to shape the priorities of policy-makers in development agencies, international organizations, nongovernmental organizations and other implementing partners during the next few years. The guidelines will also be of
