GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


should help to shape the priorities of policy-makers in development agencies, international organizations, nongovernmental organizations and other implementing partners during the next few years. The guidelines will also be of value to people living with HIV, communities and civil society organizations that will need to be engaged meaningfully to support their successful implementation. The 2016 consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs represent an important step towards achieving the goal that the world set itself a decade ago, universal access to ARV drugs for treating and preventing HIV, and the ultimate goal of ending the HIV epidemic as a major public health threat by 2030. xxiv Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS The recommendations listed in these guidelines are categorized as follows: Existing recommendation (not changed in 2016) The recommendation was published in previous WHO guidelines. The source of the guideline is provided with the recommendation. These recommendations have not been reviewed or changed in 2015. The evidence base for these recommendations is included in the original source document. Existing recommendation (reviewed and updated in 2016) The recommendation was published in previous WHO guidelines, and evidence to inform the recommendation was reviewed for this edition. The supplementary web annexes of this guideline include evidence to support the recommendation. Where changes have been made to the strength of the recommendation, this is noted in the relevant chapter. New recommendation (2016) The recommendation is new and published for the first time in these guidelines. These recommendations address new topic areas or replace previous recommendations. The supplementary web annexes of these guidelines provide evidence to support the recommendation. xxv Summary of recommendations The following table presents all recommendations included in these guidelines, including the strength of the recommendation and quality of the evidence. Chapter Recommendation 2. HIV DIAGNOSIS 2.2 Retesting prior to enrollment in care WHO reminds national programmes to retest all newly diagnosed people with HIV. WHO information note – 22 October 2014. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014 ( Retest all clients diagnosed HIV-positive with a second specimen and a second operator using the same testing strategy and algorithm before enrolling the client in care and/or initiating ART, regardless of whether or not ART initiation depends on CD4 count. Retesting people on ART is not recommended, as there are potential risks of incorrect diagnosis, particularly for in vitro diagnostics (IVDs)
