GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


whether or not ART initiation depends on CD4 count. Retesting people on ART is not recommended, as there are potential risks of incorrect diagnosis, particularly for in vitro diagnostics (IVDs) that use oral fluid specimens. 2.3 Pre- and post-test services Guideline on HIV disclosure counselling for children up to 12 years of age. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011 ( who.int/hiv/pub/hiv_disclosure/en/) norms that prevent discrimination and promote the rights of people living with HIV. This can help create environments where disclosure of HIV status is easier (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). 2.4 Principles and approaches for service delivery Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( hiv-testing-services/en/) Guidance on provider-initiated HIV testing and counselling in health facilities. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2007 (http:// www.who.int/hiv/pub/vct/pitc2007/en). 2.4.1 Improving Lay providers who are trained and supervised can independently conduct safe and effective quality and HIV testing using rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) (strong recommendation, moderate-quality efficiency evidence). 2.4.2 HIV testing Generalized HIV epidemic approaches PITC should be offered for all clients and in all services (including services for sexually transmitted infections (STI), viral hepatitis, tuberculosis (TB), children under the age of 5 years, Facility-based HIV immunization, malnutrition, antenatal care and all services for key populations) as an efficient testing services and effective way to identify people with HIV. and provider- initiated testing Concentrated HIV epidemic and counselling (PITC) present with symptoms or medical conditions that could indicate HIV infection, including presumed and confirmed TB cases. Regardless of epidemic type PITC should be considered for malnutrition clinics, STI, hepatitis and TB services, ANC settings and health services for key populations. For TB settings, routine HIV testing should be offered to all clients with presumptive and diagnosed TB; partners of known HIV-positive TB patients should be offered voluntary HTS with support for mutual disclosure (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence in accordance with the recommendation for the partners of all people living with HIV), and TB control programmes should mainstream provision of HTS in their operations and routine services. xxvi Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation Community- Generalized HIV epidemic based HIV testing services WHO recommends community-based HIV testing services with linkage to prevention, treatment and care services in addition to routinely offering PITC for all populations, particularly key populations (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Concentrated HIV epidemic WHO recommends community-based HIV testing services, with linkage to
