GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


care services in addition to routinely offering PITC for all populations, particularly key populations (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Concentrated HIV epidemic WHO recommends community-based HIV testing services, with linkage to prevention, treatment and care, in addition to PITC for key populations (strong recommendation, low- quality evidence). 2.5 HIV diagnosis in infants and children Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( hiv-testing-services/en). Supplement to the 2013 consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014 ( WHO recommendations on the diagnosis of HIV infection in infants and children. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2010 (http:// www.who.int/hiv/pub/paediatric/diagnosis/en). 2.5.1 Overview It is strongly recommended that HIV serological assays used for the purpose of clinical diagnostic testing have a minimum sensitivity of 99% and specificity of 98% under quality assured laboratory conditions (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that HIV virological assays used for the purpose of clinical diagnostic testing (usually at or after 6 weeks of age) have a sensitivity of at least 95% and ideally greater than 98%, and specificity of 98% or more under quality-assured, standardized and validated laboratory conditions (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that HIV virological testing be used to diagnose HIV infection in infants and children below 18 months of age (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). In infants and children undergoing virological testing, the following assays (and respective specimen types) are strongly recommended for use: HIV DNA on whole blood specimen or DBS; HIV RNA on plasma or DBS; Us p24 Ag on plasma or DBS (strong recommendation, high- quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that all HIV-exposed infants have HIV virological testing at 4–6 weeks of age or at the earliest opportunity thereafter (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). In infants with an initial positive virological test result, it is strongly recommended that ART be started without delay and, at the same time, a second specimen is collected to confirm the initial positive virological test result. Do not delay ART. Immediate initiation of ART saves lives and should not be delayed while waiting for the results of the confirmatory test (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that test results from virological testing in infants be returned to weeks of specimen collection. Positive test results should be fast-tracked to the mother–baby pair as soon as possible to enable prompt initiation
