GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


from virological testing in infants be returned to weeks of specimen collection. Positive test results should be fast-tracked to the mother–baby pair as soon as possible to enable prompt initiation of ART (strong recommendation, high- quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that all infants with unknown or uncertain HIV exposure being seen in health-care facilities at or around birth or at the first postnatal visit (usually 4–6 weeks) or other child health visit have their HIV exposure status ascertained (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that HIV-exposed infants who are well undergo HIV serological testing at around 9 months of age (or at the time of the last immunization visit). Infants who have reactive serological assays at 9 months should have a virological test to identify HIV infection and the need for ART (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). xxvii Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation It is strongly recommended that infants with signs or symptoms suggestive of HIV infection undergo HIV serological testing and, if positive (reactive), virological testing (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). It is strongly recommended that children (18 months or older) with suspected HIV infection or HIV exposure have HIV serological testing performed according to the standard diagnostic HIV serological testing algorithm used in adults (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). Addition of nucleic acid testing (NAT) at birth to existing early infant diagnosis (EID) testing 2.5.2 Timing approaches can be considered to identify HIV infection in HIV-exposed infants (conditional of virological recommendation, low-quality evidence). testing Nucleic acid testing (NAT) technologies that are developed and validated for use at or near to 2.5.3 Point-of- the point of care can be used for early infant HIV testing (conditional recommendation, low- care technologies quality evidence). for the diagnosis Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for HIV serology can be used to assess HIV exposure only in of HIV infection infants less than 4 months of age. HIV-exposure status in infants and children 4–18 months of in infants and age should be ascertained by undertaking HIV serological testing in the mother (conditional children recommendation, low-quality evidence). Rapid diagnostic tests for HIV serology can be used at 9 months to rule out HIV infection in asymptomatic HIV-exposed infants (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Rapid diagnostic tests for HIV serology can be used to diagnose HIV infection in children older than 18 months following the national testing strategy (strong recommendation, moderate- quality evidence). In generalized epidemic settings, infants
