GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


HIV serology can be used to diagnose HIV infection in children older than 18 months following the national testing strategy (strong recommendation, moderate- quality evidence). In generalized epidemic settings, infants and children with unknown HIV status who are 2.5.4 Provider- admitted for inpatient care or attending malnutrition clinics should be routinely tested for HIV initiated HIV (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). testing and counselling In generalized epidemic settings, infants and children with unknown HIV status should be for infants and offered HIV testing in outpatient or immunization clinics (conditional recommendation, low- children quality evidence). 2.6 Other priority populations Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( hiv-testing-services/en). Guidance for HIV testing and counselling and care for adolescents living with HIV. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( Guidance on couples HIV testing and counselling, including antiretroviral therapy for treatment and prevention in serodiscordant couples. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2012 ( 2014 ( 2.6.1 Adolescents HIV testing services, with linkages to prevention, treatment and care, should be offered for adolescents from key populations in all settings (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Adolescents with HIV should be counselled about the potential benefits and risks of disclosure of their HIV status and empowered and supported to determine if, when, how and to whom to disclose (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). xxviii Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation Generalized HIV epidemic HIV testing services with linkage to prevention, treatment and care should be offered to all adolescents in generalized epidemics (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Concentrated HIV epidemic HIV testing services with linkage to prevention, treatment and care should be accessible to adolescents in low-level and concentrated epidemics (conditional recommendation, very low- quality evidence). 2.6.2 Pregnant High-prevalence settings women PITC for women should be considered a routine component of the package of care in all antenatal, childbirth, postpartum and paediatric care settings. In such settings, where breastfeeding is the norm, lactating mothers who are HIV negative should be retested periodically throughout the period of breastfeeding. All HIV-negative pregnant women should be retested in the third trimester, postpartum and/or during labour, because of the high risk of acquiring HIV during pregnancy. Low-prevalence settings PITC can be considered for pregnant women in antenatal care as a key component of the effort: • to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV • to integrate HIV testing with
