GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


PITC can be considered for pregnant women in antenatal care as a key component of the effort: • to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV • to integrate HIV testing with other key testing (for viral hepatitis, syphilis, etc.) as relevant to the setting • to retest HIV negative pregnant women who are in a serodiscordant couple, from a key population group or have known ongoing HIV risk. 2.6.3 Couples Couples and partners should be offered voluntary HIV testing services with support for and partners mutual disclosure. This applies also to couples and partners from key populations (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). In antenatal care settings, couples and partners should be offered voluntary HIV testing services with support for mutual disclosure (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). HIV testing services for couples and partners, with support for mutual disclosure, should be offered to individuals with known HIV status and their partners (strong recommendation, low- quality evidence for all people with HIV in all epidemic settings; conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence for HIV-negative people depending on country-specific HIV prevalence). 2.6.5 Key HIV testing services should be routinely offered to all key populations in the community, in populations closed settings such as prisons and in facility-based settings. Community-based HIV testing services for key populations linked to prevention, treatment and care services are recommended, in addition to routine facility-based HIV testing services, in all settings (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). xxix Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation 2.7 Diagnostics Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 ( hiv-testing-services/en). Technical guidance update on quality assurance for HIV rapid diagnostic tests. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 (http:// apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/181244/1/WHO_HIV_2015.28_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1). High-prevalence settings In settings with greater than 5% HIV prevalence in the population tested, a diagnosis of HIV positive should be provided to people with two sequential reactive tests. For individuals with discrepant test results where Assay 1 is reactive, Assay 2 is non-reactive and Assay 3 is reactive, the results should be considered inconclusive and the client should be asked to return in 14 days for retesting. For individuals with discrepant test results where Assay 1 is reactive, Assay 2 is non-reactive and Assay 3 is non-reactive, the final result should be considered HIV negative. Low-prevalence settings In settings with less than 5% HIV prevalence in the population tested, a diagnosis of HIV positive should be provided to people with three sequential reactive tests. For individuals where Assay 1
