GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


with less than 5% HIV prevalence in the population tested, a diagnosis of HIV positive should be provided to people with three sequential reactive tests. For individuals where Assay 1 result is reactive and Assay 2 result is non-reactive, the final result should be considered HIV negative. However, in the case of such results and where Assay 1 is a fourth-generation assay (antibody/antigen [Ab/Ag]) and Assay 2 is an Ab-only assay, the result should be considered inconclusive and the person should be retested after 14 days. For individuals with results in which Assay 1 is reactive, Assay 2 is reactive and Assay 3 is non- reactive, the result should be considered inconclusive and the client should be asked to return in 14 days for retesting. All settings HIV testing services may use combinations of RDTs or combinations of RDTs/enzyme immunoassays (EIAs)/supplemental assays rather than EIA/Western blot combinations. xxx Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation 3. CLINICAL GUIDELINES: ANTIRETROVIRAL DRUGS FOR HIV PREVENTION 3.1 Oral pre-exposure prophylaxis for preventing the acquisition of HIV Oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) containing TDF should be offered as an additional prevention choice for people at substantial risk1 of HIV infection as part of combination HIV prevention approaches (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). 3.2 Post-exposure prophylaxis Guidelines on post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV and the use of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-related infections among adults, adolescents and children: recommendations for a public health approach – December 2014 supplement to the 2013 consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014 ( A regimen for post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV with two drugs is effective, but three drugs are preferred (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Post-exposure prophylaxis ARV regimens for adults and adolescents: TDF + 3TC (or FTC) is recommended as the preferred backbone2 regimen for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis in adults and adolescents (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). LPV/r or ATV/r is recommended as the preferred third drug for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis for adults and adolescents (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Where available, RAL, DRV/r or EFV can be considered as alternative options. Post-exposure prophylaxis ARV regimens for children ≤10 years: AZT + 3TC is recommended as the preferred backbone regimen for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis for children aged 10 years and younger. ABC + 3TC or TDF + 3TC (or FTC) can be
