GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


3TC is recommended as the preferred backbone regimen for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis for children aged 10 years and younger. ABC + 3TC or TDF + 3TC (or FTC) can be considered as alternative regimens (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). LPV/r is recommended as the preferred third drug for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis for children younger than 10 years (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). An age-appropriate alternative regimen can be identified among ATV/r, RAL, DRV, EFV and NVP.3 Prescribing practices A full 28-day prescription of antiretroviral drugs should be provided for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis following initial risk assessment (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Enhanced adherence counselling4 is suggested for all individuals initiating HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (conditional recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). 1 Provisional definition of substantial risk is defined as HIV incidence higher than 3 per 100 person-years in the absence of PrEP. 2 Backbone regimen refers to the two-NRTI component of an ART regimen (normally comprising 3 ARV drugs). 3 NVP should not be used in children above the age of two years. 4 Enhanced adherence counselling includes baseline individual needs assessment, adherence counselling and education sessions and follow-up telephone calls. xxxi Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation 4. CLINICAL GUIDELINES: ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY 4.3 When to start ART 4.3.1 When to any CD4 cell count (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). adults (>19 years disease (WHO clinical stage 3 or 4) and adults with a CD4 count ≤350 cells/mm3 (strong old) recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). ART should be initiated in all pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV, regardless of start ART in moderate-quality evidence). pregnant and breastfeeding women 4.3.3 When to at any CD4 cell count (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). start ART in (10–19 years of disease (WHO clinical stage 3 or 4) and adolescents with a CD4 count ≤350 cells/mm3 (strong age) recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). 4.3.4 When to children younger any CD4 cell count: than 10 years of age • Infants diagnosed in the first year of life (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). • Children living with HIV 1 year old to less than 10 years old (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). As a priority, ART should be initiated in all children <2 years of age or children younger than 5 years of age with WHO clinical stage 3 or 4 or CD4 count ≤750 cells/mm³ or CD4 percentage <25% and children 5 years of age and older with WHO clinical stage 3 or 4 or CD4 count ≤350
