GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


Where viral load monitoring is available, consideration can be given to substituting LPV/r with EFV at 3 years of age after viral suppression is sustained (conditional recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). For infants and children infected with HIV younger than 3 years, ABC + 3TC + AZT is recommended as an option for children who develop TB while on an ART regimen containing NVP or LPV/r. Once TB therapy has been completed, this regimen should be stopped and the initial regimen should be restarted (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). 4.4.7 Infant prophylaxis Infants born to mothers with HIV who are at high risk of acquiring HIV2 should receive dual prophylaxis with AZT (twice daily) and NVP (once daily) for the first 6 weeks of life, whether they are breastfed or formula fed (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Breastfed infants who are at high risk of acquiring HIV, including those first identified as exposed to HIV during the postpartum period, should continue infant prophylaxis for an additional 6 weeks (total of 12 weeks of infant prophylaxis) using either AZT (twice daily) and NVP (once daily) or NVP alone (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Infants of mothers who are receiving ART and are breastfeeding should receive 6 weeks of infant prophylaxis with daily NVP. If infants are receiving replacement feeding, they should be given 4–6 weeks of infant prophylaxis with daily NVP (or twice-daily AZT) (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence for breastfeeding infants; strong recommendation, low-quality evidence for infants receiving only replacement feeding). Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). 4.4.8 Infant National or subnational health authorities should decide whether health services will feeding in the principally counsel and support mothers known to be HIV infected to either breastfeed and context of HIV receive ARV3 interventions or avoid all breastfeeding. In settings where national authorities have decided that maternal and child health services will principally promote and support breastfeeding and antiretroviral interventions as the strategy that will most likely give infants born to mothers known to be HIV infected the greatest chance of HIV-free survival, mothers known to be infected with HIV should exclusively breastfeed their infants for the first 6 months of life, introducing appropriate complementary foods thereafter, and continue breastfeeding for the first 12 months of life.4 Breastfeeding should then stop only once a nutritionally adequate
