GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


the first 6 months of life, introducing appropriate complementary foods thereafter, and continue breastfeeding for the first 12 months of life.4 Breastfeeding should then stop only once a nutritionally adequate and safe diet without breast-milk can be provided (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence for the first 6 months; low-quality evidence for the recommendation of 12 months). Guidelines on HIV and infant feeding 2010. Principles and recommendations for infant feeding in the context of HIV and a summary of evidence. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2010 ( maternal_child_adolescent/documents/9789241599535/en). 1 Strength of evidence reviewed in 2015. 2 High-risk infants are defined as those: - born to women with established HIV infection who have received less than four weeks of ART at the time of delivery; or - born to women with established HIV infection with viral load >1000 copies/mL in the four weeks before delivery, if viral load measurement is available; or - born to women with incident HIV infection during pregnancy or breastfeeding; or - identified for the first time during the postpartum period, with or without a negative HIV test prenatally. 3 All women living with HIV are eligible for initiation of ART regardless of CD4 count. 4 Infants who are HIV infected will benefit from extended breastfeeding and should continue breastfeeding for as long as feasible and desired. xxxiv Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation 4.5 Monitoring the response to ART and diagnosing treatment failure 4.5.1 Laboratory monitoring Routine viral load monitoring can be carried out at 6 months, at 12 months and then every 12 before and after months thereafter if the patient is stable on ART to synchronize with routine monitoring and initiating ART evaluation reporting1 (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). In settings where routine viral load monitoring is available, CD4 cell count monitoring can be stopped in individuals who are stable on ART and virally suppressed2 (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Viral load is recommended as the preferred monitoring approach to diagnose and confirm treatment failurea (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Viral failure is defined by a persistently detectable viral load exceeding 1000 copies/ml (that is, two consecutive viral load measurements within a 3-month interval, with adherence support between measurements) after at least 6 months of starting a new ART regimen. Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health
