GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


after at least 6 months of starting a new ART regimen. Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). Dried blood spot specimens using venous or capillary whole blood can be used to determine the HIV viral load. A threshold of 1000 copies/mL can be used to determine virological failure when using dried blood spot samples, as defined for testing in plasmac (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). 4.8 What ART regimen to switch to (second and third line) 4.8.1 Second-line Second-line ART in adults should consist of two nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors ART for adults (NRTIs) plus a ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor (PI). and adolescents The following sequence of second-line NRTI options is recommended: • After failure on a TDF + 3TC (or FTC)-based first-line regimen, use AZT + 3TC as the NRTI backbone in second-line regimens. • After failure on an AZT or d4T + 3TC-based first-line regimen, use TDF + 3TC (or FTC) as the NRTI backbone in second-line regimens. Use of NRTI backbones as a fixed-dose combination is recommended as the preferred approach (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Heat-stable fixed-dose combinations of ATV/r and LPV/r are the preferred boosted PI options for second-line ART (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). A heat-stable fixed-dose combination of DRV/r can be used as an alternative boosted PI option for second-line ART (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). A combination of RAL plus LPV/r can be used as an alternative second-line ART regimen (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). 1 Viral load testing should be performed early after initiating ART (within 6 months), at 12 months and then at least every 12 months to treatment failure, with targeted viral load testing to confirm viral failure where possible. 2 WHO defines people stable on ART according to the following criteria: on ART for at least 1 year, no current illnesses or pregnancy, good understanding of lifelong adherence and evidence of treatment success (two consecutive viral load measurements below 1000 copies/mL). For service delivery recommendations in these guidelines (see Chapter 6 “Service delivery”), an additional criterion is that there are no adverse drug reactions requiring regular monitoring, but this is not relevant to this recommendation. xxxv Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation 4.8.2 Second-line ART for children After failure of a first-line LPV/r-based regimen, children younger than 3 years should be switched to a RAL-based
