GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


(conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). • In settings where malaria and/or severe bacterial infections are highly prevalent, co- trimoxazole prophylaxis should be continued regardless of CD4 cell count or WHO clinical stage (conditional recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Routine co-trimoxazole prophylaxis should be given to all HIV-infected patients with active TB disease regardless of CD4 cell count (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis is recommended for infants, children, and adolescents with HIV, irrespective of clinical and immune conditions. Priority should be given to all children less than HIV clinical disease (WHO clinical stage 3 or 4) and/or those with CD4 ≤350 cells/mm3 (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). • In settings where malaria and/or severe bacterial infections are highly prevalent, co- trimoxazole prophylaxis should be continued until adulthood, irrespective of whether ART is provided (conditional recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). • In settings with low prevalence for both malaria and bacterial infections, co-trimoxazole prophylaxis may be discontinued for children 5 years of age and older who are clinically stable and/or virally suppressed on ART for at least 6 months and with a CD4 count >350 cells/mm3 (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis is recommended for HIV-exposed infants from 4 to 6 weeks of age and should be continued until HIV infection has been excluded by an age-appropriate HIV test to establish final diagnosis after complete cessation of breastfeeding (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Guidelines on post-exposure prophylaxis and the use of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-related December 2014 supplement to the 2013 consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( pub/guidelines/arv2013/arvs2013upplement_dec2014/en). 5.2.2 Tuberculosis Xpert MTB/RIF should be used rather than conventional microscopy, culture and drug susceptibility testing (DST) as the initial diagnostic test in adults and children suspected of having HIV-associated TB or multidrug resistant TB (strong recommendation, adults: high- quality evidence; children: very low-quality evidence). Xpert MTB/RIF should be used in preference to conventional microscopy and culture as the initial diagnostic test for cerebrospinal fluid specimens from patients suspected of having TB meningitis (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Xpert MTB/RIF may be used as a replacement test for usual practice (including conventional microscopy, culture or histopathology) for testing specific non-respiratory specimens (lymph nodes and other tissues) from patients suspected of having extrapulmonary TB (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the diagnosis of pulmonary and extrapulmonary TB in adults and children: WHO
