GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


other tissues) from patients suspected of having extrapulmonary TB (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the diagnosis of pulmonary and extrapulmonary TB in adults and children: WHO policy update. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( xxxvii Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation Except as specifically described below for people with HIV infection with low CD4 counts or who are seriously ill,1 urine lateral flow (LF)-LAM should not be used for the diagnosis of TB (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). LF-LAM may be used to assist in the diagnosis of active TB in adult inpatients living with HIV, with signs and symptoms of TB (pulmonary and/or extrapulmonary), who have a CD4 cell count less than or equal to 100 cells/mm3 or people living with HIV who are seriously ill regardless of CD4 count or with unknown CD4 count (conditional recommendation, low- quality evidence).2 LF-LAM should not be used as a screening test for active TB (strong recommendation, low- quality evidence). The use of lateral flow urine lipoarabinomannan assay (LF-LAM) for the diagnosis and screening of active tuberculosis.in people living with HIV: Policy guidance. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015 (http:// apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/193633/1/9789241509633_eng.pdf). TB patients with known positive HIV status and TB patients living in HIV-prevalent settings should receive at least 6 months of a rifampicin-containing treatment regimen. The optimal dosing frequency is daily during the intensive and continuation phases (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). WHO policy on collaborative TB/HIV activities: guidelines for national programmes and other stakeholders. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2012 ( policy_9789241503006/en). Isoniazid Adults and adolescents living with HIV should be screened with a clinical algorithm; those who therapy (IPT) are unlikely to have active TB and should be offered IPT (strong recommendation, moderate- quality evidence). Adults and adolescents living with HIV who have an unknown or positive tuberculin skin test (TST) status and are unlikely to have active TB should receive at least 6 months of IPT as part of a comprehensive package of HIV care. IPT should be given to such individuals regardless of the degree of immunosuppression and also to those on ART, those who have previously been treated for TB and pregnant women (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). Adults and adolescents living with HIV who have an unknown or positive tuberculin skin test status and among whom active TB disease has been safely ruled out should receive at least 36 months of IPT. IPT should be given to
