GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


or positive tuberculin skin test status and among whom active TB disease has been safely ruled out should receive at least 36 months of IPT. IPT should be given to such individuals regardless of whether or not they are receiving ART. IPT should also be given irrespective of the degree of immunosuppression, history of previous TB treatment, and pregnancy (conditional recommendation, moderate- quality evidence). to have active TB. Children living with HIV who have poor weight gain, fever or current cough or contact history with a TB case may have TB and should be evaluated for TB and other conditions. If the evaluation shows no TB, they should be offered IPT preventive therapy regardless of their age (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Children living with HIV who are more than 12 months of age and who are unlikely to have active TB on symptom-based screening and have no contact with a TB case should receive 6 months of IPT (10 mg/kg/day) as part of a comprehensive package of HIV prevention and care (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). 1 Seriously ill is defined as four danger signs: respiratory rate >30/min, temperature >39°C, heart rate >120/min and unable to walk unaided. 2 This recommendation also applies to adults living with HIV who are outpatients with signs and symptoms of TB (pulmonary and/or extrapulmonary) who have a CD4 cell count less than or equal to 100 cells/mm3, or who are seriously ill regardless of CD4 count or with unknown CD4 count, based on the generalization of data from inpatients. This recommendation also applies to children living with HIV, with signs and symptoms of TB (pulmonary and/or extrapulmonary) based on the generalization of data from adults, while acknowledging that data are very limited and that there are concerns regarding low specificity of the LF-LAM assay in children. xxxviii Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation In children living with HIV who are less than 12 months of age, only those who have contact with a TB case and who are evaluated for TB (using investigations) should receive 6 months of IPT if the evaluation shows no TB disease (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). All children living with HIV, after successful completion of treatment for TB, should receive IPT for an additional 6 months (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Guidelines for intensified tuberculosis case-finding and isoniazid preventive therapy for people
