GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


after successful completion of treatment for TB, should receive IPT for an additional 6 months (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Guidelines for intensified tuberculosis case-finding and isoniazid preventive therapy for people living with HIV in resource-constrained settings. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011 ( bitstream/10665/44472/1/9789241500708_eng.pdf). Infection control Administrative (facility-level infection control committee and protocols) • A triage system should be in place to identify people suspected of having TB and minimize diagnostic delays with rapid diagnostics e.g. Xpert MTB/RIF. • Separate people with suspected or confirmed TB • Ensure cough etiquette and respiratory hygiene • Minimize the time spent in health-care facilities (e.g. through community-based approaches) (all administrative recommendations: strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Health workers and carergivers • Inform and encourage health workers with TB symptoms to undergo TB diagnostic investigation as well as HIV testing and counselling. • Provide a package of care for HIV positive-workers (ART and isoniazid preventive therapy). • Relocation for health workers living with HIV to a lower-risk area. (all health worker recommendations: strong recommendation in settings with a high prevalence of HIV and conditional with a low prevalence, high-quality evidence). Use of particulate respirators • Protective equipment (particulate respirator masks that meet or exceed N95 standards set by the CDC/NIOSH or the FFP2 standards that are CE certified) should be provided for health workers caring for patients with infectious TB (suspected or confirmed) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Environmental • Ventilation (i.e. natural and/or mechanical) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) • Upper-room ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). World Health Organization; 2009 ( Multidrug- Antiretroviral therapy is recommended for all patients with HIV and drug-resistant TB requiring resistant TB and second-line antituberculosis drugs irrespective of CD4 cell count, as early as possible (within HIV the first 8 weeks) following initiation of antituberculosis treatment (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis: 2011 update. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011 ( 5.3.2 Prompt lumbar puncture with measurement of CSF opening pressure and rapid CSF Cryptococcal cryptococcal antigen (CrAg) assay or rapid serum CrAg (either LA or LFA) is the preferred disease diagnostic approach. (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Diagnosis of cryptococcal disease xxxix Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation Prevention of The routine use of antifungal primary prophylaxis for cryptococcal disease in HIV-infected cryptococcal adults, adolescents and children with a CD4 count less than 100 cells/mm3, and who are CrAg- disease negative or where CrAg status
