GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


primary prophylaxis for cryptococcal disease in HIV-infected cryptococcal adults, adolescents and children with a CD4 count less than 100 cells/mm3, and who are CrAg- disease negative or where CrAg status is unknown, is not recommended prior to ART initiation, unless a prolonged delay in ART initiation is likely (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). The use of routine serum or plasma CrAg screening in ART-naive adults, followed by pre- emptive antifungal therapy if CrAg-positive to reduce the development of cryptococcal disease, may be considered prior to ART initiation in: a) patients with a CD4 count less than 100 cells/mm3; and b) where this population also has a high prevalence (>3%)1 of cryptococcal antigenaemia (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). The use of routine CrAg screening in ART-naive adolescents and children with pre-emptive antifungal therapy if CrAG positive, prior to ART initiation is not recommended (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). Induction, For the induction phase of treatment in HIV-infected adults, adolescents and children with consolidation, cryptococcal disease (meningeal and disseminated non-meningeal), the following two-week and maintenance antifungal regimens are recommended in order of preference: antifungal treatment a. Amphotericin B + flucytosine (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). regimens b. Amphotericin B + fluconazole (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). c. Amphotericin B short course (5–7 days) + high dose fluconazole (to complete 2 weeks of induction) when a minimum package of pre-emptive hydration and electrolyte replacement and toxicity monitoring and management cannot be provided for the full 2-week induction period (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). d. Fluconazole high dose + flucytosine, when amphotericin B is not available (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). e. Fluconazole high dose alone, when amphotericin B is not available (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). For the consolidation phase treatment of HIV infected adults, adolescents and children with cryptococcal meningitis or disseminated non-meningeal disease, the following 8-week antifungal regimen is recommended: Fluconazole 400–800mg/day after a two-week induction with amphotericin B regimen (6–12 mg/kg/day up to 400–800 mg/day if below 19 years). Fluconazole 800 mg/day after induction treatment with short-course amphotericin B or fluconazole-based induction regimen (fluconazole 12 mg/kg/day up to 800 mg/day if below 19 years) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). For maintenance treatment of cryptococcal disease in HIV-infected adults, adolescents and children, oral fluconazole 200 mg daily (6 mg/kg/day up to 200 mg/day if below 19 years) is recommended (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). For localized non-meningeal disease, or in patients with isolated serum CrAg positivity (where active cryptococcal meningitis has
