GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


to 200 mg/day if below 19 years) is recommended (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence). For localized non-meningeal disease, or in patients with isolated serum CrAg positivity (where active cryptococcal meningitis has been excluded). Fluconazole 800 mg/day (or 12 mg/kg/ day if below 19 years) for two weeks, then 400 mg/day (or 6 mg/kg/day up to 400–800 mg/ day if below 19 years) for 8 weeks, and continued maintenance with fluconazole 200 mg/day is recommended. The optimal antifungal regimen in this population remains to be determined (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). 1 The prevalence threshold above which screening is cost–effective was 1% using LFA (Meya D, Rajasingham R, Rolfes M, Birkenkamp K, Boulware D. Cost benefit of integrating cryptococcal antigen screening and preemptive treatment into routine HIV care. In: International AIDS Conference, Washington, DC, 22–27 July 2012 [Abstract MOAB0102]). The prevalence cost–effectiveness threshold is likely to vary depending on the cost of the antigen assay used (latex agglutination [LA] vs. LFA) and cost of drug treatment. xl Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation Prevention, In HIV-infected adults receiving amphotericin B–containing regimens for treatment of monitoring and cryptococcal disease, a minimum package of toxicity prevention, monitoring and management management of is recommended to minimize the serious amphotericin B–related toxicities of hypokalaemia amphotericin B and nephrotoxicity (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). toxicity Timing of ART Immediate ART initiation is not recommended in HIV-infected patients with cryptococcal initiation meningitis due to the high risk of IRIS, which may be life-threatening (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) In HIV-infected adults, adolescents and children with a recent diagnosis of cryptococcal response to antifungal therapy, and after 4 weeks of induction and consolidation treatment with amphotericin B–containing regimens combined with flucytosine or fluconazole, or after 4–6 weeks of treatment with a high-dose oral fluconazole induction and consolidation regimen (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) Discontinuation In HIV-infected adults and adolescents with successfully treated cryptococcal disease of azole (meningeal and non-meningeal), discontinuation of antifungal maintenance treatment is maintenance recommended based on the following criteria: treatment (secondary a. If HIV viral load monitoring is available: prophylaxis) when patients are stable and adherent to ART and antifungal maintenance therapy for at least 1 year and have a CD4 cell count of greater than or equal to 200 cells/mm3 (two measurements 6 months apart) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). b. If HIV viral load monitoring is available: when patients
