GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


CD4 cell count of greater than or equal to 200 cells/mm3 (two measurements 6 months apart) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). b. If HIV viral load monitoring is available: when patients are stable and adherent to ART and antifungal maintenance treatment for at least one year and with CD4 cell count of greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3 (two measurements 6 months apart) and a suppressed viral load (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). In children aged less than two years with successfully treated cryptococcal disease, antifungal maintenance treatment should NOT be discontinued (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). In HIV-infected children aged between 2 and 5 years with successfully treated cryptococcal disease (meningeal and non-meningeal), discontinuation of antifungal treatment maintenance is recommended if the child is stable and adherent to ART and antifungal maintenance treatment for at least one year and with a CD4 cell count percentage greater than 25% or absolute count greater than 750 cells/mm3 (two measurements 6 months apart) (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Maintenance therapy for cryptococcal disease should not be discontinued in children less than two years (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Maintenance treatment for cryptococcal disease should be restarted if CD4 count drops to 100 cells/mm3, or below in HIV-infected adults and adolescents (or CD4 cell count less than or equal to 25% or 750 cells/mm3 in children aged between 2 and 5 years), or if a WHO evidence). Rapid advice: diagnosis, prevention and management of cryptococcal disease in HIV-infected adults, adolescents and children. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011 (www.who.int/hiv/pub/cryptococcal_ disease2011/en). xli Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation 5.3 Prevention, screening and management of other comorbidities and chronic care for people living with HIV Assessment and management of cardiovascular risk should be provided for all individuals 5.3.1 living with HIV according to standard protocols recommended for the general population1 Assessment and (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). management of noncommunicable diseases Assessment and management of depression should be included in the package of HIV care 5.3.2 Assessment services for all individuals living with HIV (conditional recommendation, very low-quality and management evidence). of depression in people living with HIV 1 The WHO PEN protocol targets the following populations for CVD screening: age >40 years, smokers, people with known hypertension or diabetes mellitus, waist circumference >90 cm in women and >110 cm in men, and family history of diabetes mellitus or premature CVD (www.who.int/cardiovascular_diseases/ publications/ pen2010/en). xlii Consolidated guidelines on the use of
