GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


recommended for people stable on ART (strong 6.7 Frequency of recommendation, moderate-quality evidence).4 visits Less frequent medication pickups (3-6 months) are recommended for people stable on ART (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence).5 1 Peer support includes peer counselling. 2 Patient advocates, treatment and peer support interventions providing adherence and psychosocial support in the community. 5 ARV supply management should be strengthened to ensure the availability of ARV medicines and prevent stock-outs in the context of less frequent medication pickup. xliii Summary of recommendations Chapter Recommendation 6.8 Task shifting and sharing Trained and supervised lay providers can distribute ART to adults, adolescents and children living with HIV (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Trained and supervised community health workers can dispense ART between regular clinical visits (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). 6.9 Decentralization of HIV treatment and care should be considered as a way to increase access Decentralization to and improve retention in care: • initiation of ART in hospitals with maintenance of ART in peripheral health facilities (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence); low-quality evidence); • initiation of ART at peripheral health facilities with maintenance at the community level (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence).1 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). 6.10 Integrating and linking services 6.10.1 Delivering In generalized epidemic settings, ART should be initiated and maintained in eligible2 pregnant care settings low-quality evidence). Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). 6.10.2 In settings with a high burden of HIV and TB, ART should be initiated for people living with HIV Delivering ART in TB treatment settings, with linkage to ongoing HIV care and ART (strong recommendation, in TB treatment very low-quality evidence). settings and TB treatment in HIV In settings with a high burden of HIV and TB, TB treatment may be provided for people care settings living with HIV in HIV care settings where a TB diagnosis has also been made (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations
