GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


care settings where a TB diagnosis has also been made (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). 6.10.3 ART ART should be initiated and maintained in eligible3 people living with HIV at care settings in settings where opioid substitution therapy (OST) is provided (strong recommendation, very low-quality providing opioid evidence). substitution therapy Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection: recommendations for a public health approach. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/download/en). clinical visits will depend on health status. 2 All people living with HIV are now eligible for initiating ART at any CD4 cell count. 3 All people living with HIV are now eligible for initiating ART at any CD4 cell count. xliv Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection Chapter Recommendation Sexually transmitted infection (STI) and family planning services can be integrated within HIV 6.10.4 STI and care settings (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). family planning in HIV care settings 6.11 Adolescent- friendly health Adolescent-friendly health services should be implemented in HIV services to ensure services engagement and improved outcomes (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). Community-based approaches can improve treatment adherence and retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Training of health-care workers can contribute to treatment adherence and improvement in retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Adolescents should be counselled about the potential benefits and risks of disclosure of their HIV status to others and empowered and supported to determine if, when, how and to whom to disclose (conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence). HIV and adolescents: guidance for HIV testing and counselling and care for adolescents living with HIV. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013 ( xlv Summary of recommendations Good practice statements The table includes good practice statements made by the 2015 Guideline Development Groups. Chapter Good practice statement In all settings, children with a parent living with HIV should be routinely offered HIV testing 2.5.4 and, if found to be either infected or at high risk of infection through breastfeeding, should be Provider-initiated linked to services for treatment or prevention. HIV testing and counselling Efforts should be made to reduce the time between HIV diagnosis
