GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


recommendations related to package of care and service delivery components in these guidelines. • An External Review Group provided peer review of the full guideline document. The composition of both Guideline Development Groups was in accordance with WHO procedures for developing guidelines (4) and included HIV experts, researchers, programme managers, epidemiologists, human rights experts, representatives of United Nations agencies and representatives of civil society organizations and networks of people living with HIV. Appropriate representation by region and sex was considered. Representatives from civil society were selected from a call for nominations; eight participants were selected from more than 90 applications. The WHO HIV Civil Society Reference Group contributed to the selection process of civil society participants. The Chairs of both Guideline Development Groups also participated in the Core Group to ensure consistency. The members of the External Review Group were selected to provide further geographical representation. Chapter 1: Introduction 1.5.2 Competing interests Conflicts of interests were managed as follows: 1. All external contributors to the development of these guidelines, including members the External Review Group, were required to complete a WHO Declaration of Interests (DOI) form before engaging in the guideline development process and before participating in the Guideline Development Group meetings. All contributors were requested to promptly notify WHO if any change in the disclosed information occurred during the course of this work. 2. In accordance with the WHO DOI policy for experts, a brief biography of all members of the Guideline Development Groups was published on the WHO HIV website for a period of 14 days with a description of the objective of the Groups’ meetings. No public comments or objections were received concerning the Groups’ membership. 3. The completed DOI forms were reviewed by the WHO Guideline Steering Group with a view to managing disclosed interests in the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection. Where any conflict of interest was declared, the WHO Guideline Steering Group determined whether such conflicts were serious enough to affect the expert’s objective judgement on the guideline development process and recommendations. To ensure consistency, the WHO Guideline Steering Group applied the criteria for assessing the severity of conflict of interests in the WHO handbook for guideline development (4). 4. The procedures for the management of declared conflicts of interests were undertaken in accordance with the WHO guidelines for declaration of interests (experts). Conflicts of interest that warranted actions
