GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


4. The procedures for the management of declared conflicts of interests were undertaken in accordance with the WHO guidelines for declaration of interests (experts). Conflicts of interest that warranted actions by the WHO Guideline Steering Group arose where experts had obtained funding from a body or an institution to perform primary research directly related to any of the guideline recommendations. At the Guideline Development Group meetings, the concerned experts were restricted from participating in discussions and/or formulating recommendations pertaining to their academic conflicts of interest. 5. All relevant declared interests (x out of x for Clinical Guideline Development Group and x out of x for Operational Guideline Group) are summarized with the agreed management plan (Annexes 1 and 2). The majority of the participants of the Guideline Development Groups did not declare significant conflicts of interest for either meeting. 6. Declared interests were shared with all participants at the meeting of the Guideline Development Groups so that the Groups were aware of any existing interests among the members. 7. Comments on the guidelines received from the External Review Group were reviewed in relation to the interests declared by the individual members. 8. All Declaration of Interests forms are on electronic file at the WHO Department of HIV/AIDS and will be maintained for 10 years. Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection The WHO Guideline Steering Group acknowledges that limiting the participation of key experts is challenging given the significant contribution of pharmaceutical companies in the HIV research and ARV drug trials and the involvement of several experts as investigators in relevant trials. Funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, the United States Agency for International Development and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention supported the development of these guidelines. 1.5.3 Evidence synthesis Systematic reviews of the evidence The WHO Guideline Steering Group formulated PICO questions to guide the systematic reviews. The following technical advisory meetings held in 2014 and 2015 contributed to this process: • a consultation on the treatment of HIV among adolescents (5); • a consultation on new strategies to optimize care in the postnatal period: infant prophylaxis, feeding and diagnosis; • Paediatric ARV Drug Optimization 2 (6); • The future with PrEP in combination HIV prevention, WHO and UNAIDS; Scoping for the development of further recommendations on
