GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


feeding and diagnosis; • Paediatric ARV Drug Optimization 2 (6); • The future with PrEP in combination HIV prevention, WHO and UNAIDS; Scoping for the development of further recommendations on the use of PrEP for the prevention of sexual transmission of HIV and the Technical Advisory Group for Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis; • a scoping consultation on care packages for people living with HIV (7); • a scoping consultation on chronic comorbidities in people living with HIV (8); • a scoping consultation on priority areas and required work on ARV toxicity (9); • a scoping meeting on the use of viral load and CD4 testing in the management of HIV; and • a consultation on strengthening the quality of HIV clinical services in resource-limited settings. Systematic review teams (Web Supplement B) developed protocols and conducted reviews. PRISMA guidelines for systematic reviews and meta-analyses were used for reporting of reviews (10). Web Supplement B includes search strategies, quality assessment and synthesis of findings for all systematic reviews conducted in 2015. Data from the systematic reviews were summarized and presented as evidence profiles using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach (11). Several reviews were conducted using a network meta-analysis to evaluate the inference of the comparative effectiveness of interventions that may or may not have been evaluated against each other. The WHO GRADE working group was consulted on the interpretation of findings and use of GRADE in evaluating the overall quality of evidence from these reviews. Chapter 1: Introduction Diagnostic test accuracy reviews were conducted following Cochrane methods. Summary-of-evidence profiles were developed using an adapted GRADE approach in consultation with the WHO Guidelines Review Committee and the methodologist in the Clinical Guideline Development Group. Values of outcomes A list of potential outcomes of interest was circulated to members of both Guideline Development Groups. The members were asked to score the importance on a scale of 1 (not important) to 9 (critical) from the perspective of individuals living with HIV, to consider the importance of the values to service users. The average of the scores and variability for each outcome were used to determine the outcomes critical to decision- making. Overall quality of the evidence The GRADE method was used to rate the overall quality of the evidence (Table 1.1). The quality of evidence is defined as the confidence that the reported estimates of effect are adequate to inform a specific
