GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


rate the overall quality of the evidence (Table 1.1). The quality of evidence is defined as the confidence that the reported estimates of effect are adequate to inform a specific recommendation. The GRADE system classifies the quality of evidence as high, moderate, low and very low. Randomized controlled trials are initially rated as high-quality evidence but may be downgraded for several reasons, including risk of bias, inconsistency of results, indirectness of evidence, imprecision and publication bias. Observational studies are initially rated as low-quality evidence but may be upgraded if the magnitude of the treatment effect is very large, if evidence indicates a dose–response relationship or if all plausible residual confounding would reduce the demonstrated effected or increase the effect if no effect were observed. The strength of a recommendation reflects the degree of confidence of the Guideline Development Group that the desirable effects of the recommendation outweigh the undesirable effects (12). Desirable effects (potential benefits) may include beneficial health outcomes (such as reduced incidence of HIV and reduced morbidity and mortality); reduction of the burden on the individual and/or health services; and Undesirable effects (potential harm) include those affecting individuals, families, communities or health services. Harm may include the resource use and cost implications Table 1.1. GRADE quality of evidence Quality of evidence Definition High We are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect Middle We are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of effect, but there is a possibility that it is substantially different Low Our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect Very low We have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of the effect Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection of implementing the recommendations; adverse clinical outcomes (such as drug resistance or drug toxicity); and legal ramifications, in which certain practices are criminalized. Strength of the recommendations The strength of a recommendation can be either strong or conditional. A strong recommendation is one for which there is confidence that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation clearly outweigh the undesirable effects. A conditional recommendation is one for which the Guideline Development Group
