GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


for which there is confidence that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation clearly outweigh the undesirable effects. A conditional recommendation is one for which the Guideline Development Group concludes that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation probably outweigh the undesirable effects or are closely balanced, but the Groups are not confident about these trade-offs in all situations. At implementation, monitoring and rigorous evaluation is needed to address these uncertainties, which are likely to provide new evidence that may change the calculation of the balance of trade-offs and to suggest how to overcome any implementation challenges. Key information sources Modelling of potential impact Modelling data on the impact of interventions were used to support decision-making. A causal modelling analysis comparing the effect of various treatment initiation criteria on death and growth response for children and adolescents aged 5–16 years old was used to support the recommendation on when to start ART for children and adolescents. Models developed to simulate how immediate ART initiation regardless of CD4 cell count could affect HIV mortality and transmission in sub-Saharan Africa contributed to decision-making on the recommendation on when adults should start ART. The benefits of alternative approaches to monitoring people receiving ART were also modelled, including prediction of one-year mortality using the current CD4 percentage and count among children receiving ART. The results of this work informed the CD4 criteria for switching therapy in children without access to viral load monitoring. The costs and consequences of viral load monitoring with dried blood spot versus plasma specimens in low- and middle-income countries were also used to support decision- making. Resource use The prices for drugs in ART regimens were collected from the WHO Global Price Reporting Mechanism: Equity and acceptability Evidence on the acceptability and views of service users was collected using a mixed- methods approach. The WHO Guideline Steering Group reviewed all PICO questions to identify those for which collecting service user data would best inform decision-making. The service users considered were people living with HIV, caregivers of children living with HIV and health workers. Chapter 1: Introduction Table 1.2. Components of CERQual used to assess confidence in findings Component Description Methodological The extent to which there are problems in the design or conduct of primary limitations studies that contributed to the evidence review. Relevance The extent to which the body of evidence from the primary studies supporting a review
