GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


the design or conduct of primary limitations studies that contributed to the evidence review. Relevance The extent to which the body of evidence from the primary studies supporting a review finding is applicable to the context in the review question. Adequacy of data Overall determination of the degree of richness and quantity of data supporting a review finding. Coherence The coherence of the review finding addresses the question of whether the finding is well grounded in data from the primary studies Four qualitative evidence syntheses were conducted on the following topics: 1) the role of ARV drug toxicity in influencing adherence among people living with HIV; 2) barriers to and facilitators of interventions to improve linkage to care; 3) barriers to and facilitators of interventions to improve ARV adherence; and 4) barriers to and facilitators of interventions to improve retention in care for people receiving ART. The Confidence in the Evidence from Reviews of Qualitative Research (CERQual) (13) approach was used to assess the confidence in the findings from the qualitative evidence syntheses, using four factors (Table 1.2). Qualitative literature reviews (published and grey literature) were conducted on the following topics: 1) the timing of ART initiation for all populations (including pregnant and breastfeeding women); 2) the duration of infant prophylaxis; 3) PrEP; 4) the frequency of clinic visits and medication pickups; 5) initiating ART on the same day as HIV testing; 6) task shifting for sample collection and diagnostic tests, and 7) delivering sexual transmitted infection and family planning services in HIV clinic settings. A community consultation was conducted on when to start ART and the use of viral load testing for monitoring of people living with HIV. Seven networks of people living with HIV, supported by a global research organization, conducted 24 workshops to assess the acceptability of initiating ART earlier for people living with HIV, caregivers and service providers in eight countries (India, Indonesia, Kenya, Peru, Portugal, Ukraine, Zambia and Zimbabwe). An additional global consultation on adolescent treatment and care and a facility-based situational analysis also contributed to the evidence base on the acceptability of initiating ART earlier among adolescents. Community networks conducted focus group discussions to explore the views on early infant diagnosis of women living with HIV and the mothers of infants exposed to HIV on in Kenya, Namibia and Nigeria. An online survey on the quality of HIV care experienced by people living with
