GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


with HIV and the mothers of infants exposed to HIV on in Kenya, Namibia and Nigeria. An online survey on the quality of HIV care experienced by people living with HIV collated responses from 534 individuals and was used to support the guidance on quality of care in Chapter 6. Feasibility Programmatic data from country implementation experience were used to support decision-making. Programme data from Brazil, Rwanda, Thailand, Uganda and VietNam were presented to the Guideline Development Groups (14). Qualitative interviews and an Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection online survey were used to ascertain the views of HIV programme managers in three WHO regions and the conclusions from these assisted discussions on the feasibility of interventions. WHO also conducted a survey in low- and middle-income countries on the availability and use of HIV diagnostics (15) and ARV drugs. The outcomes from a meeting with diagnostic manufacturers informed the decision-making (16). Meetings of the Guideline Development Groups in June 2015 to review evidence and formulate recommendations. The Operational Guideline Development Group met following the Clinical Guideline Development Group so that participants could consider the implementation considerations of decisions made in the clinical meeting. The Clinical Guideline Development Group considered evidence for PICO questions A1.1 to E1.1. The Operational Guideline Development Group considered evidence for PICO questions F1.1 to F6.2. The Clinical Guideline Development Group held an additional virtual meeting in September 2015 to review two PICO questions that were not fully reviewed in June. A quorum of the Clinical Guideline Development Group attended this meeting and a ‘round-robin’ approach was used to gain consensus on the recommendations. Email communication followed to ensure that all members of the Clinical Guideline Development Group agreed with the recommendations made by virtual discussion. The systematic reviews and evidence-to-decision-making tables prepared in accordance with the GRADE process (Table 1.3) were presented at the meetings, and the respective methodologist facilitated discussions. Web Supplement A provides all evidence-to- decision-making tables, including GRADE evidence profile tables for all PICO questions that led to a recommendation. The Guideline Development Groups made decisions by consensus. The Clinical Guideline Development Group voted as a decision-making aid for the question of when adults should initiate ART in relation to the strength of the recommendation (with a majority vote of 70%). No other votes were held to decide strength or directionality of recommendations. Good practice
