GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


initiate ART in relation to the strength of the recommendation (with a majority vote of 70%). No other votes were held to decide strength or directionality of recommendations. Good practice statements Good practice statements were made when the Guideline Development Groups considered the benefits to substantially outweigh any undesirable consequences, in many cases considering a large body of indirect evidence with indirect comparisons to strongly support the decision. Principles for developing good practice statements were applied (17). Formal GRADE methods have not been applied to these statements. Where statements have been referenced from other guidelines (often referred to as good practice principles or practices), the source is noted. Chapter 1: Introduction Table 1.3. Criterion for consideration in evidence-to-decision-making tables Domain Rationale Quality of the This is an assessment of the degree of confidence in the estimate of the effect: evidence that is, the likelihood that the effect will differ substantially from what the research found. “Differ substantially” means a large enough difference that it might affect a decision. Benefits and risks When a new recommendation is developed, desirable effects (benefits) need to be weighed against undesirable effects (risks), considering any previous recommendation or another alternative. The larger the gap or gradient in favour of the benefits over the risks, the more likely that a strong recommendation will be made. Values of outcomes This is a judgement of how much the people affected by an intervention or option value each of the outcomes. How much people value outcomes in relation to each other needs to be considered when weighing up the desirable effects of a treatment against the undesirable effects. Costs and resource How large the requirements are in resource use of the intervention and the implications alternative. Costs: the value of the resources that are consumed (such as staff time, drugs and use of equipment) as the consequences of an intervention or option. Cost–effectiveness: the cost of a treatment in relation to its effects. Lower costs (monetary, infrastructure, equipment or human resources) or greater cost–effectiveness is more likely to support a strong recommendation. Equity The absence of avoidable or remediable health differences among groups of people that may be defined socially, economically, demographically or geographically. Acceptability How much a treatment or recommendation is accepted by the people who are affected by it or who are implementing it. If the recommendation is likely to be widely accepted or valued highly, it
