GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


or recommendation is accepted by the people who are affected by it or who are implementing it. If the recommendation is likely to be widely accepted or valued highly, it is likely that a strong recommendation will be made. A great deal of variability or strong reasons that the recommended course of action is unlikely to be accepted make a conditional recommendation more likely. Feasibility Is it feasible to implement an intervention and to sustain it? If an intervention is achievable in a setting where the greatest impact is expected, a strong recommendation is appropriate. 1.5.4 External review Members of the External Review Group were invited and selected to ensure geographical programme management and community representation reviewed a draft of the guidelines for comments on validity, reliability and feasibility. An online format was used to compile comments and suggested revisions. This format enabled all external reviewers to see other comments from reviewers and agree or disagree to form consensus. All comments were then reviewed by by a relevant member of the WHO Guideline Steering Group. All comments received were recorded with subsequent action; indicating whether specific changes had been made to the guideline in response to the comments. The draft guideline was reviewed by members of the Guideline Development Groups and the Core Group. Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection 1.6 Organization of the guidelines 1.6.1 Chapter contents The structure of the guidelines is based on the continuum of HIV testing, prevention, treatment and care (Fig.1.1). Fig. 1.1. Continuum of care and relevant sections of the guideline CHAPTER 2 2.5: HIV diagnosis in infants and children CHAPTER 2 2.2: Retesting CHAPTER 4 When to start CHAPTER 4 CHAPTER 2 first, second 4.5.2: VL C Pr H E A P, P P T E E P R , 3 2 H se . I 3 r V v a t ic n e e s d s t i 2 n . g 4 : a U n se d o th f i C r D d 4 line CHAPTER 5 m 4.5 o . n 3 i : t o H r I i V n - g DR combination Comorbidities, prevention coinfections Confirmed HIV Prevention Testing diagnosis Link to care Treatment Chronic care IMPACT CHAPTER 6 6.2: Differentiated care and community ARV delivery CHAPTER 7 CHAPTER 6 CHAPTER 6 Monitoring
