GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


prevention coinfections Confirmed HIV Prevention Testing diagnosis Link to care Treatment Chronic care IMPACT CHAPTER 6 6.2: Differentiated care and community ARV delivery CHAPTER 7 CHAPTER 6 CHAPTER 6 Monitoring 6.4: Linkage interventions 6.6: Retention and adherence and Use of CD4 testing at the point 6.7: Frequency of clinic and drug pickup visits evaluation of care 6.8, 6.9 and 6.10: Task shifting, decentralization and integration Lab connectivity 6.11: Adolescent-friendly health services 6.12, 6.13 and 6.14: Quality supply chain and lab systems The chapters of the guidelines include the following information: Chapter 2 discusses and summarizes existing WHO guidance on HIV testing services, including information to be provided during pre- and post-test counselling, approaches to service delivery and considerations for priority populations. Detailed analysis is provided of new evidence on HIV diagnosis in infants and children, together with new recommendations on the timing of and approaches to virological testing among infants and the use of new testing technologies. Chapter 3 addresses the use of ARV drugs for HIV prevention. A new recommendation for 2015 is presented on the use of oral PrEP to prevent the acquisition of HIV. Existing recommendations on post-exposure prophylaxis are summarized and the importance of combination HIV prevention approaches is discussed. Chapter 4 addresses ART for people living with HIV, including when to start treatment (first-line regimens for adults, adolescents and children) and what regimens to switch to (second- and third-line treatment). The chapter contains the new recommendations that all adults, adolescents and children should initiate ART regardless of CD4 cell count or LACINILC YREVILED ECIVRES Chapter 1: Introduction disease stage, including lifelong treatment for pregnant and breastfeeding women. Preferred first-line regimens for adults and adolescents include newly recommended options for a reduced dosage of efavirenz and, for the first time, use of the integrase inhibitor class of drugs. The evidence for the recommended approaches to first-line regimens for children up to three years of age and 3–10 years of age have also been reviewed. Revised recommendations are presented on options for second- and third-line ART for adults and children and infant ARV drug prophylaxis. Existing recommendations on timing of ART for people with TB and infant feeding by women living with HIV are summarized. The chapter includes new recommendations on stopping CD4 count testing where viral load testing is available and the use of new technologies for viral load testing and a detailed summary of guidance
