GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, recommendation, evidence, art, guidelines, people, health, care, strong, use, treatment, drugs, testing, strong recommendation, low-quality


includes new recommendations on stopping CD4 count testing where viral load testing is available and the use of new technologies for viral load testing and a detailed summary of guidance on managing toxicities related to ARV drugs and key ARV drug interactions. Chapter 5 summarizes existing WHO guidance on the management of common coinfections and comorbidities associated with HIV, including the use of co-trimoxazole preventive therapy, TB case finding, treatment of active TB, and managing cryptococcal infection and viral hepatitis. The importance of assessing and managing the risk of noncommunicable diseases among people living with HIV is highlighted in two new recommendations on cardiovascular disease and depression. Chapter 6 discusses key service delivery issues related to providing ART and supports the concept of differentiated care for people with advanced HIV disease and people who are stable on ART. Reducing the frequency of clinic visits and medication pickups for people who are stable on ART and more convenient and accessible approaches to distributing ARV drugs are newly recommended to reduce the growing burden on people receiving ART and health facilities. New recommendations are also provided to help to strengthen linkage to care following HIV diagnosis and long-term retention in care, including community-based approaches and measures to support adherence. Existing guidance on task shifting and integrating and decentralizing services is summarized. New guidance in this chapter emphasizes the importance of providing adolescent- friendly health services to meet the particular needs of adolescents. Chapter 7 summarizes a range of recommended approaches to monitoring and evaluating programmes along the continuum of testing, prevention and care, including using recommended programme indicators and strategies to monitor ARV drug toxicity and ARV drug resistance. Chapter 8 outlines how the guideline will be published and disseminated to stakeholders. Guidance on adoption and adaptation is given and reference made to tools to support implementation. The annexes include algorithms, reference tables to support key recommendations and checklists and case studies to support country adaptation. The web supplements present evidence-to-decision frameworks, summaries of evidence reviews, consultations and other relevant information collected in developing these guidelines. Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection 1.6.2 Presentation of the recommendations New recommendations developed in 2015 are highlighted and are typically presented in the following format to reflect the review of the evidence and other considerations by the Guideline Development Groups. • Recommendation. The recommendation and the strength
