Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


ABSTRACT Primary disorders of lipid metabolism causing hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) result from genetic defects in triglyceride synthesis and metabolism. These disorders, with the exception of mutations in the lipoprotein lipase complex, are often unmasked by precipitating factors including obesity, diabetes, or medications. Physical findings can include eruptive, palmer, or tuberoeruptive xanthomas. Other lipid abnormalities may or may not be present. Each of the genetic causes of HTG is associated with an increased risk of developing recurrent pancreatitis; some may also increase the risk of premature cardiovascular disease. Appropriate management begins with proper recognition of the disorder. Pharmacotherapies for TG lowering are emerging and may be beneficial in select disorders. We review the genetic disorders causing HTG in children and adolescents, discuss their clinical presentation, associated complications, and conclude with management and pharmacological treatments. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Triglycerides (TGs) constitute one of the major lipid groups. Excessive accumulation of TG in the blood leads to hypertriglyceridemia. TG concentrations of > 500 mg/dL account for <0.2% of the HTG cases in children, but when encountered should prompt consideration of mutations in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) complex, termed the familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) or the co-existence of genetic and secondary forms of HTG, termed the multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS), a far more common cause of severe HTG. Secondary causes of HTG include unrecognized or poorly controlled diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and medications (including atypical antipsychotics and estrogens) ( Table 1 ). For a detailed discussion of the secondary causes of HTG see the Endotext chapter entitled “Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia” ( 1 ). Appropriate management of patients with HTG requires knowledge of the likely cause of the HTG, in order to prevent its complications. Our focus is to review the pathogenesis, genetics, presentation, and diagnosis of inherited HTG disorders in children and adolescents. Table 1. Secondary Causes Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents View in own window Diet with excess calories, high glycemic load, and/or sucrose- or fructose-containing beverages Endocrine Disorders (uncontrolled type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, metabolic syndrome, hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency, hypercortisolism, polycystic ovary syndrome, lipodystrophies) Medications (steroids, oral estrogen, second generation antipsychotics, antidepressants, retinoic acid derivatives, rosiglitazone, thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, bile acid sequestrants, sirolimus, PEG-asparaginase, antiretroviral therapy) Pregnancy Renal disease (nephrotic syndrome, renal failure) Liver disease (acute hepatitis) Glycogen Storage Disease Excessive alcohol intake Chronic inflammatory
