Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


rosiglitazone, thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, bile acid sequestrants, sirolimus, PEG-asparaginase, antiretroviral therapy) Pregnancy Renal disease (nephrotic syndrome, renal failure) Liver disease (acute hepatitis) Glycogen Storage Disease Excessive alcohol intake Chronic inflammatory conditions (systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren’s syndrome) CLASSIFICATION OF HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA The classification of HTG in children and adolescents, as published by the National Expert Panel on Cholesterol Levels in Children ( 2 ) and the Expert Panel on Cardiovascular Health Risk Reduction in Children ( 3 ), includes definitions of borderline and high TG based upon the 75 th and 95 th percentiles of TG in children, respectively. Unfortunately, this classification does not emphasize severe TG levels. Table 2 presents a classification that combines the former recommendations with the 2010 Endocrine Society guidelines on HTG ( 4 ) to focus attention on the very high levels of TG seen in primary HTG ( 5 ). Hegele et al suggested a simplified classification to facilitate clinical decision-making ( 6 ). This classification uses a general population-derived distribution of plasma TG levels to define mild-to-moderate HTG if TG are 175-885 mg/dL (2-9.9 mmol/L) with severe HTG defined as >885 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). The latter helps to identify those who are at increased risk of pancreatitis, who are more likely to have an underlying genetic cause for HTG, and who would benefit from referral to a lipid specialist. Table 2. Classification of Hypertriglyceridemia (mg/dL) in Children and Adolescents View in own window Age Normal Borderline High Very high Severe Very Severe 0-9 yrs <75 ≥75-99 ≥100-499 ≥500-999 ≥1000-1999 ≥2000 10-19 yrs <90 ≥90-129 ≥130-499 ≥500-999 ≥1000-1999 ≥2000 Definitions integrated from the National Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in Children, Expert Panel on Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Children, and the Endocrine Society Statement on Evaluation and Treatment of Hypertriglyceridemia. TRIGLYCERIDE DISORDERS IN CHILDHOOD AND ADOLESCENTS Evaluation of HTG in infancy should include screening for secondary causes of HTG, particularly disorders affecting the thyroid, liver, and kidney function. Preterm and critically ill infants may be particularly prone to HTG because of immaturity, limited adipose stores, and reduced lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity ( 7 ). In this setting, HTG may be exacerbated by stress, sepsis, selective medications, and use of intravenous fat (lipids) as a nutritional supplement. Infants with unexplained hypoglycemia and HTG should be evaluated for glycogen storage disease type I (GSD type I) especially when accompanied by hepatomegaly, lactic acidosis, and hyperuricemia.
