Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


(GPIHBP1), or lipase maturation factor-1(LMF-1) or the presence of circulating inhibitors to LPL. ** Generally present in adulthood unless precipitated by a secondary cause (obesity, insulin resistance). Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (FCS) GENETICS AND PATHOGENESIS FCS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with an estimated prevalence of approximately 1 in 500,000 to 1,000,000 ( 12 , 13 ). FCS results from a mutation in one or more genes of the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) complex and affects catabolism of chylomicrons and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL). The most common gene affected is LPL (accounts for 95% of these cases), in which homozygotes or compound heterozygotes inherit two defective LPL alleles. The LPL gene is composed of 10 exons and is located on chromosome 8p22. The first mutation was described in 1989, and since that time, over 100 mutations that result in LPL deficiency have been reported ( 14 , 15 ). Most mutations occur in exons 3, 5, and 6, which are responsible for the catalytic coding region of the LPL gene ( 14 ). The LPL enzyme and its cofactor, apolipoprotein (apo) C-II, act on the luminal surface of the capillary endothelium and are responsible for liberating free fatty acids from the TG in dietary-derived chylomicrons and VLDL produced in the liver. When any part of the LPL complex is defective, there is a massive accumulation of chylomicrons in the blood, hence the name FCS. A lesser amount of TG from VLDL may also contribute to the observed HTG. FCS may also be caused from loss of function mutations in apo C-II, the cofactor for LPL, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high density lipoprotein-binding protein (GPIHBP1), which helps to anchor chylomicrons to the endothelial surface ( 16 ), and LMF1 factor 1, an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone protein required for post-translational activation of LPL ( 17 ). Apo A-V plays a role in stabilizing the lipoprotein-enzyme complex thereby enhancing lipolysis; thus, defective or absent apo A-V can result in reduced efficiency of LPL-mediated lipolysis ( 18 - 20 ). Circulating inhibitors to the LPL enzyme ( 21 ) have been described. Each of the above has an indistinguishable clinical phenotype ( 22 ). PRESENTATION AND DIAGNOSIS The presentation of FCS in infancy is suspected by a creamy appearance of the blood on routine blood draw or fingerstick caused from TG accumulation secondary to decreased clearance of chylomicrons from the plasma. If the diagnosis is not made from
