Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


appearance of the blood on routine blood draw or fingerstick caused from TG accumulation secondary to decreased clearance of chylomicrons from the plasma. If the diagnosis is not made from observation of a lipemic blood sample, the disease often presents as severe abdominal pain from acute pancreatitis. Recurrent abdominal pain and pancreatitis are common. The diagnosis of FCS is supported by the presence of markedly elevated TG concentrations and chylomicrons, the latter which are normally rapidly cleared from the plasma following a meal. Laboratory data will also show marked reductions in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations ( 13 ). Homozygous or compound heterozygous individuals who have absent or markedly reduced LPL activity typically have serum TG concentrations that can reach 10,000 or higher ( 14 ). In contrast, heterozygous carriers have normal to moderately reduced LPL activity, are usually asymptomatic, and may have normal or mildly elevated fasting TG concentrations that can range from 200 to 750 mg/dL. As a result, presentation and diagnosis may occur later in childhood. Physical signs may include lipemia retinalis and eruptive xanthomas, the latter generally located over the buttocks and extensor surfaces ( 15 ). Hepatosplenomegaly can occur from the accumulation of chylomicrons in the liver and spleen ( 15 ). Complications of LPL deficiency may include multiple episodes of pancreatitis leading to pancreatic calcification, diabetes mellitus, and steatorrhea, especially in those who are unable or unwilling to comply with a very low-fat diet ( 23 ). Reduction or absent LPL activity can be measured after intravenous heparin administration in the presence of normal apo C-II levels ( 24 ). Heparin is a competitive agonist of LPL; absence of LPL activity after an intravenous heparin bolus is diagnostic ( 25 ). Molecular genetic analysis is also available but is not necessary for treatment. The following disorders may result in the multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS) that result from the co-existence of genetic and secondary forms of HTG. Familial Combined Hyperlipidemia (FCHL) GENETICS AND PATHOGENESIS FCHL is one the most common causes of genetic hyperlipidemia with a prevalence of 0.5% to 2% in the population ( 26 , 27 ). In a pediatric clinic population, FCHL has been shown to be 3 times more prevalent than familial hypercholesterolemia ( 28 ). FCHL is a genetically complex disease whose phenotype is usually determined by the interaction of multiple susceptibility genes and the
