Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


3 times more prevalent than familial hypercholesterolemia ( 28 ). FCHL is a genetically complex disease whose phenotype is usually determined by the interaction of multiple susceptibility genes and the environment. Genome wide association studies (GWAS) and linkage approaches have been utilized to screen the genome in FCHL families from various populations to identify loci linked to the phenotype. At least 35 genes have been implicated in the development of FCHL (polygenic disorder). One chromosomal locus that has been consistently linked to FCHL is 1q21–23 ( 29 ). Another commonly linked gene in FCHL is the ubiquitous transcription factor upstream stimulatory factor 1 (USF1), which has numerous target genes related to lipid and glucose metabolism ( 30 ). A detailed review of gene associations in FCHL is available ( 29 ). In general, the genes that have been implicated are primarily those involved in an overproduction of VLDL and apoB-100 by the liver, a reduction of fatty acid uptake by adipose tissue, and a decrease in clearance of chylomicron remnants. For those with TG 2-10 mmol/L (<885mg/dL), biochemical screening and counselling for family members is recommended, but routine genetic testing is not warranted ( 31 ). PRESENTATION AND DIAGNOSIS FCHL is a metabolic disorder characterized by: (a) elevated levels of Apo B, which may present as either mixed hyperlipidemia, isolated hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia (HTG), or as a normal serum lipid levels with an abnormally high Apo B; (b) intra-individual and intra-familial variability of the lipid phenotype; (c) increased risk of premature CHD; and (d) a polygenic inheritance. There is also an increase in small dense LDL (sdLDL) particles, due to the delayed clearance of VLDL ( 32 , 33 ). Elevated levels of apo B (> 90 percentile) and sdLDL particles are now considered diagnostic criteria for FCHL in adults ( 32 ), although the latter is not routinely assessed in clinical practice. LDL-C may be normal or elevated and HDL-C levels low. The presence of elevated TG and apo B levels in at least 2 family members is also considered necessary for a definitive diagnosis of FCHL ( 34 ). FCHL presents in childhood when unmasked by weight gain ( 35 ), and is also influenced by age ( 35 ). As a result, in normal weight individuals, the presentation can be delayed ( 36 ). Thus, children with normal lipid values but a family known to have FCHL should
