Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


). As a result, in normal weight individuals, the presentation can be delayed ( 36 ). Thus, children with normal lipid values but a family known to have FCHL should be retested as young adults ( 35 ). Unique physical findings in FCHL are lacking, but affected individuals often exhibit obesity, signs of insulin resistance, hypertension, steatohepatitis, and metabolic syndrome ( 37 ). The diagnosis is made from a characteristic fasting lipid profile and, if available, a reliable family history of dyslipidemia and early CVD ( 38 , 39 ). The association of FCHL with premature CVD is well established and CVD risk factors such as visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, and hypertension are often present ( 40 , 41 ). Therefore, identifying this disorder is of particular importance for management of future cardiovascular health. Familial Hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG) While FHTG was previously thought to be distinct from FCHL, more recent genetic characterization of individuals with familial forms of HTG indicates that both disorders are polymorphisms in multiple genes associated with HTG. Nevertheless, it is important to note that FCHL as originally described is associated with a very high prevalence of premature CVD ( 40 - 42 ). Thus, distinguishing clinical FCHL from FHTG may be useful for assessing cardiovascular risk. PATHOGENESIS AND GENETICS Familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG) is a polygenic disorder with a prevalence of approximately 1 per 500 ( 27 ). The genetic defect causing FHTG has not been identified, but studies in a Mexican-American cohort have identified genetic susceptibility loci on chromosomes 6, 7, and 15 that are linked to elevated TG levels ( 43 , 44 ). The primary abnormality in FHTG is an overproduction of VLDL by the liver and impaired catabolism of TG-rich lipoproteins where normal numbers of very large triglyceride-enriched VLDL particles are secreted ( 37 , 45 ). FHTG has also been associated with a defective regulation of bile acid synthesis, resulting in abnormally high production rate of bile acids, which associates with the subsequent development of HTG ( 46 ). Unlike FCHL, hepatic apoB-100 production is not increased and, as such, there is no overproduction of LDL. Prior work suggested that there is no increased CVD risk ( 27 ), but recent data shows baseline TG levels predicted subsequent CVD mortality after 20 years of follow up among relatives in FHTG families ( 40 ). Most individuals with mild-to-moderate HTG, including
