Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


recent data shows baseline TG levels predicted subsequent CVD mortality after 20 years of follow up among relatives in FHTG families ( 40 ). Most individuals with mild-to-moderate HTG, including those with FHTG, as well as severe elevations of TG are polygenic, with a stepwise increase in the prevalence of genetic determinants as the HTG phenotype became more severe. For individual patients, however, genetic testing alone cannot accurately predict phenotypic expression of HTG severity. At present clinical decisions regarding diet and use of lipid lowering medication should be based on the severity of the HTG, without the need for extensive genetic testing ( 47 ). PRESENTATION AND DIAGNOSIS TG levels are usually normal in childhood. Although FHTG is not usually expressed until adulthood, with the rise in childhood obesity FHTG has been diagnosed at an earlier age ( 48 - 50 ). The phenotype is usually asymptomatic HTG ( 48 - 50 ) with TG levels between 250 and 1000 mg/dL, normal-to-mildly elevated total cholesterol concentrations and low-to-normal LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 51 ). The diagnosis of FHTG is made by obtaining a detailed family history and examination of fasting lipoprotein profiles of the patient and relatives. Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Remnant Removal Disease) PATHOGENESIS AND GENETICS Dysbetalipoproteinemia is a autosomal recessive disorder with an estimated prevalence of 1 in 1000 to 1 in 2500 individuals ( 52 ). It is caused by a homozygous mutation resulting in the apoE2 genotype (approximately 1% of population) or a dominant negative mutation in the apo E gene. Apo E serves as a ligand for chylomicrons, intermediate-density lipoproteins, and VLDL receptors in the liver. In the presence of a secondary insult (concomitant genetic mutation, medication, or environment) there is abnormal uptake and metabolism of remnant particles (chylomicrons, intermediate-density lipoprotein, and VLDL) with subsequent accumulation of each in the blood. This disorder is an excellent example of the interaction of genetics and environment as the genetic abnormality is quite common, but the expression of the clinical manifestations requires another abnormality which is frequently another disease or medication that affects lipid metabolism. Isoform apoE4 is associated with an increase in LDL-cholesterol levels and thus a higher cardiovascular risk compared to apoE3, whereas apoE2 is associated with a mild decrease in LDL-cholesterol levels. Several rare APOE gene variants have been reported in different types of dyslipidemias including dysbetalipoproteinemia, familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCH), lipoprotein glomerulopathy, and autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia
