Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


mild decrease in LDL-cholesterol levels. Several rare APOE gene variants have been reported in different types of dyslipidemias including dysbetalipoproteinemia, familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCH), lipoprotein glomerulopathy, and autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia due to molecular alterations in three main genes: LDLR, APOB and PCSK9. Clinical presentation of lipid disorders associated with APOE variants often strongly overlap related common genetic and environmental factors ( 53 ). PRESENTATION AND DIAGNOSIS A secondary insult such as obesity, diabetes, or estrogen use is necessary for expression in childhood. The diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia remnant removal disease should be suspected when total cholesterol and triglyceride levels (range from 300 to 1000 mg/dl) are roughly equal in magnitude ( 54 ). Dysbetalipoproteinemia has been documented in the pediatric age group ( 50 , 55 , 56 ). A case series of 3 children from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada demonstrated early presentation of the disorder (age range, 10–11 y) due to precipitating factors including hypothyroidism, partial LPL deficiency, and concurrent familial hypercholesterolemia ( 56 ). Each child presented with palmar and tuberoeruptive xanthomas. Palmer crease xanthomas (lipid deposits in the palmar creases) are pathognomonic for this condition, although eruptive xanthomas are possible on pressure sites like the elbows, knees, and buttocks ( 54 ). A 30-year retrospective review of lipid disorders from a single clinical practice identified 105 patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia. Palmar crease xanthomas occurred in 20% of patients, cutaneous xanthomas in 18%, and tendon xanthomas in 13% ( 54 ). The diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia is confirmed by documenting elevated remnant lipoproteins, abnormal gel electrophoresis mobility, or by identifying the genetic defect (Arg145 →Cys) in apoE2 ( 57 ). Despite having normal or low LDL cholesterol and apo B concentrations, individuals with dysbetalipoproteinemia often have an elevated CVD risk due to the increased remnant particles ( 58 , 59 ). Affected individuals also are at increased risk for peripheral vascular disease ( 59 ). Current lipid-based diagnostic methods have important limitations. A 3-step algorithm has been proposed for the diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia using total cholesterol and TG as a first step, the non-HDL-C/apo B ratio as a second screening criterion, and finally the APOE genotype, lipoprotein ultracentrifugation, or electrophoresis as a confirmatory test ( 60 ). SCREENING AND DIAGNOSIS Cases of HTG are diagnosed in childhood most often because a family member had experienced a premature cardiac event, because their siblings were known to have elevated TG levels, or because
