Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


of HTG are diagnosed in childhood most often because a family member had experienced a premature cardiac event, because their siblings were known to have elevated TG levels, or because abnormal test results were obtained during a routine examination ( 50 ). Screening for dyslipidemia is recommended in children ≥ 2 years who have one or more of the following: ( 1 ) parents, aunts, uncles and/or grandparents (men ≤ 55 years old, women ≤ 65 years old) who have had a heart attack, treated angina, coronary artery bypass, graft/stent/angioplasty, stroke, or sudden cardiac death; ( 2 ) parents who have high blood cholesterol levels (>240 mg/dl); or ( 3 ) parental/grandparental family history is not known, or ( 4 ) the patient has two or more other risk factors for CAD (including hypertension, cigarette smoking, low HDL cholesterol, obesity (>30% overweight), physical inactivity, and diabetes mellitus ( 2 , 61 , 62 ). With newer recommendations of universal lipid screening between 9-11 years ( 3 ), it is likely that dysbetalipoproteinemia, and also FCHL or FHTG, may be detected more often in childhood. Any presentation of acute pancreatitis should prompt the need for a lipid profile. A fasting lipid profile (>12hours) should be obtained if TG are elevated in the non-fasting state. Cut points for normal and elevated TG levels are listed in Table 2 . Disorders of severe HTG are diagnosed based upon the degree of TG elevation and associated lipoprotein abnormalities (if any), the clinical features (if present), and a reliable family history, when available. Genetic testing is available for suspected cases of FCS and dysbetalipoproteinemia but is not necessary for treatment. For a detailed discussion of genetic testing see the Endotext chapter entitled “Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists” ( 63 ). MANAGEMENT OF HTG Secondary causes of HTG, including a variety of medications, are common. Therefore, prior to implementation of a management plan, evaluation of secondary causes of HTG is recommended. When present, optimum treatment of secondary conditions, such as hypothyroidism, may be sufficient to correct the HTG. Medications known to cause elevations of TG should either be discontinued, if possible, or an alternative medication used. Lifestyle Intervention Adoption of a healthy lifestyle, including dietary modification, optimizing body weight, smoking avoidance/cessation, and physical activity, is the primary strategy for managing HTG in youth ( 3 ). Specific dietary recommendations include reducing
