Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


healthy lifestyle, including dietary modification, optimizing body weight, smoking avoidance/cessation, and physical activity, is the primary strategy for managing HTG in youth ( 3 ). Specific dietary recommendations include reducing simple carbohydrates including sugar sweetened beverages ( 62 ), substituting monounsaturated and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids for carbohydrate ( 64 ), and decreasing carbohydrate rich foods like white bread, rice, and pasta ( 65 ). Thirty- sixty minutes of daily moderate to vigorous physical activity is also recommended for children between 2-21 years of age with TG elevations ( 3 ) as this degree of activity effectively reduces TG ( 66 ). Lifestyle recommendations for TG lowering are summarized in Table 4 . Achieving a 5% weight loss in overweight adults has been shown to reduce TGs and non-HDL levels, thus, individuals should be educated on lifestyle interventions to achieve and maintain an appropriate body weight.( 67 ) Table 4. Lifestyle Recommendations for Triglyceride Lowering in Children and Adolescents View in own window 1) Daily caloric intake should be < 25%–30% of calories from fat, <7% from saturated fat, <200 mg/dL of cholesterol*, decrease trans fat 2) Avoid sugar intake (ice cream, candy, baked goods) and sugar sweetened beverages (pop, juice, sports drinks) 3) Replace simple carbohydrates (white bread, white pasta, white rice) with complex carbohydrates (wheat bread, whole grain pasta, brown rice) 4) Replace carbohydrates with monounsaturated fat (olive oil, canola oil, nuts, seeds) 5) Increase omega 3 fatty acids (fish) 6) 30-60 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise daily • More severe elevations of TG may require reduction of fat to 10-15% of daily calories equivalent to ~10-25 grams/day. This is considered a very low-fat diet and should be done in consultation with a nutritionist and a pediatric lipidologist. The goal of treatment in patients with FCS and MCS differs from other causes of severe HTG because these patients cannot metabolize TGs and fats. Additionally, the primary goal is prevention of pancreatitis by reducing TG concentrations in the blood. This may require a very-low-fat diet (<10-15% daily caloric intake from fat or <15-20 g/day total fat) along with restriction of simple, refined carbohydrates, though this is often difficult to maintain ( 68 ). Emphasis on complex carbohydrate foods (e.g., oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, beans) while limiting simple and refined carbohydrate foods. ( 69 ) Total carbohydrate limited to <60% daily caloric intake, adolescents advised to avoid alcohol and
