Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


(e.g., oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, beans) while limiting simple and refined carbohydrate foods. ( 69 ) Total carbohydrate limited to <60% daily caloric intake, adolescents advised to avoid alcohol and reproductive age females counselled about the use of oral contraceptives. Such diets should ensure 2-4% daily caloric intake of alpha linolenic and linolenic acid to meet essential fatty acid (EFA) needs. Fat-soluble vitamin and mineral supplementation may also be needed.( 69 ) To increase calorie intake, medium chain triglycerides (MCTs), e.g., chain length of 10 and 12 carbons, can be considered. MCTs can be either added to infant formula or given as an oral solution to supplement fat calories. Dietary MCTs are directly absorbed into the portal vein and do not require transport by chylomicrons and as a result do not increase TG concentrations. Rouis et al. describe a unique patient with clinical features of LPL deficiency with a complete resolution of clinical symptoms with MCT oil and omega 3 fatty-acid therapy ( 70 ). It should be noted MCT oil does not contain EFAs ( 69 ). For a detailed discussion of nutritional therapy see the Endotext chapter entitled “Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia” ( 71 ). Drug Treatment Pharmacological management is sometimes useful in disorders resulting in severe HTG to prevent pancreatitis and/or reduce risk of CVD. Medications commonly used for TG lowering are presented in Table 5 . In patients with FCS drug therapy that requires LPL activity are usually not effective and omega-3-fatty acids contribute to the dietary fat intake. Table 5. Medications used for Triglyceride Lowering View in own window Medication Mechanism of Action Lipoprotein Effects Side Effects Fibric Acid Derivatives* Agonist for PPAR alpha nuclear receptors that upregulate LPL and down regulate apo C-III causing ↑degradation of VLDL and TG ↓ TG (30-60%), ↑ HDL-C ↑ LDL particle size. Cholesterol gallstones. Contraindicated in liver and gall bladder disease. Use caution in renal disease Omega 3 fatty acids (fish oil) * Decreases hepatic fatty acid and TG synthesis and VLDL release ↓ TG (20-50%), ↑ HDL-C, ↑ LDL-C, ↑ LDL particle size. Fishy taste and burping Nicotinic Acid* ↓ VLDL and LDL production and HDL degradation ↓ TG (10-40%), ↓ LDL-C, ↑ HDL-C, ↓ lipoprotein (a) ↑ LDL particle size. Dose dependent hepatotoxicity, worsening glucose metabolism, and hyperuricemia. Lomitapide ↓ VLDL, chylomicrons and LDL by inhibiting microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) in the liver and
