Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


(a) ↑ LDL particle size. Dose dependent hepatotoxicity, worsening glucose metabolism, and hyperuricemia. Lomitapide ↓ VLDL, chylomicrons and LDL by inhibiting microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) in the liver and intestines and blocking their assembly ↓ TG (50%) ↓ non-HDL-C (54%), ↓ apoB (52%) Hepatoxicity GI side effects( 72 ) * Not FDA approved for <18 years of age. Fibric acid derivatives (fenofibrate, gemfibrozil) lower blood TG levels by reducing VLDL production and promoting catabolism of TG through enhanced LPL activity. In general, fibrates lower TG concentrations by 30-60% ( 73 , 74 ). They have a modest effect on increasing HDL-C levels but can increase LDL particle size. Since FCS results from a lack of LPL activity, a response to fibrates is not expected in FCS. Fibrates are usually effective in MCS as there is typically some LPL activity. Rare side effects include dyspepsia, diarrhea, an increase in transaminases, cholelithiasis, and deep venous thrombosis. Fibrates must be used with caution in patients with renal dysfunction and gall bladder disease. In most cases, fenofibrate is used, but gemfibrozil is preferred in renal insufficiency. Long chain omega 3 fatty acids inhibit diacyl glycerol acetyl transferase (DGAT), reduce VLDL-TG synthesis, and increase the rate of peroxisomal beta oxidation in the liver. In adults, omega 3 fatty acids lower TG levels by 20-50% ( 75 ). These effects are primarily seen with prescription fish oils which contain approximately 465 mg of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 375 mg of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and require taking at least 2 grams of omega 3 fatty acids per day. Over the counter preparations have variable quantities of EPA and DHA resulting in variable TG lowering effects. Two small studies in children with hypertriglyceridemia did not find significant lowering of the TG levels ( 76 , 77 ), however, the studies were likely underpowered. When using omega- 3 fatty acids in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia it is important to ensure that the total fat intake is within the fat allowance permitted. Four capsules of omega-3 fatty acids provide 4 grams of fat/day. Niacin lowers TGs 10-30%, increases HDL cholesterol by 10-40% and lowers LDL cholesterol by 5-20%. The most common complaint with its use is flushing due to the release of prostaglandin E2 in the skin. Flushing typically occurs 15-60 minutes after ingestion and can last up to 30 minutes. Aspirin 30 minutes before niacin can reduce flushing.
