Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


the release of prostaglandin E2 in the skin. Flushing typically occurs 15-60 minutes after ingestion and can last up to 30 minutes. Aspirin 30 minutes before niacin can reduce flushing. Children often do not tolerate niacin. Patients with LPL deficiency can be offered a trial of fibric acid derivatives but the response is quite variable since these agents work to lower plasma TG primarily by upregulating LPL activity, which is deficient in this condition ( 78 ). Omega 3 fatty acids lower plasma TGs in certain conditions of HTG, but they may actually aggravate the severe HTG of FCS and are therefore contraindicated in LPL deficiency ( 70 ). Volanesorsen was a second-generation antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits apolipoprotein C-III (apoCIII) production by binding to APOC3 messenger RNA and preventing its translation, thereby reducing plasma triglyceride levels ( 79 ). Volanesorsen was approved in the European Union in May 2019 as an adjunct to diet for adult patients with genetically confirmed familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) who are at high risk for pancreatitis and have had inadequate response to diet and conventional triglyceride-lowering therapy ( 1 ). The drug reduced triglyceride levels by approximately 70-80% (corresponding to a mean decrease of 1,712 mg/dL, 19.3 mmol/L) through an LPL-independent mechanism, making it particularly effective in FCS patients who lack lipoprotein lipase activity. The primary safety concern is thrombocytopenia, which occurred in 15 of 33 patients in the APPROACH trial, including 2 patients with platelet counts below 25,000 per microliter. ( 80 ) This adverse effect led to the drug not being approved in the United States. Olezarsen is an N-acetylgalactosamine-conjugated antisense oligonucleotide that targets apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3) messenger RNA. Its hepatic-directed conjugation allows for more efficient delivery and potentially improved safety over volanesorsen ( 81 ). In the phase 2b Bridge-TIMI 73a trial, olezarsen reduced triglyceride levels by approximately 50-60% at 6 months in patients with moderate hypertriglyceridemia and elevated cardiovascular risk ( 1 ). The 50 mg and 80 mg monthly subcutaneous doses reduced triglycerides by 49.3% and 53.1% compared to placebo, respectively (P<0.001 for both). Importantly, no cases of severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count <75,000/μL) occurred ( 81 ). Pediatric trials are underway. Plozasiran, an APOC3-targeted small interfering–RNA (siRNA) therapeutic, recently received FDA approval in adults based on randomized control trial data showing plozasiran decreased triglyceride levels safely. In most participants levels fell below the 500 mg/dL threshold of acute pancreatitis risk
