Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


FDA approval in adults based on randomized control trial data showing plozasiran decreased triglyceride levels safely. In most participants levels fell below the 500 mg/dL threshold of acute pancreatitis risk ( 82 ). Lomitapide was FDA approved in 2024 for pediatric patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). While the APH-19 trial found lomitapide reduced LDL cholesterol by 53.5% (95% CI -61.6% to -45.4%, p<0.0001), the trial also showed substantial reductions in triglycerides of nearly 50% ( 83 ). Inhibition of Angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) represents an alternative way to lower TG by LPL and endothelial lipase (EL), leading to enhanced hydrolysis of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLs) and more efficient hepatic clearance of remnant particles ( 84 ), though it is not approved for this indication. Evinacumab is approved in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. In a phase 1 trial, in patients with TGs ≥450 mg/dL and <1500 mg/dL, a single dose of 10 mg/kg intravenous resulted in an 81.8% reduction in TGs and 32.0% reduction in non-HDL-C ( 85 ) In a phase 2 trial of evinacumab in patients with severe HTG, evinacumab resulted in significant reductions in TGs in patients with MCS with and without LPL mutations, but not in patients with FCS, indicating that the efficacy of ANGPTL3 inhibition is highly dependent on residual LPL activity ( 86 ). For a detailed discussion of lipid lowering drugs see the Endotext chapters entitled “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” ( 87a ), “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 87 ), and “Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth” ( 88 ). Acute management of HTG requires maintaining NPO status, especially if there is concomitant pancreatitis. Standard supportive care especially if there are concerns of pancreatitis includes intravenous fluid resuscitation, pain control, fasting (npo) status. Triglycerides often fall rapidly with fasting alone over 48–72 hours. Three commonly used interventions include IV insulin (with glucose), IV heparin and plasmapheresis. A short-term insulin infusion can be tried in patients with diabetes or hyperglycemia, as insulin enhances LPL activity. An intravenous infusion of regular insulin at a rate of 0.1 to 0.3 units/kg/hour while monitoring blood glucose levels will result in a reduction of TG levels down by 40-80% in 24-48 hours ( 89 - 93 ). TG levels can be measured every 12-24 hours during insulin infusion, and glucose levels should be monitored every hour. In individuals with primary HTG who have continued pancreatitis, plasmapheresis has been utilized.
