Genetic Disorders Causing Hypertriglyceridemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, htg, hypertriglyceridemia, levels, pancreatitis, familial, lpl, genetic, disease, risk, severe, lipoprotein, children, lipid, clinical


can be measured every 12-24 hours during insulin infusion, and glucose levels should be monitored every hour. In individuals with primary HTG who have continued pancreatitis, plasmapheresis has been utilized. In this procedure plasma is separated from the blood and processed to eliminate selective components. The plasma is then reinfused, though on occasions it may be completely eliminated and replaced by an isovolumetric solution. Plasmapheresis can be carried out as either an emergency or a scheduled procedure. Plasmapheresis is associated with reductions of TG as much as 60% ( 94 ). More recent data shows while insulin/glucose, heparin and plasmapheresis lower triglycerides faster than supportive care, these therapies do not improve clinical outcomes such as mortality, length of stay, organ failure, or speed of pancreatitis resolution ( 95 ). COMPLICATIONS OF HTG Cardiovascular Disease Children and adolescents with persistently moderate to high levels of TG may be at increased risk for premature cardiovascular disease during adulthood. However, the extent to which HTG independently contributes to CVD has long been debated and remains unknown ( 4 , 96 - 98 ). For a detailed discussion of this topic see the Endotext chapter entitled “Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis” ( 99 ). Pancreatitis FCS commonly presents with spontaneous pancreatitis in the first decade of life as a result of the degree of TG elevation. In contrast, FHTG and dysbetalipoproteinemia usually require a secondary risk factor to incite pancreatitis in adolescence ( 48 , 56 ). HTG accounts for 1-4% of cases of acute pancreatitis ( 100 ). Though the exact mechanism of inciting pancreatitis is unknown, TG-rich chylomicrons are thought to impair circulatory flow in capillary beds of the pancreas causing ischemia and triggering an inflammatory response ( 14 , 15 ). HTG is the most common cause of pancreatitis not due to gallstones or alcohol abuse ( 2 , 3 , 61 , 101 ). Pancreatitis generally occurs when TG levels exceed 1000-1500 mg/dL ( 102 , 103 ) but TG between 200-1000 mg/dL can be seen in the early stages of acute pancreatitis of any etiology ( 104 , 105 ). The risk of developing acute pancreatitis with serum TG >1000 and >2000 mg/dL is 5% and 10% to 20%, respectively ( 103 ). The presentation of pancreatitis usually includes abdominal pain, vomiting, and ileus ( 106 ). When the diagnosis is suspected,
