Ruwanpathirana et al. BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lesions, janeway, nodes, janeway lesions, right, osler, embolization, splinter, osler nodes, hand, nodes janeway, haemorrhages, avf, infection, fistula


long standing, poorly controlled embolization’ was arrived at. The relevant biochemical diabetes and hypertension. Her diabetes was complicated and haematological parameters on admission are given with proliferative retinopathy and right sided vitreous in Table 1. haemorrhage which occured 2 weeks ago. The visual acu- She was treated with high dose IV flucloxacillin for ity in the right eye following the haemorrhage was 20/70. 4 weeks and intra vitreous vancomycin. A temporary vas- Over the last five days the vision deteriorated to complete cular catheter was inserted to the right internal jugular blindness. She had a left sided brachio-cephalic AVF cre- vein after 3 days of IV antibiotics, by which time the fever ated one month back. There was a purulent discharge had settled; for haemodialysis every third day. The tem- from the surgical site over the past 3 days. porary catheter was changed every 6 th day. The surgical On examination she had a right sided red eye with a site was explored, irrigated and the fistula was excised. hypopyon, suggestive of endophthalmitis. The surgical The excised tissue did not grow any organisms; probably site was dehiscent with foul smelling pus discharge. A because the excision was done 1 week after the initiation thrill was felt at the fistula site. The left hand had Osler’s of IV antibiotics. The infection was completely treated, nodes, Janeway lesions and splinter haemorrhages but the patient continued to be blind in the right eye. Fig. 1 Right hand (A) is normal while the left hand (B) has Osler’s nodes and Janeway lesions over the thenar and hypothenar eminences (arrow). The lesions over the thenar eminence are magnified in C which shows Osler’s nodes (arrow) and Janeway lesions (arrowhead). Splinter haemorrhages of the left nailbed (arrow) and the normal nails of the right hand are shown in D Table 1 Biochemical and haematological parameters on is created by anastomosing the brachial artery and the admission cephalic vein at the cubital fossa . In a mature brachio- Parameter Value Normal Range cephalic fistula, most of the blood in the brachial artery flow into the cephalic vein while the rest, flow to the fore- White blood Cell Count 22 4—11 (× 109/L) arm and hand along the radial and ulnar arteries. The incidence of arterio-venous fistulae infection is Neutrophil 84% 40 – 60 around 0.9% . Despite the common occurrence, unilat- Lymphocyte 12% 20 – 40 eral
