Ruwanpathirana et al. BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lesions, janeway, nodes, janeway lesions, right, osler, embolization, splinter, osler nodes, hand, nodes janeway, haemorrhages, avf, infection, fistula


radial and ulnar arteries. The incidence of arterio-venous fistulae infection is Neutrophil 84% 40 – 60 around 0.9% . Despite the common occurrence, unilat- Lymphocyte 12% 20 – 40 eral Osler’s nodes, Janeway lesions and Splinter haemor- ESR (mm/1st hour) 110 < 30 (age adjusted) rhages are not recognised signs of AVF infections. Mousa C-Reactive Protein (mg/dL) 198 < 0.3 et al. have described a patient with a left brachio- Serum Creatinine (mg/dl) 5.87 0.6 – 1.1 axillary polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) vascular graft Serum Na+ (mmol/l) 138 136 – 145 infection, who was found to have splinter haemorrhages Serum K+ (mmol/l) 5.0 3.5 – 5.5 and Janeway lesions on the left hand without similar find- ECG Electrical criteria for left ventricular ings in the right hand. This probably is the first reported hypertrophy case of unilateral Janeway lesions or splinter haemor- Chest X ray Cardiomegaly rhages . Despite an extensive search we could not with mild bilateral find any other case describing the above phenomenon. pleural effusions No features We report the first case of direct surgical arterio-venous to suggest fistula (without a prosthetic graft) infection leading to consolidations unilateral Janeway lesions, Osler’s nodes and splinter or lung abscess haemorrhages. ESR Erythrocyte sedimentation rate, ECG Electrocardiogram Infection of the AVF can be either a peri-vascular cellulitis or infection of the vessels itself (endarteritis) . We hypothesize that the infection of the brachio- Discussion and conclusions cephalic fistula generated septic micro-thrombi which We report a case of unilateral Osler’s nodes, Janeway embolized both distally along the radial and ulnar arter- lesions and splinter haemorrhages secondary to AVF ies, and proximally along the arterialised cephalic vein. site infection. Arterio-venous fistulae are created for The fistula provided a means to bypass the capillary easy vascular access during haemodialysis in patients circulation which would otherwise filter the emboli, with end-stage kidney disease. A brachio-cephalic fistula preventing it from reaching the venous circulation. Fig. 2 Pathways taken by septic emboli in anterograde arterial embolization and retrograde venous embolization Anterograde (distal), localised brachial arterial embo- Funding No funding involved. lization resulted in Osler’s nodes, Janeway lesions and splinter haemorrhages in the ipsilateral hand whereas Availability of data and materials retrograde/venous embolization led to systemic (and The clinical records of the patient are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. potentially pulmonary) embolization. In the index patient, systemic embolization manifested as right side Declarations endophthalmitis. The pathways
