Ruwanpathirana et al. BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lesions, janeway, nodes, janeway lesions, right, osler, embolization, splinter, osler nodes, hand, nodes janeway, haemorrhages, avf, infection, fistula


records of the patient are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. potentially pulmonary) embolization. In the index patient, systemic embolization manifested as right side Declarations endophthalmitis. The pathways taken by arterial and venous emboli are depicted in Fig. 2. Ethics approval and consent to participate Despite the fact that AVF site infection cause retro- Not applicable. grade-venous embolization which reach the systemic Consent for publication circulation, Osler’s nodes and Janeway lesions were not Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of noted on the right hand or feet in the index patient. this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent will be provided to the Editor-in-Chief of this journal upon request. Although there is a high blood flow from the brachial artery to the cephalic vein (due to the high-pressure Competing interests gradient between the artery and the vein), we hypothe- The authors declare no competing interests. size that the retrograde septic emboli got filtered in the contralateral (right) hand would have had a lesser con- centration of emboli leading to a lesser density of embolic phenomena (or none), compared to anterograde brachial arterial embolization to the ipsilateral (left) hand. Fur- References thermore, the venous emboli would have been diluted in presentation, etiology and outcome of infective endocarditis in the 21st a higher volume of blood at the cardiac chambers. This century: the international collaboration on endocarditis-prospective also would contribute to the difference in the number cohort study. Arch Intern Med. 2009;169:463. 2. Marrie TJ. Osler’s nodes and Janeway lesions. Am J Med. 2008;121:105–6. of Osler’s nodes and Janeway lesions between the two 3. Pino Gil M, Velasco M, Botella R, Ballester JE, Pedro F, Aliaga A. Janeway hands. lesions: differential diagnosis with Osler’s nodes. Int J Dermatol. Therefore, we can postulate that; in brachio-cephalic 1993;32:673–4. 4. Haber R, Khoury R, Kechichian E, Tomb R. Splinter hemorrhages of the AVF infections, the hand ipsilateral to the AVF (with nails: a systematic review of clinical features and associated conditions. anterograde arterial embolization) will have a higher den- Int J Dermatol. 2016;55:1304–10. sity of embolic phenomena whereas the opposite hand 5. Bunch C. Creation of brachiocephalic fistula BT - operative dictations in general and vascular surgery. In: Hoballah JJ, Scott-Conner CEH, Chong H and legs (embolization through systemic circulation) will Sen, editors. Cham: Springer International Publishing; 2017. p. 871–2. have a comparably
