doi:
KEYWORDS: eipd, esophageal, esophagus, patients, stenosis, esophagography, candida, egd, case, performed, treatment, japanese, dysphagia, upper, antifungal


doi: InternMed62:1495-1499,2023 【 CASE REPORT 】 Esophageal Intramural Pseudodiverticulosis Diagnosed by Combining Esophagogastroduodenoscopy, Esophagography, and High-resolution Manometry Atsushi Kunimitsu, Naoto Ujiie, Chiaki Sato, Yusuke Taniyama, Hiroshi Okamoto, Toshiaki Fukutomi, Yohei Ozawa, Shinobu Ohnuma, Michiaki Unno and Takashi Kamei Abstract: Esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis (EIPD) is a rare disease. A 78-year-old man with dysphagia presented to our hospital. The presence of diffuse esophageal spasm was suspected by his primary-care doc- tor. High-resolution manometry (HRM) showed no abnormal findings. The patient was diagnosed with EIPD and Candida esophagitis, by esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and esophagography. His symptoms im- proved after symptomatic treatment for Candida esophagitis with oral administration of an antifungal drug. EIPD should be considered in patients with dysphagia; EGD and esophagography should be performed when diagnosing EIPD. Key words: esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis, dysphagia, esophagography, high-resolution manometry (Intern Med 62: 1495-1499, 2023) (DOI: ) opment of EIPD (8). Nonetheless, the number of reported Introduction cases mentioned in association with EIPD and esophageal peristalsis is limited, and the relationship between EIPD and Esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis (EIPD) is esophageal motility disorders remains unclear. characterized by the presence of outpouching flask-shaped We herein report a case of EIPD in which high-resolution lesions in the esophageal wall (1). This disease was first re- manometry (HRM) was performed to examine esophageal ported in 1960 by Mendl et al. (2); it is a relatively rare peristalsis and evaluate the pathogenesis of this morphologic condition with a prevalence of 0.15% in patients who have change in the esophagus. In addition, we present our case to undergone esophagography (3). Several well-known risk fac- highlight the importance of performing esophagography and tors relevant to EIPD include diabetes mellitus, Candida in- HRM for EIPD in addition to esophagogastroduodenoscopy fection, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (4-6); (EGD). however, the underlying etiology leading to the development of EIPD remains unclear. Case Report To our knowledge, only three papers in the English litera- ture have reported EIPD to have an association with esopha- A 78-year-old man with dysphagia presented to our hos- geal motility disorders. One case report described a patient’s pital to further evaluate his esophageal motility disorder. The lower esophageal sphincter relaxation to be normal, but the patient had been diagnosed with Candida esophagitis nine esophageal peristaltic contractions were considered to be years prior and was being treated with antifungal medica- stronger than those of normal people (7). Another case re- tion. Annual follow-up EGD
