doi:
KEYWORDS: eipd, esophageal, esophagus, patients, stenosis, esophagography, candida, egd, case, performed, treatment, japanese, dysphagia, upper, antifungal


esophageal peristaltic contractions were considered to be years prior and was being treated with antifungal medica- stronger than those of normal people (7). Another case re- tion. Annual follow-up EGD was performed by his primary- port mentioned increased esophageal pressure due to abnor- care doctor, and diffuse esophageal spasm was suspected mal esophageal contractions as a mechanism for the devel- due to poor esophageal extensibility. He also had diabetes DepartmentofSurgery,TohokuUniversityGraduateSchoolofMedicine,Japan CorrespondencetoDr.NaotoUjiie, Intern Med 62: 1495-1499, 2023 DOI: Figure 1. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) before treat- Figure 2. Esophagography. Multiple cystic, capillary, and ment. Multiple pinhole-shaped depressions (arrows) and nu- bridging projections (arrows) were observed in the upper merous white lichen deposits along the entire length of the esophagus. esophagus were observed in the upper esophagus. Figure 3. High resolution manometry. Esophageal peristalsis was normal without abnormal con- traction. mellitus and dyslipidemia, both of which were being man- Esophagography showed multiple, tiny flask-shaped areas of aged with oral treatment. His Eckardt score was 3 outpouching in the upper thoracic esophagus (Fig. 2), al- (dysphagia: 3; regurgitation: 0; retrosternal pain: 0; weight though abnormal contraction of esophageal peristalsis was loss: 0). not observed. On HRM, esophageal peristalsis was normal A blood test showed slightly abnormal hemoglobin A1c and without abnormal contraction; the integrated relaxation levels (7.1%), but there were no other abnormal findings in pressure (IRP) was 13.1±2.4 mmHg, distal latency (DL) was the blood cell count and C-reactive protein levels. Tests for 5.3±0.8 seconds, and the distal contractile integral (DCI) the specific IgE Candida antibody and antiscleroma 70-kD was 1,442.1±960.1 mmHg·s·cm (Starlet; STARMEDICAL, antibody were negative. EGD demonstrated stenosis of the Tokyo, Japan) (Fig. 3). upper thoracic esophagus 23 cm from the incisor that could The patient was diagnosed not with esophageal motility not be passed with a normal-diameter endoscope (GIF-H290 disorder but rather EIPD and Candida esophagitis and was Z; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) but could be passed with a treated with an oral antifungal drug (miconazole 100 mg/ small-diameter endoscope (GIF-XP290N; Olympus). In ad- dose, twice daily) for Candida esophagitis. Follow-up was dition, multiple pinhole-like depressed lesions from the up- performed six weeks after the start of treatment, and he no per thoracic esophagus to the abdominal esophagus, and nu- longer complained of dysphagia. Follow-up EGD showed merous white plaque patches in the esophagus between 22 the disappearance of esophageal candida, although there was and 43 cm from the incisors were revealed,
