doi:
KEYWORDS: eipd, esophageal, esophagus, patients, stenosis, esophagography, candida, egd, case, performed, treatment, japanese, dysphagia, upper, antifungal


of dysphagia. Follow-up EGD showed merous white plaque patches in the esophagus between 22 the disappearance of esophageal candida, although there was and 43 cm from the incisors were revealed, including Can- no significant change in the pseudodiverticulosis of the dida esophagitis (Fig. 1). There was no obvious relaxation esophagus (Fig. 4). Stenosis at the upper thoracic esophagus failure of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). was still present and could not be passed with a normal- Intern Med 62: 1495-1499, 2023 DOI: in screening the upper gastrointestinal tract; this examination can be performed at approximately 5,000 medical facilities in Japan, which is equivalent to approximately 5% of medi- cal institutions, including clinics. However, esophagography is not often performed, and an X-ray irradiator is required to perform this examination. In the diagnosis of esophageal diseases, continuous esophagography has a complementary role (12). As our case demonstrates the importance of esophagography, not only EGD but also esophagography is needed to detect esopha- geal diseases, especially for patients with dysphagia. When esophagography shows many diverticula, it is important to be able to diagnose EIPD appropriately. According to previous case reports of EIPD, 91% of pa- Figure 4. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy after treatment tients with EIPD in Western countries had dysphagia with with an oral antifungal drug. Disappearance of Candida esoph- stenosis of the esophagus, with stenosis developing in the agitis was noted, with no significant changes in the esophageal cervical or upper esophagus in 44% of cases, and 56% had intraluminal pseudodiverticulum. stenosis in the middle or lower esophagus (4). To clarify the characteristics of EIPD in Japanese patients, we reviewed a total of 48 cases with EIPD reported in Japan, including our diameter endoscope, although no apparent exacerbation was case (Table). Among Japanese patients with EIPD, 72% of present. Antifungal medication was discontinued, as the pa- patients complained of dysphagia resulting from stenosis of tient’s symptoms improved, and no recurrence of symptoms the esophagus, 67% of whom had stenosis in the cervical or was indicated one month after stopping the medication. upper esophagus, and 33% had stenosis in the middle and lower esophagus. The results of the previously mentioned Discussion studies indicate that the stenotic region of the esophagus dif- fers between Western and Japanese EIPD patients. Some re- EIPD is a relatively rare condition with a prevalence of ports have described GERD as a risk factor for EIPD (4-6), 0.15% in patients who
