doi:
KEYWORDS: eipd, esophageal, esophagus, patients, stenosis, esophagography, candida, egd, case, performed, treatment, japanese, dysphagia, upper, antifungal


Japanese EIPD patients. Some re- EIPD is a relatively rare condition with a prevalence of ports have described GERD as a risk factor for EIPD (4-6), 0.15% in patients who underwent esophagography (3). EIPD and the proportion of patients with GERD is higher in West- causes slow progressive stenosis of the esophagus, which ern countries than in Japan (4, 13, 14). In Western patients leads to dysphagia in approximately 90% of patients (4). with EIPD, GERD was present in 70% of patients (4), Umlas et al. suggested that stenosis of the esophagus in whereas our review indicated that there was only one case EIPD is due to fibrosis of the submucosa associated with of GERD in Japanese patients with EIPD. Therefore, the site esophageal inflammation, not due to hypertrophy of the in- of stenosis in Western patients with EIPD seems to be more trinsic muscular layer (9); however, the underlying etiology commonly located in the lower esophagus, due to the higher of this pathological condition remains unknown. The imag- morbidity rate of GERD than in Japanese patients. In West- ing findings of EIPD are characteristic in achieving a diag- ern EIPD patients, the administration of antireflux medica- nosis of this disease, including a small flask-like protrusion tion was performed in 14 cases, and this treatment was suc- on esophagography and a diverticulum-like depression of cessful in 85.7% (12 cases) (4). several millimeters in size on EGD (4, 10). Symptomatic Regarding Candida esophagitis, another risk factor for therapy is often selected as the treatment of EIPD, including EIPD, 41% of Western patients and 65% of Japanese pa- an antifungal medication for Candida esophagitis, an antacid tients were diagnosed. Candida is a fungus normally present for GERD, and dilation for esophageal stenosis. Surgical in the oral cavity (15) and might have caused the stenosis of treatment, such as an esophagectomy, might be required the upper esophagus, as Candida seems to be easily trans- when the symptoms are not improved with symptomatic ferred to the upper esophagus by swallowing. Antifungal therapy (11). drugs were administered to 14 patients (58.3%) of the 24 In our case, yearly follow-up EGD was performed by the Japanese EIPD patients with Candida esophagitis. Among patient’s primary-care doctor, and diffuse esophageal spasm these patients, five with severe stenosis of the esophagus un- was suspected; however, the presence of EIPD was uncer- derwent balloon dilatation as well as antifungal drug
