Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


increased rates ofboth licit and illicit drug use in young people amphetamine-type stimulants (Macleod and others 2004). in developed countries.The first is exposure to a disadvantaged Dance-party drugs have been used for too short a time in most home environment,with parental conflict and poor discipline developed societies to enable a good assessment oftheir poten- and supervision; the second is exposure to parents’ and sib- tial for harm (Boot, McGregor, and Hall 2000; Macleod and lings’use of alcohol and other drugs (Hawkins,Catalano,and others 2004).The remainder ofthis chapter is concerned with Miller 1992). In developed countries, children who perform poorly in school because ofimpulsive or problem behavior and 2. withdrawal,as manifested by either ofthe following: those who are early users of alcohol and other drugs are most a. the characteristic withdrawal syndrome for the likely to use illicit opioids (Fergusson, Horwood, and Swain- substance Campbell 2002).Affiliation with drug-using peers is a risk fac- b. the same (or closely related) substance is taken to relieve or avoid withdrawal symptoms; tor for drug use that operates independently ofindividual and 3. the substance is often taken in larger amounts or over a family risk factors (Fergusson, Horwood, and Lynskey 1998; longer period than was intended; Hawkins,Catalano,and Miller 1992). 4. there is a persistent desire or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control substance use; 5. a great deal oftime is spent in activities necessary to obtain Health Consequences of Heroin Use the substance (e.g.,visiting multiple doctors,driving long of heroin use. They include dependence, increased mortality recover from its effects; and morbidity attributable to drug overdoses,and bloodborne 6. important social,occupational,or recreational activities are viruses. given up or reduced because ofsubstance use; 7. the substance use is continued despite knowledge ofhaving Heroin Dependence. In household surveys,1 to 2 percent of a persistent or recurrent physical or psychological problem that is likely to have been caused or exacerbated by the adults in Australia,the United States,and Europe report using substance. heroin at some time in their lives (Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 1999; EMCDDA 2002; SAMHSA 2002). The highest rates are typically among adults age 20 to 29.Self- Indirect estimation methods suggest that in Australia, the reported heroin use in population surveys probably underesti- United Kingdom,and the European Union fewer than 1 per- mates rates ofuse because heroin users are undersampled and cent of adults age 15 to 54 are heroin dependent (EMCDDA those who are sampled underreport
