Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


their peers (Hulse and others 1999),with adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2000 . opioid overdose the most frequent cause of death (W. Hall, These estimates suggest that illicit opioid use is a significant Degenhardt, and Lynskey 1999). In countries with a high global cause of premature mortality and disability among prevalence of HIV infection,AIDS is a major cause of prema- young adults.Even so,they probably underestimate the disease ture death among drug users (EMCDDA 2002; UNAIDS and burden attributable to illicit opioids,because they omit differ- WHO 2002).Fatal opioid overdose deaths increased in many ences across subregions in the quality ofdata on causes ofmor- developed countries during the 1990s before declining after tality and estimates ofmortality and morbidity attributable to 2000 . hepatitis and violence (Degenhardt,Hall,and others 2004). In parts ofAsia,Eastern Europe,and the United States,the sharing of contaminated injecting equipment accounts for a substantial proportion of new HIV infections (EMCDDA INTERVENTIONS FOR ILLICIT OPIOID 2002; UNAIDS and WHO 2002; UNODC 2004). Injecting DEPENDENCE opioid use has been a major driver ofHIV epidemics in China (Yu and others 1998),Myanmar (Beyrer and others 2000),the Methods adopted to control the problems arising from illicit Russian Federation and former Soviet republics (Hamers and opioid dependence include source-country control; interdic- Downs 2003), and Vietnam (Beyrer and others 2000; Hien tion of supply into end-use countries; enforcement by the andothers 2001). police force and the criminal justice system of legal prohibi- The prevalence of infection with hepatitis B and C viruses tions on the supply,possession,and use of opioids;treatment among injecting drug users is greater than 60 percent in ofthose who are opioid dependent,both voluntarily and under Australia (National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical legal coercion from the criminal justice system; school-based Research 1998), Canada (Fischer and others 2004), China and mass media preventive educational programs;and regula- (Ruan and others 2004),the United States (Fuller and others tory policies restricting the prescription of opioids (Manski, 2004), and the European Union . Chronic Pepper,and Petrie 2001). infection occurs in 75 percent ofinfections,and 3 to 11 percent of chronic hepatitis C virus carriers develop liver cirrhosis Prevention of Heroin Use within 20 years (Hepatitis C Virus Projections Working Group 1998). Countries use a variety ofinterventions in attempts to prevent Heroin-related deaths primarily occur among young adults the initiation of use of illicit drugs such as cannabis (Manski, and account for a large number of life years lost in developed Pepper,and Petrie
