Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


includes voluntary pro- Europe,high rates ofimprisonment ofdrug users have been a grams such as detoxification, abstinence-oriented treatments, factor in HIV transmission,because drug users engage in high- and oral Methadone maintenance treatment,as well as invol- risk injecting while imprisoned (Beyrer and others 2000). untary options imposed by criminal justice systems. Detoxification. Detoxification is supervised withdrawal from Interventions to Reduce Heroin-Related Harm a drug of dependence that attempts to minimize withdrawal The most effective intervention to reduce bloodborne virus symptoms. It is not a treatment for heroin dependence; it infection arising from illicit injecting of opioids and other provides a respite from opioid use and may be a prelude to drugs is the provision of clean injecting equipment to reduce abstinence-based treatment (Mattick and Hall 1996). users’risksofcontractingortransmittingbloodborneviruses. Naltrexone is a longer-acting opiate antagonist than nalox- Thisinterventionhasbeenwidelysupportedinmostdeveloped one;it can be used to accelerate the opioid withdrawal process. countries,butithasbeenincompletelyadoptedindeveloping Ultra-rapid opioid detoxification accelerates withdrawal by countries that have problems with the concept of facilitating giving the patient naltrexone under general anesthetic.There is the injection of illicit drugs (UNAIDS andWHO 2002).Vac- no evidence that accelerated withdrawal in itself reduces the cinations are available against hepatitis B but not hepatitis C. high rate of relapse to heroin use in the absence of further Theseimportantinterventionsarecoveredinchapter18. treatment (W.Hall and Mattick 2000). A number of strategies can potentially reduce deaths from opioid overdoses (Darke and Hall 2003; Sporer 2003). First, Abstinence-Oriented Treatments. Abstinence-oriented treat- injecting drug users can be educated about the dangers ofcom- ments aim to achieve enduring abstinence from all opioid bining the use of opioids with alcohol and benzodiazepines drugs by providing some type ofintervention after withdrawal (McGregor and others 2001),both of which heighten the risk to reduce the high rate ofrelapse to opioids (Mattick and Hall of a fatal opioid overdose (Darke and Zador 1996; Warner- 1996).The interventions may include social and psychological Smith and others 2001).Heroin users also need to be discour- support only or such support supplemented by pharmacologi- aged from injecting in the streets or alone, thereby denying cal methods. themselves assistance in the event ofan overdose.These inter- Residential treatment in therapeutic communities and out- ventions have yet to be evaluated. patient drug counseling may entail encouraging patients to A second strategy is to encourage drug users who witness become involved in self-help groups such as Narcotics overdoses to seek medical assistance and to use simple resusci- Anonymous.These approaches share a commitment
