Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


is to encourage drug users who witness become involved in self-help groups such as Narcotics overdoses to seek medical assistance and to use simple resusci- Anonymous.These approaches share a commitment to achiev- tation techniques until help arrives. A more controversial ing abstinence from all opioids,using group and psychological option is to distribute the opioid antagonist naloxone to high- interventions to help dependent heroin users remain abstinent. risk heroin users (Darke and Hall 1997; Strang and others Therapeutic communities and drug counseling are usually pro- 1996).Neither ofthese interventions has been evaluated. vided through specialist addiction or mental health services. A third strategy is to provide supervised injecting facilities The former are residential, and the latter are provided on an in areas with high rates of injecting opioid use (Dolan and outpatient basis. 910 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wayne Hall, Chris Doran, Louisa Degenhardt, and others No randomized controlled trials of therapeutic communi- ofinjected heroin,allowing the individual to take advantage of ties or outpatient drug counseling have been carried out. psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative services. Observational studies in the United Kingdom (Gossop, Every one of the small number of randomized controlled Marsden,and Stewart 1998;Gossop and others 1997) and the trials of MMT compared with placebo or no treatment has United States (Hubbard and others 1989; Simpson and Sells produced positive results (W. Hall, Ward, and Mattick 1998; 1982) have found that therapeutic communities and drug Mattick and others 2003). Large observational studies show counseling were less successful than MMT in attracting and that MMT decreases heroin use and criminal activity and retaining dependent heroin users, but they substantially reduces HIV transmission while patients remain in treatment reduced heroin use and crime among those who remained in (Gerstein and Harwood 1990;Simpson and Sells 1990;Ward, treatment for at least three months (Gerstein and Harwood Hall,and Mattick 1998).MMT is the best-supported form of 1990;Gossop,Marsden,and Stewart 1998;Gossop and others opioid maintenance treatment (Farre and others 2002;Marsch 1997).Some evidence indicated that therapeutic communities 1998;Mattick and others 2003). may be more effective if they are used in combination with Buprenorphine is a mixed agonist-antagonist that also legal coercion to ensure that heroin users are retained in treat- blocks the effects of heroin. When given in high doses, its ment long enough to benefit from it (Gerstein and Harwood effects can last for up to three days,while its antagonist effects 1990). substantially reduce overdose and abuse
