Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


high doses, its ment long enough to benefit from it (Gerstein and Harwood effects can last for up to three days,while its antagonist effects 1990). substantially reduce overdose and abuse (Oliveto and Kosten Recovering drug users run Narcotics Anonymous groups 1997;Ward,Hall,and Mattick 1998).Meta-analyses have found using an adaptation of the 12-step philosophy of Alcoholics that buprenorphine is effective in the treatment of heroin Anonymous. Some individuals use these groups as their sole dependence (Mattick and others 2003) and is ofequivalent effi- complement therapeutic communities that are based on the cialist treatment settings in Australia (Gibson and others 2003). same principles. Such groups are usually not open to people Bammer and others (2003) have proposed injectable heroin who are in opioid substitution treatment programs. maintenance as a way ofattracting into treatment those heroin The most extensive research on self-help has been in the users who are not interested in or have failed to respond to treatment of alcohol dependence.Treated alcoholics who par- MMT. This method has recently been evaluated in the ticipate in Alcoholics Anonymous groups have higher rates of Netherlands (Central Committee on the Treatment of Heroin Connors,and Miller 2003;Tonigan,Toscova,and Miller 1996). Uchtenhagen,Gutzwiller,and Dobler-Mikola 1998).Perneger The good outcome in those who attend Alcoholics Anonymous and others (1998) report a randomized controlled trial of meetings may reflect the self-selection of motivated partici- injectable heroin maintenance in people who had failed at pants into self-help groups.Recent studies that have attempted MMT. Stabilizing and safely maintaining heroin addicts on to control for this possibility using sophisticated statistical injectable heroin (self-administered on-site in a comprehensive others 1998). addicts on injectable heroin for up to two years (Rehm and Shepard and others (forthcoming) evaluate the effect ofself- others 2001; Uchtenhagen, Gutzwiller, and Dobler-Mikola help participation on substance abuse 24 months after treat- 1998).A recent randomized controlled trial in the Netherlands ment for members ofa mixed population ofsubstance abusers (Central Committee on the Treatment ofHeroin Addicts 2002) treated at two treatment facilities in the United States,some of confirms the findings ofPerneger and others (1998). whom had problems with heroin.They find that participation in self-help groups was associated with longer abstinence from Criminal Justice Interventions for Dependent Illicit Opioid all drugs. Correction for self-selection did not eliminate the Users. The most common intervention for illicit opioid association in one treatment setting, but it made the results dependence in most developed societies is imprisonment much more equivocal in
