Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


the Users. The most common intervention for illicit opioid association in one treatment setting, but it made the results dependence in most developed societies is imprisonment much more equivocal in the other. (EMCDDA 2003;Gerstein and Harwood 1990).Imprisonment Oral Methadone Maintenance Treatment. This treatment ineffective way of reducing opioid dependence, when judged substitutes a long-acting, orally administered opioid for the by the high recidivism in longitudinal studies of dependent shorter-acting heroin, with the aim of stabilizing dependent heroin users (see,for example,Hser,Anglin,and Powers 1993; heroin users so that they are amenable to rehabilitation (Marsh Manski,Pepper,and Petrie 2001). and others 1990;Ward,Hall,and Mattick 1998).When given in Legally coerced treatment is treatment that is legally forced high or blockade doses,methadone blocks the euphoric effects on those who have been charged with or convicted of an Illicit Opiate Abuse | 911 offense to which their drug dependence has contributed Detoxification. The National Evaluation of Pharma- (W.Hall 1997).It is most often provided as an alternative to cotherapies for Opioid Dependence Project in Australia con- imprisonment,under the threat ofimprisonment ifthe person ducted a cost-effectiveness analysis offive interventions: fails to comply with the treatment (W. Hall 1997; Manski, Pepper,and Petrie 2001;Spooner,Hall,and Mattick 2001).Its • naltrexone-induced rapid opioid detoxification under major justification is that it is an effective way of treating anesthesia offenders’drug dependence that reduces the likelihood oftheir • naltrexone-induced rapid opioid detoxification under offending again (Gerstein and Harwood 1990). A consensus sedation view prepared for the World Health Organization (WHO) • conventional inpatient detoxification (Porter,Arif,and Curran 1986) was that compulsory treatment • conventional outpatient detoxification was legally and ethically justified only if the rights of the • buprenorphine outpatient detoxification. individuals were protected by due process and ifthe treatment provided was effective and humane. A successful outcome was defined as achieving abstinence Researchintotheeffectivenessof legallycoercedtreatment from heroin for one week (Mattick and others 2001). foropioiddependencehasbeenlimitedtoobservationalstudies Rapid detoxification under sedation was the most cost- (W.Hall1997;Manski,Pepper,andPetrie2001;Wild,Roberts, effective method of detoxification (US$2,355 for one week of andCooper2002).Anglin’s(1988)quasi-experimentalstudies abstinence)andconventionaloutpatientdetoxificationtheleast of the California Civil Addict Program provide the strongest cost-effective(US$12,031).Rapiddetoxificationunderanesthe- evidenceofefficacy.Thesestudiescomparedheroin-dependent sia achieved high rates of abstinence in the first week,but its offenders who entered the program between 1962 and 1964 expense reduced its cost-effectiveness (Mattick and others withagroupofsimilaroffenderswhowentthroughthecrimi- 2001). naljusticesystemduringthesameperiod.Theyfoundthatcom- Doran and others (2003) compared the cost-effectiveness of pulsoryhospitaltreatmentfollowedbyclosesupervisioninthe detoxification from heroin using buprenorphine in a specialist communitysubstantiallyreducedheroinuseandcrime. Australian clinic and in a shared care setting.They conducted The effectiveness of less coercive forms
