Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


(2003) compared the cost-effectiveness of pulsoryhospitaltreatmentfollowedbyclosesupervisioninthe detoxification from heroin using buprenorphine in a specialist communitysubstantiallyreducedheroinuseandcrime. Australian clinic and in a shared care setting.They conducted The effectiveness of less coercive forms of treatment has a randomized controlled trial with 115 heroin-dependent beensupportedbyanalysesoftheeffectivenessofcommunity- patients receiving a five-day treatment regime of buprenor- based treatment provided while on probation or parole phine.The specialist clinic was a community-based treatment (Hubbard and others 1989;Simpson and others 1986).These agency in Sydney.Shared care involved treatment by a general studiesshowedthatindividualswhoenteredcommunity-based practitioner, supplemented by weekend dispensing and some therapeuticcommunitiesanddrug-freeoutpatientcounseling counseling at the specialist clinic.They estimate that buprenor- underlegalpressuredidaswellasthosewhodidsovoluntarily phine detoxification in the shared care setting was US$17 more (Hubbard and others 1988; Simpson and Friend 1988). The expensive per patient than the costs of treatment at the clinic recentcreationofspecializeddrugcourtsintheUnitedStatesto (US$236 per patient). processthosearrestedfordrug-relatedoffensesawaitsrigorous evaluation(Belenko2002;Manski,Pepper,andPetrie2001). Drug-Free Treatment. The limited economic evaluations of Legally coerced MMT is also effective. The strongest drug-free treatment have used data from observational studies evidence comes from a study in which drug offenders were ran- oftreatment outcomes in samples ofpatients who have mixed domly assigned to parole with and without community-based substance abuse problems that include opioids. For example, MMT (Dole and others 1969). This study showed a greater Shepard, Larson, and Hoffmann (1999) calculate a range of reduction in heroin use and lower rates ofincarceration among estimated costs for achieving an abstinent year in 408 patients those enrolled in MMT in the year following their release from at two different treatment facilities in the United States. The prison.These findings are supported by observational studies cost-effectiveness depended on the severity ofthe problem and that found no major differences in response to MMT between the intensiveness and cost of the intervention.For outpatients those who enrolled under legal coercion and those who did not with the least severe drug problems, the cost of an abstinent (Anglin, Brecht, and Maddahain 1989; Brecht, Anglin, and year was US$7,000,whereas the same outcome in patients with Wang 1993;Hubbard and others 1988). more severe problems who received long-term residential treat- ment cost US$20,000. Economic Evaluations of Interventions for Illicit Shepard and others (forthcoming) use these data to esti- OpioidDependence mate the cost-effectiveness of involvement in mutual self- The few published economic evaluations of treatment inter- help groups, such as Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics ventions for illicit opioid dependence indicate varying levels of Anonymous,in sustaining abstinence for up to 24 months after cost-effectiveness. treatment. They
