Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


inter- help groups, such as Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics ventions for illicit opioid dependence indicate varying levels of Anonymous,in sustaining abstinence for up to 24 months after cost-effectiveness. treatment. They find a positive association between self-help 912 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wayne Hall, Chris Doran, Louisa Degenhardt, and others involvement and abstinence 12 and 24 months after treat- The costs of injectable heroin maintenance in the Dutch ment.Applying statistical methods to correct for the effects of study was between US$18,015 and US$23,243 per patient per self-selection into self-help, they find that in a Veterans year (Bammer and others 2003).Most of the costs arose from persisted after the statistical correction,but at the other site,the vent the diversion of heroin to the black market. Injectable results depended on the method ofanalysis that was used.They heroin maintenance needs to produce substantially greater estimate the cost of achieving an abstinent year by means of benefits for each participant than MMT to make it as cost- self-help in the year following treatment at US$13,000, all of effective as MMT. that due to the costs that participants incurred in attending agroup. Economic Modeling of the Cost-Effectiveness of Opioid Maintenance Treatment. Barnett (1999), using data on the Oral Opioid Maintenance Treatment. Goldschmidt’s (1976) efficacy of MMT in reducing mortality derived from economic evaluation of MMT found that it was as effective Gronbladh, Ohlund, and Gunne’s (1990) Swedish study and as a therapeutic community intervention and twice as cost- U.S.cost data,estimated that MMT saved an additional year of effective.Cartwright’s (2000) review ofthe literature since 1976 life at a cost ofUS$5,900.Barnett,Zaric,and Brandeau (2001), identified a number of studies,all of which reported positive using a similar approach,estimated that the use of buprenor- benefit-cost ratios for MMT. phine by patients who would not use methadone would cost Gerstein,Harwood,and Suter’s (1994) California Drug and less than US$45,000 per quality-adjusted life year. Overall, Alcohol Treatment Assessment study is the most comprehen- however, they found that BMT was much less effective and sive cost-benefit analysis carried out to date.The authors exam- more costly than MMT. Zaric, Barnett, and Brandeau (2000) ine the effects of treatment—residential programs,outpatient assessed the economic benefits of using MMT to reduce HIV programs, and methadone programs—on alcohol and drug transmission in heroin users.They found that for heroin users source ofincome.For each treatment modality,they found that expanding MMT use produced an additional year of quality- the benefits
