Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


alcohol and drug transmission in heroin users.They found that for heroin users source ofincome.For each treatment modality,they found that expanding MMT use produced an additional year of quality- the benefits during the first year of treatment significantly adjusted life at a cost ofUS$8,200. exceeded the cost of delivering the care.The benefit-cost ratio Comparing the Cost-Effectiveness of Different Interventions was 4.8 for residential treatment and 11.0 and 12.6 for outpa- tients and discharged methadone participants,respectively. Comparative cost-effectiveness analyses of these interventions Doran and others (2003) compared the cost-effectiveness face major obstacles because the small number of published of buprenorphine and methadone treatment for opioid studies used different methods to cost interventions and differ- dependence. In a randomized controlled trial, 405 subjects ent endpoints to assess the outcome oftreatment.The follow- were randomly assigned to each treatment at one of three ing list, therefore, only ranks treatment interventions in the specialist outpatient drug treatment centers.The study found approximate order of their cost-effectiveness.We believe that that treatment with methadone was less expensive and more estimates of their likely contribution to DALYs worldwide effective than treatment with buprenorphine, but the differ- would be too speculative. ence in cost (US$143 per additional heroin-free day gained) had a wide range of uncertainty around it ((cid:1)US$1,469 to • Detoxification. Buprenorphine and supervised naltrexone- US$1,284). accelerated withdrawal delivered on an outpatient basis are The National Evaluation of Pharmacotherapies for Opioid the most efficient and effective ways to achieve withdrawal Dependence Project also provided a cost-effectiveness analysis from opioids. of methadone, buprenorphine, LAAM (levo-alpha-acetyl- • Self-help groups.These groups provide the simplest form of methadol), and naltrexone maintenance treatments (Mattick postwithdrawal support for enduring abstinence and are and others 2001).The daily costs of these maintenance treat- also a low-cost intervention,because patients bear most of ments were similar for methadone and LAAM,but naltrexone the costs;however,they have a low rate ofuptake,and their was slightly more expensive. Buprenorphine maintenance effectiveness is only modest. treatment (BMT) was more expensive, but its cost-efficiency • Oral opioid agonist maintenance treatment. This form of could have been improved to make its cost similar to that for treatment is the most widely used intervention for illicit the other treatments.MMT was the most cost-effective treat- opioid dependence in developed societies. It has a better ment for opioid dependence because it achieved one of the uptake than other interventions,and it is moderately effec- highest rates of retention in treatment among the
