Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


It has a better ment for opioid dependence because it achieved one of the uptake than other interventions,and it is moderately effec- highest rates of retention in treatment among the four phar- tive under the usual delivery conditions. macotherapies examined. Naltrexone treatment was the least • Drug-free residential treatment.This form oftreatment has a cost-effective. relatively low rate oftreatment uptake and is costly because Illicit Opiate Abuse | 913 of its residential character and the need for intensive staff- mortality by 25 percent. In the sensitivity analysis, we varied patient interaction.It is effective for the minority ofpeople the reduction from 15 to 35 percent (using the confidence who are retained in treatment long enough to benefit from intervals around the estimated reduction). We assumed that it (usually three months). Retention in treatment may be the reduction in mortality associated with BMT was 20 per- improved if patients enter treatment under some form of cent, which we varied in the sensitivity analysis from 10 to legal coercion. 30percent.Finally,we assumed that those who were alive and • Naltrexone maintenance treatment.This form of treatment in treatment experienced a 25 percent reduction in disability, has not been rigorously evaluated. consistent with the Dutch disability weights. • Injectable opioid maintenance. This intervention is a more The third step was to estimate the burden for those not expensive variant ofagonist maintenance treatment that has treated.For those users not in treatment,we calculated DALYs been used for patients with more severe cases ofdependency using the original mortality rates. but for whom retention and treatment outcomes have been The fourth step was to estimate the total avertable burden good. fromtreatmentwithmethadoneorbuprenorphineby(a)adding theresultsofthesecondandthirdsteps,therevisedDALYsfor Calculation of the Averted, Avertable, thoseintreatment,andtheresidualforthosenotintreatment and Unavertable Burden and(b)subtractingthosefiguresfromthebasecaseestimates. Assuming that the disease burden from opioid dependence is The fifth step was to cost the interventions using data on potentially avertable,we used the following approach to esti- MMTandBMTfromDoranandothers(2003).Theyestimated mate the avoidable burden of opioid dependence.We initially thecostof MMTat$A1,415andof BMTat$A1,729forsix modeled the avertable burden using MMT and used this model monthsoftreatment.WeconvertedtheseestimatesintoU.S.dol- for BMT.The first step was to establish the base case for opioid lars and multiplied them by two to provide yearly estimates dependence using 2002 as the baseline year.We established the oftreatmentcostsofUS$1,732forMMTandUS$2,117forBMT. model of the base case for opioid dependence for regions and We applied relative price weights for each region using the subregions according to WHO country classifications.We used Western Pacific as the reference case (1.00).We calculated
