Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


This substitutionprograms,usingsuchtoolsassublingualbuprenor- effort may require experimentation with a range of substitute phine, that have been conducted with minimal resources in opioids,such as buprenorphine,and cheaper options,such as extremely poor settings (Crofts and others 1998). codeine and opium tincture. 916 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wayne Hall, Chris Doran, Louisa Degenhardt, and others CONCLUSIONS: PROMISES AND PITFALLS and the United States, with the highest rates in Denmark, France and the United Kingdom (EMCDDA 2002;W.Hall and Illicit opioid use,especially injecting use,contributes to prema- Pacula 2003). The limited data from developing countries ture mortality and morbidity in many developed and develop- suggest that,with some exceptions (for example,Jamaica and ing societies.Fatal overdoses and HIV/AIDS resulting from the South Africa),rates of cannabis use are lower in Africa,Asia, sharing of dirty injecting equipment are major contributors the Caribbean, and South America than they are in Europe to mortality and morbidity, and the economic costs of illicit and in English-speaking countries (W. Hall, Johnston, and opioid dependence are substantial. Illicit opioid dependence Donnelly 1999). generates substantial externalities that are not included in Surveys in the United States have found long waves of burden-of-disease estimates,principally law enforcement costs cannabis use among young people since 1975. Cannabis use incurred in handling drug dealing and property crime. increased during the 1970s to peak in 1979, before declining The most popular interventions for illicit opioid depend- steadily between 1980 and 1991.Use rose sharply in 1992 and ence in many developed societies have been law enforcement increased throughout the 1990s,before leveling off in the late efforts to interdict the drug supply and enforce legal sanctions 1990s (Johnston,O’Malley,and Bachman 1994a,1994b).There against the use ofopioid drugs.One consequence ofthis strat- was also a rise in cannabis use during the early 1990s in egy has been that most illicit opioid users have been exposed Australia,Canada,and some European countries (W.Hall and to the least effective intervention: imprisonment for drug or Pacula 2003). property offenses.Prisons rarely take the opportunity to treat The natural history of cannabis use in the United States dependence using opioid maintenance or to reduce the harm typically begins in the mid to late teens and reaches its maxi- caused by illicit opioid use by providing access to clean inject- mum in the early 20s before declining in the mid to late 20s. ing equipment. Only a minority ofyoung adults continue to use cannabis into In treatment settings,the most popular interventions have their
