Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


early 20s before declining in the mid to late 20s. ing equipment. Only a minority ofyoung adults continue to use cannabis into In treatment settings,the most popular interventions have their 30s (Bachman and others 1997;Chen and Kandel 1995). been detoxification (which is not a treatment but a prelude to Getting married and having children substantially reduces rates treatment) and drug-free treatment (which is the least attrac- ofcannabis use (Bachman and others 1997). tive and the least effective in retaining opioid-dependent peo- ple in treatment).Opioid agonist maintenance treatment has cussed below. been ambivalently supported in many developed societies despite its being the treatment for which there is the best evi- Acute Effects ofCannabis Use. The most frequent unpleasant dence ofeffectiveness,safety,and cost-effectiveness.The range effects of cannabis use are anxiety and panic reactions,which of opioid agonists available for maintenance treatment is most often occur in users who are unfamiliar with the drug’s increasing. A number of developed countries have approved effects. Psychotic symptoms such as delusions and hallucina- the use ofBMT,which the limited data suggest may beapprox- tions may be experienced following very high doses.There are imately equivalent to MMT in efficacy and cost-effectiveness. no cases of fatal cannabis poisoning in the medical literature, Opioid antagonists have a niche role in the treatment ofopioid and the fatal dose in humans is likely to exceed what recre- dependence because of poor compliance and an increased ational users are able to ingest (W.Hall and Pacula 2003). risk of overdose on return to heroin use. Their efficacy may Cannabis intoxication impairs a wide range ofcognitive and improve with the development oflong-acting injectable forms behavioral functions that are involved in driving an automobile ofthe drug. or operating machinery (Beardsley and Kelly 1999;Jaffe 1985). It has been difficult to determine whether these impairments increase the risk of being involved in motor vehicle accidents ANNEX 48.A: PREVALENCE OF USE, ADVERSE .Studies ofthe effect ofcannabis on driving per- HEALTH EFFECTS OF AND INTERVENTIONS formance on the road have found only modest impairments, FORCANNABIS, COCAINE, AMPHETAMINES, because cannabis-intoxicated drivers drive more slowly and ANDMDMA USE AND DEPENDENCE take fewer risks than drivers intoxicated by alcohol (Smiley 1999). Cannabis Cannabinoids are found in the blood ofsubstantial propor- Cannabis is the most widely used illicit drug globally, with tions of persons killed in motor vehicle accidents (Bates and about 150 million users,or 3.7 percent of the world’s popula- Blakely 1999;Chesher 1995;Walsh and Mann
