Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


used illicit drug globally, with tions of persons killed in motor vehicle accidents (Bates and about 150 million users,or 3.7 percent of the world’s popula- Blakely 1999;Chesher 1995;Walsh and Mann 1999),but these tion age 15 and older .Patterns ofcannabis findings have been difficult to evaluate because they have not use have been most extensively studied in Australia, Canada, distinguished between past and recent cannabis use the United States, and Europe (W. Hall and Pacula 2003). (Ramaekers and others 2004).More recent research using bet- Europe generally has lower rates ofuse than Australia,Canada, ter indicators ofrecent cannabis use has found a dose-response Illicit Opiate Abuse | 917 relationship between cannabis and risk of motor vehicle disease,and coronary atherosclerosis (Chesher and Hall 1999; crashes (Ramaekers and others 2004).Cannabis used in com- Sidney 2002).One controlled study suggests that cannabis use bination with alcohol substantially increases risk of accidents can precipitate heart attacks in middle-aged cannabis users (Bates and Blakely 1999;Ramaekers and others 2004). who have atherosclerosis in the heart, brain, and peripheral blood vessels (Mittleman and others 2001). Health Effects ofChronic Cannabis Use. Cannabis smoke is Regular cannabis smoking impairs the functioning of the a potential cause of cancer because it contains many of the large airways and causes chronic bronchitis (Tashkin 1999; same carcinogenic substances as cigarette smoke (Marselos and Taylor and others 2002). Given that tobacco and cannabis Karamanakos 1999).Cancers have been reported in the aerodi- smoke contain similar carcinogenic substances,it is likely that gestive tracts ofyoung adults who were daily cannabis smokers chronic cannabis smoking increases the risks of respiratory (W. Hall and MacPhee 2002), and a case-control study has cancer . found an association between cannabis smoking and head and neck cancer (Zhang and others 1999). A prospective cohort PsychologicalEffectsofChronicCannabisUse. Psychological study of64,000 adults did not find any increase in rates ofhead effects of chronic cannabis use can include a dependence and neck or respiratory cancers (Sidney and others 1997). syndrome,cognitiveeffects,andpsychoticdisorders. Further studies are needed to clarify the issue. Three studies of different types of cancer have reported Dependence Syndrome A cannabis dependence syndrome an association with maternal cannabis use during pregnancy occurs in heavy chronic users of cannabis (American (W.HallandMacPhee2002).Therehavenotbeenanyincreases Psychiatric Association 1994).Regular cannabis users develop in the rates of these cancers that parallel increases in rates of tolerance to THC.Some experience withdrawal symptoms on cannabis use (W.Hall and MacPhee 2002). cessation ofuse (Kouri and Pope 2000),and some report
