Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


2003). at some time in their lives, and 0.4 percent (800,000 people) reported weekly cocaine use .Among young AdolescentPsychosocialOutcomes Cannabisuseisassociated U.S.adults age 18 to 25,lifetime prevalence was 14.9 percent in withearlywithdrawal fromhighschool,earlyfamilyformation, 2001,rising slightly to 15.4 percent in 2002 . poormentalhealth,andinvolvementindrug-relatedcrime.In the case of each of these outcomes,the strong associations in 15 percent lower than 1998 figures and 60 percent lower than cross-sectionaldataaremoremodestwhenaccountistakenof 1985 figures .A more recent study of U.S. thefactthatcannabisusersshowcharacteristicsbeforetheyuse adults age 35 years found that 6 percent ofmen and 3 percent cannabis that predict these outcomes.For example,they have of women had used cocaine within the preceding 12 months loweracademicaspirationsandpoorerschoolperformancethan (Merline and others 2004). peerswhodonotusecannabis(LynskeyandHall2000;Macleod The reported prevalence of cocaine use in other developed and others 2004).Nonetheless,the evidence increasingly sug- societies is much lower than that in the United States. In geststhatregularcannabisuseaddstotheriskoftheseoutcomes Europe,for example,rates of lifetime cocaine use range from inadolescentsalreadyatrisk(W.HallandPacula2003). 0.5 percent to 5 percent , compared with 12.3percent among American adults in 2001 . Interventions for Cannabis Dependence. Although many Rates ofcocaine use in Australia resemble those in Europe,with dependent cannabis users may succeed in quitting without 4.3 percent of adults reporting lifetime use (Darke and others professional help, some are unable to stop on their own and 2000). will need assistance to do so.There has not been a great deal of The prevalence ofcocaine use is likely to be lower in devel- research on pharmacological treatments for cannabis depend- oping societies,but the poor quality ofthe available data makes ence, although a recent study trialed divalproex sodium with it difficult to be sure .There probably has been promising results (Levin and others 2004). Limited research an increase in cocaine use in some developing countries in exists on the effectiveness of different types of psychosocial recent years,but it is difficult to estimate the size ofthe increase treatments for dependent cannabis use (Budney and others (United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs 2000). The 2000; Copeland and others 2001; Stephens, Roffman, and region with the highest rates ofcocaine use among developing Simpson 1994). These approaches have involved short-term societies is likely to be Central and South America.The botan- cognitive behavioral treatments modeled on similar treatments ical source is indigenous to the region and has traditionally for alcohol dependence,usually given in three to six sessions on been used by local populations. Moreover, several nations in an outpatient basis. Central and South America have a history of production and In all
