Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


in three to six sessions on been used by local populations. Moreover, several nations in an outpatient basis. Central and South America have a history of production and In all of these studies, rates of abstinence at the end of export to global markets.Recent reports indicate that cocaine treatment have been modest (20 to 40 percent), and subse- abuse is increasing in South America ,and quent high rates of relapse mean that rates of abstinence after a recent household survey on drug abuse in São Paulo,Brazil, 12 months have been very modest (Budney and Moore 2002). estimated cocaine prevalence at 2.1 percent (Galduroz and Nonetheless,treatment does substantially reduce cannabis use others 2003). and problems. These outcomes are not very different from those observed in the treatment for alcohol and other forms of drug dependence (Budney and Moore 2002). Much more Adverse Health Effects ofCocaine. Most cocaine use is infre- research is needed before sensible advice can be given about the quent; regular cocaine use (monthly or more frequently) can best ways to achieve abstinence from cannabis. be a major public health problem.Regular cocaine users who Illicit Opiate Abuse | 919 inject cocaine or smoke crack cocaine are especially likely to Previous studies have documented a variety of neuropsycho- develop dependence and to experience problems related to logical effects ofcocaine use,including deficits in memory and their cocaine use .In the United States,it has been problem solving (Beatty and others 1995; Hoff and others estimated that one in six ofthose who ever use cocaine become 1996;O’Malley and others 1992).More recently,a twin study dependent on the drug (Anthony,Warner,and Kessler 1994). indicated that cocaine may lead to impaired attention and High rates of cocaine dependence are found among people motor skills up to one year after the conclusion of heavy use treated for alcohol and drug problems and among arrestees in (Toomey and others 2003). the United States (Anglin and Perrochet 1998). The method by which cocaine is administered can result in naive and cocaine-tolerant individuals (Platt 1997;Vasica and the nose can lead to rhinitis,damage to the nasal septum,and Tennant 2002).The vasoconstrictor effects of cocaine in large loss ofthe sense ofsmell.Smoking cocaine can lead to respira- doses place great strains on a number ofthe body’s physiolog- tory problems,and injecting cocaine leads to the risks ofinfec- ical systems (McCann and Ricaurte 2000).Effects on the car- tions and bloodborne viruses associated with all injecting drug diovascular
