Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


body’s physiolog- tory problems,and injecting cocaine leads to the risks ofinfec- ical systems (McCann and Ricaurte 2000).Effects on the car- tions and bloodborne viruses associated with all injecting drug diovascular system can result in a range of difficulties, from use. chest pain to fatal cardiac arrests (Lange and Hillis 2001). Users who inject cocaine,either on its own or in combina- Neurological problems include cerebral vascular accidents such tion with heroin (“speedballs”), inject much more frequently as strokes or seizures.Other effects ofcocaine can include gas- than other injecting drug users and,as a consequence,engage trointestinal problems such as vomiting, colitis, and bowel in more needle sharing, take more sexual risks, and have infarctionandrespiratoryproblemssuchasasthma,respiratory higher rates of HIV infection (Chaisson and others 1989; collapse, pulmonary edema, and bronchitis. Hyperthermia Schoenbaum and others 1989;van Beek,Dwyer,and Malcolm may occur because of the increased metabolism, peripheral 2001).Associations between cocaine use and HIV risk-taking vasoconstriction, and inability of the thalamus to control have been reported in Europe (Torrens and others 1991), bodytemperature (Crandall,Vongpatanasin,and Victor 2002). Australia (Darke and others 1992), and the United States Obstetric complications can include irregularities in placental (Chaisson and others 1989). Recent Australian research blood flow, premature labor, and low neonate birthweight has indicated that injecting cocaine users report more prob- (Majewska 1996;Platt 1997;Vasica and Tennant 2002). lems related to injecting drug use—such as vascular problems, can occur among healthy users irrespective ofcocaine dose and (Darke,Kaye,and Topp 2002). frequency of use (Lange and Hillis 2001;Vasica and Tennant The link between cocaine use and HIV risk is not restricted 2002). Although the likelihood of health problems may to those who inject cocaine.Crack smoking has been linked to increase with dosage and frequency of use,there is wide indi- higher levels of needle risk,sexual risk taking,and HIV infec- vidual variation in reactions to cocaine and,therefore,no spe- tion (Chaisson and others 1989; Chirgwin and others 1991; effects can be predicted.There is no antidote to cocaine over- Two mechanisms probably underlie the relationship between dose as there is for an overdose ofheroin . cocaine use and HIV infection. First, the short half-life of The impact of cocaine on mental health is also complex. cocaine promotes a much higher frequency of injecting by Although cocaine can produce feelings ofpleasure,it may also users than that seen in heroin injectors.Second,cocaine itself result in negative psychological symptoms such as anxiety, disinhibits and stimulates users, encouraging them to take depression,paranoia,hallucinations,and agitation (American greater
