Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


sex- that only 33 percent of the sample had highly favorable out- ual encounters,which may lead to unprotected anal intercourse comes(Flynnandothers2003). and increased risk ofHIV infection (Urbina and Jones 2004). High-dose amphetamine use, especially by injection, can result in a schizophreniform paranoid psychosis, associated Amphetamines with loosening of associations, delusions, and hallucinations According to WHO, amphetamines and methamphetamines (Gawin and Ellinwood 1988;Jaffe 1985).The psychosis could are the most widely abused illicit drugs after cannabis,with an be reproduced by the injection of large doses in addicts (Bell estimated 35 million users worldwide (Rawson, Anglin, and 1973) and by the repeated administration oflarge doses to nor- Ling 2002). mal volunteers (Angrist and others 1974). In Australia,the lifetime prevalence of amphetamine use is Highproportionsofregularamphetamineinjectorsdescribe between 6 and 8 percent in the general population, making symptomsof anxiety,panicattacks,paranoia,anddepression. amphetamines the most commonly used illicit drug after Theemergenceof suchsymptomsisassociatedwithinjecting cannabis during that period (Makkai and McAllister 1998).In thedrugs,greaterfrequencyofuse,anddependenceonamphet- 1998,the lifetime prevalence of amphetamine use was highest amines(W.Hallandothers1996;McKetinandMattick1997, (25 percent) among male users age 20 to 29. 1998).Recentevidencealsosuggeststhatwomenmayexperi- Theuseofamphetaminesisgenerallylessfrequentthanthat encemoreemotionaleffectsofamphetamineintoxicationthan ofopioids(DarkeandHall1995;Darke,Kaye,andRoss1999;W. menandhigherratesofanorexianervosathanwomenwithout Hall, Bell, and Carless 1993; Hando, Topp, and Hall 1997; amphetaminedisorders(HoldcraftandIacono2004). Vincentandothers1998).Thispatternisnodoubtduetothe In sufficiently high doses, amphetamines can be lethal physicalandpsychologicaltolltakenbyregularamphetamine (Derlet and others 1989). However, the risk is low compared use.Althoughsuchuseislessfrequentoverall,however,thereis with the high risks ofoverdose associated with central nervous widespreadbingeingonamphetamines,withfrequentuseover system depressants such as heroin. Typically, amphetamine- several consecutive days, which may be followed by benzodi- related deaths are associated with the effects ofamphetamines azepineuseto“comedown.”Polydruguseisparticularlycom- on the cardiovascular system—for example,cardiac failure and monamongamphetamineusers,whoshowamarkedpreference cerebral vascular accidents (Mattick and Darke 1995). 922 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wayne Hall, Chris Doran, Louisa Degenhardt, and others There is evidence that amphetamines are neurotoxic that those who received more Matrix treatment had better (Robinson and Becker 1986). Evidence from animal studies abstinence rates than those who had less treatment but that indicates that heavy amphetamine use results in dopaminergic desipramine had no effect on treatment outcome. depletion (Ellison 1992;Fields and others 1991).The few stud- J. Hall and others (1999) conducted an evaluation of the ies of the neuropsychological effects of amphetamine abuse effectiveness of the Iowa Case Management Project.The proj- report findings similar to those found with cocaine abuse. ect was designed to supplement interventions provided by a Deficits in memory and attention have been attributed to drug abuse treatment agency and is a comprehensive social amphetamine use (McKetin and Mattick 1997, 1998).
