Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


supplement interventions provided by a Deficits in memory and attention have been attributed to drug abuse treatment agency and is a comprehensive social amphetamine use (McKetin and Mattick 1997, 1998). More work intervention,including outreach activities and provision recently,a twin study indicated that amphetamine abuse might of limited emergency funds. The results of the evaluation lead to impaired attention and motor skills up to one year after showed that comprehensive case management was effective in the conclusion ofheavy use (Toomey and others 2003). improving employment status among amphetamine users sub- sequent to treatment. There was an almost significant lower InterventionsforAmphetamineDependence. Treatmentfor incidence of depression among those who received the pro- methamphetamineabusehasbeenarelativelyrecentdevelop- gram compared with controls.Drug use decreased significantly mentandhasgenerallybeenbasedonprevioustreatmentsfor for clients in both control and program conditions. cocaineabuse(Huberandothers1997).Cretzmeyerandoth- More recently, an Australian study evaluated the effective- ers (2003) reviewed treatments for methamphetamine abuse, ness ofbriefcognitive-behavioral interventions among regular noting that there has been little research on the effectiveness users of amphetamines (Baker, Boggs, and Lewin 2001). The of drug treatment, probably because many amphetamine researchers found a clinically significant reduction in daily users use multiple drugs.The combination of methampheta- amphetamine use among the intervention groups compared mineusewithuseof marijuanaorothersedatingdrugsindi- with controls and concluded that further studies of brief catesthateffectivetreatmentsneedtoaddresstheuseof mul- cognitive-behavioral interventions are feasible and warranted. tiple drugs. A Cochrane Review concluded that evidence for Although some promising interventions have been identified successintreatmentof amphetaminedependenceisverylim- to assist methamphetamine abusers, no single treatment ited, with no pharmacological treatment demonstrated to be option has yet been established as better than any other in a effective(Srisurapanont,Jarusuraisin,andKittirattanapaiboon randomized controlled trial (Cretzmeyer and others 2003). 2003). Methylenedioxymethamphetamine An early study explored the use of aversion therapy in a multimodal treatment program using educational groups, Methylenedioxymethamphetamine is more widely known individual counseling,occasional family counseling,and after- as ecstasy or MDMA. In Australia, the lifetime prevalence of care planning. The intervention paired an aversive stimulus MDMA use increased from 1 percent ofthe population in 1988 (either chemical or electrical) with the act of using metham- to 4.6 percent (about one in 20 persons ) in 1998,with 2.3 per- phetamines. Cocaine use was also treated in this way. After cent reporting MDMA use in the preceding 12 months (Topp 12 months, 53 percent of patients were abstinent and the and others 1998). In 2001, 6.1 percent of Australians age 14 researchers noted that their results were promising, despite a years or older
