Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


percent of patients were abstinent and the and others 1998). In 2001, 6.1 percent of Australians age 14 researchers noted that their results were promising, despite a years or older reported lifetime use ofMDMA,with 2.9 percent number oflimitations to the study (Frawley and Smith 1992). reporting use within the preceding year (Degenhardt,Barker, An intervention combining imipramine,a tricyclic antide- and Topp 2004).Rates ofuse are generally higher among males pressant, with intensive group counseling has been evaluated than females (3.1 percent versus 1.5 percent). MDMA use in with cocaine and methamphetamine abusers.Patients received the preceding 12 months is most common among those age either a low or higher dose (as needed) ofimipramine,as well 20to 29 (5 percent offemales and 12 percent ofmales) (Topp as intensive group counseling and access to medical and psy- and others 1998). chiatric care. Those who received the higher dose stayed in TheavailabilityofMDMAhasalsoincreased,asindicatedby treatment longer, but the results did not support the use of theproportionofthepopulationwhohavebeenofferedMDMA imipramine for methamphetamine abuse (Galloway and (from 4 percent in 1988 to 7 percent in 1991) (Makkai and others 1994). McAllister1998),with14percentofthoseage14to29reporting The Matrix Program for methamphetamine and cocaine thattheyhadbeenofferedMDMAintheprecedingyear. abusers has also been evaluated. The Matrix Program uses a Research suggests that the pattern of MDMA use changed cognitive behavioral approach with an emphasis on relapse during the 1990s (Topp and others 1998).Users ofMDMA are prevention (Huber and others 1997).The study evaluated the commencing use at a younger age,and they appear to be using effectiveness of three conditions: Matrix treatment alone, larger doses more frequently. The incidence of bingeing on Matrix treatment plus desipramine,and Matrix treatment plus MDMA appears to have increased,as does the prevalence ofthe placebo (Shoptaw and others 1994).The researchers concluded parenteral use ofthis drug.The increase in the use ofMDMA Illicit Opiate Abuse | 923 by injection has been noted among surveys of MDMA users A recent U.K.study of 430 regular users of MDMA reported and ofinjecting drug users generally. that 83 percent ofparticipants reported low mood and 80 per- An examination of trends in the United States suggested cent experienced impaired concentration. Long-term effects that,although the use of MDMA has increased over time,its of MDMA included the development of tolerance to MDMA prevalence is significantly less than that ofother drugs ofabuse (59 percent),impaired ability to concentrate (38 percent),and indicated 6 percent lifetime use ofMDMA,3 percent within the Physical symptoms that were perceived as being due to preceding 12 months, and
