Chapter
KEYWORDS: use, drug, treatment, users, cocaine, opioid, hall, heroin, cannabis, dependence, illicit, percent, abuse, journal, effects


ofabuse (59 percent),impaired ability to concentrate (38 percent),and indicated 6 percent lifetime use ofMDMA,3 percent within the Physical symptoms that were perceived as being due to preceding 12 months, and 1 percent within the preceding MDMAusealone(Toppandothers1998)includedaninability 30 days. Those who had used MDMA in the preceding tourinate,blurredvision,vomiting,numbnessortingling,loss 12months were more likely to be white and a member ofa fra- ofsexualurge,andhotandcoldflushes.Aswithamphetamines, ternity or sorority and to have used a range of other drugs the use of MDMA to facilitate sexual encounters may lead to .Rates ofuse are much higher in surveys of riskysexualbehaviorandriskofsexuallytransmittedinfections club attendees.A recent U.S.survey found 86 percent reporting such as HIV.Studies of gay and bisexual men have found an lifetime use,51 percent 30-day use,and 30 percent use within associationbetweenMDMAuseandhigh-risksexualbehavior the preceding 2 days (Yacoubian and others 2003). (UrbinaandJones2004). Abuse ofMDMA had showed signs ofdecreasing in Western MDMA has been implicated in a growing number ofdeaths, Europe but has recently shown signs of increase (UNODCCP both in Australia and in other countries (Henry,Jeffreys,and 2003). Although MDMA use appears to be still diffusing, in Dawling 1992;Solowij 1993;White,Bochner,and Irvine 1997). 2003 only four countries (Ireland,the Netherlands,Spain,and Although the reasons for extreme reactions have yet to be the United Kingdom) reported a rate of more than 3 percent clearly determined,deaths have most often been attributed to use among young adults in the preceding 12 months hyperthermia when MDMA was used at dance venues.A com- .In the United States,use declined in 2002 for bination ofsustained exertion,high ambient temperatures,and the first time,but it increased in other regions,particularly the inadequate fluid replacement appears to compound the effect Caribbean, parts of South America, Oceania, Southeast Asia, of MDMA on thermoregulatory mechanisms,causing a rapid the Near East, and southern Africa . and fatal rise in body temperature (Topp and others 1998). Lifetime experience of MDMA is reported to range from Some deaths have been attributed to excessive water consump- 0.5percent to 5 percent in European Union countries,with use tion, which causes cerebral edema (Cook 1996; Matthai and more common in the Netherlands . others 1996). Population survey findings from New Zealand reported an increase in the preceding-year use ofMDMA from 1.5 percent REFERENCES in 1998 to 3.4 percent in 2001. The increase was particularly Ahmed,M.A.,T.Zafar,H.Brahmbhatt,G.Imam,S.ul Hassan,J.C.Bareta, evident among young men age 20 to 24 (from 4.3 percent to and S.A.Strathdee.2003.“HIV/AIDS Risk Behaviors and Correlates of 12.5 percent) (Wilkins and others 2003). Injection Drug Use among Drug Users
