Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


Summary • The technologies described in this briefing are remote electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation consultancy services. They are used for assisting in diagnosing and decision-making for people with cardiovascular disease. • The innovative aspects are that with remote ECG interpretation, a person does not need to travel to hospital for a consultation with a cardiologist, potentially providing quicker and more accurate diagnoses. • The intended place in therapy would be to replace referrals to secondary care for interpreting ECGs from people with suspected cardiovascular disease. • The main points from the evidence summarised in this briefing are from 4 UK pilot studies including 26,320 adults and children in primary care. The studies show that remote ECG interpretation consultancy services may reduce the number of unnecessary referrals to secondary care and reduce costs for the NHS. • Key uncertainties around the evidence or technology are that the economic benefits are not yet clear and there is a lack of evidence for clinical outcomes. Published evidence of clinical utility is only available for 1 out of 6 services in this briefing. • The cost of the services in this briefing ranges from £3 to £195 per report (excluding VAT). The resource impact may be cost saving because of reductions in secondary care referrals. The technology An electrocardiogram (ECG) is a recording of the electrical activity of the heart and is used to diagnose cardiovascular disorders. Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services provide expert analysis of ECGs to support clinical decision-making. The services can receive and interpret ECGs – along with other information – using telephone and digital methods. This briefing describes 6 services that are available in the UK (see table 1). There are 3 main types of ECG: • 12-lead ECG: the standard diagnostic test used in primary care for a number of cardiovascular disorders. Ten electrodes are placed on the skin of the chest and limbs to measure the electrical activity of the heart from 12 angles. The signal is recorded for about 10 seconds. • Holter/ambulatory ECG: a monitor is worn for a period ranging from a day to a week, to record heart activity. The number of leads varies between manufacturers. • Loop/event monitoring: captures unusual heart activity over longer periods, in some cases up to 4 years. An ECG of any type can be interpreted by a trained health professional or by dedicated software. The services in this briefing
