Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


periods, in some cases up to 4 years. An ECG of any type can be interpreted by a trained health professional or by dedicated software. The services in this briefing all offer interpretation by expert staff at remote locations. The ECG is transmitted from a primary care centre to the service provider. This can be done automatically from devices supplied by the services (see regulatory information). Alternatively, ECGs may be uploaded to the internet using a software platform or webpage, or sent by email. A cardiac technician, cardiac nurse, consultant cardiologist or specialist consultant cardiologist such as an electrophysiologist interprets the ECG. Recordings from Holter, loop and event monitors can be interpreted live. The signal can be continuously transmitted to allow the interpreter to monitor activity in real time. The interpreter returns a report with their ECG interpretation or recommendations to the patient's primary care clinician within an agreed timeframe. All 6 of the services in this briefing can receive ECGs recorded using any existing device. Three of the services are also able to supply third-party devices. Five of the 6 services in this briefing are based in the UK. Smart Telecardiology is based in India and offers interpretation worldwide. The UK-based services all support transmission using the N3 broadband network (with an NHS.net email address). Table 1 summarises the remote ECG interpretation services included in this briefing. Other similar technologies may be available but are not included (for example, if they were not identified, or the company chose not to participate). Table 1 Summary of included remote ECG Interpretation services Proposed reporting Company Transmission Interpretation Devices Modality time Instant report* or consultant cardiologist's or electro- NHS physiologist's Under 12-lead, email, written patient care 24 hours; Holter, MEOMED dedicated None. plan with level of average loop/ software urgency. Offers live 2 hours. event. upload. feedback between GP and consultant cardiologist after report is returned. Proposed reporting Company Transmission Interpretation Devices Modality time Technician's written report – if a NHS consultant 12-lead, email, cardiologist's Primary Under Holter, dedicated expertise is needed, None. Diagnostics 24 hours. loop/ software the ECG can be event. upload. passed on to a service such as MEOMED. Verbal report Automatic Specialist nurse's or returned by cardiologist's Supplies/ 12-lead, 'immediately' Broomwell telephone, reports – quality leases Holter, and a full Healthwatch or digitally control performed third-party loop/ written report with NHS by consultant devices. event. within 15 to
