Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


the above circumstances, if a 12-lead ECG is inconclusive. After taking an ECG, the practitioner can either: interpret the results and treat the person themselves; refer the person to an NHS consultant; or refer the person for emergency treatment. A referral to an NHS consultant cardiologist or electrophysiologist can take between 2 and 18 weeks and the patient must travel to hospital. Automated ECG interpretation services are related technologies that use algorithms to interpret ECGs that are automatically uploaded to cloud networks or virtual private networks (VPNs). Population, setting and intended user GPs or nurses in primary care take ECGs from people with suspected cardiovascular disease. Remote ECG interpretation would replace a referral to an NHS consultant cardiologist or electrophysiologist in secondary care. A GP, nurse or healthcare assistant would record the ECG and then transmit the results to a remote location for interpretation. The consultancy service would then send a report back to the GP or nurse, with a recommendation for treatment. Training may be needed for GPs to learn how to transmit the recorded ECGs and receive the reports. Costs Technology costs Table 2 Cost of remote ECG interpretation consultancy services Company Cost (excluding VAT) Additional information 12-lead ECG service: £14 to £30 per report. Broomwell Price depends on speed of Arrhythmia service – 24-hour tape Healthwatch response and level of advice. (Holter): £30 to £50 per report. Cardiologist 12-lead ECG service: Price varies depending on between £22 and £30 per report. MEOMED the usage for a practice per Arrhythmia service – (Holter): £65 per annum. report. Price varies depending on Primary About £65 per analysis. the usage for a practice per Diagnostics annum. 12-lead ECG service: £14 to £25 per report or a fixed monthly fee of £77 per 1,000-practice population, irrespective of the number of tests done. Holter analysis: Holter analysis prices are ECG On- based on the duration of the 24 hours: £45 per report Demand ECG is recording. 48 hours: £70 per report 72 hours: £95 per report 7 days: £120 per report. Consultant cardiologist e-consultation: £42 per report. Company Cost (excluding VAT) Additional information Price depends on client Fees for 12-lead ECG interpretation location, reading Smart start at £3 for a technician's report and cardiologists, turnaround Telecardiology £8 for a cardiologist's report. time for reports and practice working hours. Price depends on turnaround Express 12-lead ECG service: £10 to £25. time and recording
