Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


and cardiologists, turnaround Telecardiology £8 for a cardiologist's report. time for reports and practice working hours. Price depends on turnaround Express 12-lead ECG service: £10 to £25. time and recording time for Diagnostics Holter analysis: £25 to £195. Holter recordings. Abbreviation: ECG, electrocardiogram. Costs of standard care The standard care in the NHS for ECG interpretation is referral to either emergency care or a cardiology outpatient unit. The unit cost per attendance for a hospital emergency department is £138 and for a cardiology outpatient appointment is £156 (Department of Health and Social Care 2016). Resource consequences It is estimated that 34.7 ECGs per 1,000 patients are recorded annually in GP practices (Wolff et al. 2012). Assuming that a GP practice sends all recorded ECGs to a service for interpretation, then the likely use is about 35 ECGs per 1,000 patients. Table 3 NHS use of interpretation consultancies Service NHS use Training Provided Broomwell States that its services are currently used by around free of Healthwatch 70 CCGs in the UK. charge. States its service is used by CCGs, NHS trusts, GP Provided ECG On- alliances, and NHS healthcare providers such as mental free of Demand health trusts and HMP. charge. Provided Performed 3 pilot trials in Brent CCG, Liverpool CCG and MEOMED free of Vale of York CCG. charge. Service NHS use Training Provided Primary Has provided its service to Suffolk CCG for the past free of Diagnostics 6 years. charge. Provided Express States that its services are currently used by 20 CCGs. free of Diagnostics charge. Provided Smart Not currently in use. free of Telecardiology charge. Abbreviations: CCG, clinical commissioning group; ECG, electrocardiogram; HMP, Her Majesty's Prison Service. As long as the services are compliant with NHS communication networks such as the N3 network or health and social care network, no changes to current infrastructure are needed. No published reports on the resource consequences of adopting the technology were found. Broomwell Healthwatch provided the results of 3 audits of pilot studies performed in Lancashire and Cumbria, Greater Manchester and Greater Birmingham. Cost savings were estimated based on secondary care referrals that were prevented in 61 to 65% of the cases. In Greater Birmingham, 1,934 audit forms were returned and the estimated cost savings were £97,672. In Greater Manchester, 2,377 secondary care referrals were prevented out of 3,732 ECGs, leading to estimated cost savings of £358,927. MEOMED also provided the
