Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


the estimated cost savings were £97,672. In Greater Manchester, 2,377 secondary care referrals were prevented out of 3,732 ECGs, leading to estimated cost savings of £358,927. MEOMED also provided the results of a number of pilot studies (see table 5). It estimated that its service could save a 60-practice CCG between £730,000 and £1.816 million per year. Regulatory information Table 4 shows the regulatory status of the remote electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation consultancy services included in this briefing. Telehealth services operating in England must be registered with the Care Quality Commission (CQC). The CQC inspects these services and reports on the quality of care provided. Some of the services included in this briefing supply or lease medical devices from third parties. These devices are regulated under the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency's (MHRA) medical devices directive and must carry a CE mark. Table 4 Regulatory information Company CQC registration Medical device and CE mark • HeartView 12L and HeartView 12i (Aerotel Medical systems Ltd). Broomwell Registered 19 May 2011. Last Class IIa. Healthwatch inspection report 28 March 2013. • LifeCard (Spacelabs Healthcare Ltd). Class IIa. Will register with the CQC when Intend to register with the CQC MEOMED work begins (registration not needed when work begins. before starting contract). Will register with the CQC when Primary Intend to register with the CQC work begins (registration not needed Diagnostics when work begins. before starting contract). • eMotion Faros 90, 180 and 360 (Mega Electronics Ltd). Class IIa. ECG Registered 28 October 2015. No On-Demand inspection reports to date. • Cardioline TouchECG with HD+, ECG100+, ECG200+ (Cardioline SpA). Class IIa. • LifeCard (Spacelabs Healthcare Ltd). Class IIa. Express Registered 30 December 2010. Last Diagnostics inspection report 5 September 2013. • eMotion Faros 90, 180 and 360 (Mega Electronics Ltd). Class IIa. Smart Not registered. No information available. Telecardiology Equality considerations NICE is committed to promoting equality, eliminating unlawful discrimination and fostering good relations between people with particular protected characteristics and others. In producing guidance and advice, NICE aims to comply fully with all legal obligations to: promote race and disability equality and equality of opportunity between men and women, eliminate unlawful discrimination on grounds of race, disability, age, sex, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity (including women post-delivery), sexual orientation, and religion or belief (these are protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010). People aged 65 or over are
