Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity (including women post-delivery), sexual orientation, and religion or belief (these are protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010). People aged 65 or over are more likely to have cardiovascular disorders. Age is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010. Clinical and technical evidence A literature search was carried out for this briefing in line with the interim process and methods statement. This briefing includes the most relevant or best available published evidence relating to the clinical effectiveness of the technology. Further information about how the evidence for this briefing was selected is available on request by contacting mibs@nice.org.uk. Published evidence Four studies including 26,320 participants are summarised in this briefing. All 4 are pilot studies, 3 relating to Broomwell Healthwatch and 1 to MEOMED and all were done in the UK. One is an abstract reporting the results of a large pilot study (n=25,346) over 4 years. Using these services resulted in improvement of appropriate referrals and this was found to be cost saving. The average time to receive results was around 2 hours. Table 5 summarises the clinical evidence as well as its strengths and limitations. Overall assessment of the evidence Broomwell Healthwatch and MEOMED were the only services for which there is publicly available information. These services report results from pilot studies in the NHS and focus on assessing the clinical utility of the service. The primary outcome for all of the studies is the proportion of changes to care plans. The potential utility of the service can be shown by evaluating differences between the remote service's recommendation and the care pathway prescribed by the practitioner. There is no direct within-study comparison between the services in this briefing. There are also no comparisons between the services and other technologies, such as automatic interpretation services. In the evidence included in this briefing, there was no follow-up of outcomes to ensure that care pathway recommendations made by the service resulted in improved clinical outcomes. There are also no comparisons of results between different clinical commissioning groups or regions of the UK. Table 5 Summary of Evidence Paynter (2008) Study size, 32 people with chest pain or transient loss of consciousness in a design and 6-week pilot study in Bridgwater Community Hospital, Somerset, UK. location Intervention Broomwell Healthwatch compared with automatic referral to acute and trust. comparator(s) 16% of ECGs had abnormalities not detected
