Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


2015 Study size, design and 569 people from 3 CCGs (see table 3) in the UK. location Intervention and MEOMED compared with standard care. comparator(s) Paynter (2008) Using the MEOMED service, 78% fewer patients were referred to secondary care when compared to the standard pathway. A total of 37% of all patients – and 61% of all people with abnormal ECGs (256 from a total of 569) – had their condition managed in primary care, based on MEOMED's management plan. In the patients that the GP would have initially cared for in primary care, MEOMED recommended, within 2 hours, that 29% be referred to secondary care. In addition, 24 unnecessary referrals were prevented in a group of Key outcomes 30 patients that the GP would have referred to secondary care, based on patient history alone. A total of 5% of all patients were referred to secondary care by MEOMED, based on patient history alone. The average cost saving for a 60-practice CCG was estimated to be: • £730,000, compared with a technician-led ECG service • £1,816,000 compared with a standard hospital service. The study included multiple practices across 3 CCGs. The report was Strengths and written by employees of MEOMED in collaboration with Trustech (NHS limitations Northwest innovation organisation). Recent and ongoing studies No ongoing or in-development trials were identified. Specialist commentator comments Comments on this technology were invited from clinical experts working in the field. The comments received are individual opinions and do not represent NICE's view. All 4 experts were aware of, or had used, the remote electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation services described in this briefing. Two experts believed that the services were not being widely used in the NHS, while the other 2 were unsure or did not comment. Level of innovation Two experts believed that the services were novel, while another thought they were not. One expert believed the services were only a minor iteration of current care that had not been superseded. One expert thought that some of these services were innovative because patient reports could be written and interpreted by experienced clinicians who had access to patient history. Two experts felt that non-commercial interpretation services available in their local hospital coronary care unit by trained clinicians offered competition to the services reported in this briefing because, in their opinion, they were either faster, free or better. One expert mentioned that some services developed in hospital
