Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


clinicians offered competition to the services reported in this briefing because, in their opinion, they were either faster, free or better. One expert mentioned that some services developed in hospital had a system to immediately assess if ECG changes were new or pre-existing. They believed that this gave their service an advantage over the commercial services in this briefing. On the contrary, 1 expert had to stop using a commercial service because their local trust chose to provide their own in-house service instead. They felt that the commercial service was better than the service provided by the local trust because it had a faster turnaround time and less variability in reporting. One expert mentioned open access services for Holter monitors as a similar technology but added that they were often poorly supervised and did not take patient history into account. Potential patient impact All of the experts agreed that avoiding unnecessary hospital visits was a potential patient benefit. Three experts also agreed that high-risk cardiac symptoms could be identified earlier than with standard care and this would allow for earlier prevention or treatment to begin. However, 1 expert also expressed concern that such services may be used improperly in people with symptoms that need clinical review, such as acute chest pain or unexplained syncope. One expert mentioned that some of these services may provide the added reassurance to patients because the results would be reviewed by highly trained clinicians. The experts stated various types of patients would particularly benefit from these services including: people with low-risk symptoms (history of vasovagal syncope, palpitations or hypertension); people with a pre-existing ECG abnormality because a comparison to a current ECG might prevent an unnecessary referral or because ECGs taken from Holter monitors are more likely to be misinterpreted in primary care; older people or those with mobility issues because there would be a reduced need for them to travel to hospital. Potential system impact All of the experts agreed that a potential reduction in non-emergency referrals to secondary care specialist clinics would be a benefit to the health or care system. One expert said this reduction could lead to cost savings in regions where links to secondary care are poor. Another expert added that less money would need to be spent on secondary care and more could be allocated to primary care. Two experts thought that cardiac interpretation services could increase costs for
