Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


that less money would need to be spent on secondary care and more could be allocated to primary care. Two experts thought that cardiac interpretation services could increase costs for their region but another expert thought that there could be cost savings if cardiologist resources were used more effectively by reducing unnecessary outpatient appointments. They added that this may also lead to better resource allocation in secondary care. Three experts felt that little to no change to current infrastructure would be needed to use these technologies and that when needed they would presumably be provided by the companies. One expert believed that advanced ECG interpretation skills would be needed for clinicians to use any of the technologies. Two experts expressed some concerns about the resource impact from adopting these technologies. One thought that the interpreter would need to take a holistic view and take clinical history into account for best management. They also felt that the most important element of such services was the skill set of the interpreter. The other expert reiterated that such services should not be used alone in managing high-risk symptoms and expressed worry that some practitioners could become overly reliant on these services. A third expert highlighted that primary care services would be expected to take responsibility for clinical decision-making if not referring patients onward for additional specialist follow-up. No safety concerns or regulatory issues were raised surrounding the use of these technologies. General comments One expert mentioned that his knowledge of ECG analysis had improved after using an ECG interpretation service. Another expert felt that establishing local, non-commercial telemetry services should be attempted before using commercial providers. The expert acknowledged that some regions may not manage to establish close collaborations with their local hospital to successfully use non-commercial services. None of the experts had an opinion on how the services will adapt to the end of the N3 network but stressed the importance of continued data security. One expert expressed suspicion of services that provide diagnostic guidance without assessing clinical presentation. Three of the experts felt that the technology would be an addition to standard care, rather than a replacement. One added that the services could be a replacement for outpatient referral where links to local cardiology services are poor. The fourth expert agreed, stating that the technology would replace the need to refer every patient for an initial outpatient appointment. Two experts identified
