Remote ECG interpretation consultancy services for cardiovascular disease
KEYWORDS: services, care, ecg, interpretation, report, service, ecgs, nhs, expert, briefing, lead, secondary care, secondary, people, primary


to local cardiology services are poor. The fourth expert agreed, stating that the technology would replace the need to refer every patient for an initial outpatient appointment. Two experts identified information technology-related difficulties, such as network and transmission problems, as the only practical issues with the services. One expert was not convinced by the published research because of industry involvement and limited real- world cost information. The expert felt that a pilot trial for an individual healthcare organisation would provide more useful data as results may vary across different locations. One expert thought that the services should agree to make audits of their performance available to purchasers. This would be particularly informative if the results included hospital referral rates and patient outcomes. Specialist commentators The following clinicians contributed to this briefing: • Dr Jonathan Watt, consultant cardiologist, Raigmore Hospital, NHS Highland, member of the British Cardiovascular Intervention Society. No relevant conflicts of interest. • Mr Charlie Bloe, clinical ward manager, NHS Highland, member of SHARP (Scottish Heart and Arterial disease Risk Prevention). Mr Bloe is the clinical lead and managing director for a private healthcare education company and provides regular tuition to healthcare professionals on electrocardiogram (ECG) interpretation. • Dr Richard Schilling, professor of cardiology, Barts Health NHS Trust, member of the British Heart Rhythm Society. No relevant conflicts of interest. • Dr M C Patel, GP, Brent Clinical Commissioning Group. Dr Patel is a shareholder in Harness GP Cooperative Ltd and chair of Harness Board. His patients were included in an NHS England Regional Innovation-funded audit. Development of this briefing This briefing was developed for NICE by King's Technology Evaluation Centre. The interim process and methods statement sets out the process NICE uses to select topics, and how
