SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


Electronic supplementary material: The online version of this article contains supplementary material. © 2025 The Author(s) Cite as: Xu Q, Zhang X, Zhao T, Cai X, Zhang S, Wang M, Lu Q, Cui F. Analysis of the trend of notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China between 2006–22. J Glob Health. 2025;15:04175. Analysis of the trend of notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China between 2006–22 Qingsong Xu1,2,3 , Background AIDS, gonorrhoea, and syphilis are the most common sexually Xiyu Zhang1,2,3 , transmitted infections, causing a heavy burden in China and worldwide. We Tianshuo Zhao1,2,3 , analysed the long-term spatial and temporal trends of AIDS, gonorrhoea, and Xianming Cai1,2,3 , syphilis in the Chinese mainland between 2006–22. Sihui Zhang1,2,3 , Methods We extracted the data on incidence and mortality of AIDS, gonor- Mingting Wang1,2,3 , rhoea, and syphilis from the annual surveillance reports of China Informa- Qing-Bin Lu1,2,3,4,5 , tion System for Disease Control and Prevention between 2006–22, which was developed by the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention and con- Fuqiang Cui1,2,3,4,5 tains all notifiable diseases data. We used locally weighted regression to draw the trend curve and joinpoint regression analysis to calculate the average an- 1DepartmentofEpidemiologyand nual percentage change. We used the Bayesian structured time series model to evaluate the seasonal trends of sexually transmitted infections by province and the Moran I statistic to analyse the spatial clustering of sexually transmit- 2V accineResearchCentre,SchoolofPublic ted infections, detecting hot spots, cold spots, and spatial outliers. 3CentreforInfectiousDiseasesand Results The incidence and mortality of sexually transmitted infections in the andInfectiousDiseasesGroup,Peking and the elderly aged ≥60. The incidence of AIDS and gonorrhoea in males was higher than in females. The mortality of the elderly aged ≥60 increased rapidly. 4KeyLaboratoryofEpidemiologyofMajor The incidence of gonorrhoea and syphilis had a seasonal distribution. The high incidence of gonorrhoea was concentrated from May–November, and syphilis Education,Beijing,China was concentrated from March–August. Between 2006–22, there was a trend of 5B eijingKeyLaboratoryofToxicological spatial clustering in sexually transmitted infections, forming high-high clus- ResearchandRiskAssessmentforFood Safety,Beijing,China ters and low-low clusters with clear boundaries. Conclusions Schools could incorporate sexual health education into compul- sory courses and the government may consider incorporating sexually trans- mitted infections rapid testing into routine chronic disease management. The interventions are needed to prevent the incidence among high-risk popula- tions before summer, and focus on the Southwest, East China, and West Chi- na, where the incidence and case-fatality rates were high. Sexually
