SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


We aimed to explore the commonalities and differences by comprehensively comparing the trends and seasonality of three sexually transmitted infections in all provinces of sector strategies on, respectively, HIV, viral hepatitis, and STIs for the period 2022–30. METHODS Data sources and collection AIDS is characterised by Kaposi’s sarcoma and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and is associ- ated with innate immune dysfunction and decreased cluster of differentiation four T lymphocyte count. The progressive exhaustion of the immune system in AIDS patients allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and diseases to develop . AIDS-related deaths refer to all deaths due and other opportunistic infections. AIDS, gonorrhoea, syphilis, and hepatitis A, B, and C were classified as class B infections in 1990, and other sexually transmitted infections were classified as class C infections. Given the data quality concern for diseases in class C, and the main route of hepatitis B transmission was mother-to-child transmission, and hepatitis C is mainly a blood- borne disease, we only focused on sexually transmitted diseases in class B . The surveillance data of AIDS, gonorrhoea, and syphilis are more representative in China. After the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic, the updated China Information System for Disease Control and Prevention was also formally launched, providing a real-time and direct online reporting platform through the website to monitor infections. The China Information System for Disease Control and Prevention was a passive surveillance system. Hospitals, commu- submitted information to the network system according to both clinical and laboratory diagno- ses. Data on all notifiable infections are aggregated by the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. Between 2006–22, the reporting standards and procedures of the system remained unchanged, and the long-term trend characteristics of the data were stable. Before using the data, we cross-checked the data collection protocols and procedures of the system to ensure that the data were collected in a standardised and scientific manner. 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 2 www.jogh.org • doi: Notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China, 2006–22 SREPAP We obtained data on the number of cases and deaths of AIDS, gonorrhoea, and syphilis, stratified by year (2006–22), sex, age (<1, 1–14, 15–24, 25–44, 45–59, 60–74, ≥75 years), and province. In terms of data collection, we did not selectively choose data from specific periods or regions. By covering the entire mainland region, we aimed to represent the overall situation of sexually transmitted infections in China, thereby avoiding selection
