SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


selectively choose data from specific periods or regions. By covering the entire mainland region, we aimed to represent the overall situation of sexually transmitted infections in China, thereby avoiding selection bias. In this study, Mainland China refers to 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, and four municipalities directly under the central govern- ment, totalling 31 provinces (excluding Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan). We extracted popula- tion estimates, including sex, age, and geographical area stratification from the National Bureau of Statistics of China, which had reported complete, accurate and authoritative data since 1952. For extreme values in the incidence and mortality that deviated significantly from the overall distribution, we examined the original data collection records to determine if they were due to data entry errors. If they were genuine but extreme, we retained them. Statistical analysis We plotted trends in AIDS, gonorrhoea, and syphilis by sex and age using locally weighted regres- sion. We used joinpoint regression analysis (Technical note S1 in the Online Supplementary Document) to detect changes in temporal trends and to estimate the average annual percentage change (AAPC) and corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI). We used the same model to test for the differences across sex and age subgroups. Joinpoint regression analysis identifies time points in which trends significantly change, using calendar year as the timescale. We also esti- mated the annual percentage change (APC) for each trend segment. APC>0 indicates an increase in incidence or mortality during the segment, and APC<0 indicates the opposite. The Bayesian structural time series (BSTS) model (Technical note S2 in the Online Supplementary Document) has unique advantages in analysing epidemiological time series data, especially in seasonal decomposition, uncertainty quantification, and multi-component modelling . BSTS employs a state-space framework to explicitly decompose time series into trend, seasonality, and regression components. This allows us to individually quantify the strength of seasonal effects and track dynamic changes in seasonality over time . We used BSTS to fit the monthly inci- dence data of three types of notifiable STIs from January 2006 to December 2022. We obtained the estimates of seasonal component parameters based on the fitting results, using a 5000-iter- ation Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm. We compared the distribution of seasonal factors between 2006–22 to explore the consistency of each year. Then, we calculated the mean and 95% CI of seasonal factors to evaluate the seasonal trend of notifiable STIs. The month with a
