SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


seasonal distribu- tion (Figure 3, Panel A). Because of the high incidence of syphilis, the number of cases of syph- ilis in the high incidence month was far higher than that of AIDS and gonorrhoea. There were differences in the distribution of notifiable STIs among 31 provinces in the Chinese mainland. www.jogh.org • doi: 5 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 Xu et al. PAPERS • Vol. • www.jogh.org • doi: Figure 1. Incidence and mortality trend of notifiable STIs by sex, 2006–22. Panel A. The incidence of AIDS in the entire population and by gender. Panel B. The incidence of gonorrhoea in the entire population and different genders from 2006 to 2022. Panel C. The incidence of syphilis in the entire population and by gender. Panel D. The mor- tality of AIDS in the entire population and by gender. Panel E. The mortality of gonorrhoea in the entire population and by gender. Panel F. The mortality of syphilis in the entire population and by gender. Notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China, 2006–22 PAPERS www.jogh.org • doi: • Vol. • Figure 2. Incidence and mortality trend of notifiable STIs by age, 2006–22. Panel A. The incidence of AIDS. Panel B. The incidence of gonorrhoea. Panel C. The incidence of syphilis. Panel D. The mortality of AIDS. Panel E. The mortality of gonorrhoea. Panel F. The mortality of syphilis. Xu et al. SREPAP The seasonal factors of AIDS in most provinces fluctuated between high incidence and low inci- dence (Figure 3, Panel B). The seasonality of AIDS was unstable in most provinces, and the dis- tribution of seasonal factors was constantly changing from 2006 to 2022 (Figure S1 in the Online Supplementary Document). The seasonal distribution of gonorrhoea and syphilis in 31 prov- inces was consistent with the seasonal distribution of the Chinese mainland, and the distribu- tion trend of each province was similar. The high incidence months and low incidence months had a certain continuity (Figure 3, Panel C–D). The distribution of seasonal factors of gonor- rhoea and syphilis in most provinces was consistent between 2006–22 (Figure S2–3 in the Online Supplementary Document). Figure 3. Seasonal trends of incidence of notifiable STIs in 31 provinces in China. Panel A. Seasonal trends of notifiable STIs. Panel B. Seasonal trend of AIDS, red represents the month of high incidence of AIDS (P < 0.05), blue represents the month of low incidence of
