SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


of transmission of STIs increased. Another factor was the use and promoted convenient contact with various potential partners . Based in schools and online peer education, psychological counselling and education, and HIV self-testing should be taken . Schools could utilise anonymous consultation platforms, such as WeChat mini-pro- grams, to incorporate interactive STI education into the compulsory curriculum, thereby reduc- www.jogh.org • doi: 9 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 Xu et al. SREPAP ing stigma-related delays in seeking care. It is worth noting that the incidence of AIDS and syphilis among the elderly in China had exceeded other age groups, and the global AIDS epidemic had a similar ageing trend. It is predicted that the number of people living with HIV aged ≥50 in some European countries will account for nearly 70% of the total people living with HIV by 2030 . With the improvement of the living standard of residents in the Chinese mainland, the physical condition and sexual demand of elderly male individuals were still at a high level. Ageing did not necessarily limit elderly people, especially elderly men, from engaging in risky sexual behaviour to perceive risks, leading to the frequent occurrence of high-risk sexual behaviours. Unprotected commercial sex is the main way for elderly men to transmit HIV . The government may con- sider incorporating community-based integrated screening (e.g. syphilis, HIV rapid tests) into routine chronic disease management at primary care centres. Many countries also reported different seasonality of gonorrhoea. This difference may be attrib- uted to differences in geographical distribution, socio-economic status, medical facilities, cli- mate conditions, and residents’ lifestyle. The seasonality of gonorrhoea was first reported in the USA as early as 1971, indicating that the incidence of gonorrhoea was highest in the third quarter and lowest in the first quarter, a finding similar to that of this study . The number of gonor- rhoea cases in India was highest in the second quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter, with the peak in the second quarter coinciding with the school summer holidays and harvest season cel- ebrations . The sociological factors of the high incidence of gonorrhoea in China in summer and autumn are probably related to the school summer holiday. During this period, adults had relaxed supervision of adolescents. Young people also may travel for recreational purposes dur- ing the summer to increase the risk of transmission . In addition, with the
