SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


period, adults had relaxed supervision of adolescents. Young people also may travel for recreational purposes dur- ing the summer to increase the risk of transmission . In addition, with the increase in sexual activities, there was also more sexual intercourse without the use of condoms during the summer vacation . One possible reason for the decrease in the willingness to use condoms could be the hot and humid climate, with the average monthly temperature exceeding 25°C in most parts of China from July to September, according to the National Climate Centre. The warm weather likely increased outdoor social activities, such as night markets and camping, which in turn increased the opportunities for sexual contact. The seasonality of syphilis may be closely related to the pat- terns of sexual activity of the population, and research on patterns of sexual activity in China is still needed. Studies have shown that human hormones have an endogenous rhythm, and hormo- nal changes caused by photoperiod and temperature changes in different seasons may also lead to an increase in unsafe sex in specific months. For example, sexual intercourse in adolescent female was most common in summer and autumn, and least frequent in winter . There were also seasonal fluctuations in male testosterone levels, and could affect sexual activity. The annual spikes in male testosterone may be associated with increased sexual activity . However, less research has focused on the relationship between the seasonality of gonorrhoea and the season itself (i.e. meteorological factors). The number of cases of gonorrhoea in China has been found to be positively correlated with temperature, relative humidity and precipitation from between 2006–19 . More researches are needed to support the association between gonorrhoea and meteorological factors. This study also found that the high incidence of syphilis was concentrated from March to August. Between 2016–22, all counties in Zhejiang Province, China showed obvi- ous seasonality and periodicity, with a peak from May to September . Syphilis seasonality had also been reported in other countries. Surveillance data for Mexico between 2007–17 indicated that the highest number of acquired syphilis cases were detected between March and August . Korea reported that the incidence of secondary syphilis in men peaks in the summer between 2011–19 . Similar to gonorrhoea, the Chinese population appeared to be more active in sum- mer than in winter, which was likely related to sociological factors and hormonal fluctuations. In China,
