SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


. Similar to gonorrhoea, the Chinese population appeared to be more active in sum- mer than in winter, which was likely related to sociological factors and hormonal fluctuations. In China, workers from rural areas typically begin travelling to cities around March (after the Lunar New Year), and the large-scale rural-to-urban migration in China may exacerbate localised syphilis outbreaks . The study showed that rural-to-urban migrants had a higher sexual risk, with 31% having multiple sexual partners . A meta-analysis showed that the prevalence of STIs among the rural-to-urban migrants in China was significantly higher than among the gen- 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 10 www.jogh.org • doi: Notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China, 2006–22 SREPAP eral adult population, including AIDS, syphilis, and gonorrhoea . Therefore, the government needs to carry out safe sex education and strengthen screening for notifiable STIs before sum- mer among high-risk groups, including female sex workers, men who have sex with men, drug users, migrant workers and the elderly. Reducing the number of sexual partners and condom use are key factors in reducing the risk of STIs. It seems to have been pivotal to success in two coun- tries heralded for reversing their STIs epidemics, Thailand and Uganda. Thailand launches ‘100% condom,’ a collaborative program between local authorities and all ‘sexual entertainment estab- lishments,’ to reduce sexual transmission of STIs by ensuring condom use . The intervention also resulted in a significant decrease in the proportion of Thai men engaging in commercial and other casual sex . The A-B-C (abstinence, be faithful, use condom) HIV prevention strategy in Uganda encourages individuals to delay sexual intercourse, reduce casual sex, and increase the use of condoms. A 70% decline in HIV prevalence in Uganda since the early 1990s has been associated with a 60% reduction in casual sex . The Chinese government could encourage the reduction of casual sex and the provision of easy access to condoms. In addition, this study found that the lowest incidence of AIDS, gonorrhoea, syphilis in February. The possible reason was that most people were reluctant to seek medical help during the Lunar New Year (January or February). The monitoring system probably experienced delays during the Lunar New Year, which also explained the sudden increase in the number of reported cases of HIV, gonorrhoea and syphilis in March. In 1988, WHO declared 1 December of each year as ‘World AIDS Day.’ The
