SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


the sudden increase in the number of reported cases of HIV, gonorrhoea and syphilis in March. In 1988, WHO declared 1 December of each year as ‘World AIDS Day.’ The CDCs, schools and related organisations determined the theme of STI prevention and treatment around December each year, and promoted sex safety education activities to the public in China. It is suggested to implement interventions ahead of the summer, providing free condoms and testing reagents to the population, especially for high-risk groups, which may be conducive to the prevention of STIs. Sufficient quantities of penicillin (syphilis) and ceftriaxone (gonorrhoea) drugs should be stored in key provinces before June each year to meet the peak demand, and the remaining drugs are dispensed to primary health institutions for routine treatment to avoid expired waste after November. Between 2006–22, the incidence of AIDS, gonorrhoea, and syphilis in the Chinese mainland grad- ually showed a trend of spatial clustering, mainly in Southwest, East China, and West China. In 1985, China’s first AIDS case was found in Yunnan, and the first indigenous case was reported in Yunnan in 1989. Southwest China borders Southeast Asia, which is the main drug-producing region in the world. Injecting drugs were related to the early spread of AIDS in the Southwest . In the 1990s, the China Centre for Disease Control and Prevention launched the interven- tion project to promote safe sexual behaviour among commercial sex workers in Yunnan, leading to a decrease in AIDS cases. Studies have shown that Sichuan Province had the most significant influx of HIV/AIDS cases in China between 2016–18, and the cases mainly came from Guangdong, Chongqing, Zhejiang, Yunnan, and Fujian . The incidence of gonorrhoea in East China was likely influenced by various sociodemographic factors. Urban areas with high household income were more likely to have a higher incidence of gonorrhoea. More disposable income and business trips also enabled men to afford sexual services. Extramarital infections were the most common source of STIs . Due to the evolution of gender beliefs and behaviours, infections caused by extramarital sexual behaviour were constantly increasing . The research has shown that the passenger mobility rate can explain the high incidence of gonorrhoea more than population den- sity, which also indicates the floating population played an important role in the transmission of STIs . Some less developed areas, such as Tibet, may have limited early diagnosis capabil- ities. These
