SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


also indicates the floating population played an important role in the transmission of STIs . Some less developed areas, such as Tibet, may have limited early diagnosis capabil- ities. These undetected cases leaded to the continuous spread of the virus, who were discovered with the increase of health investment . The spatial distribution and clustering analysis of strengthen prevention and control measures. The Chinese government provided free antiretro- viral treatment to AIDS patients, which could effectively extend their lives. In these provinces with high case-fatality, the management and relief of AIDS patients may be insufficient, which should also be paid attention to while controlling the incidence. www.jogh.org • doi: 11 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 Xu et al. SREPAP This study has several limitations. First, according to the regulations of the China Centre for provinces is low, especially in less developed provinces in western China and rural areas, which may lead to an underestimation of infections. Some patients did not seek medical services. The reported annual incidence and mortality may be underestimated in some provinces. Like another passive reporting system, the underreport may be a potential bias in reporting, which should be acknowledged. But it’s still representative. It should be kept in mind that the reasons for the low mortality, whether due to underreporting or the real situation, should be explored. On the other hand, the incubation period of AIDS is relatively long, and the actual time of HIV infection is not available from surveillance data. This temporal discrepancy may obscure underlying seasonal trends. To address this limitation, future studies should incorporate active surveillance and data tracing of infection. Second, the population data used to calculate the incidence and mortality is the annual average population of the Chinese mainland, which may not take into account the impact of population mobility. Finally, due to data availability, this study only analysed the spa- tiotemporal distribution pattern of reported cases of STIs at the provincial level. Future research can focus on the following provincial administrative units to describe the diversity of notifiable STIs in the Chinese mainland. CONCLUSIONS This study shows that the incidence and mortality of notifiable STIs in Chinese mainland increased between 2006–22, with the rapid growth among young people, the elderly and males. The inci- dence of gonorrhoea and syphilis has significant seasonality in the Chinese mainland. The school can integrate interactive STIs education into compulsory curricula, leveraging anonymised
