SREPAP
KEYWORDS: incidence, china, syphilis, aids, doi, gonorrhoea, stis, medline, medline doi, seasonal, hiv, infections, panel, mortality, notifiable


the elderly and males. The inci- dence of gonorrhoea and syphilis has significant seasonality in the Chinese mainland. The school can integrate interactive STIs education into compulsory curricula, leveraging anonymised coun- selling platforms (e.g. WeChat mini-programs) to reduce stigma-driven delays in care-seeking. The government may consider incorporating community-based integrated screening (e.g. syph- ilis, HIV rapid tests) into routine chronic disease management at primary care centres. The gov- ernment needs to strengthen screening and carry out sex education on STIs among high-risk populations before summer. Sufficient quantities of penicillin (for syphilis) and ceftriaxone (for gonorrhoea) drugs should be stored in key provinces by June each year to meet the peak demand. The remaining drugs should be dispensed to primary health institutions for routine treatment to avoid expired waste after November. The government can focus on the Southwest, East China, and West China, where the incidence grew rapidly, to control the prevalence of STIs while pay- ing attention to the management and education of AIDS patients. Data availability: For more information, please contact the corresponding author. Funding: This study was funded by the Centre for Infectious Diseases and Policy Research & Global Health and Infec- sity), which was provided financial support by the Ministry of Education. The funders had no role in the study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the paper. No payment was received by any of the coauthors for the preparation of this article. Authorship contributions: QX, XZ, and FC conceptualised the study and produced the original figures. QX, XZ, TZ, and XC performed the methodology and analysis. SZ, MW contributed to the critical revision of the manuscript. FC and LQ provided administrative, technical, and material support, supervision and mentorship. All authors had full access to the data in the study, critically revised the manuscript for important intellectual content, and had final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication. All authors agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved. Disclosure of interest: The authors completed the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests. Additional material Online Supplementary Document 2025 • Vol. 15 • 04175 12 www.jogh.org • doi: Notifiable sexually transmitted infections in China, 2006–22 SREPAP 1 Workowski KA, Bachmann
