HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


etrasimod). In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests against using thiopurine monotherapy for induction of remission but suggests using thiopurine monotherapy over no treatment for maintenance of (typically corticosteroid-induced) remission. The AGA suggests against using methotrexate monotherapy, for induction or maintenance of remission. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests the use of infliximab, adalimumab and golimumab in combination with an immunomodulator over corresponding monotherapy. However, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of, or against the use, of non-TNF antagonist biologics in combination with an immunomodulator over non-TNF biologic alone. In patients with UC who are in corticosteroid-free clinical remission for at least 6 months on combination therapy of TNF antagonists and an immunomodulator, the AGA suggests against withdrawal of TNF antagonists, but makes no recommendation in favor of, or against, withdrawing immunomodulators. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, who have failed 5-aminosalicylates, and have escalated to therapy with immunomodulators or advanced therapies, the AGA suggests stopping 5-aminosalicylates. Finally, in adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC, the AGA suggests early use of advanced therapies and/or immunomodulator therapy, rather than gradual step-up after failure of 5-ASA. The panel also proposed key implementation considerations for optimal use of these medications, identified several knowledge gaps, and areas for future research. Conclusions: This guideline provides a comprehensive, patient-centered approach to the pharmacological management of patients with moderate-to-severe UC. Keywords Inflammatory bowel disease; network meta-analysis; evidence synthesis; positioning Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Ulcerative colitis (UC) affects nearly 2 million individuals in the United States and millions more worldwide1, 2. It has a protracted relapsing-remitting course with up to one fifth of patients requiring colectomy and a third requiring hospitalization for management of their disease3. Effective control of inflammatory activity is important to reduce disease-related morbidity. An important component of this effective control is an informed approach for therapy selection as first- or subsequent therapy. The past two decades have witnessed a significant expansion in the therapeutic armamentarium for moderate-to-severe UC. In the nearly two decades since the approval of the first biologic therapy (infliximab) for UC in 2005, there have been eleven additional advanced therapies approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe UC in the United States. Importantly, seven of these medications including two novel therapeutic classes, were approved since the publication of the most recent AGA guideline for
