HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


treatment of moderate-to-severe UC in the United States. Importantly, seven of these medications including two novel therapeutic classes, were approved since the publication of the most recent AGA guideline for treatment of moderate-to-severe UC in 20204. Two approved treatments addressed in prior guidelines (infliximab, vedolizumab) have also received approval for subcutaneous administration, and some drugs are available as biosimilars. Thus, the AGA prioritized updating the prior guidelines to provide recommendations for the pharmacological management of moderate-to-severe UC. Guideline Objectives and Scope These guidelines are intended to apply to patients with moderate-to-severe UC disease activity. This is conventionally defined based on the severity of rectal bleeding and diarrhea. According to the PRO2 patient-reported disease activity scale, a stool frequency (SF) score ≥2 and rectal bleeding (RB) score ≥2 suggests moderate-to-severe UC disease activity5. Endoscopically, moderate-to-severe UC is indicated by the presence of diffuse erythema, friability, erosions (Mayo endoscopic subscore 2) or spontaneous bleeding or ulcerations (Mayo endoscopic subscore 3). The objective of this guideline is to provide guidance for the pharmacological management of moderate-to-severe UC in outpatients. In addition to patients with moderate-to-severe symptoms, these recommendations are also intended to apply to patients with mildly active symptoms but prognostic signs that predict adverse disease course including high burden of inflammation with severe endoscopic disease activity, corticosteroid dependence or experience significant impact of disease on quality of life. These guidelines also apply to those with moderate-to-severe proctitis. The recommendations in these guidelines do not apply to hospitalized patients with acute severe ulcerative colitis. The AGA has developed these guidelines as Living Guidelines given rapid evolution in the field6. A living guideline is defined as one which allows for optimization of guidelines during the development process with updating of individual recommendations based on the availability of new evidence. Recommendations will only be made for treatments that have received regulatory approval for use in the United States or Europe. Target audience The target audience of these guidelines includes gastroenterologists, advanced practice Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript policy makers. These guidelines are meant to be broad recommendations for management of patients with moderate-to-severe UC and are not intended to address the intricacies of individual patients. Provider experience and patient values and preferences can inform treating providers and patients to reasonably choose alternative treatment options. METHODS Overview This document represents official recommendations from the
