HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


individual patients. Provider experience and patient values and preferences can inform treating providers and patients to reasonably choose alternative treatment options. METHODS Overview This document represents official recommendations from the AGA. It was developed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework for therapeutic strategies and adheres to best practices in guideline development, per the direction provided by the National Academy of Medicine7. The development of this document is fully supported by the AGA Institute. Guideline Panel Composition and Conflicts of Interest Members of the guideline panel were selected based on clinical and methodological expertise and experience, and after review of all conflicts of interest in a comprehensive vetting process. The multidisciplinary guideline panel included gastroenterologists with expertise in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and guideline methodologists. Panel members disclosed all conflicts of interest, which were defined and categorized per AGA policies and the National Academy of Medicine and Guidelines International Network standards7, 8. No guideline panel member was excused from participation in the process owing to disqualifying conflict. A full list of conflicts can be accessed at AGA’s National Formulation of Clinical Questions and Outcome Measurement (P), Intervention (I), Comparator (C), and Outcomes (O), the team finalized 12 questions to be addressed (Table 1). The AGA Governing Board approved the final set of questions and statements in September 2023. Consistent with AGA’s prior guidelines on the pharmacological management of moderate-to-severe UC4, induction and maintenance achieving endoscopic remission, endoscopic improvement, corticosteroid-free remission, serious adverse events, serious infections and treatment tolerability (drug discontinuation due to adverse events) were considered important outcomes. Clinical remission was most along with endoscopic disease activity9. Scores of 6–12 correspond to moderate-to-severe no individual subscore >1. In earlier trials, alternative cut-offs of MCS-defined remission and alternative disease activity indices such as Powell-Tuck index, Baron endoscopy score, Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in moderate-to-severe UC and thus was the primary outcome used to grade evidence and inform absolute and comparative treatment efficacy. Estimating Absolute Magnitude of Benefit To provide a synthesis of the risks and benefits of different interventions, and to calculate 15%. In trials of thiopurines which reported steroid-free remission as an outcome, pooled rates across placebo arms were used. For comparisons against no treatment, the guideline panel set a clinically meaningful difference (CMD) threshold of 10%, based on consensus. If the effect
