HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


pooled rates across placebo arms were used. For comparisons against no treatment, the guideline panel set a clinically meaningful difference (CMD) threshold of 10%, based on consensus. If the effect size was below this CMD threshold, then benefit was deemed to be trivial. For comparisons between two active therapies, the guideline panel set a CMD threshold of 5%, based on consensus i.e. we considered the difference between an active agent vs. comparator as ‘important’ if the absolute risk difference of achieving remission crossed the CMD threshold of >50 per 1000 patients treated (5%). Search Strategy, Study Selection Criteria and Data Abstraction A comprehensive search of Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, and Wiley Cochrane Library, using a combination of controlled vocabulary terms and relevant keywords (Supplementary Table 1), from inception to November 21, 2023, was conducted by an experienced medical librarian, with input from the guideline methodologist. The search was updated on September 1, 2024. In addition, we reviewed references of previous guidelines and consensus statements, conference proceedings and press releases on novel advanced therapies. Content experts provided insights into ongoing studies. All searches were limited to human subjects and English language. For evidence synthesis, RCTs conducted in adults with moderate-to- severe UC (corresponding to relevant PICOs) were included. If RCT-level evidence was not available for specific PICOs, then observational studies were considered to inform evidence. Due to the relatively recent approval of several of the medications under consideration, there is a paucity of real-world data regarding their use, both for effectiveness and safety outcomes. The minimum trial duration for induction and maintenance therapy was 4 weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. Efficacy trials exclusively in patients with Crohn’s disease (CD) were excluded (except for data on combination therapy and treatment de-escalation); if a trial included both patients with UC and CD, it was included only if results were stratified by disease type or if >70% participants had UC. Since safety outcomes are not well informed by RCTs, representative large cohort studies and high-quality systematic reviews/ meta-analyses were used to inform risk of serious infections and malignancy with different therapies. In addition, studies on issues of racial, ethnic, and social disparities and issues of general health equity pertinent to the topic were identified. Data abstraction was conducted in duplicate, independently, by two sets of investigators, with disagreements or questions of accuracy resolved by discussion and consensus. Statistical Analysis For trials of induction and maintenance
