HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


abstraction was conducted in duplicate, independently, by two sets of investigators, with disagreements or questions of accuracy resolved by discussion and consensus. Statistical Analysis For trials of induction and maintenance therapy, outcomes were abstracted and reported Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript remission (in patients with quiescent disease at trial entry), respectively. All analyses were conducted using true intention-to-treat analysis; patients lost to follow-up or excluded from analysis for other reasons were deemed to be treatment failures. Pooled relative risk (RR) or odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI), were calculated using the Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effects model (in the absence of conceptual heterogeneity and if <5 studies) or the DerSimonian-Liard random-effects model11. First, pooled relative risk estimates were derived from pooled clinical trials for each individual therapy; these risk estimates are influenced both by efficacy of individual therapies but also the placebo rates in each of these trials. These relative risk estimates were then applied to a standardized placebo rate that represented the pooled placebo rate across all Phase 2 and Phase 3 RCTs in moderate-to-severe UC. The absolute risk difference derived from this was then used to inform strength of evidence for efficacy for each treatment. Use of a pooled standardized placebo response rates minimizes the effect of variable placebo rates across each trial while still being informed by the efficacy of each treatment from the parent RCTs and enhances generalizability. This choice of pooled placebo rates is consistent with prior AGA guidelines for management of ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease and recommendations from GRADE. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I2 statistic12. Small study effects were examined using funnel plot symmetry and Egger’s regression test, though it is important to recognize that these tests are unreliable when the number of studies is <1013. Direct comparisons were performed using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis, v2.0. Due to a paucity of head-to-head trials of active agents, to inform comparative efficacy of different pharmacologic interventions, we performed network meta-analysis (NMA) using the frequentist approach, with the statistical package “netmeta” (version 9.0, project.org/web/packages/netmeta/index.html) in R (version 4.0.2). Details of the NMA are reported in the accompanying 2024 AGA Evidence Synthesis document on comparative efficacy of different advanced therapies for management of moderate-to-severe UC that has been co-published in the Journal. Certainty of Evidence The quality of evidence was judged using the GRADE framework14. Briefly,
