HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


of different advanced therapies for management of moderate-to-severe UC that has been co-published in the Journal. Certainty of Evidence The quality of evidence was judged using the GRADE framework14. Briefly, using this approach, evidence from RCTs starts at high quality, and evidence from observational studies starts at low quality evidence (Supplementary Table 2). This evidence can be further rated down for risk of bias in the evidence, indirectness, inconsistency, imprecision, and publication bias. In selected cases, particularly for observational studies, evidence may be rated up if a large treatment effect is observed, if there is a dose-response relationship or if all plausible confounding and bias would reduce a demonstrated effect or suggest a spurious effect if no effect was observed. Evidence profiles were developed for each intervention using the GRADEpro Guideline Development Tool ( For questions of comparative efficacy of different pharmacological interventions, we used GRADE approach for NMA. Details are reported in the accompanying 2024 AGA Evidence Synthesis document that has been co-published in the Journal. In this evaluation, we considered the difference between an active agent vs. comparator as ‘important’ if the absolute risk difference of achieving remission crossed the CMD threshold of >50 per 1000 patients treated (5%), and ‘trivial’ if the absolute risk difference was between 0 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript to 50 per 1000 patients treated. In utilizing NMA for evidence synthesis, we relied on direct evidence when it was available from head-to-head comparisons and provided at least moderate certainty evidence. If there were no direct comparisons between two interventions or if the evidence from direct comparisons was very low or low certainty evidence, then effect estimates from the NMA were used. O Translating Evidence to Recommendations Based on the GRADE Evidence-to-Decision framework, the guideline panel weighed the magnitude of and balance between the benefit and harms of interventions, patients’ values and preferences, and the domains of feasibility, acceptability, and resource requirements and the impact on health equity15. The panel reached a consensus for all guideline statements. The certainty of evidence and the strength of recommendation are provided for each or “conditional.” The phrase “we recommend” indicates strong recommendations and the phrase “we suggest” indicates conditional recommendations and provide the suggested policy makers (Table 2). In addition, the panel provided broad overarching, as well as recommendation-specific implementation considerations to provide context and
