HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


“we suggest” indicates conditional recommendations and provide the suggested policy makers (Table 2). In addition, the panel provided broad overarching, as well as recommendation-specific implementation considerations to provide context and facilitate experience and practice. Review Process This guideline was submitted for public comment and external peer review and was approved by the AGA Governing Board. The accompanying 2024 AGA Evidence Synthesis document focusing on comparative efficacy of different advanced therapies underwent conventional peer review. RECOMMENDATIONS A summary of all the recommendations is provided in Table 3 and discussed below. Broad overarching considerations for implementing these recommendations in clinical practice are discussed below and in Table 4. Figures 1 and 2 represent the clinical decision support tool for implementing these recommendations. Safety of Pharmacological Therapies for Moderate-to-Severe UC The guideline panel rated the safety of pharmacological therapies as an important but not critical outcome for decision-making. It is important to note that clinical trials are selective in enrollment, and often have short follow-up. Data from these trials are often not able to adequately assess the safety of different therapies. Hence, we reviewed large cohort studies and published systematic reviews and meta-analyses to understand comparative safety of different advanced therapies in patients with UC. In a systematic review and meta-analysis of 20 head-to-head studies comparing risk of infections between different advanced therapies for treatment of IBD, Solitano and colleagues observed that vedolizumab was associated with a 32% lower risk of serious infections compared with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists in patients with UC with minimal heterogeneity16. In patients Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with CD, ustekinumab was associated with 51% lower risk of serious infections compared with TNF antagonists, and 60% lower risk compared with vedolizumab. There have been limited comparative safety studies of new small molecule drugs including Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators in patients with IBD. In a US administrative claims-based study, Cheng et al. did not observe any significant difference in the risk of all- or serious infections between 305 patients with IBD treated with tofacitinib vs. 19,096 patients treated with TNF antagonists17. In contrast, in the large ORAL surveillance trial in older adults (≥50 years) with rheumatoid arthritis and at least one cardiovascular risk factor, tofacitinib was associated with a higher risk of serious and opportunistic infections compared with TNF antagonists18. There
