HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


adults (≥50 years) with rheumatoid arthritis and at least one cardiovascular risk factor, tofacitinib was associated with a higher risk of serious and opportunistic infections compared with TNF antagonists18. There are limited real-world data on safety of newer advanced therapies like S1P receptor modulators and interleukin (IL)-23 antagonists, particularly in patients with UC. Comparative safety studies of JAK inhibitors with non-TNF antagonist biologics are sparse. Across studies, most consistent risk factors for serious infections are disease-related (e.g., high disease activity, inadequate disease control, and need for corticosteroids and opioids), and individual patient-related (e.g., advanced age, frailty and comorbidities)17, 19–24. TNF antagonists have also been associated with increased risk of lymphoma and melanoma. In a French population-based study, Lemaitre and colleagues estimated the annual incidence of lymphoma in patients treated with TNF antagonist monotherapy vs. unexposed patients to be 0.41 per 1000 person-years vs. 0.26 per 1000 person-years; after adjusting for potential confounders, the risk of lymphoma was 2.4-times higher in patients treated with TNF antagonist monotherapy25. This risk was comparable to the risk observed in patients treated with thiopurine monotherapy. Patients exposed to combination therapy had six-fold increased risk of lymphoma, as compared to unexposed patients, and 2.3–2.5 times higher risk as compared to patients exposed to monotherapy with either agent. The FDA has issued a black box warning on the increased risk of malignancy with TNF antagonists (https:// www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2013/103772s5359lbl.pdf). Currently, there is a paucity of population-representative data to inform risk estimates related to malignancy for other classes of advanced therapies. Overall, the guideline panel felt that while advanced therapies, particularly TNF antagonists, JAK inhibitors and S1P receptor modulators, may be associated with increased risk of serious infections, the magnitude of increased risk is small for most patients with moderate- to-severe UC, and overall balance significantly favored benefits over harms with these agents for most patients. In addition, active disease and ongoing corticosteroid use to control symptoms are important determinants of safety outcomes; consequently the efficacy of treatments in achieving remission, particularly steroid free remission, is important in reducing overall likelihood of infections for patients. Where there are individual patient characteristics pertaining to treatment safety that may influence selection of therapy, they are discussed below. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 1: What is the efficacy of advanced therapies for induction and maintenance of remission in patients with
