HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 1: What is the efficacy of advanced therapies for induction and maintenance of remission in patients with moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis? Recommendations: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA recommends the use of infliximab, golimumab, vedolizumab, tofacitinib*, upadacitinib*, ustekinumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, risankizumab and guselkumab over no treatment. [Strong recommendation, moderate to high certainty of evidence] • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests the use of adalimumab, filgotinib* or mirikizumab over no treatment. [Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence] Implementation considerations: 1. JAK inhibitors (tofacitinib, filgotinib, upadacitinib) have restricted use in advanced therapy-naïve patients. The FDA label recommends the use of JAK inhibitors in patients with prior failure or intolerance to TNF antagonists. In Europe, the EMA recommends cautious use of JAK inhibitors as a first- line agent in patients at risk for adverse cardiovascular outcomes including age 65 years or older, current or previous long-term smokers, history of cardiovascular disease (such as heart attack or stroke), and patients with a history of cancer. 2. Biosimilars of infliximab, adalimumab, and ustekinumab can be considered equivalent to their originator drug in their efficacy in terms of therapy selection. 3. Subcutaneous formulations of infliximab and vedolizumab have shown comparable efficacy to the respective intravenous maintenance doses. 4. In patients, particularly those with severe disease, extended induction regimens (for up to 16 weeks) or dose escalation upon may be beneficial for certain agents. Summary and Certainty of Evidence The data examining the efficacy of advanced therapies against placebo was derived from 38 phase 2 or phase 3 RCTs of approved treatments for moderate-to-severe UC. This comprised 13 trials of TNF antagonists (5 infliximab26–29, 5 adalimumab30–33, 3 golimumab34–36), three trials of anti-integrins (3 vedolizumab37–39), one trial of ustekinumab40, five trials anti-IL23 antibodies (2 mirikizumab41, 42, 1 risankizumab43, 2 guselkumab44–46), five trials of S1P receptor modulators (2 ozanimod47, 48, 3 etrasimod49, 50), and eight trials of JAK inhibitors (3 upadacitinib51, 52, 3 tofacitinib53, 54, 2 filgotinib55). Of the included RCTs, the trials of ustekinumab, filgotinib, upadacitinib, ozanimod, etrasimod, mirikizumab, risankizumab and guselkumab were all new since the previous 2020 guideline evidence synthesis56. For infliximab and vedolizumab, new information since the 2020 guideline included efficacy of the subcutaneous formulations of each drug for maintenance of Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
