HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


the 2020 guideline included efficacy of the subcutaneous formulations of each drug for maintenance of Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript remission. For adalimumab, additional data on efficacy was available in the placebo controlled RCT comparing adalimumab and etrolizumab30. All trials were conducted in patients with moderate-to-severe UC and compared efficacy against placebo. Patient characteristics including severity were broadly comparable across all trials; however, later trials had a larger proportion of patients with multiple biologic failures prior to study entry. These are summarized in greater detail in the accompanying evidence synthesis document. Most trials provided information on both biologic-naïve and biologic-exposed patients except for trials of infliximab and golimumab which included only biologic-naïve patients. Trials of biosimilars (infliximab, adalimumab) or alternate modes of delivery such as subcutaneous injections (infliximab, vedolizumab) were also included when applicable. Data on the efficacy of each agent vs. placebo for induction and maintenance of clinical remission is shown in eFigures 1–13. The corresponding GRADE evidence profile with certainty of evidence for each agent is shown in Tables 5–9. Overall, upadacitinib was superior to placebo for inducing and maintaining clinical remission with high certainty of evidence. Infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, vedolizumab, tofacitinib, filgotinib, ustekinumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, mirikizumab, risankizumab and guselkumab were superior to placebo with moderate certainty of evidence. Benefits and Harms In order to make recommendations, it is critical to examine the benefits and harms of choosing an intervention over a comparator. Overall, given the multiplicity of treatments available for moderate-to-severe UC and the importance of making informed, evidence- based, and cost-effective choices, the panel established an CMD of 10% over placebo to suggest at least a moderate desirable effect with the intervention. Infliximab, golimumab, vedolizumab, ustekinumab, tofacitinib, ozanimod, etrasimod, risankizumab and guselkumab were deemed to have moderate desirable effect, whereas upadacitinib was deemed to have a large desirable effect (≥ 20%). In contrast, adalimumab, mirikizumab, and filgotinib were deemed to have trivial to small desirable effect over no intervention, since the magnitude of benefit was below the pre-specified CMD. All active interventions were deemed to have trivial undesirable effects relative to no intervention given the low risk of treatment-related serious adverse events with these therapies such as serious infections and malignancy. Importantly, the panel considered potential harms of no intervention to include risks associated with untreated disease which could negatively impact quality of life,
