HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


therapies such as serious infections and malignancy. Importantly, the panel considered potential harms of no intervention to include risks associated with untreated disease which could negatively impact quality of life, functional status and leads to greater need for corticosteroids, and themselves could increase the risk of serious infections and in some instances, malignancy such as colorectal cancer. The GRADE evidence-to-decision judgements for use of all advanced therapies over no intervention is shown in Table 10. Rationale and Implementation Considerations The panel surmised that patient characteristics were broadly similar across the clinical trials although the later clinical trials were more enriched with biologic-refractory patients. The panel recognized the heterogeneity in the response of placebo-treated patients across the trials which could affect the magnitude of relative risk reduction. Consequently, absolute risk Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript differences informing strength of evidence for each agent were made against a standardized placebo response rate that represented an average across trials. As noted earlier, in the implementation of the guideline recommendations, it is important to factor in patient-related factors to guide selection of therapy. These include assessment of patient risk for immunosuppression related complications including infections or prior malignancy, presence of extra-intestinal manifestations or other disease-complications that may influence therapy, and patient preference for route of administration. Three biosimilars for infliximab, ten for adalimumab, and one for ustekinumab have been approved for use for moderate-to-severe UC in the United States. In RCTs, switching from parent to biosimilar infliximab was not associated with higher rates of relapse57. In observational studies, most patients tolerated a switch to a biosimilar without an increase in loss of response or adverse events58, 59. Thus, patients newly starting, or on established therapy with, infliximab, adalimumab, or ustekinumab, treatment outcomes with originator or biosimilar in most situations may be comparable. There is no increase in the risk of immunogenicity because of this switch; existing drug assays are accurate in measuring biosimilar trough levels with therapeutic thresholds interchangeable with originator drug60. Subcutaneous formulations of infliximab and vedolizumab have been approved as maintenance therapy for patients with moderate-to-severe UC. Phase 3 RCT enrolled patients with moderate to severely active UC to receive open-label infliximab biosimilar (CT-P13) 5mg/kg intravenously at weeks 0, 2, and 661. Responders were randomized to receive either CT-P13 120mg subcutaneous (SC) or placebo every 2 weeks for up to
