HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


open-label infliximab biosimilar (CT-P13) 5mg/kg intravenously at weeks 0, 2, and 661. Responders were randomized to receive either CT-P13 120mg subcutaneous (SC) or placebo every 2 weeks for up to (43.2%) compared to placebo (20.8%). The VISIBLE 1 trial examined the efficacy of SC vedolizumab following 2 intravenous (IV) induction doses to standard IV maintenance therapy with vedolizumab or placebo62. At week 52, the rates of remission were similar with SC vedolizumab (46.2%) and IV vedolizumab (42.6%) and higher than placebo (14.3%). Real-world experience suggests high acceptability and comparable effectiveness with switching from intravenous to subcutaneous formulations63. The guideline panel felt that subcutaneous formulations of infliximab and vedolizumab are acceptable alternatives to intravenous maintenance therapy for most patients. Dosing considerations should be factored in for patients with severely active disease, high body mass index and those on dose-escalated regimens. Emerging data suggest that in some patients, particularly those with severe disease, an extended induction regimen is necessary to improve rates of clinical response particularly with JAK inhibitors. Among patients who did not respond to the 10mg twice daily (BID) 16 following extended induction with 10mg BID dosing for an additional 8 weeks64. Of who failed to respond to the initial 8-week induction regimen with upadacitinib 45mg/day responded to an additional 8 weeks of induction therapy65. Over half of these patients Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript mirikizumab showed benefit in patients with incomplete response to the first three weeks induction dosing66. Patients, particularly those with severe disease, may also require maintenance therapy at a higher dose. In a study of de-escalation of tofacitinib to the 5mg BID maintenance dose, approximately 29% of patients who were de-escalated required an increase in dose back to 10mg BID with clinical response re-capturable in only 63% of patients67. Similarly in the OCTAVE trials, 25% patients who were de-escalated were not able to remain in remission on the lower maintenance dose68. Thus, a subset of patients may require being maintained at a higher dose. Since some of the risk of adverse effects associated with tofacitinib, particularly shingles and VTE are greater at the higher dose, it is important to monitor such patients carefully for these events and adopt preventive strategies to minimize their risk. Q2. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC who are NAÏVE TO ADVANCED THERAPIES, what is comparative efficacy of different advanced
