HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


these events and adopt preventive strategies to minimize their risk. Q2. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC who are NAÏVE TO ADVANCED THERAPIES, what is comparative efficacy of different advanced therapies? Recommendations: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC who are naïve to advanced therapies, the AGA suggests using a HIGHER efficacy medication (infliximab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, upadacitinib*, risankizumab, guselkumab) OR an INTERMEDIATE efficacy medication (golimumab, ustekinumab, tofacitinib*, filgotinib*, mirikizumab), rather than a LOWER efficacy medication (adalimumab). [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Implementation considerations: 1. Individual patient factors (e.g., age, comorbidities, frailty, pregnancy, adherence) and preferences (e.g., route of administration, ease of access) should be incorporated within a shared decision framework in selection of advanced therapies. 2. JAK inhibitors have restricted use in advanced therapy-naïve patients. The FDA label recommends the use of JAK inhibitors in patients with prior failure or intolerance to TNF antagonists. In Europe, the EMA recommends cautious use of JAK inhibitors as a first-line agent in patients at risk for adverse cardiovascular outcomes including age 65 years or older, current or previous long-term smokers, history of cardiovascular disease (such as heart attack or stroke), and patients with a history of cancer. JAK inhibitors may be associated with higher risk of major adverse cardiovascular events and cancer than TNF-antagonists in older adults with cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, prior cardiovascular disease). 3. Vedolizumab and anti-interleukin therapies may be associated with a lower rate of infectious complications than TNF-antagonists. They may be preferred in patients who may be at higher risk of immunosuppression-related infections or malignancies. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. There is limited data on the safety of JAK inhibitors and S1P receptor modulators in pregnancy. These drugs should be avoided in women of childbearing age contemplating pregnancy. Summary and Certainty of Evidence The positioning of therapies is a critical component of management of moderate-to-severe UC. Recognizing the paucity of head-to-head trials, the panel relied on NMA to inform comparative efficacy of different agents. The accompanying evidence synthesis document summarizes in detail the results of the NMA. Briefly summarizing the results of the NMA for induction of clinical remission in patients with moderate-to-severe UC who are naïve to advanced therapies, several pair-wise comparisons between two active treatments met the a priori threshold for superiority (CMD ≥5%). Infliximab has a possibly important benefit in achieving
