HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


who are naïve to advanced therapies, several pair-wise comparisons between two active treatments met the a priori threshold for superiority (CMD ≥5%). Infliximab has a possibly important benefit in achieving remission compared with adalimumab, mirikizumab, tofacitinib, and filgotinib with a low certainty of evidence. Golimumab, similarly, has possibly important benefit over adalimumab, filgotinib, and tofacitinib, with a low certainty of evidence. Vedolizumab achieves a possibly important benefit compared with adalimumab (including from the head- to-head VARSITY trial38) and tofacitinib with a low certainty of evidence. Ozanimod demonstrated a possibly important benefit over adalimumab, mirikizumab, tofacitinib, and filgotinib while etrasimod demonstrated a possibly important benefit over filgotinib, with a low certainty of evidence. Risankizumab likely has important benefit compared with filgotinib with moderate certainty evidence and possibly important benefit compared with adalimumab, ustekinumab, mirikizumab and tofacitinib. Guselkumab demonstrated a possibly important benefit over adalimumab, mirikizumab, tofacitinib and filgotinib with low certainty of evidence. Upadacitinib demonstrated a likely important benefit over infliximab, adalimumab, vedolizumab, ustekinumab, mirikizumab, etrasimod, tofacitinib and filgotinib with moderate certainty of evidence, and possibly important benefit over golimumab and ozanimod with a low certainty of evidence. Analyses of endoscopic improvement after induction showed findings broadly consistent with induction of clinical remission. It was difficult to compare the efficacy of treatments for maintenance of clinical remission through a NMA approach because of heterogeneity in the trial design. The only head-to-head trial was the VARSITY trial where 769 patients with moderate-to-severe UC were randomized to receive either vedolizumab (n=383) or adalimumab (n=386)38. At week (31.3%) compared to adalimumab (22.5%). Corticosteroid-free remission rates, however, were higher with adalimumab (21.8%) compared to vedolizumab (12.6%). On NMA of treat-straight-through trials, etrasimod demonstrated likely important benefit over infliximab and possibly important benefit over adalimumab. Benefits and Harm No significant differences in the risk of infections and serious adverse events between different agents in previous network meta-analyses of clinical trials16. In observational studies, vedolizumab was associated with a lower risk of serious infections compared with TNF antagonists in patients with UC69, 70; there was paucity of evidence for comparative safety of other agents. Thus, they may be preferred among agents of Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript similar efficacy in patients particularly vulnerable to infectious complications such as the older frail adult or those with recent malignancy, excluding non-melanoma skin cancers. Specific safety considerations regarding
