HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


Author Manuscript similar efficacy in patients particularly vulnerable to infectious complications such as the older frail adult or those with recent malignancy, excluding non-melanoma skin cancers. Specific safety considerations regarding pregnancy and lactation are discussed in the implementation consideration below. Overall, the panel established a CMD of 5% over an active intervention to suggest at least a moderate desirable effect with the intervention relative to the comparator; for most comparisons, this risk difference was between 5– 15%. Only upadacitinib was deemed to have a large desirable effect exceeding 20% for comparisons against infliximab, adalimumab, vedolizumab, ustekinumab, mirikizumab, etrasimod, tofacitinib and filgotinib. The panel deemed that even though there may be small differences in the relative risk of adverse events with different medications, the overall magnitude of these undesirable effects with all medications was trivial. Hence, decision-making for recommendations was driven primarily by comparative efficacy, rather than safety, in most instances. Rationale and Implementation Considerations With the availability of multiple drugs within a class for several therapeutic mechanisms, there are emerging data suggesting differences in efficacy even within a therapeutic class. Consequently, the panel made recommendations specific to individual drugs rather than to classes. Rather than relying only on active comparisons showing important benefit over a comparison through NMA, the guideline panel took a more pragmatic and holistic approach to create ‘efficacy buckets’ that grouped together treatments with similar magnitude of treatment benefit. The efficacy buckets were informed by magnitude of absolute risk difference (over placebo) in the Phase 3 RCTs as well as comparative efficacy in the NMA. Treatments were generally considered high efficacy if they demonstrated a CMD ≥5% in direct or network head-to-head comparison (if no direct evidence available), a p-score in the NMA of 0.49 or higher, and an absolute benefit of ≥15% over placebo in phase 3 RCT among biologic-naïve patients. Recognizing several medications have only recently been approved and there is paucity of real-world evidence on their absolute and comparative effectiveness, the panel took a more conservative approach on creating efficacy buckets. Applying the above criteria, the guideline panel classified infliximab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, upadacitinib, risankizumab and guselkumab as high efficacy medications while golimumab, ustekinumab, tofacitinib, filgotinib and mirikizumab were labeled moderate efficacy medications, and adalimumab was rated as having lower efficacy. The panel debated the relative weight of efficacy during induction and maintenance phases to inform comparative effectiveness and relative positioning. Given the recognized
