HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


adalimumab was rated as having lower efficacy. The panel debated the relative weight of efficacy during induction and maintenance phases to inform comparative effectiveness and relative positioning. Given the recognized adverse impact of corticosteroid therapy and the importance of achieving steroid free remission early as a treatment endpoint, the panel prioritized the relative efficacy of treatments in achieving clinical remission at the end of the induction as primary determinant of relative positioning of treatments. However, patients and providers may reasonably select medications based on strength of maintenance efficacy, particularly in the setting of other patient- or disease-factors (such as comorbidity) that may influence treatment choice. The panel recognized the varying recommendations for use of JAK inhibitors as first-line treatment in different regions of the world. In the United States, the FDA label recommends use of JAK inhibitors in patients with prior failure or intolerance to TNF antagonists. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript In Europe, the EMA recommends cautious use of JAK inhibitors as a first line agent in patients at risk for adverse cardiovascular outcomes including age ≥ 65 years, current or previous long-term smokers, history of cardiovascular disease (such as heart attack or stroke), and patients with a history of cancer. Restriction for use of JAK inhibitors first line is largely informed by data from the ORAL Surveillance study18. This study compared the safety of tofacitinib (5mg or 10mg BID) to TNF-antagonist therapy among patients with rheumatoid arthritis aged 50 years or older who also had cardiovascular risk factors (such as prior cardiovascular disease or smoking cigarette smoker [current or past], hypertension, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of <40 mg per deciliter, diabetes mellitus, family history of premature coronary heart disease, extraarticular rheumatoid arthritis, or history of coronary artery disease). In this cohort, over a median follow up of 4 years, patients using tofacitinib, particularly at the 10mg BID dose, had a higher risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) including venous thromboembolism and cancer. In regions where JAK inhibitors may be used as first line therapy in biologic-naïve patients, upadacitinib can be considered a high-efficacy medication while tofacitinib and filgotinib are considered moderate-efficacy medications. In patients at high risk of MACE, JAK inhibitors should be used cautiously. For patients who desire an oral route of administration, an S1P receptor modulator or JAK inhibitor may be a preferred
