HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


high risk of MACE, JAK inhibitors should be used cautiously. For patients who desire an oral route of administration, an S1P receptor modulator or JAK inhibitor may be a preferred therapeutic agent. Large prospective registries have demonstrated that maternal use of TNF antagonists or other biologics during pregnancy is not associated with a significant increase in risk of adverse pregnancy or early childhood outcomes71, 72. While there is limited data on newer anti-IL23 inhibitors (mirikizumab, risankizumab, guselkumab), it can be reasonably expected that their safety profile during pregnancy will be similar to ustekinumab. In contrast to above, there is a paucity of data on small molecule treatments including JAK inhibitors and S1P receptor modulators with animal data suggesting potential adverse pregnancy effects at doses much higher than used for treatment of IBD73. Thus, in women of childbearing age actively contemplating pregnancy, we recommend avoiding JAK inhibitors and S1P receptor modulators and selecting an alternate therapeutic option when possible. The relative positioning of different therapies was informed primarily by comparative efficacy in inducing clinical remission which was defined by the panel a priori as a critical outcome of interest. The panel recognized that other patient-important endpoints including and hospitalization as well as objective outcomes such endoscopic and histologic healing are important treatment goals for moderate-to-severe UC. The heterogeneity in trial designs (responder re-randomization or treat-straight-through) prevented robust comparisons for treatments for longer-term endpoints. Where data were available, relative efficacy for maintenance endpoints was broadly consistent with induction data. Similarly, data on achievement of endoscopic improvement were also consistent with clinical remission endpoints. There was lack of systematic reporting of other endpoints particularly for older clinical trials that precluded using such data to inform relative positioning. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Q3. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC who have been EXPOSED TO ADVANCED THERAPIES, what is the comparative efficacy of different advanced therapies? Recommendations: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC who have previously been exposed to one or more advanced therapies, particularly TNF antagonists, the AGA suggests using a HIGHER efficacy medication (tofacitinib, upadacitinib, ustekinumab) OR an INTERMEDIATE efficacy medication (filgotinib, mirikizumab, risankizumab, guselkumab), rather than a LOWER efficacy medication (adalimumab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod). [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Implementation considerations: 1. Individual patient factors (e.g., age, comorbidities, frailty, pregnancy, adherence) and preferences (e.g., route of administration,
