HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


efficacy medication (adalimumab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod). [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Implementation considerations: 1. Individual patient factors (e.g., age, comorbidities, frailty, pregnancy, adherence) and preferences (e.g., route of administration, ease of access) should be incorporated within a shared decision framework in selection of advanced therapies. 2. Vedolizumab and anti-interleukin therapies may be associated with a lower rate of infectious complications than TNF-antagonists. They may be preferred in patients who may be at higher risk of immunosuppression-related infections or malignancies. 3. There is limited data on the safety of JAK inhibitors and S1P receptor modulators in pregnancy. These drugs should be avoided in women of childbearing age contemplating pregnancy. 4. JAK inhibitors may be associated with higher risk of major adverse cardiovascular events and cancer than TNF antagonists in older adults with cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, prior cardiovascular disease). 5. Lower-efficacy medications may require longer duration of treatment for response in patients with multiple prior biologic failures. 6. While there is no direct RCT evidence, observational studies demonstrate that infliximab and golimumab are effective in inducing remission in patients with prior exposure to advanced therapies. Summary and Certainty of Evidence The body of evidence for comparative effectiveness of individual therapy in patients exposed to advanced therapies is summarized in the accompanying NMA. There was a single head-to-head randomized trial (VARSITY) comprising a small number (21%) of previously biologic-exposed patients comparing vedolizumab and adalimumab in moderate- to-severe UC38. This trial noted no difference between the two agents in maintaining for relative positioning was informed by the NMA as well as direct evidence from Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the Phase 2 and Phase 3 RCTs. In this synthesis, tofacitinib, filgotinib, upadacitinib, ustekinumab, mirikizumab, risankizumab and guselkumab demonstrated likely important benefit in achieving clinical remission compared with no treatment with a moderate certainty of evidence. Amongst active comparisons, upadacitinib likely has important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab, filgotinib, etrasimod, mirikizumab, risankizumab and guselkumab with a moderate certainty of evidence, and possibly important benefit over ozanimod. Tofacitinib also demonstrated likely important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab, and etrasimod, and possible important benefit over ozanimod and mirikizumab with a low certainty of evidence. Ustekinumab demonstrated a likely important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, and mirikizumab with a moderate certainty of evidence. Risankizumab was associated with possibly important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab and etrasimod
