HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


demonstrated a likely important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, etrasimod, and mirikizumab with a moderate certainty of evidence. Risankizumab was associated with possibly important benefit over adalimumab, vedolizumab and etrasimod with a low certainty of evidence. Guselkumab was associated with likely important benefit over adalimumab with moderate certainty of evidence, and possibly important benefit over vedolizumab and etrasimod with low certainty of evidence. Notably, there was no RCT for infliximab or golimumab in patients with prior exposure to biologics. Benefits and Harms The comparative safety of individual therapeutic agents is discussed above in Questions 1 and 2 and “Safety of Pharmacological Therapies” section. Overall, the panel established a clinically meaningful difference (CMD) ≥5% over an active intervention to suggest at least a moderate desirable effect with the intervention relative to the comparator; for most comparisons, this risk difference was between 5–10%. Tofacitinib, upadacitinib and ustekinumab demonstrated large desirable effect exceeding 30% for relevant comparisons. The panel deemed that even though there may be small differences in the risk of adverse events with different medications, the overall magnitude of these undesirable effects with all medications was trivial. Importantly, while observational studies suggest lower risk of serious infection with vedolizumab compared with TNF antagonists, inadequate disease control is also associated with increased risk of infections23. In these instances, any potential safety benefit of more targeted advanced therapies must be balanced against differences in treatment efficacy. This is particularly relevant for biologic-exposed patients where safer drugs (such as vedolizumab) were rated lower in efficacy than other, less-targeted mechanisms. Rationale and Implementation Considerations The panel recognized differences in treatment efficacy between drugs within the same therapeutic class. Consequently, recommendations were made specifically for drugs rather than by therapy class. As in the biologic-naïve population, rather than relying only on active comparisons showing important benefits over a comparator in an NMA, the guideline panel took a more pragmatic and holistic approach to create ‘efficacy buckets’ that grouped together treatments with similar magnitude of treatment benefit. The efficacy buckets were informed by magnitude of absolute risk difference (over placebo) in the Phase 3 RCTs as well as comparative efficacy in the NMA. Treatments were generally considered high- efficacy if they demonstrated a CMD of ≥5% or greater in direct or network head-to-head comparisons (if no direct evidence available), a p-score in the NMA of 0.49 or higher, Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01.
