HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


greater in direct or network head-to-head comparisons (if no direct evidence available), a p-score in the NMA of 0.49 or higher, Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and an absolute benefit of >10% over placebo in Phase 3 RCTs among biologic-exposed patients. Based on these criteria, tofacitinib, upadacitinib, and ustekinumab were considered higher-efficacy medications, filgotinib, mirikizumab, risankizumab and guselkumab were considered intermediate-efficacy medications while adalimumab, vedolizumab, ozanimod, and etrasimod were considered lower-efficacy medications in biologic-exposed patients with moderate-to-severe UC. The panel recognized several considerations for the interpretation of data in the biologic- exposed patients. Of the studies that examined efficacy in biologic-exposed patients, >90% patients had exposure to TNF antagonists. Up to half the patients in the later treatment trials were also exposed to vedolizumab or other therapeutic mechanisms. Given this, no recommendations could be made for patients who had specifically failed only prior non- TNF advanced therapies. Recommendations were also made broadly for biologic-exposed patients, but the number of prior biologic failures may impact treatment efficacy. In the Phase 3 randomized trial of ozanimod against placebo, ozanimod was significantly more effective than placebo in achieving clinical remission with rates of 23% (vs 7%) and 17% (vs. 8%) in biologic-naïve and single biologic-exposed patients. In contrast, in patients who had been on ≥2 biologics previously, ozanimod was no more effective than placebo (4% exposed patients, with all differences being greater than placebo74. Thus, in patients with benefit for treatments in the lower-efficacy category. As noted above, there are limited data on use of JAK inhibitors or S1P receptor modulators during pregnancy. Thus, other agents should be preferred over them where possible in women contemplating pregnancy. These decisions should be made on an individual case-by-case basis recognizing the impact of uncontrolled disease on fertility and pregnancy outcomes and using personalized risk-benefit thresholds. The differences in trial designs between the various agents precluded our ability to compare efficacy in maintaining clinical remission or endoscopic improvement to inform positioning. There are no RCTs that examined infliximab or golimumab in patients with prior biologic exposure. However, observational studies have demonstrated effectiveness of both these agents in this setting and it is reasonable to consider them in patients with prior TNF antagonist exposure, particularly those who discontinued prior therapy due to intolerance and/or immunogenicity75, 76. Question 4. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, what
