HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


consider them in patients with prior TNF antagonist exposure, particularly those who discontinued prior therapy due to intolerance and/or immunogenicity75, 76. Question 4. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, what is the efficacy of immunomodulator monotherapy (thiopurines, methotrexate) for induction and maintenance of clinical remission? Recommendations: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests AGAINST using thiopurine monotherapy for induction of remission. [Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence] Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC in remission, the AGA suggests using thiopurine monotherapy, rather than no treatment, for maintenance of remission, typically induced by corticosteroids. [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests AGAINST using methotrexate monotherapy, for induction or maintenance of remission. [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Summary and Certainty of Evidence Since the last guideline published in 2020, we identified one new RCT comparing mercaptopurine to placebo for achieving corticosteroid-free remission at 52 weeks77. In this trial, patients with active UC despite 5-ASA were randomized 1:1 to therapeutic drug monitoring-guided mercaptopurine vs. placebo for 52 weeks; all patients received corticosteroids for the first 8 weeks. The primary endpoint of corticosteroid-free clinical remission was achieved by 14/29 patients treated with mercaptopurine compared to 3/30 patients treated with placebo. Including this trial, we identified four trials comparing thiopurines to placebo and two trials comparing thiopurines to 5-ASA for inducing corticosteroid free remission. In four out of six trials, patients were considered corticosteroid-dependent, unable to taper corticosteroids below 10–20mg/day without used in these studies, and the outcome of corticosteroid-free remission was assessed at variable intervals from 4 weeks to 52 weeks. In patients with active disease, patients were started simultaneously on thiopurines and corticosteroids, and it was unclear whether remission was induced by corticosteroids or thiopurines or the combination of both. Thiopurines were associated with a higher rate of achieving corticosteroid-free clinical remission compared to placebo or 5-ASA (RR, 1.41; 95% CI, 0.91–2.18) (eFigure 14). However, the overall quality of evidence was deemed very low, due to serious risk of bias, imprecision, and indirectness (outcome definition and assessment) (Table 11). On limiting analysis to studies where outcome was assessed 26 weeks or greater, thiopurines were associated with a higher rate of corticosteroid-free clinical remission compared to placebo or 5-ASA (RR, 2.62; 95%
