HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


analysis to studies where outcome was assessed 26 weeks or greater, thiopurines were associated with a higher rate of corticosteroid-free clinical remission compared to placebo or 5-ASA (RR, 2.62; 95% CI, 0.99–6.96). Since the last guideline published in 2020, we did not identify any new RCTs examining the efficacy of thiopurines in preventing relapse in patients with quiescent UC56. For maintenance of remission, we identified four trials comparing thiopurines to placebo and three trials comparing thiopurines to 5-ASA. Maintenance of remission was defined as prevention of relapse following corticosteroid-induced remission (5 trials) or as the ability to maintain a corticosteroid-free remission in patients on long-standing thiopurine therapy (2 trials), evaluated between 6–18 months. On meta-analysis, thiopurines were more effective than placebo or 5-ASA for decreasing risk of disease relapse (RR, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.49–0.77) among patients with inactive UC (in remission) (eFigure 14). There was low certainty of evidence due to risk of bias and imprecision (Table 11). Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Since the last guideline published in 2020, we did not identify any new RCTs examining the efficacy of methotrexate for induction or maintenance of remission in patients with UC56. Two trials compared methotrexate to placebo and one trial compared methotrexate to 5-ASA for induction of remission. In the METEOR trial, all patients were on 10–40mg/day of corticosteroids with or without active disease. The primary outcome was corticosteroid-free remission between weeks 12–30. On meta-analysis, there was no significant difference in rates of inducing remission with methotrexate compared to placebo (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.89–1.94) (eFigure 15). The certainty of evidence was rated as very low due to very serious indirectness (different dosing regimens and modes of administration, variable definition corticosteroids or methotrexate), and serious imprecision (Table 12). For maintenance of remission, two trials compared methotrexate to placebo and one compared methotrexate to 5-ASA. Similar to induction, there was no difference between methotrexate and placebo or 5-ASA for maintenance of remission (RR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.79–1.29) (eFigure 15). The certainty of evidence was rated as very low due to serious indirectness, and very serious imprecision (Table 12). Benefits and Harms Short- and long-term side effects of thiopurines and methotrexate are well-recognized including risk of bone marrow suppression, hepatotoxicity (including liver fibrosis with long-term use of methotrexate), non-melanoma skin cancer and lymphoma, especially with thiopurines78. Besides the direct
