HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


and methotrexate are well-recognized including risk of bone marrow suppression, hepatotoxicity (including liver fibrosis with long-term use of methotrexate), non-melanoma skin cancer and lymphoma, especially with thiopurines78. Besides the direct risks associated with these therapies, risks associated with use of ineffective therapies and delay in initiation of more effective therapies also need to be considered when evaluating potential harms of intervention. Rationale and Implementation Considerations Thiopurines have a slow onset of action, so they have conventionally been used as maintenance agents rather than as induction agents. In the trials of thiopurine therapy in patients with active UC, outcomes were usually assessed 26 weeks or beyond (in 4 trials), in contrast to more recent trials and clinical practice of induction therapy where response to induction therapy is generally assessed within 8–12 weeks. Real-world cohort studies have confirmed the effectiveness of thiopurines in maintaining steroid-free remission and reducing the risk of colectomy in patients with UC79. Thiopurines are inexpensive and convenient to take as oral medications and may be particularly useful for maintaining long-term remission in resource-limited settings. Methotrexate, particular subcutaneous dosing, may be effective for inducing and maintaining remission in patients with CD; the reason for its lack of efficacy in patients with UC is not well understood. Of note, in the contemporary era of advanced therapies, recruitment to trials of methotrexate was challenging with METEOR recruiting 111 patients over 6 years (2007–13) and MERIT-UC recruiting 84 patients over 5 years (2012–16). Question 5: In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, what is the efficacy of combination therapy with immunomodulator (thiopurines, Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript methotrexate) and TNF antagonists in comparison to TNF antagonists alone for induction and maintenance of clinical remission? Recommendations: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests the use of infliximab in combination with an immunomodulator over infliximab or an immunomodulator alone. [Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence] • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests the use of adalimumab or golimumab in combination with an immunomodulator over adalimumab, golimumab or immunomodulator monotherapy. [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Summary and Certainty of Evidence We did not identify any new RCT that provided direct evidence for combination immunomodulator-TNF antagonist therapy in moderate-to-severe UC since the last guideline56. The UC-SUCCESS trial provides direct evidence for this recommendation80. This RCT randomized patients with
