HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


that provided direct evidence for combination immunomodulator-TNF antagonist therapy in moderate-to-severe UC since the last guideline56. The UC-SUCCESS trial provides direct evidence for this recommendation80. This RCT randomized patients with moderate-to-severe UC to receive infliximab alone (n=77), azathioprine alone (n=76), or a combination of both agents (n=78). At week 16, the primary endpoint of corticosteroid-free clinical remission was achieved by 39.7% of patients receiving combination therapy compared to 22.1% of infliximab treated patients and 23.7% of azathioprine treated patients. A higher rate of mucosal healing was observed in the combination therapy group (62.8%) compared to infliximab (54.6%) or azathioprine (36.8%). This translated to an absolute difference in clinical remission rate of 170 per 1000 for combination therapy compared to infliximab alone (Table 13) and 159 per 1000 for combination therapy compared to immunomodulator alone (Table 14). Benefits and Harms In the UC-SUCCESS trial, there was no difference in the rate of serious infections between the combination therapy group compared to those receiving infliximab monotherapy (OR, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.01–7.86). In observational studies, there was a higher risk of lymphoma with combination therapy when compared to TNF antagonist monotherapy. In a national study from France, the risk of lymphoma was higher in patients receiving combination therapy compared to TNF-antagonist monotherapy (HR, 2.53; 95% CI, 1.35– 4.77) or thiopurine monotherapy (HR, 2.35; 95% CI, 1.31–4.22)25. Thus, the increase in efficacy with combination therapy must be balanced against the risk of therapy-related adverse events. Patients, particularly with more moderate (rather than severe) disease, may reasonably elect to use TNF antagonist monotherapy over combination therapy balancing risks and benefits. Rationale and Implementation Consideration In addition to direct evidence from the UC-SUCCESS study, indirect evidence in support of combination therapy is also derived from moderate-to-severe CD. In the landmark SONIC trial of immunomodulator-naïve patients with CD, a combination of azathioprine and Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript infliximab therapy was associated with higher rates of corticosteroid-free clinical remission at week 26 compared to those receiving infliximab or azathioprine alone80. While the COMMIT trial did not demonstrate benefit of methotrexate added to infliximab in patients with CD, patients receiving combination therapy had a higher infliximab trough level and lower rates of anti-infliximab antibody positivity81. Thus, it is reasonable to infer, given their similar broad mechanisms of immunosuppression, that there is an additive benefit to use
