HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


trough level and lower rates of anti-infliximab antibody positivity81. Thus, it is reasonable to infer, given their similar broad mechanisms of immunosuppression, that there is an additive benefit to use of methotrexate in combination with TNF antagonists. There are less direct data demonstrating the benefit of combination therapy with adalimumab or golimumab. In the DIAMOND trial, a combination of azathioprine and adalimumab treatment was associated with higher rates of endoscopic response compared with adalimumab monotherapy82. Given similar rates of immunogenicity across the different TNF antagonists, we extrapolated the benefit of combination therapy to all agents within this class. It has been hypothesized that achieving adequate biologic trough levels may reduce the need for combination therapy in patients receiving TNF antagonist therapy83. This has not been examined prospectively. Similarly, there may be greater benefit to combination therapy in patients genetically predisposed to developing anti-drug antibodies to TNF antagonists84. Question 6: In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, what is the efficacy of combination therapy with immunomodulator (thiopurines, methotrexate) and non-TNF antagonist biologic agents (vedolizumab, ustekinumab, mirikizumab, risankizumab, guselkumab) in comparison to non-TNF antagonist biologic (vedolizumab, ustekinumab, mirikizumab, risankizumab) monotherapy for induction and maintenance of clinical remission? Recommendation: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of, or against the use, of non-TNF antagonist biologics in combination with an immunomodulator over non-TNF antagonist biologic alone. [No recommendation, knowledge gap] Summary and Certainty of Evidence Since the last guideline in 2020, multiple observational studies and indirect evidence from one randomized trial provided evidence for this recommendation. In a multi-center study of patients with IBD initiating vedolizumab or ustekinumab, there was no difference in remission rates at one year between those on combination therapy vs. monotherapy85. A meta-analysis that included 33 studies (6 RCT and 28 cohort studies) identified no difference CI, 0.68–1.05) or ustekinumab (OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 0.87–1.38)86. In contrast to this data, in the VIEWS trial that randomized patients with UC on combination vedolizumab and thiopurine treatment to continuation of dual therapy or withdrawal, cessation of thiopurine was associated with no difference in clinical relapses (p=0.12) but a modestly higher fecal calprotectin (p=0.003) and lower rates of histologic remission (p=0.03)87. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Benefits and Harms There are limited data on the safety of combination immunomodulator and non-TNF antagonist biologic therapy. Subgroup
