HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Benefits and Harms There are limited data on the safety of combination immunomodulator and non-TNF antagonist biologic therapy. Subgroup analyses from RCTs as well as data from observational studies do not suggest an increase in risk of serious infections or malignancy with combination therapy for non-TNF antagonist biologic therapy. However, these studies have mostly lacked longer-term follow-up data. Rationale and Implementation Considerations Mechanistically, there are several reasons why combination therapy may be less necessary with non-TNF antagonist biologic therapies. First, both vedolizumab and anti- interleukin agents have lower immunogenicity than TNF antagonists88, 89. In addition, for vedolizumab, receptor saturation is already noted at low trough saturations. However, immunomodulators may have an independent benefit especially for preventing relapse. Adding immunomodulators to non-TNF antagonist biologics, particularly in patients who are naïve to immunomodulators, may possibly be beneficial. Besides efficacy, the guideline panel also reviewed that there is an increase in risk of infections and malignancy (lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancers) with thiopurine use. In view of the limited and conflicting data, the guideline panel identified this area as a knowledge gap to be informed by further studies. Question 7: In patients in steroid-free remission on combination therapy of TNF-antagonist + immunomodulator, is (a) discontinuation of immunomodulator or (b) discontinuation of TNF antagonist, superior to continuation of combination therapy? Recommendations: • In patients with UC who are in corticosteroid-free clinical remission for at least 6 months on combination therapy of TNF antagonists and an immunomodulator, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of withdrawing immunomodulators or continuing combination therapy. [No recommendation, knowledge gap] • In patients with UC who are in corticosteroid-free clinical remission for at least 6 months on combination therapy of TNF antagonists and an immunomodulator, the AGA suggests AGAINST withdrawal of TNF antagonists. [Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence] Summary and Certainty of Evidence Several RCTs and observational studies have examined the impact of withdrawal of thiopurine therapy in patients on combination immunomodulator and biologic therapy. A systematic review by Katibian et al. summarized the impact of withdrawal of immunomodulators in patients with IBD receiving combination therapy90. A total of 8 RCTs comprising 733 patients were identified; three-quarters of the patients in the studies had CD. Most studies required patients to be in sustained corticosteroid-free remission for at least 6 months prior to attempting drug withdrawal. Compared to
