HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


of the patients in the studies had CD. Most studies required patients to be in sustained corticosteroid-free remission for at least 6 months prior to attempting drug withdrawal. Compared to patients continuing Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript combination therapy, there was no increase in risk of relapse among patients stopping combination therapy (16.8% vs. 14.8%; RR, 1.15; 95% CI, 0.75–1.76) (eFigure 16). The overall certainty of evidence was rated as very low, due to serious risk of bias, indirectness since most patients in these trials had Crohn’s disease and very serious imprecision (Table 15). In contrast to immunomodulator cessation, cessation of TNF antagonists in patients on combination therapy is associated with a two-fold increase in risk of relapse compared with continuing combination therapy (31.5% vs. 11.2%; RR, 2.35; 95% CI, 1.38–4.01) (eFigure 17). The overall certainty of evidence was rated as very low, due to serious risk of bias, indirectness since most patients in these trials had Crohn’s disease and serious imprecision due to low number of events (Table 15). In the STORI trial in CD, nearly 80% of patients ceasing TNF antagonist therapy experienced a disease relapse requiring re-initiation of the biologic within 7 years after treatment cessation91. Benefits and Harms As outlined in the section above, combination therapy with an immunomodulator and TNF antagonist is associated with an increase in risk of infections and lymphoma when compared to monotherapy with either agent alone. Any benefit of combination therapy should be weighed against a potential increase in risk of treatment-related adverse outcomes. Rationale and Implementation Considerations The guideline panel used data from both CD and UC to inform this recommendation as it was felt that the likely expected outcomes are similar across diseases and conclusions can be extrapolated. Most clinical trials of therapy discontinuation examined outcomes with less than two years of follow-up; the panel recognized that the clinical impact of treatment discontinuation may need to be viewed over a longer time horizon. In three trials, infliximab trough concentrations at the end of trial were lower and proportion of patients with antibodies to infliximab was higher in patients who underwent immunomodulator withdrawal vs. those who continued combination therapy. Whether the lower trough level on withdrawal would result in increased rates of clinical relapse with longer follow-up is unknown. In contrast, in the DIAMOND2 trial, mean adalimumab trough
