HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


therapy. Whether the lower trough level on withdrawal would result in increased rates of clinical relapse with longer follow-up is unknown. In contrast, in the DIAMOND2 trial, mean adalimumab trough concentration and anti-adalimumab antibody positivity rate was not different between patients who had immunomodulator withdrawal compared with those who continued combination therapy82. Recognizing the gaps in data and the need for longer follow-up, the panel made no recommendation in favor of or against withdrawal of immunomodulators in patients on a combination of TNF antagonist and immunomodulators. In patients with moderate (as opposed to severe) disease, on their first biologic, long-duration of remission, or at higher risk for treatment related adverse effects of infection or malignancy (such as older adults), it may be reasonable to consider discontinuation of IMM therapy after 12–18 months while continuing TNF antagonist use. It is important to measure TNF antagonist trough levels prior to immunomodulator withdrawal. Patients with higher trough levels are more likely to maintain clinical remission following immunomodulator withdrawal than patients with borderline or low TNF antagonist levels92. It is also important to closely monitor for disease after therapy withdrawal). Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 8. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, is upfront use of advanced therapies and/or immunomodulator therapy superior to step- up therapy (acceleration to advanced therapies and/or immunomodulator therapy only after failure of 5-aminosalicylates) for inducing and maintaining remission? Recommendation: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, the AGA suggests early use of advanced therapies with or without immunomodulator therapy, rather than gradual step up after failure of 5-aminosalicylates. [Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence] Comment: Patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who place higher value on the safety of 5-ASA therapy, and lower value on the efficacy of immunosuppressive therapies, may reasonably choose gradual step therapy with 5-ASA therapy. Summary and Certainty of Evidence Since the last guideline published in 2020, we did not identify any new RCTs comparing a strategy of upfront use of advanced therapies and/or immunomodulator therapy vs. step-up therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe UC. We also did not identify any trials comparing the efficacy of advanced therapies vs. 5-ASA for patients with moderate- to-severe UC. There are three trials that compared thiopurines in this population93–95. Based on a meta-analysis of these studies, patients treated with thiopurines achieved higher rates of
