HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


patients with moderate- to-severe UC. There are three trials that compared thiopurines in this population93–95. Based on a meta-analysis of these studies, patients treated with thiopurines achieved higher rates of corticosteroid-free clinical remission compared to patients treated with 5-ASAs. In the UC-SUCCESS trial, while infliximab was not more efficacious than achieving endoscopic improvement80. By extension, advanced therapies would be more effective than 5-ASA for induction of remission in patients with moderate-to-severe UC. It is important to note that 5-ASAs are not indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe UC and have been approved for mild-to-moderate UC. Based on this indirect evidence, it follows that delaying treatment of moderate-to-severe UC with advanced therapies or immunomodulators to treat with 5-ASA drugs may be detrimental, both because 5-ASAs may not work as primary therapy and because use of these drugs will introduce a treatment delay impairing quality of life and increasing risk of complications. Based on serious indirectness of the evidence with unclear estimates of magnitude of benefit, we rated the certainty of evidence as very low. Benefits and Harms Risks associated with advanced therapies or immunomodulator therapy have been outlined earlier and may be greater than those associated with 5-ASA therapy. However, these risks should be interpreted in the context of risks of UC-related complications, including colectomy, hospitalization, and persistent disease activity resulting in inferior quality of life, if step-up therapy is used. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Rationale and Implementation Considerations Inadequately controlled UC is associated with an increased risk of colectomy, hospitalization, corticosteroid use, and long-term risk of colorectal cancer. UC is a progressive disease that can result in bowel damage96. Hence, risk-congruent therapy is warranted to minimize risk of short- and long-term complications. Unfortunately, prediction models to identify patients at high risk of complications or ‘disease severity’ indices have not been well-validated. Ideally, evidence regarding top-down vs. step-up therapy would be best informed by a pragmatic RCT comparing outcomes in patients assigned to risk-congruent therapy vs. conventional management. In the absence of these data, based on indirect evidence, it is likely that step-up therapy using 5-ASAs first, particularly in patients on the more severe side of the disease spectrum with more severe disease, may be detrimental. Question 9. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis failing 5-aminosalicylates, who are now to be treated with immunomodulators or advanced therapies,
