HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


spectrum with more severe disease, may be detrimental. Question 9. In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis failing 5-aminosalicylates, who are now to be treated with immunomodulators or advanced therapies, is continuing 5-ASAs superior to stopping the 5-ASAs for inducing and maintaining remission? Recommendation: • In adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe UC, who have failed 5-ASAs, and have escalated to therapy with immunomodulators or advanced therapies, the AGA suggests stopping 5-ASAs. [Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence] Implementation considerations: 1. A subset of patients who have significant but not complete response with advanced therapies or immunomodulators may benefit from ongoing 5-ASAs to achieve remission. This may be particularly important for patients with residual proctitis who may benefit from adding rectal 5-ASA. 2. The independent benefit of long-term 5-ASAs in preventing colorectal cancer in patients with IBD has not been robustly demonstrated. Summary and Certainty of Evidence Since the last guideline published in 2020, we did not identify any new RCTs directly addressing withdrawal of 5-ASA therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe UC being treated with immunomodulators or advanced therapies. Mantzaris et al. randomized patients remission on azathioprine and olsalazine, to either continuing azathioprine and olsalazine (0.5mg thrice daily) or azathioprine alone97. Over the course of two years, there were no observed differences in risk of relapse severe enough to merit corticosteroid use (RR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.77–1.34). To examine whether concomitant 5-ASA impacts treatment response with advanced therapies, we updated our prior approach, conducting a pooled analysis of individual patient- Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript level data of RCTs of advanced therapies in patients with moderate-to-severe UC. By design, all patients in these trials had moderate to severely active disease, despite prior or concomitant 5-ASA exposure. The patients in these trials had to maintain their baseline medications, so they could not stop or start 5-ASA during the trial. Across ten RCTs with 6,044 patients, 4,134 patients received concomitant 5-ASA at baseline and maintained stable dose throughout the induction period. Compared with patients not receiving 5-ASA, patients receiving concomitant 5-ASA were slightly older, more likely to be non-White, more likely to have moderate endoscopic activity, have shorter disease duration, slightly lower C-reactive protein, and more likely to be biologic-naïve. Subsequently, we compared the relative risk of active intervention vs. placebo in patients who were vs. not on concomitant 5-ASA during the
