HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


C-reactive protein, and more likely to be biologic-naïve. Subsequently, we compared the relative risk of active intervention vs. placebo in patients who were vs. not on concomitant 5-ASA during the trial, using extended modified Poisson regression model with studies being considered as clusters. The model contained main effects of drug, exposure or non-exposure to concomitant 5-ASA, their product term, and confounders including prior biologic exposure, endoscopic severity at baseline, race, disease extent, baseline CRP, fecal calprotectin, hemoglobin, albumin, concomitant corticosteroids and smoking status. After those on concomitant 5-ASA vs. no concomitant 5-ASA was 1.04 (95% CI, 0.78–1.39), suggesting no treatment effect modification. The overall certainty of evidence supporting lack of benefit of continuing vs. stopping 5-ASAs in patients with moderate-to-severe UC being treated with advanced therapies, after prior exposure to and failure of 5-ASA, was rated as low. Evidence was rated down due to imprecision and indirectness (Table 16). Benefits and Harms 5-ASAs are generally safe medications, with very low rates of idiosyncratic serious or life-threatening complications98. There are rare reports of allergic interstitial nephritis, pancreatitis, pericarditis, myocarditis, and pneumonitis. Continuing 5-ASA may add pill burden and contribute to high cost of care. Rationale and Implementation Considerations We relied on a combination of direct evidence in patients on thiopurines, and indirect evidence in patients treated with advanced therapies, to determine the efficacy of continuing vs. stopping 5-ASA in patients who escalate therapy after failing 5-ASA. Due to the concomitant 5-ASAs on longer-term risk of disease-related complications including surgery and development of colorectal neoplasia. Large observational studies have suggested no difference in the risk of adverse clinical outcomes between patients who continue vs. stop 5-ASA after starting advanced therapies or immunomodulators99–101. The guideline panel acknowledged that there may be a subset of patients with UC who have improved, but not achieved remission, with advanced therapies and who continue to experience mild to moderate symptoms due to residual proctitis – these patients may benefit from continuing or adding rectal 5-ASA. The guideline panel also acknowledged that one proposed benefit of long-term 5-ASA use is potential chemoprevention effect against colorectal cancer, but this remains unproven. While large observational studies and meta-analyses have variably suggested that UC patients treated with 5-ASA have lower risk of developing colorectal cancer, recent evidence suggests that chronically active disease is a strong risk factor for Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
