HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


of developing colorectal cancer, recent evidence suggests that chronically active disease is a strong risk factor for Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript developing neoplasia, and sustained remission is a protective factor against colorectal cancer regardless of therapy used that achieves this outcome102. Knowledge Gaps The guideline panel identified several knowledge gaps that need to be addressed in future studies. • There was a paucity of head-to-head comparison trials in moderate-to-severe UC. As more treatment options become available, it is important, in addition to comparison against placebo, that these trials include a range of active comparators to accurately inform positioning of different treatments and therapeutic mechanisms. • With the availability of multiple therapeutic options, it is likely that many treatment-exposed patients may have received treatments other than TNF antagonists. There is a gap in the literature regarding the efficacy of different therapies in the setting of failure or intolerance to non-TNF-antagonist advanced therapy. This may be particularly relevant to drugs that may have a greater overlap in their therapeutic mechanisms (for example, anti-trafficking agents). Additionally, it is important that efficacy based on prior exposure from RCTs should report out separate strata of prior exposure (both single and multiple biologics as well as type of prior advanced therapy). Observational studies are also important to address this gap in a real-world setting. • The panel recognized the importance of treatment outcomes beyond clinical remission in the management of moderate-to-severe UC. However, there was significant heterogeneity in the time point and endpoint ascertained between the different clinical trials. As endpoints begin to incorporate endoscopic and histologic healing, consistency in reporting outcomes across trials will be important to inform relative positioning. However, it will remain a challenge to compare older trials that may not have assessed this outcome or differed in their study design. • The panel recognized that future selection of therapy may be based by predictive how such models can inform treatment selection in the real-world setting. There is clearly a need for identifying biomarkers predictive of response to individual therapies, to facilitate optimal choice of therapies. Ongoing research efforts using multi-omic platforms using serum, stool and tissue specimens have potential to inform biomarkers predictive of response to specific therapies. Once these are strategies vs. usual care could provide guidance on appropriate management strategies. • Shared decision-making is an important process
