HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, evidence, therapy, risk, manuscript author, remission, efficacy, therapies, moderate-to-severe, advanced, trials, combination


to inform biomarkers predictive of response to specific therapies. Once these are strategies vs. usual care could provide guidance on appropriate management strategies. • Shared decision-making is an important process in selecting the management strategy for management of moderate-to-severe UC. Different therapies have distinctive risk-benefit profiles with varying balance of treatment efficacy vs. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 December 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript risk of treatment-related side effects. In addition, different patients based on treatment-related complications. Accurate and validated risk prediction models to accurately identify patients at high risk of disease- vs. treatment-related complications, and how different treatments modify these risks, is vital to know and communicate effectively to patients. Pairing this information with patients’ values and preferences would facilitate shared decision-making, as the treatment landscape rapidly evolves in this field. • The panel also recognized that there may be several novel therapeutic strategies that may be applied in the coming years including combination advanced therapy or episodic use of non-immunogenic advanced therapies such as small molecules. Further primary data are required to accurately inform the positioning of such strategies. Living Guidelines Updating plan Recognizing the rapid evolution of drug development and transforming treatment strategies, the AGA will update relevant recommendations from these guidelines by periodic review of evidence every six months. The evidence reviewed will include availability of Phase 3 or Phase 4 efficacy data for new treatments, treatment strategies or existing treatments, as well as significant new safety concerns informing treatment positioning. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Acknowledgement: We gratefully acknowledge the assistance of Ms. Caitlin Bakker with the search and identification of relevant studies. We gratefully acknowledge Drs. Shahnaz Sultan, Osama Altayar and Mohammad Hassan Murad for guidance on implementing GRADE for network meta-analysis Funding sources: These guidelines were fully funded by the AGA Institute. Dr. Singh is supported by NIDDK R01DK13593701A1 and CDC U01DP006745-01. Dr. Agrawal is supported by NIDDK K23DK129762. Dr. Ananthakrishnan is supported by R01 DK127171, in addition to grants from the Leona M and Harry B Helmsley Charitable Trust and the Chleck Family Foundation.
