The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


Western countries. In 2005, the International Diabetes Federation realized the global importance of diabetic foot disease and chose to focus their campaign during the whole year on raising awareness with a worldwide campaign to “put feet first” and highlight the common problem of amputation amongst diabetic patients throughout the world. To coincide with World Diabetes Day 2005 (November 14, birth date of Frederick Banting), the Lancet elected to dedicate a whole issue to diabetic foot problems ( 1 ). In this chapter, the global term “diabetic foot” refers to the variety of pathological conditions that might affect the feet in patients with diabetes. Foot ulcers are defined as lesions involving a skin break with loss of epithelium: they can extend into the dermis and deeper layers sometimes involving bone and muscle. Amputation is defined as “the removal of a terminal, non-viable portion of the limb”. The lifetime risk of a person with diabetes developing a foot ulcer (DFU) has been estimated to be as high as 34% ( 2 ). The suffering of affected individuals and the cost of DFUs are both equally staggering. Those individuals with DFUs usually have other complications of diabetes including nephropathy: data from the UK and the USA confirmed that the outlook for those people with foot complications who are on dialysis is very poor with a high mortality risk ( 1 - 3 ). Data from our group confirm that those people with diabetes who have had an amputation and who are on dialysis have a 75% two-year mortality; the majority of these were of cardiovascular etiology. Data such as these are worse than most malignant diseases, with the possible exception of lung and pancreas. There is therefore an urgent need for preventative strategies to reduce the incidence of foot complications amongst those with diabetes. With respect to costs, in 2008 Rogers et al ( 4 ) reported that in the US $18 billion was spent on the care of DFUs and US $11.7 billion on lower extremity amputations. More recently, data from the UK in 2019 suggest that a conservative estimate of the annual cost of diabetic foot problems exceeds UK £900 million which represents approximately 1% of the total budget of the National Health Service ( 5 ). The importance of regular diabetic foot care in very high-risk patients is emphasized by an observational study from Arizona where the State decided to
