The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


National Health Service ( 5 ). The importance of regular diabetic foot care in very high-risk patients is emphasized by an observational study from Arizona where the State decided to remove routine podiatry from high-risk patients to reduce their health budget. This led to an annual saving of US $351,000 but the cost of this action measured by increased hospitalization, length of stay, and amputations was $16.7 million ( 6 ). This chapter will include a discussion on the epidemiology of foot problems including foot ulceration, amputations, and Charcot neuroarthropathy (CN). The etiopathogenesis will then be described and aspects of management of neuropathic, neuroischemic, and infected DFUs considered. The question of how to address primary and secondary prevention of diabetic foot problems will then be discussed followed by a section on Charcot neuroarthropathy. For more detailed discussion, the reader is referred to review articles on these topics ( 2 , 7 - 9 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY OF THE DIABETIC FOOT The study of the epidemiology of diabetic foot disease has been beset by numerous problems relating to both diagnostic tests used, and population selected. However, there is little doubt that foot complications are common. In the UK, the North West Diabetes Foot Care Study (a community-based study of over 15,000 people) reported that the annual incidence of foot problems amongst the population with diabetes was just under 2% ( 10 ), with similar results having been reported from the Netherlands. Similarly, when discussing amputations, the figures vary widely again due to diagnostic criteria as well as regional differences. It must be remembered that many individuals at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes have significant neuropathy: in the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study, for example, 13% of patients at diagnosis had neuropathy of sufficient severity to put them at risk for foot ulceration ( 7 ). With respect to ethnicity, studies from the UK suggest that foot ulcers and amputations appear to be less common in Asians of Indian sub-continental origin and Afro-Caribbean men. In contrast, reports from the USA suggest that amputation rates are more common amongst African-Americans with diabetes than amongst white Americans. Similarly, ulceration is much more common in Hispanic Americans and native Americans than in non-Hispanic whites ( 2 ). More recently, reviews have confirmed the importance of healthcare inequities in diabetic foot disease: race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geography are powerful mediators of risk for DFU and lower-extremity
