The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


). More recently, reviews have confirmed the importance of healthcare inequities in diabetic foot disease: race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geography are powerful mediators of risk for DFU and lower-extremity amputation ( 2 , 11 ). ETIOPATHOGENESIS OF DIABETIC FOOT ULCERATION The foot does not break down spontaneously and in this section, the many warning signs that the feet are at risk of breakdown will be discussed. This was recognized by Elliott Joslin almost 90 years ago when he stated that “diabetic gangrene is not heaven-sent but is earth-borne” ( 12 ). It was previously believed that neuropathy, vascular disease, and infection were the main causes of ulceration: it is now recognized that infection occurs as a consequence of ulceration, and is not a cause thereof. There are many contributory factors to foot ulceration, the most important of which are diabetic neuropathy and peripheral arterial disease (PAD). These and other causative factors are listed in table 1 . Table 1. Risk Factors for Foot Ulceration View in own window Peripheral neuropathy Somatic Autonomic Peripheral arterial disease Proximal and/or distal disease Past history of foot ulcers/amputation Other long-term complications End-stage renal disease (especially on dialysis) Post-transplant (including pancreas/kidney transplant) Visual loss Plantar callus Elevated foot pressures Foot deformity Edema Ethnic background Poor social background More common contributory factors shown in bold. Diabetic Neuropathy Although the association between both somatic and autonomic neuropathy and foot ulceration has been recognized for many years, it is only in the last 20 years that prospective studies have confirmed these assumptions ( 2 , 8 , 10 ). It has been reported that the risk of developing the first foot ulcer is seven-fold higher in those with moderate to severe sensory loss compared with non-neuropathic diabetic individuals ( 13 ). Additionally, poor balance and instability as a consequence of loss of proprioception have been confirmed and are also likely contributory factors not only to foot ulceration, but also to Charcot neuroarthropathy (CN) ( 2 , 7 , 14 , 15 ). Sympathetic autonomic neuropathy in the lower extremity leads to reduced sweating and dry skin that is prone to crack and fissure, and as well, in the absence of PVD, to increased blood flow, arterio-venous shunting, and the warm foot. As will be discussed later, simple clinical tests may be used to identify the high-risk neuropathic foot ( 16 ). Most important in the identification of
