The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


and the warm foot. As will be discussed later, simple clinical tests may be used to identify the high-risk neuropathic foot ( 16 ). Most important in the identification of the high-risk neuropathic foot is good clinical observation and removal of the shoes and socks, with careful inspection of the feet as part of the routine follow up of all patients with diabetes. Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) A two-center study of causal pathways to foot ulceration reported that peripheral ischemia was a causal component in the pathway to ulceration in 35% of cases ( 17 ). In many Western countries, there has been an increase in the percentage of foot ulceration in which ischemia is a contributory factor ( 18 ). It is well recognized that patients with diabetes are more prone to distal arterial disease, which may be associated with a poorer outcome. A detailed discussion of PAD in diabetes is outside the scope of this chapter and readers are directed to reviews on this topic ( 19 , 20 ). A large follow-up study from Australia has confirmed that the strongest predictors of development of PAD in type 2 diabetes include microvascular complications (particularly macroalbuminuria and photocoagulation for retinopathy ( 21 )). Other Risk Factors Of all the risk factors for foot ulceration ( table 1 ), the most important is a past history of ulceration and/or amputation ( 2 ). In some series, the annual recurrence rate is up to 50%. Other Long-term Complications Those with other late complications particularly nephropathy, have an increased ulcer risk. Visual disturbance as a consequence of retinopathy is a confirmed risk factor; it is easy to understand why this should be. Those patients with sensory loss, particularly large fiber dysfunction, have poor balance and rely on vision as a secondary protective factor. Thus, those who have had for example extensive laser therapy and also have loss of proprioception, are at great risk of foot injury particularly when walking on uneven surfaces and in the hours of darkness. A strong association between end-stage renal disease and foot ulceration has been emphasized in a number of studies. The temporal association between the start of dialysis treatment and foot ulceration was first confirmed by Game et al ( 22 ). A study comprising patients from both the US and the UK subsequently reported a very high prevalence of foot pathology in patients on dialysis,
