The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


Game et al ( 22 ). A study comprising patients from both the US and the UK subsequently reported a very high prevalence of foot pathology in patients on dialysis, with 46% of patients having past or present foot ulceration and 18% were already amputees ( 23 ). The same group later confirmed that being on dialysis is an independent risk factor for foot ulceration in patients with diabetes ( 3 , 24 ). As noted above, preliminary data from the same group suggests that those patients who have already undergone amputation and who are on dialysis have a two-year mortality of up to 75%. It must also be remembered that patients post-renal transplant or even post-simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplant remain at very high risk of developing foot complications. There have been a number of reports of both foot ulceration and Charcot neuroarthropathy occurring in patients post-SPK ( 25 ). Theoretically, such subjects are “non-diabetic” but they remain at high risk because they invariably have a dense sensorimotor and autonomic peripheral neuropathy. They should remain under annual review and be coded as ‘diabetes in remission’. Plantar Callus Plantar callus forms under weight-bearing areas as a consequence of the dry skin (autonomic neuropathy), insensitivity, and repetitive moderate stress from high foot pressures. Callus itself acts as a foreign body and can cause ulceration in the insensate foot. Elevated Foot Pressures Numerous studies have confirmed the contributory role that abnormal plantar pressures play in the pathogenesis of foot ulceration ( 1 , 2 , 7 ). Most studies used sophisticated techniques such as pedobarography to assess foot pressures, but these are not required in day-to-day clinical practice. Foot Deformities A combination of motor neuropathy, cheiro-arthropathy, and altered gait pressures is thought to result in the “high-risk” neuropathic foot with clawing of the toes, prominent metatarsal heads, high arch, and small muscle wasting. Demographics In Western countries, the male sex has been associated with a 1.6-fold increased risk of foot ulcers ( 10 ). There is an increased risk of foot ulceration with increasing age and duration of diabetes. Psychosocial Factors There have been a few studies of psychosocial factors in the pathway to foot ulceration and it appears that patients’ behavior is not driven by the abstract designation of being “at risk”; it is driven by patients’ perception of their risk ( 26 ) . Thus, if a patient does not believe
