The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


not driven by the abstract designation of being “at risk”; it is driven by patients’ perception of their risk ( 26 ) . Thus, if a patient does not believe or understand that a foot ulcer lies on the path from neuropathy to amputation, are they likely to follow educational advice on how to reduce neuropathic ulcers? Moreover, a prospective study has confirmed that depression predicts first, although not recurrent, diabetic foot ulcers ( 27 ) . THE PATHWAY TO FOOT ULCERATION IN DIABETES As discussed and outlined in Figure 1 , the pathway to ulceration is indeed complex and involves an interaction of numerous factors. Whereas none of the factors listed in the last section will alone result in ulceration, it is the interaction and combination of risk factors working together that leads to skin breakdown. In the prospective study of Reiber et al, 63% of all foot ulcers resulted from a combination of neuropathy, deformity, and trauma: in Western countries, the commonest cause of trauma is ill-fitting footwear ( 17 ). It must be remembered that as those with neuropathy have reduced sensory input, they will commonly be unable to feel the fit of a shoe until the pressure from the shoe is quite high. Thus, people with neuropathy frequently choose shoes that are too small. All such individuals should be advised to have their feet measured prior to the purchase of any “off the shelf” footwear. Other simple examples of two risk factors working together in the pathway to ulceration are neuropathy and mechanical trauma (a common scenario is a neuropathic individual with a foreign body in the shoe), neuropathy and thermal trauma (holidays are particularly dangerous), and neuropathy and chemical trauma (such as inappropriate use of over-the-counter chemical corn treatments which should never be used in those with neuropathy). In summary, whereas neuropathy was present in four out of five cases of new foot ulcers in the Reiber study ( 17 ), as noted above, the combination of neuropathy and ischemia is becoming more common in Western countries, and neuro-ischemic ulcers are the commonest type seen in 2023 in diabetic foot clinics. FOOT ULCERATION DFUs are common, associated with much morbidity and even mortality but should be eminently preventable. It used to be believed that diabetic foot ulcers were difficult to heal: this is not true: a foot ulcer will heal if it is permitted to
