The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


be eminently preventable. It used to be believed that diabetic foot ulcers were difficult to heal: this is not true: a foot ulcer will heal if it is permitted to do so and this requires attention to three factors- A That there is adequate arterial inflow to the foot. B That any infection is appropriately and aggressively managed. C That all pressure is removed from the wound and its margins. Figure 1. Pathways to Diabetic Foot Ulceration. Despite increased knowledge of the pathogenesis and treatment of diabetic foot ulcers in recent years, it is still the third point, offloading the wound, that is poorly adhered to by health care professionals. Many forget that those with a neuropathic or neuroischemic ulcer have “lost the gift of pain”. That pain is a gift which is only realized when it is lost, as first described by Dr Paul Brand when studying leprosy ( 28 ). However, before going into more detail on management, it is important to classify wounds appropriately in order to guide therapeutic management. CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETIC FOOT WOUNDS Accurate and concise ulcer description and classification systems are required to improve multidisciplinary collaboration and communication, as well as for aiding treatment choices. For many years, the Meggitt-Wagner grading system was regarded as the gold standard. One problem with this system is that the ischemic status of the wound is not included. Thus, a number of new classification systems for diabetic foot wounds have been proposed and validated over the last 20 years. A commonly used system in the United States is the University of Texas Wound Classification System ( 29 ). This incorporates the Meggitt-Wagner grades but also enables the practitioner to stage the wound with respect to the presence or absence of infection and/or ischemia ( Figure 2 ). In a comparative prospective study across two Centers, one in the UK and one in the US, the University of Texas Classification System was shown to be superior to the Meggitt-Wagner system at predicting outcomes ( 30 ). However, this study also showed that the traditional Meggitt-Wagner system was itself generally accurate in predicting outcomes. Most recently, the WIFI (Wound Ischemia, Foot Infection) classification was introduced and is the most commonly used today in the USA, particularly in vascular clinics. This was developed and validated as a method to assess three variables – the wound, level of ischemia and the presence
