The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


used today in the USA, particularly in vascular clinics. This was developed and validated as a method to assess three variables – the wound, level of ischemia and the presence and severity of foot infection – to predict the risk of amputation ( Figure 3 ) Figure 2. The University of Texas Wound Classification System. Figure 3. WIFI system. Wound, Ischemia, and Foot Infection (WIfI) Classification of Limb Threating diabetic foot disease, tissue loss, ischemia, and infection frequently overlap. However, one is frequently more dominant than the other at different times in the life cycle of an acute-on-chronic event. Here, the amount of tissue loss, ischemia, and foot infection can be ordinally graded to help predict outcome and assist in communicating a plan of action. a A higher score on the WIfI scale is associated with lower extremity amputation and morbidity and can be used to determine the need for revascularization. WIfI scores of 1, 2, 3, and 4 were associated with 1-year amputation rates of 0%, 8%, 11%, and 38%, respectively. Figure from JAMA 2023 Jul 3;330( 1 ):62-75 with permission. EVALUATION OF THE DIABETIC FOOT ULCER Clinical evaluation of the foot wound should include a detailed description of the site, size, and depth of the wound. The neuropathic and vascular status of the wound should then be assessed (for details see below). In general, neuropathic ulcers typically occur in the warm but insensate foot, often under pressure bearing areas, and are surrounded by callus. In contrast, ischemic wounds tend to occur in the cool, poorly perfused foot, and are often at lateral fifth metatarsal head regions or the medial first metatarsal head regions. In a predominantly ischemic wound, callus tissue is uncommon. In a neuroischemic wound, the morphology will depend upon the predominance of each of these two pathologies. The correct identification of the degree of ischemia is of the utmost importance when evaluating a wound. If the foot is cool with impalpable pulses, then non-invasive Doppler ultrasound studies are indicated. Conventional methods of assessing tissue perfusion in the peripheral circulation may not be entirely reliable in patients with diabetes. For example, the Ankle Brachial Pressure Index, which is routinely used to screen for PAD in individuals without diabetes, may well be falsely elevated in the those with diabetes because of medial arterial calcification. Toe pressure indices may therefore be more reliable. Peripheral Arterial Disease A detailed discussion
