The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


diabetes, may well be falsely elevated in the those with diabetes because of medial arterial calcification. Toe pressure indices may therefore be more reliable. Peripheral Arterial Disease A detailed discussion of vascular procedures is outside the scope of this review, although any person being considered for radiological or surgical procedures will require arteriography. Care must be taken in the use of certain contrast media in patients with chronic renal disease. A detailed discussion of the use of bedside investigations to diagnose PAD in people with diabetes is provided in the recently published guidelines by Fitridge et al ( 31 ). Is Infection Present? The correct diagnosis of infection in the diabetic foot wound is critical as it is often the combination of untreated infection and PAD that lead to amputation in the diabetic foot. A systematic review that was updated in 2020 still recommend that the diagnosis of infection requiring treatment is a clinical one ( 32 ). However, appropriate tissue specimens should be sent to the microbiological laboratory for culture and sensitivity. Superficial swabs are of little use: deep tissue specimens or if osteomyelitis is suspected, bone biopsies are recommended ( 32 ) . A high index of suspicion for the presence of osteomyelitis is essential when assessing the diabetic foot wound. The “probe to bone” (PTB) is often used to diagnose osteomyelitis although there has been much discussion about its accuracy. A systematic review concluded that the PTB test can accurately diagnose osteomyelitis in high-risk patients, and rule out osteomyelitis in low-risk patients ( 33 ). Role of Plain X-Ray in Diagnosing Osteomyelitis The plain radiograph remains the commonest first radiological investigation of an acutely presenting diabetic foot problem. Despite this, it may be dismissed because of relatively low sensitivity for acute osteomyelitis, with literature over the last 10 years concentrating on CT scanning, MR scanning, and nuclear medicine studies (particularly Gallium Citrate, labelled leucocyte scans and recently PET, PET-CT, SPECT-CT and PET-MR). These latter studies are of limited availability and are expensive, and some carry a high radiation burden. They have their own sensitivity and specificity problems and may not be available in a timely manner. The initial sensitivity of the plain radiograph for acute osteomyelitis is improved by serial studies at one to two-week intervals, during which time therapy for presumed osteomyelitis may be instigated for clinical reasons and whilst awaiting the results of further “high
