The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


improved by serial studies at one to two-week intervals, during which time therapy for presumed osteomyelitis may be instigated for clinical reasons and whilst awaiting the results of further “high tech” imaging (if still required). The plain radiographic findings could then be considered of high sensitivity and specificity, but with a two-week lag, both for diagnosis and for response to treatment. Appropriate clinical information for the reporting radiologist must include that the patient is diabetic, whether the foot is neuropathic, whether an ulcer is present and if so, its precise anatomical location, and whether it probes to bone. The radiologist should be aware that most sites of acute osteomyelitis in the diabetic foot occur in the floor of an ulcer that probes to bone and that if the foot is neuropathic there may be acute fractures without a history of trauma or acute Charcot neuroarthropathy may be present. Whilst periosteal reaction is an early feature of osteomyelitis, it is not commonly seen around the small bones of the foot, and if present, is most often seen around metatarsals, and may be due to fracture rather than osteomyelitis. The hallmark plain radiographic feature of osteomyelitis in the diabetic foot is focal loss of bone density, almost invariably adjacent to the floor of an ulcer. Whilst sometimes described as bone destruction, it is initially bone de-mineralization that causes this appearance, which can reverse on successful treatment, with radiographic re-appearance of the apparently destroyed bone ( Figure 4 ). Obtaining the radiographic view most likely to demonstrate the bone in the floor of an ulcer is therefore an important consideration, often overlooked now that requests are electronic and radiographic views are selected from limited drop-down menus. For example, toe-tip ulcers and ulcers on the dorsum of the inter-phalangeal joints require lateral toe views - best obtained using dental radiographs if available; the inferior surfaces of metatarsal heads are best demonstrated on sesamoid views; the heel requires both lateral and axial views. As a general rule, radiographs tangential to the bone surface at the site of suspected osteomyelitis are ideal, in addition to the standard radiographs of the region. A dedicated team of radiographers familiar with these requirements will improve the relevance and quality of the resultant radiographs. Plain radiology remains an important investigation in the diagnosis and management of diabetic foot osteomyelitis, but it needs to be of high quality, with appropriate views,
