The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


of the resultant radiographs. Plain radiology remains an important investigation in the diagnosis and management of diabetic foot osteomyelitis, but it needs to be of high quality, with appropriate views, and regularly repeated to fulfil its potential. Figure 4. Acute presentation with an ulcer at the tip of the great toe, probing to bone. The terminal phalangeal tuft does show some irregularity (left panel). B) two weeks later there is marked bone demineralization consistent with osteomyelitis (middle panel). C) After 2 months of treatment there has been partial remineralization of the bone but with an underlying pathological fracture (right panel). MANAGEMENT OF DIABETIC FOOT ULCERS The principles of management of different types of foot ulcers will be discussed in brief in this section. The University of Texas Wound Classification System ( Figure 2 ) will be used throughout. Neuropathic Plantar Ulcers (UT 1A, 1B, 2A, 2B) As noted above, neuropathic ulcers tend to occur under pressure areas, particularly at the plantar surface of the forefoot. Other recognized sites include the dorsal areas of the toes, particularly the distal inter-phalangeal joint if there is clawing of the toes. In patients with marked deformities such as those caused by Charcot neuroarthropathy, ulcers may occur at other pressure points, particularly in the plantar mid-foot due to, for example, a dropped cuboid bone. When lecturing on the management of neuropathic diabetic foot problems, one is often asked “what can one put on the wound to heal it?”. The answer is invariably that one should be asking “what should one take off the foot to help heal the ulcer?”. Thus, the management of a plantar neuropathic foot ulcer that is not infected is firstly sharp debridement of the ulcer down to bleeding healthy tissue with removal of all callus tissue over the wound and the edge, and secondly, the removal of pressure from the wound while the person is walking. Pain sensation normally protects wounds from further damage causing the non-neuropathic individual to limp. Any subject with a plantar ulcer who walks into the clinic without limping must, by definition, have loss of pain sensation. A neuropathic individual with a plantar ulcer will therefore walk on the ulcer as there is no warning symptom to inform him or her otherwise. Techniques for removing pressure include the use of casts (either removable or irremovable), boots, half shoes, sandals and felted foam dressings. The total contact cast
