The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


inform him or her otherwise. Techniques for removing pressure include the use of casts (either removable or irremovable), boots, half shoes, sandals and felted foam dressings. The total contact cast (TCC) is regarded as the gold standard. Studies that randomize patients to an irremovable TCC, a removable cast walker (RCW), or other offloading devices invariably confirm that healing is fastest in the irremovable device ( 2 , 7 ). Although RCWs and irremovable casts (such as the TCC) offload equally well in the gait laboratory, the irremovable device is always associated with more rapid healing in clinical practice. The problem is that those with neuropathic foot ulcers have lost the sensory cue that tells them not to walk on their active ulcer. Studies suggest that individuals are compliant with wearing the offloading RCW during the day, but feel that home is safer and therefore tend to put slippers on, or even walk barefoot at home. A subsequent trial has confirmed that if the RCW is rendered irremovable by wrapping with scotch cast for example, then the outcome is that there is no difference in healing rates between the TCC and the RCW rendered irremovable ( 34 ) . Most people with simple neuropathic foot ulcers (UT grades 1A, 2A, 1B, 2B) generally heal in less than three months although of course this does vary with ulcer size. There is no contraindication to casting neuropathic individuals with mild foot infections (UT grades 2A, 2B). It is recommended that after the wound is healed, offloading should continue for a further four weeks to enable the scar tissue to firm up. Wound dressings are important to keep the ulcer clean, but the placement of a large dressing on a wound may lead the person to a false sense of security by believing that dressing an ulcer is curative. Nothing could be further from the truth in the neuropathic ulcer. Unfortunately, there is little evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that any dressing is superior to another. Indeed, Jeffcoate et al ( 35 ) randomized people to one of three dressings and could find no difference in outcome according to dressing used: the only difference was in cost. Thus, without an evidence-base, there is no indication to use some of the newer more expensive dressings. Neuro-ischemic Ulcers A neuro-ischemic ulcer is one occurring in a foot of a person who has both a neuropathic
