The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


no indication to use some of the newer more expensive dressings. Neuro-ischemic Ulcers A neuro-ischemic ulcer is one occurring in a foot of a person who has both a neuropathic deficit and impaired arterial inflow: these would be classified UT 1C, 2C in the absence of infection, or 1D, 2D or 3D in the presence of infection. Such individuals warrant full vascular investigation as described above, and referral to the vascular surgery team. The principles of treatment are similar to those for neuropathic ulcers, and it has been confirmed that offloading can safely be used in non-infected neuro-ischemic ulcers under a weight-bearing area. However, antibiotics should be used if there is any suspicion of infection and casting only used with extreme caution in such cases ( 36 ). There is now evidence that one dressing, sucrose octasulphate, can improve the healing rates of neuroischemic ulcers in diabetic patients (for further details, see below under adjunctive treatments). With respect to the effectiveness of revascularization of the ulcerated foot in those with neuro-ischemic lesions, results showed that major outcomes following endovascular or open bypass surgery were similar amongst studies ( 37 ). Management of Diabetic Foot Infections Appropriate wound debridement and offloading together with antibiotics are important in the management of the infected neuropathic foot ulcer, although there are few data from randomized trials to guide the prescriber ( 32 ). There is however no evidence that clinically non-infected neuropathic ulcers warrant treatment with antibiotics. With respect to the choice of antibiotic therapy, the reader is directed to the helpful 2012 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline ( 38 ). Commonly used broad-spectrum antibiotics include Clindamycin, Cephalexin, Ciprofloxacin, and the Amoxycillin – Clavulanate potassium. Oral antibiotics usually suffice for mild infections, whereas more severe infections including cellulitis and osteomyelitis require intravenous antibiotic usage initially. Care should also be taken to optimize glycemic control, as hyperglycemia impairs leucocyte function. The above statements on antibiotics refer to initial treatment: after starting with such broad-spectrum antibiotics, when the results of cultured deep tissue specimens are available, antibiotic therapy should be targeted at the likely primary infective organisms. Finally, with respect to duration of antibiotics, there are no data available from randomized trials to help guide the practitioner. Antibiotics should be continued until clinical signs of infection have resolved, but there is no indication to continue antibiotics beyond this period of time and certainly
