The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


help guide the practitioner. Antibiotics should be continued until clinical signs of infection have resolved, but there is no indication to continue antibiotics beyond this period of time and certainly no indication to continue until the wound has healed. A recent review has identified the challenges facing us due to the increasing threat of multidrug-resistant pathogens ( 39 ) . Osteomyelitis Diagnosis of osteomyelitis has been discussed above both relating to the PTB test and also the use of plain radiographs. Although the treatment of osteomyelitis has traditionally been surgical, there is increasing evidence from case series and a RCT, that osteomyelitis localized to one or two bones, such as digits, may successfully be treated with antibiotics alone ( 40 , 41 ). A randomized trial from Spain showed that antibiotics alone were not inferior to localized surgery ( 41 ). Again, with respect to duration of antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis, there is no evidence-base to guide us though a recent trial suggests that six weeks’ antibiotic therapy for non-surgically treated diabetic foot osteomyelitis may be sufficient: traditionally, up to three months has been recommended ( 42 ). Lastly, many were surprised to read the results of the OVIVA (Oral Vs Intravenous Antibiotics) study ( 43 ) which randomized patients with osteomyelitis to oral vs intravenous antibiotics and showed no superiority of either delivery modality. These observations will certainly challenge the approach to osteomyelitis management in the future. A detailed updated review on infection management has been published by the American Diabetes Association in 2020 ( 44 ) . Adjunctive Treatments Adjunctive therapies are those which might be considered for complex diabetic foot wounds which fail to heal after 8-12 weeks of standard of care as discussed in the above sections. In recent years, many new such therapies, including skin substitutes, oxygen and other gases, products designed to correct abnormalities of wound biochemistry and cell biology associated with impaired wound healing, applications of cells, bioengineered skin and others, have been proposed to accelerate wound healing in the diabetic foot. Some years ago, an internationally conducted systemic review concluded that there was little published evidence from appropriately designed clinical trials to justify the use of such newer therapies ( 45 ). However, there has been a renaissance in diabetic foot care with many RCTs of new therapies published since 2018 including topical therapies and oxygen-based treatments ( 46 ). A number
