The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


However, there has been a renaissance in diabetic foot care with many RCTs of new therapies published since 2018 including topical therapies and oxygen-based treatments ( 46 ). A number of well-designed RCTs were published in 2018. The first proven therapy for neuro-ischemic ulcers, sucrose octasulfate dressings, was reported in the Explorer study ( 47 ). In the active group, 48% of wounds were closed after 20 weeks compared to 30% in the control dressing group (p<0.002). In the same issue of Lancet Diabetes Endocrinology, Game and colleagues reported the positive effect of the Leucopatch (3C Patch) device (a disc containing autologous platelets, leucocytes and fibrin) when applied to the surface of hard-to-heal foot ulcers ( 48 ). Although, as noted above, the International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot (IWGDF) systematic review in 2016 ( 45 ) could not support the use of many of the therapies outlined above, this had changed by 2020 when three trials of placenta-derived products were considered ( 49 ). Although none was blinded, these were judged to be of low risk of bias as outcomes were assessed in a blinded manner. The first studied a cryo-preserved amniotic membrane allograft ( 50 ), the second an umbilical cord product ( 51 ), and the third a dehydrated amniotic membrane allograft ( 52 ): each showed significantly faster healing in the active treated group versus standard of care. Further details of all these studies referred to above can be found in the most recent American Diabetes Association (ADA) compendium on evidence-based management of complex diabetic foot wounds ( 53 ). Hyperbaric and Topical Oxygen in the Diabetic Foot HBO has been promoted as an effective treatment in diabetic foot wounds over many years ( 8 ). However, early RCTs have been criticized because of the small numbers of patients enrolled, and methodological and reporting inadequacies. A well designed and blinded RCT was conducted in Sweden some years ago suggesting the benefit of HBO in chronic neuro-ischemic infected foot ulcers with no possibility of revascularization ( 54 ). More recently, there have been two negative studies including a large retrospective cohort trial ( 55 ) and a multi-center Canadian study that showed no benefits of HBO whatsoever in any patient group ( 56 ). Thus, at present, the use of HBO in any diabetic foot wound has few data to support its efficacy and the multi-center
