The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


whatsoever in any patient group ( 56 ). Thus, at present, the use of HBO in any diabetic foot wound has few data to support its efficacy and the multi-center trial from the Netherlands was also negative ( 57 ). The use of HBO in diabetic foot wounds was the topic of a recent debate ( 58 ). There has been increasing interest in the use of topical oxygen-based therapies in wound healing in recent years. Whereas the latest studies of HBO have been negative, there have been interesting developments in the use of devices delivering topical oxygen. There is now evidence that both continuous ( 59 ) and cyclical ( 60 ) topical wound therapy may improve wound healing rates. A number of more recent studies now support the use of cyclical topical oxygen therapy (TWO2) ( 53 ) including some ‘real world’ data ( 61 ) and a number of meta-analyses and systematic reviews, the most recent of which has just been published ( 62 ). Thus, there is a body of evidence to support the use of TWO2 in the management of hard-to-heal diabetic foot ulcers that fail to respond to standard of care. Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) The application of NPWT is believed to accelerate healing through reducing edema, removal of exudate, increased perfusion, self-proliferation, and the formation of granulation tissue ( 63 ). RCTs have suggested efficacy in rates of wound healing and reduced amputations, with the application of NPWT in both post-surgical and non-surgical chronic non-healing ulcers ( 64 , 65 ). A systematic review confirmed that there was some evidence to support the use of NPWT in post-operative wounds ( 49 ). ADA Standards of Care and IWDGF Guidelines 2023 The ADA publishes its standards of care and clinical practice guidelines each January in Diabetes Care. In 2023 ( 66 ), those adjunctive therapies for foot ulceration recommended and supported by level A evidence (based on large, well-designed randomized controlled trials or well-done meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials) included: negative-pressure wound therapy, placental membranes, bioengineered skin substitutes, several acellular matrices, autologous fibrin and leukocyte platelet patches, and topical oxygen therapy. The IWDGF guidelines are renewed every four years, and in 2023, for adjunctive therapies for foot ulceration, recommended, with variable levels of strength and certainty of evidence, that the following might be considered ( 67 ): - regular sharp debridement (strength of
