The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


adjunctive therapies for foot ulceration, recommended, with variable levels of strength and certainty of evidence, that the following might be considered ( 67 ): - regular sharp debridement (strength of recommendation: strong), sucrose-octasulfate impregnated dressings, hyperbaric oxygen in neuro-ischemic or ischemic diabetes-related foot ulcers, topical oxygen therapy, the autologous leucocyte, platelet and fibrin patch (Leucopatch or 3C Patch), placental derived products and Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (only as an adjunct therapy to standard of care for the healing of postsurgical diabetes-related foot wounds). CHARCOT NEUROARTHROPATHY (CN) Charcot neuroarthropathy, although uncommon, is a potentially devastating late complication of diabetic neuropathy ( 68 ). Although the exact mechanisms resulting in the development of CN remain unclear, much progress has been made in our understanding of the etiopathogenesis of this disorder over the last two decades. CN occurs in a well-perfused foot with both somatic and autonomic neuropathy: the patient presenting with acute CN tends to be slightly younger than is usual for those presenting with foot ulcers. A history of trauma may be present though may be missed because of the severe sensory loss. Although, in its pathogenesis, there are many unanswered questions, improved understanding in recent years of the role of inflammatory pathways might lead to new pharmacologic approaches in the acute phase of the condition. The outcomes in terms of management of CN have been generally poor because of ignorance that leads to delayed diagnosis. Most important in the management of this condition is recognition of the acute Charcot foot. Any patient with known neuropathy who presents with a warm, swollen foot of unknown causation should be presumed to have acute CN until proven otherwise. Contrary to earlier reports, many patients may present with painful, difficult to describe symptoms in the affected foot despite significant neuropathy. In its early stages, all investigations may be normal, including the foot x-ray. The role of the radiologist in the diagnosis of acute and chronic CN is discussed in the next section. Role of Radiologist in in Diagnosing CN As with acute osteomyelitis (see above), the initial radiographs in acute CN may appear (almost) normal, though it is common for soft tissue swelling to be present and radiographically visible, usually over the dorsum of the foot. It is consequently imperative that both the clinician and the radiologist are aware of the possibility of this condition being present. The first more specific radiographic feature is
