The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


the foot. It is consequently imperative that both the clinician and the radiologist are aware of the possibility of this condition being present. The first more specific radiographic feature is bone demineralization, usually subchondral or periarticular, around the joint(s) involved by the acute CN process (in contrast to acute osteomyelitis, where it is related to the ulcer location). Focal peri-articular fractures may then develop ( Figure 5 ). If CN is suspected, despite non-diagnostic initial radiographs, then the options are to treat as acute CN (see below) and perform serial radiographs at one-to-two-week intervals until the diagnosis is confirmed or no longer clinically suspected, or treat similarly whilst arranging urgent radiological investigation with a more sensitive test (whilst repeating the radiographs if the further tests are delayed). CT scanning may show small avulsion fractures around midfoot articulations that are invisible on plain radiographs, with minimal increase in the sensitivity and specificity over the plain radiograph, but MR scanning (to include fat suppressed sequences) is better, demonstrating soft tissue edema, bone marrow edema and/or ligamentous disruption. If the MR scan shows no marrow signal abnormality in the foot, acute CN is unlikely. Where the appearances or clinical presentation are complex, with both osteomyelitis and acute CN being suspected, Indium labelled white cell scans and PET/CT have a role, though both can be false positive for osteomyelitis in the presence of acute CN. In infection, MR may demonstrate soft tissue abscesses or sinus tracks that may extend to the (infected) bone surface. In chronic inactive CN, plain radiographs demonstrate the features of joint distension, destruction, dislocation, disorganization, debris, increased bone density (sclerosis) and deformity. On MR scanning, marrow edema of acute CN is replaced by low signal from sclerosis of the bone. Acute osteomyelitis superimposed on chronic CN produces a mixed picture requiring careful clinical-radiological review. Diagnosis of acute Charcot neuroarthropathy remains a synthesis of high clinical awareness, clinical findings and radiological findings. The latter should always include serial plain radiography and, where necessary, MR scans. An overview of imaging in the Charcot foot is available online ( 69 ). Figure 5. Acute Charcot neuroarthropathy. There is widening of the interosseous distance between the medial cuneiform and 2 nd metatarsal (arrowheads), indicating disruption of the Lis-Franc ligament and a subtle flake fracture fragment (arrow). Management of Charcot Neuroarthropathy The treatment of CN depends upon the stage during which it is diagnosed. The
