The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


disruption of the Lis-Franc ligament and a subtle flake fracture fragment (arrow). Management of Charcot Neuroarthropathy The treatment of CN depends upon the stage during which it is diagnosed. The essence of treatment in the acute phase remains non-weight bearing immobilization in a total contact or below-knee cast. Duration of treatment will depend upon response and it is recommended to continue casting until the temperature differential between the active and non-affected foot is down to approximately 1.5°C. As for the foot ulcer, it is recommended that treatment in a cast be continued for up to 4 weeks after the temperature differential has settled. At present, there are no proven medical or pharmacological approaches other than casting that have been shown to improve outcome. The management of advanced CN with bone deformity requiring reconstructive surgery is beyond the scope of this chapter and the reader is referred to a detailed review ( 70 ). PREVENTION OF FIRST AND RECURRENT ULCERS Prevention will only be successful with the early identification of those patients who have risk factors for foot ulceration. In the 1990s, the concept of the “annual review” was developed, and all those with diabetes should, at whatever stage, be screened for evidence of complications at least annually. The principle aim of such a review is to identify those with early signs of complications and institute appropriate management to prevent progression. The “Comprehensive Diabetic Foot Examination” (CDFE), was developed by a taskforce of the American Diabetes Association (ADA) that was charged with describing what should be included in the annual review for those at risk of foot complications ( 16 ). As noted above, the most important aspect of the annual foot review is the removal of shoes and socks with very careful inspection of both feet including between toes. Many neuropathic feet can be identified by this simple clinical observation, looking for features such as small muscle wasting, clawing of the toes, prominence of the metatarsal heads, distended dorsal foot pains (a sign of sympathetic autonomic neuropathy), dry skin, and callus formation. The key components of the diabetic foot annual examination are displayed in table 2 . The ADA Taskforce recommended that for evidence of neuropathy, that the perception of pressure using the 10g monofilament should be used at four sites in each foot ( 16 ). An additional test which might include a vibrating 128 Hz tuning fork or
