The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


pressure using the 10g monofilament should be used at four sites in each foot ( 16 ). An additional test which might include a vibrating 128 Hz tuning fork or others outlined in table 2 should also be used to confirm any abnormality. For the vascular assessment, foot pulse palpation is most important. Again, as noted above, the ankle brachial index may be falsely elevated in many people with diabetic neuropathy and therefore listening to the Doppler signal may be more helpful as may be a more detailed non-invasive vascular assessment. More recently, other simple devices for clinical screening have been described. The simplest of all is the “Ipswich Touch Test” developed by Rayman et al in Ipswich, UK. This test simply assesses the ability of the patient to perceive the touch of a finger on the toes ( 71 ). The Vibratip which is a battery-operated disposable vibrating stylus can also be used to assess vibration sensation ( 72 ), and this has the advantage of using a forced-choice methodology. Both of these tests have been validated in clinical studies ( 71 , 72 ). Table 2. Key Components of the Diabetic Foot Exam. Adapted from Boulton ( 16 ) View in own window Inspection Evidence of past/present ulcers? Foot shape? Prominent metatarsal heads/claw toes Hallux valgus Muscle wasting Charcot deformity Dermatological? Callus Erythema Sweating Dystrophic nails Neurological 10g monofilament at 4 sites on each foot + 1 of the following: Vibration using 128 Hz tuning fork Pinprick sensation Ankle reflexes Vibration perception threshold Vascular Foot pulses Ankle Brachial Index, if indicated Doppler wave forms, if indicated Prevention of Diabetic Foot Ulcers Surprisingly, there is no evidence from RCTs to confirm the efficacy of preventative foot care education either in the prevention of first foot ulcers or of recurrent foot ulceration ( 73 ). This, however, should be interpreted as lack of evidence rather than evidence of no effect. For those patients with no foot ulcer history found to have any of the risk factors listed above or in table 2 , they require education in foot self-care and regular podiatric attention. With respect to secondary prevention, a RCT that looked at the effect of a foot care education program in those with a history of foot ulcers could provide no evidence that such a program of targeted education led to clinical benefit when compared to the usual care
