The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


program in those with a history of foot ulcers could provide no evidence that such a program of targeted education led to clinical benefit when compared to the usual care ( 74 ). It seems likely that those with a history of foot ulcers have such predominant physical abnormalities (e.g., foot deformity, loss of sensation, etc.) that education alone in self-foot care management is insufficient to prevent recurrent ulceration. It may be the combination of foot care education and an intervention that the individual can perform may be more effective. Lavery and colleagues, in studies supported by other RCTs demonstrated in an RCT that patients with a history of neuropathic foot ulcers who were randomized for self-foot temperature monitoring did demonstrate a reduced recurrent ulceration rate. All patients in the active group received foot care education and were provided with a skin thermometer which they used twice a day to check the temperatures of both feet. Those patients who discovered increased unilateral foot temperatures were advised to stop walking and see their health care professional. In the active group there was a highly significant reduction in recurrent foot ulceration ( 75 ): however, not all subsequent studies have confirmed this observation ( 76 ). Important in the prevention of foot complications in diabetes is the team approach: members of the team commonly include the diabetes specialists, orthopedic and vascular surgeons, podiatrists, nurse educators, physiotherapists, pedorthists, and others. A study from one district in the UK was able to confirm a 62% reduction in major amputations over an 11-year follow-up period: this decrease occurred after the establishment of such a multi-disciplinary diabetic foot care team ( 77 ). One of the impacts of the recent Covid-19 pandemic has been an explosion in the use of telemedicine and remote monitoring in the care of the diabetic foot ( 78 ). A number of studies are currently ongoing looking at “smart technology” in the prevention of recurrent diabetic foot ulcers. These include the use of sensors in socks or shoes to detect pressure change and also various devices to measure differentials in skin temperature: each of these might alert patients in the pre-ulcerative phase with the hope of preventing the actual ulcer from developing. It has now clearly been confirmed that a temperature differential of 2.2C between the feet using remote at home monitoring in patients at high risk of plantar ulceration is
