The Diabetic Foot
KEYWORDS: foot, diabetic, diabetes, diabetic foot, pubmed, ulcers, care, wound, patients, ulceration, foot ulcers, risk, ulcer, foot ulceration, management


developing. It has now clearly been confirmed that a temperature differential of 2.2C between the feet using remote at home monitoring in patients at high risk of plantar ulceration is a strong predictor of ulcer development ( 79 ). Similarly, intelligent pressure sensing insole systems can reduce the incidence of plantar ulcers in those with a past history of ulceration ( 80 ). However, face to face consultations remain crucial in the screening for PAD and neuropathy in people with diabetes. The Foot in Remission As a recurrence is so common after the healing of neuropathic or neuro-ischemic foot ulcers, it has been suggested that those with a history of foot ulcers should be described as having “a foot in remission” rather than healed. This might better communicate risk of recurrence not only to the patient, but also other healthcare professionals ( 8 ). It is hoped that, as in cancers, aggressive treatment during the active disease together with a focus on improving care in “remission” can help to maximize patients’ function and of course improve quality of life ( 8 , 26 ) . CONCLUSIONS Although there has been much progress in our understanding of the etiopathogenesis and management of diabetic foot disorders over the last 30 years, much of what we use in clinical practice today still lacks an evidence-base. This is particularly true for example for dressings. The International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot has reported on the details required in the planning and reporting of intervention studies in the prevention and management of diabetic foot lesions ( 81 ). Details of the necessary trial design, conduct, and reporting should be taken into account when assessing published studies on interventions in the diabetic foot. Most important of all however in the management of patients with diabetic foot disorders, is to remember that the patient has frequently lost the “gift of pain” that protects most of us from developing significant foot problems but, when absent, can lead to devastating consequences. REFERENCES 1. Boulton AJM, Vileikyte L, Ragnarson-Tennvall G, Apelqvist J. The global burden of diabetic foot disease. Lancet 2005; 366: 1719-24. [ PubMed : 16291066 ] 2. Armstrong DG, Tan TW, Boulton AJM, Bus SA. Diabetic foot ulcers: a review. JAMA 2023; 330: 62-75. [ PMC free article : PMC10723802 ] [ PubMed : 37395769 ] 3. Lavery LA, Hunt NA, Ndip A, et al. Impact of
