The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


insulin sensitivity and glucose control, and optimization of lipoprotein profile, all of which are independent risk factors for the development of T2D ( 2 , 3 ). Meeting physical activity guidelines has been associated with a 40% decrease in cardiovascular mortality with an even greater impact on all-cause mortality ( 3 , 4 ). This association is especially significant given that people with T1D and T2D have a two to six-fold increase in morbidity and premature mortality from clinical cardiovascular disease (CVD) ( 5 ). Despite these positive links, 34.3% of Americans diagnosed with diabetes are categorized as physically inactive (<10 minutes per week of moderate or vigorous physical activity) and only 23.8% are meeting the 150-minute segment of physical activity guidelines ( 6 ). A worldwide pooled analysis of data from 358 surveys across 168 countries showed that the global age-standardized prevalence of insufficient physical activity was 27.5% in 2016. The highest levels of insufficient activity were in women in Latin America and the Caribbean (43.7%), South Asia (43.0%), and high-income Western countries (42.3%), and the lowest levels were in men in Oceania (12.3%) ( 7 ). It is essential for healthcare providers to recognize that having diabetes can create significant physiological barriers to exercise. These barriers include impaired maximal and submaximal exercise capacity ( 8 , 9 ), social and psychological barriers to exercise in T2D ( 10 , 11 ), the direct stress on the cardiovascular system caused by exercise, and the risk of hypoglycemia ( 12 ). Additionally, exercise studies have shown individual variation in response to physical activity, suggesting that some individuals may be “non-responders” to exercise, meaning they do not reap the specific anticipated benefits of exercise therapy, such as improved glucose, blood pressure, or lipid profiles. This variation in “response” may be due to the modality employed (aerobic vs resistance exercise), the adaptive response to timing of intervention, and the endpoint examined ( 13 ). For example, someone with diabetes may respond with increased fitness but experience no change in their glucose levels. There are also sex differences in cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), discussed in more detail below ( 14 ). These findings speak to the complexity of the pathophysiology involved in exercise and the impact that diabetes has on these processes ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and Premature Mortality. CRF is a systems biology measure of the physiological response
