The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


the impact that diabetes has on these processes ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and Premature Mortality. CRF is a systems biology measure of the physiological response to a workload. Exercise requires cardiac, vascular, and skeletal muscle integration. Impairment in this integration is a risk for cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Evidence supports a model wherein multiple modest functional derangements contribute to impaired CRF in uncomplicated type 2 diabetes. In this chapter, we will discuss the relationship between exercise physiology and diabetes pathophysiology via an overview of the literature demonstrating the associations between exercise and preventative effects for diabetes, therapeutic value for established diabetes, and prognostic value for development of diabetic complications. We will discuss physiological and behavioral barriers that contribute to the lack of achievement of physical activity guidelines, including hypoglycemia and the impaired exercise capacity that diabetes itself can cause. We will conclude with a discussion on sex differences in exercise in diabetes. THE VALUE OF EXERCISE IN DIABETES PREVENTION Exercise is an established strategy for T2D prevention ( 3 ). The incidence of T2D is inversely proportional to participation in physical activity. In a systematic review by Warburton et al that analyzed 20 cohort studies, all were noted to show this inverse relationship with T2D incidence; additionally, when comparing the most active participants to the least active participants, they calculated the average risk reduction of an exercise intervention to be 42%. Within these studies, 84% showed a dose-response relationship, suggesting that even small changes in physical activity level led to reductions in T2D incidence ( 15 ). Manson et al demonstrated that women who reported at least weekly vigorous exercise had a 16% reduced risk of developing T2D, when controlled for age and body mass index ( 16 ). In Hu et al’s analysis of the Nurses’ Health Study, there was a 34% reduction in diabetes incidence for each hour per day of brisk walking ( 17 ). Furthermore, among high-risk women with a history of gestational diabetes, physical activity has been shown to be inversely associated with the incidence of T2D in a dose-dependent manner ( 18 ). Physical activity is also a modifiable risk factor that influences CRF; there is a strong association between CRF and incidence of T2D. In the Henry Ford Exercise Testing Project, people who achieved >= 12 metabolic equivalents (METs) had a 54% lower risk of incident diabetes compared
