The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


between CRF and incidence of T2D. In the Henry Ford Exercise Testing Project, people who achieved >= 12 metabolic equivalents (METs) had a 54% lower risk of incident diabetes compared to people achieving <6 METs (controlled for age, sex, race, obesity, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia) ( 19 ). In a study of middle-aged men by Lynch et al, men with CRF levels greater than 31.0 mL of oxygen per kilogram per minute who exercised at moderate intensity (>5.5 METs) for >40 minutes per week had a decreased incidence of diabetes. This effect was seen even within a subgroup of men at high risk for diabetes (those with overweight or hypertension with positive parental history); engagement in this level of moderate intensity exercise in this group reduced their risk of diabetes by 64% compared to men who did not engage in physical activity ( 20 ). For reference, 1 MET is equivalent to the amount of oxygen consumed while sitting at rest, which is 3.5 ml/O2/kg/min ( 21 ) and expending 2 METs means that an individual is exerting 2 times the energy than they would be while sitting still. Examples of common activities and their associated energy costs in METs are shown in Table 1 ( 21 , 22 ). Table 1. Metabolic Equivalents (METs) Expended for Common Activities View in own window Activity METs Slow Walking (3 kilometers/hour) 3 Walking up stairs 4.7 Brisk Walking (6 kilometers/hour) 5.4 Bicycling (20 kilometers/hour) 7.1 Running (8 kilometers/hour) 8.2 Hockey 12.9 Boxing 13.4 CRF can be measured in a few different ways. The gold standard includes gas analysis and is reported as maximal oxygen uptake (VO 2 max) or peak oxygen uptake (VO 2 peak) ( 23 ). This can be impractical in a clinical setting, so several walk tests have been developed to estimate CRF, which either measure the distance a person can cover within a designated time frame or the time it takes them to cover a designated distance. The 6-minute walk test is used in at-risk populations ( 23 ) and the 400-meter walk test is often used in older adults ( 24 ). At a practical level, it is useful to ask individuals a few questions about their ability to climb stairs, any changes in their ability to walk a given distance, and if they have experienced any changes in perceived exertion or shortness of breath with activity. Weight
