The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


to climb stairs, any changes in their ability to walk a given distance, and if they have experienced any changes in perceived exertion or shortness of breath with activity. Weight loss is important for prevention of T2D ( 25 ). Analysis of people in the intensive lifestyle intervention arm of the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) Intensive Lifestyle indicated that there was a 16% reduction in diabetes risk per kilogram of weight loss ( 26 ). Theoretically, an increase in physical activity can lead to negative energy balance, which may result in weight loss if diet is unchanged. A study by Ross et al analyzed the effect of exercise-induced weight loss via a 500-700 kcal/day deficit during a 12-week intervention and showed an average weight loss of 7.6kg (8% initial body weight). Their findings also showed that exercise-induced weight loss decreases total fat percentage with increases in cardiovascular fitness to a greater degree than similar diet-induced weight loss ( 27 ). This degree of weight loss is uncommon in exercise interventional studies without simultaneous calorie restriction, so diet and exercise interventions should be administered simultaneously for maximal benefit ( 25 ). At the same time, there is a dynamic relationship between exercise dose, weight status, and diabetes incidence, wherein each of these components affects the other ( 3 ). To assess the complex association between obesity and physical inactivity for interaction, Quin et al conducted a systematic review that showed positive biological interaction on an additive scale ( 28 ). This interaction was further shown in a meta-analysis of nine prospective cohort studies by Cloostermans et al, where there was a 7.4-fold increased risk of T2D in those who were obese and with a low physical activity level when compared to normal weight, highly active individuals ( 29 ). Exercise aids with diabetes prevention even if weight loss is not achieved. There is a strong association between increased physical activity and prevention of weight gain ( 3 ). In DPP, those who achieved 150 minutes of moderate intensity activity per week had a 46% reduction in diabetes incidence, despite not always meeting weight loss goals ( 21 ). This effect was similarly seen in other international studies (Sweden ( 30 ), Finland ( 31 ), China ( 32 ), Japan ( 33 ), India ( 34 )) when intensive lifestyle intervention was used for the prevention of diabetes. The effect of
