The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


Finland ( 31 ), China ( 32 ), Japan ( 33 ), India ( 34 )) when intensive lifestyle intervention was used for the prevention of diabetes. The effect of exercise alone was specifically evaluated in the Chinese study where there was a reduction in incidence of diabetes by 33% in the diet-only group, 47% in the exercise-only group, and 38% in the diet-plus-exercise group; this effect was seen even when adjusting for interaction of BMI (31%, 46%, and 42% for diet, exercise, and diet-plus-exercise groups, respectively) ( 32 ). Additionally, Dai et al looked further into the efficacy of the type of exercise on the prevention of diabetes. They randomized patients with prediabetes into three intervention groups—aerobic training (AT), resistance training (RT), and combined training (AT + RT). After 2 years of intervention, the incidence of T2D was reduced by 74% in the AT + RT group, 65% in the RT alone group, and 72% in the AT alone group compared to the control group. There was no significant difference in 2-hour glucose tolerance tests between intervention groups, providing support for both AT and RT, alone or in combination, benefiting T2D prevention ( 35 ). Physical activity can also lead to improvement in cardiovascular risk factors. With regards to hypertension, there is an inverse relationship between blood pressure and physical activity level, with greater responses noted in those with hypertension/pre-hypertension compared to individuals with normal blood pressure ( 3 ). In the DPP, participants who received intensive lifestyle intervention had improved cardiovascular disease risk factor profiles (decreased blood pressure, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels) compared to the metformin-treated and placebo groups after 5 years; this improvement was achieved with a decreased need for lipid and blood pressure medication initiation ( 36 ). Additionally, while the Look AHEAD trial in overweight or obese adults with T2D was negative for its primary cardiovascular outcome ( 37 ), further analysis showed that increasing fitness had a beneficial effect on fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin A 1c (HbA 1c ), other cardiovascular risk factors (HDL, triglycerides, and diastolic blood pressure), and cognition beyond the effect of weight change ( 38 ). There is significant variability in changes to CRF with exercise therapy; not all individuals respond positively to exercise intervention. CRF is not always related to physical activity and is determined by genetics and other factors. In the HERITAGE Family Study, maximal oxygen uptake
