The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


individuals respond positively to exercise intervention. CRF is not always related to physical activity and is determined by genetics and other factors. In the HERITAGE Family Study, maximal oxygen uptake (VO 2 max, a measurement of CRF) response to exercise therapy varied significantly with some participants showing no improvement with exercise training and others exhibiting maximal improvement (>1L/min). Interestingly, there was 2.5 times more variance between families than within families, suggestive of a possible genetic component to exercise response ( 39 ). These individuals with little to no improvement with exercise are termed “non-responders.” In cross-over interventional studies that assessed poor responsiveness to aerobic exercise and resistance training, it was found that those who did not benefit from aerobic training, improved their CRF with resistance training. Alternatively, not all individuals who improved CRF with aerobic training had improvements with resistance training. This finding suggests that “non-responsiveness” may be related to exercise modality and that incidence of non-responsiveness to exercise for the endpoint of CRF may be resolved by changing the mode of training ( 40 , 41 ). All in all, to achieve the desired benefits of exercise (improvement in weight, glucose control, endurance, etc.), an individualized approach is key. One gap in practice is a lack of a commonly employed clinical measure of response to an exercise intervention. There is a need for exercise physiology expertise or provider comfort with exercise as a therapeutic tool to tailor and adjust sustained exercise interventions and employ exercise as medicine. THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF EXERCISE IN DIABETES MANAGEMENT Diet and exercise (lifestyle modification) are considered by all diabetes clinical guidelines to be the foundation for diabetes management. Exercise can augment glucose disposal and improve insulin action and thus can be a tool to aid in glucose regulation. Muscle contraction and contraction-mediated skeletal muscle blood flow lead to glucose uptake via insulin-dependent and independent mechanisms. Exercise-mediated glucose disposal can decrease circulating blood glucose levels but may be influenced by other factors that affect systemic glucose metabolism. The components of glucose disposal need to be considered to better understand the impact of exercise on glucose clearance. Glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) translocation is acutely stimulated by muscle contraction, increasing facilitated transport of glucose into the muscle. In addition, contraction augments skeletal muscle blood flow and thereby increases the rate of glucose dispersion into the muscle interstitial space ( 42 ). Insulin also recruits GLUT4 to the
