The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


In addition, contraction augments skeletal muscle blood flow and thereby increases the rate of glucose dispersion into the muscle interstitial space ( 42 ). Insulin also recruits GLUT4 to the muscle surface. Muscle glycogen stores and exogenous glucose are consumed during exercise leading to a glucose/glucose-6-phosphate gradient that favors additional glucose entry into the skeletal muscle. Based on these factors and other molecular changes in skeletal muscle signaling, exercise can impact glucose homeostasis for up to 48 hours ( 43 ). Exercise training increases skeletal muscle GLUT4 expression and augments insulin receptor signaling and oxidative capacity which optimizes insulin action and glucose oxidation and storage ( 44 ). Therefore, routine moderate exercise usually improves sensitivity to insulin in individuals with T2D ( 45 ). This exercise effect is impacted by exercise type (aerobic versus resistance), dose, duration, and intensity of activity. For example, the energy expended per week, is a product of frequency, intensity, and duration of exercise and correlates with changes in insulin sensitivity ( 46 , 47 ). There is also an impact of each bout of exercise. Newsom et al found that low intensity activity (50% VO 2peak ) improved insulin sensitivity for ~19 hours after exercise in obese adults ( 48 ). These findings support the recommendation that people with T2D should engage in daily exercise, with no more than 2 days elapsing between episodes of physical activity; consistency is key and even small amounts of exercise are beneficial ( 49 ). The modality of exercise to induce maximal intended benefit in individuals with T2D is not as clear. Physical activity guidelines for Americans suggest a mixture of resistance and aerobic activity based on limited prospective studies in this population ( 50 , 51 ). Studies vary by intervention structure and duration, and in most cases, specific exercise interventions have not been compared head-to-head. In one randomized control trial of sedentary individuals with T2D, a combination of aerobic and resistance training for 9 months significantly lowered HbA 1c levels compared to a non-exercise control group ( 50 ). Similarly, high-intensity interval training (HIIT) session (10 minutes of intense exercise) reduces postprandial hyperglycemia in patients with T2D, suggesting that it can be a time-efficient way to achieve the benefits of exercise training ( 52 ). A recent meta-analysis of 85 randomized controlled trials encompassing 5535 people with type 2 diabetes showed no difference in efficacy between different
