The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


the benefits of exercise training ( 52 ). A recent meta-analysis of 85 randomized controlled trials encompassing 5535 people with type 2 diabetes showed no difference in efficacy between different exercise modalities (HIIT, combined aerobic and resistance training, yoga, aerobic exercise) ( 53 ). Therefore, any type of exercise is beneficial. Individuals with T2D who engage in exercise have a decrease in HbA 1c by 0.67%, regardless of type of exercise (structured aerobic, resistance, or combined exercise training) ( 54 ). Therefore, the best therapy is one that an individual can and will maintain. In patients with T1D, available evidence is mixed for whether exercise improves overall glycemic control, but it has been shown to have multiple benefits ( 55 ). Supervised exercise programs increase fitness in patients with T1D and in one study, VO 2max increased by 27% after 4 months of participation in a bicycle exercise training program ( 56 , 57 ). Insulin requirements have also been shown to be reduced with exercise training in patients with T1D, with anywhere from a 6% to 18% daily insulin dose reduction across multiple studies ( 57 – 59 ). In the Pittsburgh Insulin-dependent Diabetes Mellitus Morbidity and Mortality Study, activity level was inversely related to mortality risk and men who were sedentary were three times more likely to die than active males. A similar but nonsignificant trend was seen in women ( 60 ). Regular exercise provides a physiological stress to the body and can generate adaptations such as induction of antioxidant defense mechanisms. Low exposure to a toxic or stress environment leads to positive biological responses (hormesis) whereas high exposure leads to negative responses (U-shaped dose response effect). Exercise induces low amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) acutely, which positively stimulates oxidative damage-repairing enzyme activity and results in improved biological fitness ( 61 ). For example, in the context of exercise, ROS formation can stimulate nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a transcription factor that is dormant in the cytoplasm. Low levels of oxidative stress stimulate Nrf2 translocation to the nucleus to stimulate expression of antioxidant enzymes; when Nrf2 activity is diminished, as in endothelial dysfunction, insulin resistance and abnormal angiogenesis is seen, such as in individuals with T2D ( 62 ). This is one example of the molecular response to exercise. Many such examples exist and demonstrate similarly positive profiles: reduction in inflammatory markers (c-reactive protein,
