The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


with T2D ( 62 ). This is one example of the molecular response to exercise. Many such examples exist and demonstrate similarly positive profiles: reduction in inflammatory markers (c-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α) and upregulation of anti-inflammatory substances (interleukin-4 and interleukin-10) ( 63 ). Ristow et al showed that exercise mediated ROS are integral to the process by which exercise improves insulin sensitivity (as measured by glucose infusion rates during a hyperinsulinemic, euglycemic clamp and plasma adiponectin) ( 64 ). In their study, exercised muscles of previously untrained individuals showed a two-fold increase in oxidative stress (as measured by thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances [TBARS]). However, daily intake of antioxidant dietary supplementation (vitamin C and E) blunted this affect by blocking this initial step of transient increase of oxidative stress. Exercise-mediated ROS induced expression of molecular regulators ( PPARγ and its coactivators PGC1α and PGC1β ) that coordinate insulin-sensitizing gene expression. Those treated with vitamin C and E had decreased expression of these molecular regulators. Consequently, non-supplemented individuals without diabetes had significant improvement in insulin sensitivity while those on antioxidant supplements had no change in insulin sensitivity. The NIH Molecular Transducers of Exercise (MoTrPAC) program will examine the molecular response to exercise in healthy people and rodent models to set the stage for more detailed assessments of these endpoints in disease states such as diabetes ( 65 ). While lifestyle intervention through diet and exercise are the initial step in T2D treatment, pharmacologic therapy may also be needed to achieve glycemic targets for a person with T2D. Regardless, at each step of intensification of medical therapy for glucose or blood pressure lowering, exercise should be reinforced as an important part of treatment. Combination therapy with metformin monotherapy plus post-meal exercise, led to a 21% reduction in postprandial hyperglycemia, a comparable effect to that of sulfonylureas (-14%), thiazolidinediones (-20%), and dipeptidyl peptidase-4inhibitors (-23%) ( 66 ). At the same time, there is some evidence to suggest that metformin may attenuate the positive effects of exercise on insulin sensitivity and inflammation ( 67 , 68 ). Of note, these studies were performed in people with insulin resistance or increased risk of T2D and not in people with diabetes. Incorporation of exercise and diet into all diabetes management strategies is crucial for cardiometabolic health. IMPACT OF EXERCISE ON DIABETES OUTCOMES Beyond the therapeutic and preventative benefits of exercise discussed in previous sections, exercise
