The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


diet into all diabetes management strategies is crucial for cardiometabolic health. IMPACT OF EXERCISE ON DIABETES OUTCOMES Beyond the therapeutic and preventative benefits of exercise discussed in previous sections, exercise also holds great prognostic value for people with diabetes. Observational studies have shown an inverse linear dose-response relationship between the amount of physical activity and mortality ( 69 ). Exercise capacity has been shown to be predictive of mortality in people with diabetes ( 70 ), echoing findings in the general population ( 71 ). Furthermore, decreased exercise capacity in people with T2D is associated with development of future cardiovascular events ( 72 ). Additionally, associations between higher levels of physical activity and reduced complications in diabetes have been noted. Gulsin et al were able to show that exercise improved diastolic function in adults with T2D whereas weight loss via a low-energy diet alone did not improve diastolic function despite the diet leading to weight loss, improved glycemic control, and improved aortic stiffness and concentric LV remodeling ( 73 ). A meta-analysis of 18 studies of patients with T1D and T2D showed that physical activity also increased glomerular filtration rate and decreased the urinary albumin creatinine ratio ( 74 ). In the Finish Diabetic Nephropathy (FinnDiane) Study, low levels of self-reported leisure-time physical activity in people with T1D was associated with a greater degree of renal dysfunction, proteinuria, CVD, and retinopathy ( 75 ) and Kriska et al found that men with insulin-dependent diabetes who reported higher levels of physical activity in their past had lower prevalence of nephropathy and neuropathy ( 76 ). Bohn et al also found an inverse relationship between physical activity level and both retinopathy and microalbuminuria in people with T1D in the Diabetes-Patienten-Verlaufsdokumentation (DPV) database ( 77 ). Interestingly, a large cohort study of adults with T1D and T2D in Australia found that physical activity was protective against developing advanced diabetic retinopathy requiring retinal photocoagulation (however, this finding was only significant for men) ( 78 ). EXERCISE INTOLERANCE AS A BARRIER TO EXERCISE ADHERANCE IN DIABETES Exercise holds great promise as a preventative and therapeutic intervention for people with diabetes. Yet, diabetes presents significant physiological, psychological, and socioeconomic barriers to physical activity. Despite these barriers, exercise remains a cornerstone of treatment for diabetes, and as such, it is useful to understand the barriers to exercise in diabetes and consider strategies for overcoming them ( Table
