The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


exercise remains a cornerstone of treatment for diabetes, and as such, it is useful to understand the barriers to exercise in diabetes and consider strategies for overcoming them ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Barriers to Exercise in Diabetes View in own window Physical Overall discomfort ↓ fitness ↑ weight Pathophysiological ↓ cardiorespiratory fitness ↑ pulmonary capillary wedge pressure Mismatch between skeletal muscle oxygen extraction and oxidative flux Vascular endothelium degradation Impaired in vivo mitochondrial capacity Hypoglycemia Diabetes Complication-Related Cardiovascular ↑ stress→ CV event Nephropathy Anemia→ ↓ oxygen perfusion Neuropathy Pain Loss of Balance Retinopathy Loss of vision Foot Disease Need for special footwear ↑ frequency of self-foot exam Social/Psychological Depression Diabetes Distress ↓ socioeconomic status Community culture People with T2D are disproportionately sedentary and overweight ( 79 ) and report more physical discomfort during exercise ( 10 ). Excess weight itself can be a physical barrier to increased activity; in a study of obese subjects with diabetes, those who reported physical discomfort as a barrier to exercise had a significantly higher body mass index compared to those individuals who did not report it (36 vs 34, respectively, p=0.021) ( 80 ). A decreased level of fitness also contributes to this barrier of discomfort with physical activity. Functional exercise capacity (FEC), measured by VO 2max , is impaired in both youth and adults with uncomplicated T1D and T2D ( 8 , 70 ). Insulin sensitivity has a direct association with VO 2peak ( 81 , 82 ). Studies by Reusch, Regensteiner, and colleagues have demonstrated that adolescents and adults with uncomplicated T2D have reduced CRF compared to those without T2D. These findings persist in the absence of clinical cardiovascular disease and when matched by baseline exercise status and weight ( 83 - 85 ). These findings have also been demonstrated in cohorts that included adults with T2D, with a significant reduction seen in both absolute and relative VO 2peak in adults with T2D, regardless of diabetes duration and complication status. In a recent meta-analysis, cardiac diastolic dysfunction markers and longer diabetes duration were significant moderators of CRF ( 86 ). CRF is an outcome determined by various measures of cardiac and skeletal muscle function. Reductions in CRF are associated with reduced cardiac performance ( 87 , 88 ). Women recently diagnosed with T2D have been shown to have significantly increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and abnormal diastolic parameters during exercise
