The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


reduced cardiac performance ( 87 , 88 ). Women recently diagnosed with T2D have been shown to have significantly increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and abnormal diastolic parameters during exercise compared to healthy control subjects, a finding concerning for subclinical diastolic dysfunction ( 14 , 89 ). Additionally, adolescents with T2D have been shown to have abnormal cardiac circumferential strain (CS), increased indexed LV mass, and decreased CRF compared to obese and lean healthy controls. In this study of youth with T2D, fat mass and low adiponectin correlated with CS and CRF. These associations suggest a role for obesity in cardiac impairment and CRF in T2D ( 90 ). In skeletal muscle, Reusch, Regensteiner, and colleagues have reported a mismatch between skeletal muscle oxygen extraction, oxidative flux, and VO 2peak in individuals with T2D ( 91 , 92 ). Additionally, studies have shown evidence of degradation of the vascular endothelial glycocalyx in individuals with T2D ( 93 ). These changes at the muscular level are thought to cause impaired microvascular perfusion, which likely ultimately contributes to decreased CRF in these individuals ( 94 , 95 ). Consistent with a relationship between microvascular dysfunction and fitness, people with diabetes who have developed microvascular complications (retinopathy, neuropathy, nephropathy with microalbuminuria) have decreased CRF compared to those without these complications ( 96 ). Fortunately, certain types of exercise can resolve the T2D associated impairment of skeletal muscle in vivo mitochondrial oxidative flux. Scalzo et al showed that single-leg exercise training for 2 weeks increased in vivo oxidative flux in participants with T2D but not in matched controls without T2D ( 97 ). In addition to these cardiovascular contributions to impaired exercise function in diabetes, mitochondrial capacity is impaired ( 98 ), and mitochondrial content is reduced ( 99 ). Observations of an association between insulin sensitivity and exercise capacity ( 82 ) may also reflect additional metabolic determinants of exercise impairment beyond impaired muscle perfusion and reduced mitochondrial function. As a proof of concept, the PPAR γ insulin sensitizer rosiglitazone has been shown to improve exercise capacity and insulin sensitivity in T2D in a three-month intervention (despite weight gain) ( 100 , 101 ). Improved CRF correlated with an improvement in endothelial function and blood flow ( 100 ). In contrast, in men with established coronary artery disease and T2D, a year-long treatment with rosiglitazone led to a decrease in CRF related to
