The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


and blood flow ( 100 ). In contrast, in men with established coronary artery disease and T2D, a year-long treatment with rosiglitazone led to a decrease in CRF related to increased weight and subcutaneous fat mass expansion ( 102 ). Our current interpretation is that insulin action is a modifiable target for augmenting CRF, but that currently available insulin sensitizers are not a durable intervention. Exercise can be a cardiovascular stressor, and while chronic exercise is associated with a reduction in cardiovascular risk ( 103 ), acute exercise may precipitate events in susceptible individuals ( 104 ). Thus, in people at high risk for acute cardiovascular events, some caution is warranted in initiating a new exercise regimen. Low intensity exercise with high consistency may be a safer and more effective strategy than more sporadic, high intensity exercise. A cardiac rehabilitation approach is a great consideration but is not often covered by insurance. Discussion with a provider for people with diabetes prior to initiating an exercise program is recommended by the American College of Sports Medicine, especially if they are currently sedentary or have chronic complications from their diabetes ( 105 ). This recommendation is echoed but less formal in the ADA guidelines. In the opinion of these authors, people with diabetes should be encouraged to exercise and to build up to an exercise program. Providers should discuss anginal equivalents, and significant changes in exercise tolerance (for example, change in the distance a person can walk, or fewer flights of stairs) or shortness of breath with exercise as an indication for concern. Since exercise should be a vital sign, these discussions should happen with each clinical encounter. Additionally, the presence of diabetes complications can be a barrier to exercise ( 75 ). There is a high association between diabetes complications and depression ( 106 ), which can reduce the desire to perform any activity. Decreased kidney function, such as that seen in diabetic nephropathy, is associated with a higher prevalence of anemia ( 107 ) which can make it difficult to exercise due to decreased oxygen delivery. Additionally, diabetic retinopathy with decreased vision, diabetic neuropathy with loss of balance, and diabetic foot ulcers can all pose physical limitations to exercise ( 108 ). Weight bearing exercise can increase foot trauma. Therefore, it is important for people with T2D to conduct frequent foot examinations when participating in physical activity. Contact footwear use
