The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


108 ). Weight bearing exercise can increase foot trauma. Therefore, it is important for people with T2D to conduct frequent foot examinations when participating in physical activity. Contact footwear use can reduce the rate of foot-related injury ( 109 , 110 ). However, these special considerations can lead to decreased incentive and increased distress when engaging in physical activity. As may be expected, motivating people with diabetes to exercise regularly is often a considerable challenge in both T1D and T2D. Engaging people with diabetes to exercise generally requires changing ingrained lifestyle habits. Habitual and social barriers to exercise also add to the motivational difficulties of lifestyle-based interventions. Finally, barriers to exercise in T2D may be confounded by socioeconomic class. People with T2D tend to have lower socioeconomic status ( 111 ), which is itself associated with less physical activity ( 112 ). There is also increased concern for safety in low socioeconomic neighborhoods. Overcoming this array of physiological, psychological, and socioeconomic barriers to regular exercise in people with diabetes requires a nuanced, patient-specific approach. Strategies for motivating patients to engage in regular physical exercise include motivational interviewing ( 113 ), community-based interventions ( 114 ), group exercise, and surveillance using activity-tracking devices such as pedometers ( 115 ). Each of these strategies has been shown to achieve at least modest success, but the increasing prevalence and costs of T2D ( 116 , 117 ) indicate that more work is needed. EXERCISE INDUCED HYPOGLYCEMIA Exercise can be acutely dangerous for people with diabetes who are on certain glucose lowering medications, such as insulin and sulfonylureas medications, as exercise can increase the risk of hypoglycemia in these patients. Hypoglycemia and fear of hypoglycemia with exercise represent real and major considerations for people with diabetes. These considerations are especially relevant to people with T1D, as episodes of severe (and particularly nocturnal) hypoglycemia are associated with large increases in mortality ( 118 ), and exercise can precipitate nocturnal hypoglycemia and impaired counterregulatory responses in people with T1D ( 119 , 120 ). This is also a risk, albeit to a lesser extent, for people with T2D on insulin or sulfonylureas ( 121 ). Exercise increases both the translocation and expression of GLUT4 ( 122 ), thus potentiating the effects of insulin, and greatly increases the metabolic demand for glucose ( 123 ). These factors predispose towards hypoglycemia. Exercise can impact glucose homeostasis for up
