The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


), thus potentiating the effects of insulin, and greatly increases the metabolic demand for glucose ( 123 ). These factors predispose towards hypoglycemia. Exercise can impact glucose homeostasis for up to 48 hours ( 43 ). Fear of hypoglycemia is the primary barrier to exercise in people with T1D ( 12 ). Different exercise modalities can cause varied effects on blood glucose in the acute setting. We will discuss simplified differences during a bout of moderate vs vigorous physical activity in the setting of a healthy individual ( Figure 2 ) to contextualize the discussion that follows. The uptake of blood glucose by skeletal muscle increases with increasing intensity and duration of physical activity. With moderate activity, the fall in plasma glucose from muscle glucose uptake is coordinated with a fall in plasma insulin and increase in counterregulatory hormones, particularly glucagon, that help mobilize glucose ( 124 ). With vigorous activity, the distinction is that there is an exercise stimulated surge of counterregulatory hormones, independent of plasma glucose level, and this can stimulate an acute increase in plasma glucose ( 125 ). People with diabetes who are treated with insulin lose the ability to physiologically decrease circulating insulin with exercise and can have an impaired ability to augment secretion of glucagon, cortisol, growth hormone and catecholamines with exercise; factors that particularly predispose them to hypoglycemia. Post bout, muscle glycogen depletion from physical activity will lead to increased skeletal muscle glucose uptake for glycogen repletion and this increased insulin-independent glucose clearance contributes to a decrease in plasma glucose ( 126 ) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 2. Glucose homeostasis during a bout of moderate vs. vigorous physical activity. Figure 3. Glucose homeostasis following a bout of physical activity. In the literature, aerobic and resistance exercise are often compared as activities that have differing effects on hypoglycemia. The aerobic exercise regimens specified in the studies presented here are of moderate intensity and can be conceptualized as a moderate bout of physical activity and the resistance exercise regimens can be conceptualized as a vigorous bout. Yardley et al showed that resistance exercise tends to cause an acute increase in blood glucose superimposed with a subsequent increase in insulin sensitivity, whereas aerobic exercise causes a larger initial decrease in blood glucose but somewhat less sustained hypoglycemic effect. However, resistance exercise was associated with overall less blood glucose variability post-exercise ( 127 ). Additionally, a
