The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


a larger initial decrease in blood glucose but somewhat less sustained hypoglycemic effect. However, resistance exercise was associated with overall less blood glucose variability post-exercise ( 127 ). Additionally, a HIIT session is less likely to cause hypoglycemia compared to moderate-intensity aerobic exercise ( 128 ). There is also evidence that performing resistance exercise prior to aerobic exercise can also lead to decreased glucose variability during exercise and attenuate post-exercise hypoglycemia ( 129 ). The optimal duration, intensity, and order of specific types of physical activities to prevent hypoglycemia in patients with T1D is the subject of continued research. Steineck et al found that the time patients with T1D spent in hypoglycemia over a 5-day period was similar if they exercised 5 consecutive days, consisting of 4 minutes of resistance training followed by 30 minutes of aerobic training per session, or if they exercised 2 days in this 5-day period and performed 10 minutes of resistance training followed by 75 minutes of aerobic exercise each session ( 130 ). Much like all aspects of diabetes management, the way an individual responds to exercise can be anticipated based on the literature, however, each individual will need to measure their blood glucose pre- and post-exercise for 4-24 hours post bout to understand their needs. Other factors, such as sleep, stress, general physical fitness, and prior exercise training, can all impact the glucose response to an exercise bout. Beyond the features of a session of exercise, the cornerstone of mitigating the risk of exercise induced hypoglycemia in patients who are on multiple daily injections of insulin or insulin pumps without hybrid closed loop features , includes insulin dose reduction and consumption of carbohydrates. Consensus recommendations consist of complex and personalized algorithms, but some generalizations are to reduce pre-exercise meal bolus within 90 minutes before aerobic exercise by 30-50% and to consume 30-60 grams of high glycemic index carbohydrates per hour of sport. Post-exercise recommendations are especially important for afternoon and evening exercise as nocturnal hypoglycemia occurs commonly in individuals with T1D and this risk is increased with exercise that is done later in the day. Some recommendations are to decrease the bolus for the meal after exercise by 50% and reduce the basal rate by 20% for 6 hours at bedtime if exercise occurred in the afternoon ( 131 ). Hybrid closed loop (HCL) systems are becoming more widely available and used in
