The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


rate by 20% for 6 hours at bedtime if exercise occurred in the afternoon ( 131 ). Hybrid closed loop (HCL) systems are becoming more widely available and used in practice. They require clinicians to modify recommendations for exercise to account for the principles that affect a specific system’s automated insulin delivery algorithms. One clear advantage of HCL systems in this context is that they have a predictive low glucose suspend feature that suspends insulin delivery when a low glucose is predicted in the next 30 minutes ( 132 ). An adage that does need to be re-examined for HCL is one described in the previous paragraph, wherein patients may eat uncovered carbohydrate snacks or partially covered meals prior to exercise. In HCL systems, the rise in glucose from eating uncovered carbohydrates prior to exercise can lead to an increase in automated insulin delivery ( 132 ) and in our clinical experience, extra insulin on board can then sometimes precipitate hypoglycemia with exercise. More research is needed in this arena. One main strategy agreed upon for hypoglycemia prevention with HCL is to increase the target glucose level for a session of exercise. Some systems refer to this as a “temporary target,” while in others, an increased target is embedded in their “exercise mode” ( 133 ). Based upon personalized factors, the increased target should be set anywhere from 30 minutes to 2 hours prior to initiating physical activity and it should remain on for the duration of the activity and in some situations, up to a few hours afterwards ( 132 ). In a study of patients with T1D placed on HCL, their target was increased from 2 hours prior to exercise initiation to 15 minutes after. They engaged in either HIIT or moderate intensity exercise in a cross-over study design and only 1 of 12 participants experienced hypoglycemia and it was during their session of moderate intensity exercise. Time spent in hypoglycemia for 24 hours afterwards measured by continuous glucose monitors was minimal in both groups (0 and 0.4% respectively for HIIT and moderate intensity) ( 134 ). Tagougui et al studied adults with T1D using a HCL system during 60 minutes of 60% VO 2 peak exercise who were randomized to either 1) increase target glucose level and reduce their meal bolus by 33% 90 minutes before exercise 2) increase target glucose but take a full meal bolus
