The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


were randomized to either 1) increase target glucose level and reduce their meal bolus by 33% 90 minutes before exercise 2) increase target glucose but take a full meal bolus 90 minutes before exercise or 3) not change target glucose and take a full meal bolus. The increased target was maintained until 1 hour after exercise. During exercise and the 1-hour recovery period, time spent in hypoglycemia was significantly reduced in both groups 1 and 2 compared to 3 and there was a trend towards less time in hypoglycemia in group 1 vs group 2 (p=0.06) but at the expense of 24.6% more time in hyperglycemia ( 135 ). SEX DIFFERENCES WITHIN DIABETES AND EXERCISE According to the IDF Diabetes Atlas, the prevalence of diabetes in adult women in 2021 was 10.2%, compared to 10.8% of men worldwide ( 136 ). When adjusted for associated risk factors, women with diabetes have a higher incidence of CVD death and congestive heart failure compared to men ( 137 ). Excess CVD in women with T2D correlates with increased adiposity and CVD risk factor burden present in T2D women ( 138 , 139 ). Additionally, based on National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys between 2007 and 2016, girls and women with T2D have lower physical activity levels than men across all age groups and settings ( 140 ). This observation may be due to barriers to exercise, as mentioned above. Of importance, there are sex differences in barriers to exercise as well ( 141 ). Women are more likely than men to consider activities of daily living as exercise when referring to physical activity behavior. They are also more likely to report decreased knowledge or skills associated with physical activity ( 142 ). Additional barriers for exercise specific to women include decreased perceived neighborhood safety and decreased perceived easy access to locations for physical activity ( 143 ). Women also had less self-efficacy, i.e. successful execution of a physical activity behavioral change, than men for participating in physical activity when other common barriers emerged (e.g. time constraints, bad weather) ( 142 ). In a meta-analysis of T2D across the lifespan it was shown that across all ages, males participated in more moderate and vigorous activity than females and in adulthood and late adulthood, men were more likely to achieve physical activity recommendations than women ( 144 ). Furthermore, women with T2D have a
