The Role of Exercise in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: exercise, diabetes, pubmed, activity, physical, type, physical activity, type diabetes, glucose, free, article, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, pmc


vigorous activity than females and in adulthood and late adulthood, men were more likely to achieve physical activity recommendations than women ( 144 ). Furthermore, women with T2D have a more pronounced exercise impairment in cardiorespiratory fitness then men with T2D ( 85 , 89 ). Interestingly, while obese women with T2D have reduced VO 2 kinetics when compared with controls, there is no difference in impairments based on menopausal status ( 145 ). The mechanism behind these differences and their relationship to insulin-mediated cardiac and skeletal muscle perfusion impairments is currently being studied. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS Exercise is an important therapy in prevention and treatment of diabetes. At the same time, this is easier said than done, especially given the barriers to exercise that individuals with diabetes must overcome. These barriers are further complicated by sex differences, with sex also affecting prognosis with a diabetes diagnosis. The etiology of diabetes-related declines in cardiorespiratory fitness is not yet fully understood; further research is being conducted in this area to identify potential therapeutic targets. Given the discussed correlation between CRF and morbidity and mortality, such an approach could aid in reduction of disability and mortality associated with diabetes. Additionally, a better strategy is needed to measure response to exercise therapy to aid in modification of a regimen to ensure continuous benefit. Given the high heterogeneity in response to exercise, other genetic and environmental components may be responsible. Further research is needed on the genetic contributions to exercise response. Ultimately, future therapy will need to be more personalized, such that every individual with diabetes receives a specific prescription for exercise based on factors such as sex, diabetes type and duration, comorbidities, genetic background, exercise phenotype, and environment. REFERENCES 1. American Diabetes Association. Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2025. Diabetes Care 2025;48(Supplement_1):S86–S127. [ PMC free article : PMC11635047 ] [ PubMed : 39651983 ] 2. Piercy KL, Troiano RP. Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans From the US Department of Health and Human Services. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2018;11(11):e005263. [ PubMed : 30571339 ] 3. Committee PAGA. 2018 Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee Scientific Report. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2018. 4. Sundquist K, Qvist J, Sundquist J, Johansson SE. Frequent and occasional physical activity in the elderly: a 12-year follow-up study of mortality. Am J Prev Med. 2004;27(1):22-27. [
