Mycobacterium pyrazinamide and resistance to streptomycin and isoniazid.
KEYWORDS: mycobacterium, lentiflavum, infection, tests, results, mycobacterium lentiflavum, mycobacteria, nontuberculous, showed, clin, performed, pulmonary, treatment, described, microbiol


Treatment with isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, and lentiflavum rifampin was begun for 3 months without any microbio- logic changes. The persistence of acid-fast bacilli and non- Infection in tuberculous Mycobacterium–positive cultures in the sputum were interpreted as a chronic nontuberculous Immunocompetent mycobacterial colonization not associated with true patho- genic damage, and no further treatment was undertaken. because of productive cough, weakness, dyspnea, hemop- tysis, fever, and weight loss. Radiograph and computed Chiara Molteni,* Lidia Gazzola,* Miriam Cesari,* tomography scan showed worsening chest abnormalities, Alessandra Lombardi,* Franco Salerno,* with the appearance of a widespread reticulonodular alter- Enrico Tortoli,† Luigi Codecasa,‡ ation and an opacity in the left middle lobe (Figure A). Valeria Penati,‡ Fabio Franzetti,* The sputum smear was still positive for acid-fast bacil- and Andrea Gori* li (polymerase chain reaction [PCR] specific for M. tuber- Mycobacterium lentiflavum is a recently described culosis and M. avium DNA was negative), and routine nontuberculous mycobacterium that has mainly clinical cultures for mycobacteria yielded unidentified scotochro- importance in young children with cervical lymphadenitis mogenic mycobacterium. HIV test was performed to and in immunocompromised patients. We describe a case investigate a possible cause of immune impairment, but it of chronic pulmonary infection in an immunocompetent was negative. Lymphocyte subsets by flow cytometry were studied and showed normal values. In addition, a killing treatment difficulties in the management of M. lentiflavum test to evaluate macrophage activity was performed, and a infection. Mycobacterium lentiflavum was described as a nontu- berculous mycobacterium in 1966 (1,2). Most of the isolates represented fortuitous isolations, although recent- ly its identification has posed concerns about its possible clinical importance. M. lentiflavum was mainly isolated from lymph nodes of young children, while isolations from other sites (lung specimens included) were described only in immunocompromised patients (3–9). We describe, for the first time, a chronic pulmonary M. lentiflavum infection in an elderly immunocompetent woman. Our report confirms the emergence of this nontu- berculous mycobacteria infection in immunocompetent peutic difficulties in its management. The Study In February 2000, dyspnea, productive cough, hemopt- ysis, weight loss, weakness, and slight fever developed in a 67-year-old woman with a previous diagnosis of pul- monary tuberculosis (47 years earlier). Achest radiograph showed post-tuberculous fibrodystrophy of the right upper lobe. Ziehl-Neelsen smear gave positive results, and a non- tuberculous mycobacterium was isolated. Drug-suscepti- bility tests, performed on agar medium by proportion Figure. A) Pulmonary computed tomographic scan representation method, showed sensitivity
