Mycobacterium pyrazinamide and resistance to streptomycin and isoniazid.
KEYWORDS: mycobacterium, lentiflavum, infection, tests, results, mycobacterium lentiflavum, mycobacteria, nontuberculous, showed, clin, performed, pulmonary, treatment, described, microbiol


smear gave positive results, and a non- tuberculous mycobacterium was isolated. Drug-suscepti- bility tests, performed on agar medium by proportion Figure. A) Pulmonary computed tomographic scan representation method, showed sensitivity to rifampin, ethambutol, and of Mycobacterium lentiflavumlesions. Radiologic image shows the appearance of a widespread reticulonodular alteration and an opacity in the left middle lobe. B) Chest radiograph results before Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 11, No. 1, January 2005 119 DISPATCHES diagnosis of chronic granulomatosis disease was excluded. Table, M. lentiflavum identification has been shown to Concomitantly, cultures from sputum and from bron- cause disease in only few cases. All of these cases were cholavage were performed for either standard bacteria or described in Europe. Most reports describe isolates from fungi (including Pneumocystis carinii). These cultures did cervical lymphadenitis of very young children (3–9); other not identify other pathogens. Serologic tests to detect anatomic sites are less frequently implicated (1,7,8). The Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and few M. lentiflavum pulmonary cases were described in Legionella species (including urinary antigens) were per- immunocompromised patients only (5,8,9). formed and produced negative results, thus confirming the We describe, for the first time, a chronic pulmonary pathogenic role of the Mycobacterium lentiflavum. infection due to M. lentiflavum in an immunocompetent Susceptibility tests, using proportion methods, showed patient. Our observation provides further evidence that this sensitivity to clarithromycin, ethambutol, isoniazid, strep- species should be added to the growing list of nontubercu- tomycin, rifabutin, cycloserine, and terizidon and resist- lous mycobacteria,which can cause pulmonary disease in ance to rifampin, amikacin, kanamycin, pyrazinamide, and both immunocompromised and immunocompetent results, and susceptibility pattern (clarithromycin MIC Traditional identification techniques are widely insuffi- 2 µg/mL), treatment with clarithromycin was initiated. The cient in providing a correct diagnosis, and more sophisti- patient was released after 10 days with no fever; a slight, cated diagnostic methods need to be improved. yet progressive, improvement of radiologic features; and a Susceptibility tests have reliability problems. substantial recovery of the clinical conditions. When the difficulties in reaching a diagnosis are con- All conventional identification procedures, including sidered, the identification standard techniques, based on cultural, biochemical, and enzymatic tests, failed to prop- the rate of growth, pigmentation, and biochemical tests, erly identify the species. Moreover, many questions even if well established and relatively inexpensive, are remained unresolved, and further clarification was needed unable to identify most nontuberculous mycobacteria. response. Because of the need
