Mycobacterium pyrazinamide and resistance to streptomycin and isoniazid.
KEYWORDS: mycobacterium, lentiflavum, infection, tests, results, mycobacterium lentiflavum, mycobacteria, nontuberculous, showed, clin, performed, pulmonary, treatment, described, microbiol


species. Moreover, many questions even if well established and relatively inexpensive, are remained unresolved, and further clarification was needed unable to identify most nontuberculous mycobacteria. response. Because of the need to reach a definitive diagno- formance liquid chromatography and genetic investiga- sis, we sent the unidentified Mycobacteriumculture to one tions of the 16S rRNAgene fragments, through the use of of the Italian reference laboratories for mycobacteria. nucleic acid probes, sequencing, and amplification, have to Two months after hospitalization, the diagnosis of M. be added to diagnostic protocols for nontuberculous lentiflavum was obtained by analyzing cell wall mycolic mycobacteria diagnosis. Moreover, new reference centers acids by using high-performance liquid chromatographic should be created and organized. Cooperation programs test and by nucleic acid sequence analysis of PCR-ampli- among research laboratories, which have provided a struc- fied 16S ribosomal RNAgene fragments. After 3 months tured experience with complex methods, have to be imple- of clarithromycin treatment, the patient completely recov- mented, and an effective collaboration should be created. ered, and chest radiograph showed sustained improvement In addition to the diagnostic uncertainty, interpreting (Figure B). Mycobacterial investigations, which had pro- the sensitivity tests is also of concern. Information provid- duced negative sputum samples after 1 month of treatment, ed by tests performed on solid medium was discordant and once again gave positive results. After a new evaluation of created serious misunderstanding in the therapeutic choic- drug susceptibility that showed no change in drug-resist- es. Thus, in the presence of nontuberculous mycobacteria, ance pattern, a further treatment with clarithromycin, the susceptibility profile must be performed on liquid ethambutol, rifabutin, and ciprofloxacin was undertaken, media, and tests on agar by proportion method should be but it was prematurely ended because of poor patient com- avoided because of the risk of obtaining false-resistant pliance. results. Because of the difficulties in executing these meth- At present, after a 3-year follow up, the patient com- ods and interpreting their results, we recommend that the plains of intermittent hemoptysis, weakness, and dyspnea. tests be performed by experienced laboratories that can Radiographic examinations still show the known wide- maintain feedback for both peripheral laboratories and cli- spread reticulonodular alterations, and sputum cultures are nicians. Conclusions Organization and International Union Against M. lentiflavum is a recently described nontuberculous Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, a project to implement mycobacterium (1,2). Most isolates have represented for- proficiency testing; results from the first (1998–1999) and tuitous
