Mycobacterium pyrazinamide and resistance to streptomycin and isoniazid.
KEYWORDS: mycobacterium, lentiflavum, infection, tests, results, mycobacterium lentiflavum, mycobacteria, nontuberculous, showed, clin, performed, pulmonary, treatment, described, microbiol


lentiflavum is a recently described nontuberculous Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, a project to implement mycobacterium (1,2). Most isolates have represented for- proficiency testing; results from the first (1998–1999) and tuitous isolations that required critical evaluation about second surveys (2000) showed substantial improvement in 120 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 11, No. 1, January 2005 Mycobacterium lentiflavumInfection These data demonstrate that establishing and coordinating This work was supported by a grant of the National Institute the quality of drug susceptibility results (10). RF/101, Rome, Italy, and by a grant of the AHSI Company. By describing a recurrent chronic pulmonary infection, Dr. Molteni is an infectious diseases clinician in the Institute our report provides further evidence of the possible role of of Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine, “Luigi Sacco” M. lentiflavumas an emerging human pathogen. Our data also stress the diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties in the include tuberculosis and nontuberculous mycobacterial infec- management of this nontuberculous Mycobacterium tions and molecular epidemiology of tuberculosis for clinical infection. applications. Acknowledgments We thank the staff of the Department of Infectious References 1. Springer B, Wu WK, Bodmer T, Haase G, Pfyffer GE, Kroppenstedt RM, et al. Isolation and characterization of a unique group of slow- Paoli and Patrizia Franza for their generous participation, ly growing mycobacteria: description of Mycobacterium lentiflavum Alan Michael Rosen for assistance in the English revision sp. nov. J Clin Microbiol. 1996;34:1100–7. 2.Tortoli E, Piersimoni C, Kirschner P, Bartoloni A, Burrini C, of the text, Bianca Ghisi and Pietro Zerbi for the photo- Lacchini,et al. Characterization of mycobacteria isolates phylogenet- graphic support, and Annalisa Angelantoni for her contin- ically related to, but different from Mycobacterium simiae. J Clin uous support. Microbiol. 1997;35:697–702. Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 11, No. 1, January 2005 121 DISPATCHES 3. Cabria F, Torres MV, Garcia-Cia JI, Dominguez-Garrido MN, 8. Niobe SN, Bebear CM, Clerc M, Pellegrin JL, Bebear C, Maugein J. Esteban J, Jimenez MS. Cervical lymphadenitis caused by Disseminated Mycobacterium lentiflavum infection in a human Mycobacterium lentiflavum. Pediatr Infect Dis.2002;21:574–5. immunodeficiency virus-infected patient. J Clin Microbiol. 4. Haase G, Kentrup H, Skopnik H, Springer B, Böttger C. 2001;39:2030–2. Mycobacterium lentiflavum: an etiological agent of cervical lym- 9. Galarraga MC, Torreblanca A, Jimenez MS. Isolation of phadenitis. Clin Infect Dis. 1997;25:1245–6. Mycobacterium lentiflavum in a case of suspected lung cancer. 5. Tortoli E, Bartoloni A, Erba ML, Levre E, Lombardi N, Mantella A,
