Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


Multidirectional signaling be- tissue hypoperfusion[1-3]. The incidence of severe sepsis is tween the different components in the gastrointestinal still increasing and ranges from 11%-15% in intensive care wall, the spinal cord and central nervous system impacts unit (ICU) patients: 11.8 patients per 100 ICU admissions inflammation and its consequences. We propose that in an Australian and New Zealand population; 14.6% in novel therapeutic strategies should target inflamma- a French ICU population, 11% of all ICU admissions in tion on the one hand and gastrointestinal motility, gas- the US and 12% of ICU patients in Spain. Although WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5523 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus the overall mortality rate among patients with sepsis is pathogenesis of post-injury multiple organ failure. Gut declining - related to general improvements in acute and hypoperfusion is an important inciting event in the patho- therapy - the number of sepsis-related deaths still increas- an early source of proinflammatory mediators. Ischemia es and ranges between 25%-60%[2,4-6,8]. The development and reperfusion in the gastrointestinal tract will activate a of organ dysfunction is a major determinant of mortality cascade of stress-sensitive protein kinases (MAPK, ERK, and is influenced by the co-existence of chronic comor- p38, JNKs) that converge on transcription factors regulat- bidity. ing the expression of proinflammatory genes. Impor- According to the International Guidelines of Severe tant mechanisms playing a role in gastrointestinal dysfunc- Sepsis 2008, the management of severe sepsis compli- tion as a result of post-injury multiple organ failure are cated with hypoperfusion and organ failure is based on increased intestinal permeability, bacterial translocation initial resuscitation (first 6 h) with, as main goals, main- and paralytic ileus. Bacterial translocation is defined as taining the mean arterial pressure above 65 mmHg, a CVP the passage of both viable and non-viable microbes and of 8-12 mmHg, a urinary output above 0.5 mL/kg per microbial products such as endotoxins across the muco- hour and a central venous oxygen saturation above 70%. sal barrier, whereas ileus is defined as an inhibition of Secondly, the source and type of infection needs to be propulsive intestinal motility. These mechanisms play established by obtaining appropriate cultures before anti- an important role in the maintenance of multiple organ biotic therapy is initiated. The use of fluid therapy, vaso- failure and secondary infections. Frequently, the source pressors (norepinephrine and dopamine as initial choice) of bacteria can be
