Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


multiple organ biotic therapy is initiated. The use of fluid therapy, vaso- failure and secondary infections. Frequently, the source pressors (norepinephrine and dopamine as initial choice) of bacteria can be traced to the endogenous flora of the and dobutamine as inotropic therapy is recommended. gastrointestinal tract. Ileus predisposes to luminal ac- The use of corticosteroids remains controversial in the cumulation and bacterial colonisation of the stomach and management of sepsis and is advised only in refractory small intestine and therefore promotes bacterial translo- sepsis, as is the use of recombinant human activated pro- cation and pneumonia by aspiration of gastric contents. tein C which should be reserved for patients with organ Ileus therefore plays a pivotal role in the occurrence and During sepsis a complex interaction takes place be- The guidelines on the management of severe sepsis of tween the infecting microorganism, the host immune 2008 concluded that prophylactic use of selective diges- response, inflammatory and coagulation responses. Dif- tive tract decontamination in severe sepsis patients would ferent mechanisms such as the innate immune system, the be targeted towards preventing secondary ventilator-asso- coagulation pathways, endothelial dysfunction, mitochon- ciated pneumonia. There are, however, insufficient data drial dysfunction and apoptosis are described and associ- available from severe sepsis patients to support global use ated with severe sepsis. A cross-talk takes place between of selective digestive tract decontamination. different immune cells including macrophages, dendritic The gastrointestinal tract therefore has a dual role in cells and CD4+ T cells, leading to either a proinflammato- sepsis, being a target organ and a pathogenic player. It is ry or anti-inflammatory cytokine reaction. Patients can now understood that the gut is not only a source of bacte- thus present with either an exaggerated proinflammatory ria and endotoxins, but also a source of pro-inflammatory systemic inflammatory response (often described in the mediators and a cytokine-generating organ. These inflam- early phase) or rather a state of immunosuppression and matory mediators reach the circulation via the intestinal even anergy in a later phase. Generally accepted is the lymph. Bacteria and endotoxins crossing the mucosal theory that cells of the innate immune system recognize barrier further potentiate the gut inflammatory response, microorganisms and initiate responses through pattern even when the bacteria and their products are trapped recognition receptors (PRRs), pathogen-associated mo- within the gastrointestinal wall or intestinal lymph nodes, lecular patterns (PAMPs) and Toll-like receptors (TLRs). not reaching the systemic circulation.
