Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


and their products are trapped recognition receptors (PRRs), pathogen-associated mo- within the gastrointestinal wall or intestinal lymph nodes, lecular patterns (PAMPs) and Toll-like receptors (TLRs). not reaching the systemic circulation. Studying the im- The latter will result in activation of intracellular signal pact of experimentally-induced sepsis on gastrointestinal transduction pathways such as the activation of nuclear motility and its immunological modulation therefore mer- factor (NF)-κB and caspase-1. On the other hand, an its further attention. excess production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species is described resulting in oxidative and nitrosative stress. Other pathogenic mechanisms leading to sepsis-related ANIMAL MODELS OF SEPSIS organ dysfunction are exacerbated coagulation, impaired Several animal models of sepsis exist, all with their ad- anticoagulation and decreased fibrin removal, together vantages and disadvantages (Table 1)[18-20]. One of the with endothelial disturbances, mitochondrial dysfunction main criticisms of the animal models is that the dem- and apoptosis. onstrated benefits of therapeutic agents in animals are ROLE OF THE GASTROINTESTINAL the difficulty of mimicking the complex interaction between current illness, sepsis and supportive therapy TRACT IN SEPSIS in an animal model. The lack of supportive therapeutic Hassoun et al described in the early 2000s how the interventions in animal models represents therefore an gastrointestinal tract might play a pivotal role in the important caveat in the use of animal models. Also, the WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5524 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus might have no effect in sepsis survival studies but strongly Table 1 Overview of septic animal models displaying advan- tages and disadvantages (adapted from[18-20]) interferes with gastrointestinal motility because of the in- duction of postoperative ileus. Endotoxin model In the endotoxin model, LPS is injected intravenously Advantages or intraperitoneally. The choice of the animal (mouse, Endotoxins play a significant role in the pathogenesis of sepsis rat, guinea pig), and the strain and gender of the animal Simple model are all confounding parameters in these models, as well Using sublethal doses, providing active resuscitation, using continuous infusion and the use of intraperitoneal injection are as the strain of bacteria or endotoxins used, the dose and four measures reproducing more accurately the human situation the administration route. Studying gastrointestinal motil- Lipopolysaccharides is stable (compared to the use of bacteria), ity and its immunological modulation by administering a therefore the model is more accurate and reproducible single intraperitoneal injection of endotoxin at a sublethal compared
