Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


to the use of bacteria), ity and its immunological modulation by administering a therefore the model is more accurate and reproducible single intraperitoneal injection of endotoxin at a sublethal compared to the bacterial infection models concentration represents an adequate model for experi- Disadvantages Exaggerated release of host cytokines mental sepsis. It has been shown previously in differ- Most of the time only Gram-negative sepsis ent animal species that a single dose of LPS alters gas- Single toxin does not mimic human sepsis trointestinal motility. By 1963, Turner et al had already shown that endotoxins reduce water and food intake and trials gastric emptying in mice. We investigated the effect of a Rats are very resistant compared to humans Lack of an infectious focus single intraperitoneal injection of LPS of Escherichia coli Bacterial infection model and showed a significant delay in gastric emptying and Advantages small intestinal transit[23-26]. In rats, endotoxins delay gastric Endotoxins play a significant role in the pathogenesis of sepsis emptying, increase small intestinal transit[27-31], and reduce Reduction of the dose, increasing the infusion time, giving jejunal spontaneous circular muscle activity. In dogs, active resuscitation can prolong survival and render the model endotoxins delay gastric emptying and abolish intestinal more comparable to the human situation migrating motor complexes[34-37]. In horses, a low dose of Disadvantages Uncommon clinical occurrence endotoxin was reported to disrupt the motility pattern and High doses of bacteria are needed to decrease the cecal and colonic contractile activity. Significant interlaboratory variability Therefore, endotoxins are definitely able to induce gas- Survival is short trointestinal ileus, which we will now refer to as sepsis- or Serum cytokine responses are transient and exaggerated endotoxin-induced ileus. Peritonitis model: cecal ligation puncture model On the other hand, ileus is often studied in a surgical- Advantages Resemblance to clinical situation ly-induced postoperative model. It is generally accepted Peritoneal contamination with a mixed flora that postoperative ileus is triggered by two different phas- The cytokine response is comparable to human situation es: an early neurogenic and a late inflammatory phase. Severity can be adjusted by increasing the needle puncture size or During the initial neuronal phase, inhibitory effects on the number of punctures, delaying mortality over several days Disadvantages motility are related to the activation of an inhibitory re- The model needs a surgical procedure that by itself may induce flex pathway involving adrenergic, nitrergic and VIP-ergic ileus neurons. In the second
