Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


to the activation of an inhibitory re- The model needs a surgical procedure that by itself may induce flex pathway involving adrenergic, nitrergic and VIP-ergic ileus neurons. In the second phase, the activation of an Difficult to control the magnitude of septic challenge inflammatory cascade plays a crucial role and is triggered Variability within the cecal ligation puncture model by the handling of the intestines activating the cross-talk between the immune system, the autonomic nervous sys- tem and the muscle effector apparatus of the gastrointes- timing of most animal models is not comparable to the tinal wall. human situation as most animal models represent acute Both the endotoxin-induced model and the post- syndromes unlike sepsis in humans (hours to days in ani- mal models vs days to weeks in humans). operative ileus model accentuate the important role of inflammation in the development and maintenance of Animal models of sepsis are generally divided into 3 gastrointestinal ileus. It is therefore our opinion that the categories: endotoxin models, bacterial infection models endotoxin-induced ileus model and the postoperative ile- and peritonitis models[18-20]. The major advantages and us model are both relevant in the study of inflammation- disadvantages of these models are described in Table 1. induced motility disturbances. In the endotoxin model lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of bac- teria are injected, while in the bacterial infection models the bacteria themselves are injected. Different peritonitis PATHOGENESIS OF INFLAMMATORY- models are described, such as cecal ligation and puncture MEDIATED ILEUS (CLP), implantation of a fibrin clot suspended with bac- teria in the abdominal cavity or implantation of a colonic Initial research focussed on the mediators that could be stent. These peritonitis models have as a major advantage involved in the inflammation-induced impairment of the presence of a local infection focus and some authors gastrointestinal motility by a direct action on the intestinal consider the CLP model as the gold standard for sepsis smooth muscle cells. Later on, the focus was broadened research. However, it is important to understand that in an attempt to clarify not only the mediators involved this procedure requires a major surgical procedure which but also the cell types and the transduction pathways. The WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5525 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus main goals were to identify possible target molecules en- a differential effect of both drugs. Celecoxib significantly drugs did not result in a more
