Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus main goals were to identify possible target molecules en- a differential effect of both drugs. Celecoxib significantly drugs did not result in a more rapid restoration of the Mediators involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory- gastrointestinal function compared to placebo. To our mediated ileus knowledge, no studies of different COX inhibitors on Nitric oxide (NO) was one of the first molecules pos- sepsis- or endotoxin-induced ileus are available. tulated to play an important role in the pathogenesis Moreover, prostaglandins are postulated to modulate of LPS-induced motility disturbances in rats and mice afferent nerve signaling from the gut to the spinal cord mainly mediated via the inducible isoform of NO synthase and higher brain centers, indicating that they play a role (iNOS). Several groups showed that block- not only in motility disturbances but also in sensitivity ade of NOS reverses the endotoxin-induced changes in disturbances and pain signaling pathways. These effects gastrointestinal motility in different animal species by are described both in the postoperative ileus model and the use of selective or non-selective NOS blockers and in the endotoxin-induced ileus model. iNOS knock-out mice. Our group proved that this effect of NO, derived from iNOS, is mediated at least Cell types involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory- partially by activation of guanylyl cyclase in a murine en- mediated ileus dotoxic model. Furthermore, we also found evidence The initial search for the location of iNOS production of a role for NO-mediated oxidative stress mechanisms, in the endotoxin-induced ileus model pointed to an im- indirectly via the use of the solvent DMSO which also has portant role for residential macrophages. We clearly radical scavenging properties, and directly by the use of showed the presence of iNOS in residential muscular antioxidant molecules. Treatment of mice with the macrophages in the stomach and ileum of LPS-treated antioxidant pegylated superoxide dismutase reversed the mice. Besides residential muscular macrophages, the endotoxin-induced delay in gastric emptying and improved gastrointestinal tract contains a dense population of the delay in intestinal transit. This was associated with a mucosal macrophages which play a crucial role in tis- decrease of iNOS-positive residential macrophages and a sue homeostasis on the one hand and in the initiation, decrease of immunohistochemical staining for nitrotyro- propagation and resolution of inflammation on the other sine and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, markers for oxidative and hand. Mucosal macrophages are conditioned towards an nitrosative stress, in
