Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


of immunohistochemical staining for nitrotyro- propagation and resolution of inflammation on the other sine and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, markers for oxidative and hand. Mucosal macrophages are conditioned towards an nitrosative stress, in the gastric and ileal mucosa of LPS- anti-inflammatory role under normal circumstances and treated mice. In agreement with these results, we found switch towards a pro-inflammatory modus during inflam- that the antioxidant melatonin reversed the endotoxin- mation[54-56]. The relationship and the interaction between induced motility disturbances in mice through a reduction muscular and mucosal residential macrophages in the of intestinal lipid peroxidation, MAPK activation, NF-κB gastrointestinal tract have not been studied so far. In the activation, iNOS transcription and expression, and nitrite field of ileus, research is focussed largely on the muscular production. population. Several groups have hypothesized that LPS In addition, NO produced from neuronal NOS may initiates an inflammatory cascade consisting of the acti- be involved in sepsis-induced ileus. Quintana et al vation of the normally quiescent network of residential showed synthesis of NO in postganglionic myenteric neu- muscularis macrophages, resulting in the production of rons during the early phase of endotoxemia (30 min after a plethora of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and injection of LPS) in rats, as well as an increase in nNOS other substances such as nitric oxide and prostagland- mRNA in the dorsal vagal complex of the brainstem 2 h ins. This inflammatory milieu results in the after administration of LPS. recruitment of circulating leukocytes and consequently Prostaglandins are also postulated to play an impor- in the further release of leukocyte-derived substances tant role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory-mediated such as nitric oxide and prostaglandins capable of altering ileus. In rat studies on postoperative ileus, a role gastrointestinal motility and activating inhibitory neu- for prostaglandins was proven by the presence of COX2 rogenic reflex pathways. The presence of iNOS is not mRNA and protein in residential macrophages, recruited only demonstrated in residential macrophages but also in monocytes and in a subpopulation of myenteric neu- the recruited leukocytes, thereby augmenting the inhibi- rons. This study also demonstrated an amelioration of tory effects on gastrointestinal motility. Monocyte- the gastrointestinal motor function by treatment with the chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), derived from the resi- COX2 inhibitor, DFU. Other animal studies, also from dential macrophages, is a key molecule in the recruitment our own group, showed a differential effect of different of additional monocytes during endotoxemia, leading to COX inhibitors
