Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


proinflamma- therefore maintaining the inflammatory cascade. In tory mediators into the peritoneal cavity diffusing into the postoperative model, the important role of intestinal the blood vessels and increasing mucosal permeability. residential macrophages was definitely proven by the work In turn, luminal bacteria and/or bacterial products enter of the macrophages in rats and mice prevented intestinal phages triggering intracellular signaling pathways, leading inflammation and postoperative ileus. to transcription of inflammatory molecules, cytokines, In addition to residential macrophages and inflam- chemokines and adhesion molecules. Others support a matory leucocytes, mast cells are also put forward as role for the residential macrophages as the first respond- important cells in the induction and maintenance of the ers and conductors which would orchestrate the inflam- inflammatory cascade and its effects on motility. There is matory events after surgical manipulation or endotoxin evidence for bidirectional communication between mast exposure. More importantly, the interplay between these cells and neurons in the gastrointestinal tract[62-64]. de Jonge initiating cells and the nervous system should be further et al proved elegantly that the degranulation of connec- investigated as both the mediators released from mast tive tissue mast cells is a key event in the establishment of cells and from residential macrophages are able to affect the intestinal infiltrate in the abdominal wall in a murine neuronal signaling within and from the gastrointestinal model of postoperative ileus. The importance of mast wall (Figure 1). cells in the pathogenesis of postoperative ileus could be translated to the human situation; The et al showed that Neuro-immunomodulatory pathways involved in the intestinal handling triggered mast cell activation as well as pathogenesis of inflammatory-mediated ileus leucocyte infiltration in patients undergoing an abdominal The gastrointestinal tract is richly innervated by an intrin- hysterectomy. In a pilot trial with the mast cell stabiliser sic enteric nervous system and by an extrinsic autonomic ketotifen, the same authors demonstrated that ketotifen nervous system consisting of parasympathetic vagal and improved the surgery-induced delay in gastric emptying pelvic neurons and sympathetic splanchnic neurons. Dur- of liquids in humans. The number and activity of both ing inflammation of the gut, there is a complex multidi- residential macrophages and mast cells in LPS-treated rectional interaction between immune and inflammatory mice is upregulated (personal communication). More cells, neurons and smooth muscle cells (Figure 1). studies on the role of mast cells and their mediators need Wang et al proved that inflammatory mediators released to
