Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


communication). More cells, neurons and smooth muscle cells (Figure 1). studies on the role of mast cells and their mediators need Wang et al proved that inflammatory mediators released to be performed in models of sepsis-induced ileus. from the gut during endotoxemia were able to affect je- The question as to whether the main initiator of the junal afferent discharge in the rat. Both LPS itself and inflammatory reaction is the residential macrophage mesenteric lymph fluid collected after injection of LPS or the mast cell remains unresolved. In a recent paper, were able to increase the afferent discharge. Liu et al Boeckxstaens et al suggest a role for peritoneal mast demonstrated an increased discharge in capsaicin-sensitive WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5527 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus mesenteric vagal afferents following systemic LPS. It was transcutaneous vagal nerve stimulation reduced TNFa also shown that the endotoxin-induced delay in gastric levels and improved survival. In a murine postoperative emptying in rats could be suppressed by systemic capsa- ileus, stimulation of the vagal nerve ameliorated surgery- icin, by local application of capsaicin to the vagal nerve induced inflammation and ileus, whereas AR-R17779, (but not to the celiac ganglion), and by a CGRP receptor an a7AChR agonist, prevented postoperative ileus and antagonist. Our own group also provided evidence for reduced the inflammatory cell recruitment in a similar a role of afferent neurons in the motility disturbances mouse model. induced by endotoxin in mice. Neuronal afferent in- Furthermore, sympathetic nerves might be involved volvement was demonstrated by the beneficial effect of in the neuroimmunomodulation of the different func- hexamethonium and capsaicin, and the effect of the affer- tions of the gastrointestinal tract. Hamano et al showed ent neurons was mediated by CGRP and the TRPV1 re- that yohimbine, an a2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, ceptor. In a postoperative murine model, the involvement improved endotoxin-induced inhibition of gastrointestinal of both vagal and spinal afferent neurons in the inhibition motility in mice. They suggest the mechanism of action of gastrointestinal motility was shown, with a differential is related to the activation of a2-adrenergic receptors on effect of COX2 inhibition on the two types of afferent macrophages downregulating the expression of iNOS. neurons. All these results underline the importance of However, it could not be excluded that gastric empty- an initial activation of afferent neurons leading to the acti- ing was improved via inhibition
