Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


these results underline the importance of However, it could not be excluded that gastric empty- an initial activation of afferent neurons leading to the acti- ing was improved via inhibition of the presynaptic a2- vation of inhibitory neuronal reflex pathways in gastroin- adrenergic receptors on cholinergic vagal nerves. Under testinal motility disturbances induced by sepsis or surgical normal conditions, these receptors decrease the release of manipulation of the intestine. acetylcholine and thereby reduce gastrointestinal motil- Activation of the vagovagal pathway is able to modu- ity. Nevertheless, Vanneste et al could demonstrate late inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract on the one that presynaptic a2-adrenergic receptor control of cho- hand and motility on the other hand. The cholinergic linergic nerve activity was unchanged in a rat model of nervous system is able to attenuate the production of pro- postoperative ileus. Also in the postoperative ileus model, inflammatory mediators and to inhibit inflammation; this a beneficial effect of spinal cord stimulation at the level of mechanism is known as the cholinergic anti-inflammatory T5-T8 segments was recently shown on gastric emptying, pathway. The cholinergic anti-inflammatory surveil- although the mechanism of action remains to be unrav- lance system starts with the activation of vagal sensory elled. An interaction of sympathetic neurotransmitters afferent fibers by proinflammatory cytokines, secreted by with the gut immune system, glial cells and gut flora was innate immune responses stimulated via exogenous and recently suggested, in correlation with the vagal immuno- endogenous molecular products of infection and injury modulatory mechanisms in conditions of inflammation or such as LPS. Information is transmitted to higher brain ileus. centres. In the brain, vagal efferent fibers are activated; A cell population that might be relevant to consider signaling back to the gastrointestinal tract. Acetylcholine in this neuroimmunomodulatory framework is the enteric inhibits the cytokine release directly via the a7 nicotinic glial cell population. Enteric glial cells are part of the en- acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) expressed on macro- teric nervous system, along with neurons and interstitial phages. Animal models showed that the anti-inflammatory cells of Cajal (ICC); originating from the neuroectoderm. effect is not exclusively mediated via macrophages but They form a widespread network in the gastrointestinal that other immune cells such as dendritic cells and mast wall where they outnumber the neuronal cell popula- cells may also be involved. However, anti-inflammatory tion at the level of the myenteric plexus, the submucosal properties of vagal activation were
