Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


wall where they outnumber the neuronal cell popula- cells may also be involved. However, anti-inflammatory tion at the level of the myenteric plexus, the submucosal properties of vagal activation were also shown in murine plexus and the interconnecting nerve strands. Glial cells isolated intestinal and peritoneal macrophages in the are small, star-shaped cells with numerous processes light of inflammatory surveillance: whereas acetylcholine extruding from the epithelium and can be identified by stimulated the phagocytic potential of the macrophages, it the presence of specific proteins such as glial fibrillary inhibited the immune reactivity, as evidenced by reduction acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, S100B and glutamine of NF-κB and proinflammatory cytokines and stimula- synthetase. Glia contain precursors for neurotransmitters tion of IL10 production via nAChR a4/β2. On the such as GABA and NO, express receptors for certain pu- other hand, there is also evidence for indirect modulation rinoceptors, express cytokines - interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, of inflammatory processes via postganglionic neuromodu- TNFa - and neuropeptides such as neurokinin A and lation of immune cells in primary immune organs such as substance P after activation. Enteric glial cells can di- the spleen. In a lethal rat endotoxemia model, direct rectly or indirectly modulate neuromuscular transmission, electrical stimulation of the peripheral vagus nerve was gastrointestinal motility and secretion. They also control - shown to inhibit tumor necrosis factor (TNF) synthesis together with enteric neurons - intestinal barrier functions in the liver, attenuate peak serum TNF levels and prevent and gut immune homeostasis. Glial cells should therefore the development of shock. In a rat cecal ligation and be recognised as important players in the multidirectional puncture model, stimulation of the caudal vagal trunk interactions between neurons, immune cells and intestinal prevented the induced hypotension, alleviated the hepatic epithelium (Figure 1). Ablation of glial cells in adult damage and plasma TNFa production but had no effect transgenic mice results in a fulminant and lethal jejuno- on liver NF-κB activation. In a murine sepsis model, ileitis characterized by an increased myeloperoxidase activ- WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5528 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus ity, degeneration of myenteric neurons and intraluminal ways (TLR2, TLR4, TLR5) are under investigation in the hemorrhage, pointing towards an important role of en- pathogenesis of gastrointestinal ileus in sepsis models[96-98]. teric glia in the maintenance of bowel integrity. Downstream intracellular signaling pathways after TLR4 LPS administration in mice increases the
