Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


role of en- pathogenesis of gastrointestinal ileus in sepsis models[96-98]. teric glia in the maintenance of bowel integrity. Downstream intracellular signaling pathways after TLR4 LPS administration in mice increases the expression activation involve different adaptor molecules (for a of S100B in the intestine, which is indicative of an upreg- schematic overview see). The bacterial molecules are ulation of glial cells. This effect of LPS is reversed by the presented more efficiently to the innate immune system cannabinoid cannabidiol, paralleled by a decrease in glial by the complex of LPS-binding protein, CD14 and MD2, cell hyperactivation and a decrease in mast cells and mac- forming an essential part of the LPS-receptor next to rophages (personal communication). The role of enteric TLR4. Further on, stimulation of TLR recruits the glia and S100B in human gastrointestinal inflammation adaptor molecule, myeloid differentiation primary re- has been recently investigated in human biopsies, showing sponse gene 88 (MyD88), to the receptor complex, lead- increased S100B in the duodenum of patients with celiac ing to the activation of IL1R-associated protein kinases disease and in rectal biopsies of patients with ulcerative and TNF-receptor-associated factor 6 to finally activate colitis; both associated with an increase in iNOS protein NF-κB and MAP kinases, resulting in the production of expression and nitrite production. Changes in enteric proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. glial cells and their markers (GFAP and S100β) have also MyD88 plays a key role in the cytokine production in re- been described in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). sponse to TLR ligands. Nevertheless, several other adap- tor proteins are involved, such as TIR-domain-containing adaptor protein/MyD88 adaptor-like (TIRAP/Mal), TIR- Intracellular signaling pathways involved in the domain-containing adaptor inducing IFNs (TRIF), TRIF- pathogenesis of inflammatory-mediated ileus related adaptor molecule and sterile a- and armadillo- Intracellular signaling pathways play an important role in motif-containing protein. the initiation of the inflammatory immune response. Lumi- Buchholz et al recently showed the involvement of nal bacteria and/or bacterial products enter the gastrointes- TLR4 pathways in endotoxin-induced ileus. They hypoth- esise that endotoxin-induced ileus is induced by TLR4 phosphorylation of MAP kinase (ERK1/2, JNK and p38), signaling in nonhematopoietic cells in the early phase (6 thereby activating intracellular transcription factors such as h after injection of LPS), whereas at high doses of LPS NF-κB, STAT3, Egr-1 and NF-IL6 in both macrophages and at later time points both hematopoietic and nonhe- and leucocytes. This leads to the induction of
