Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


at high doses of LPS NF-κB, STAT3, Egr-1 and NF-IL6 in both macrophages and at later time points both hematopoietic and nonhe- and leucocytes. This leads to the induction of nu- matopoietic TLR4 signaling contributes. The molecular merous inflammatory molecules (iNOS and COX2), cyto- response attributed to the hematopoietic cells points to- kines (TNFa, IL1β, IL6), chemokines (MCP-1, GM-CSF, wards a role for residential macrophages and potentially MIP1a, VEGF) and adhesion molecules (ICAM-1). also leucocytes in the late phase. The role of mast cells has Inhibition of protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), resulting not been investigated so far, to our knowledge. But which in the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on proteins, nonhematopoietic non-bone marrow-derived cells could occurs at multiple steps in the signaling cascade. Tyrphos- then be involved in TLR4 signaling? Related to gastroin- tin AG 126, a PTK inhibitor, reduces the inflammatory testinal disturbances, possible candidate cells are smooth mediator expression induced by surgical manipulation muscle cells, intrinsic neurons and ICC. No data are yet probably through inhibition of the transcription factor available, to our knowledge, regarding the expression of NF-κB. Wehner et al showed the contribution of TLR4 on ICC. However, functional TLR4 expression is early p38-MAPK activation in murine postoperative ileus described on smooth muscle cells and myenteric plexus by the use of the macrophage specific inhibitor, semapi- cells in the murine and human intestine, with expression mod. A role for Egr-1 was demonstrated in murine post- of TLR4 on both neurons and glial cells in mice. TLR4 operative ileus in Egr1 knockout mice and in mice treated expression seems absent in enterocytes. Outside the with the PPARγ agonist, rosiglitazone. In addition, gastrointestinal wall, TLR4 receptors are also expressed the beneficial effects of CO-releasing molecules in the in dorsal root ganglia primary sensory neurons and in development of postoperative ileus seem to be mediated the rat nodose ganglion. The enteric nervous system, by interference with p38 and ERK1/2 activation. These therefore, can be directly implicated in intestinal immune data provide evidence for a key role of activation of tran- defence towards intestinal microbiota. scription factors in postoperative ileus. Very recently, a dominant role for the MyD88-depen- These intracellular signaling pathways also play a cru- dent signaling pathway in early endotoxin-induced murine cial role in endotoxic ileus. However, during sepsis and ileus was shown, as MyD88 deficient mice were completely endotoxemia, TLRs come into sight and might represent protected
