Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


early endotoxin-induced murine cial role in endotoxic ileus. However, during sepsis and ileus was shown, as MyD88 deficient mice were completely endotoxemia, TLRs come into sight and might represent protected from endotoxin-induced ileus and the induction an important pathogenic tool. Cells of the innate immune of the inflammatory cascade, whereas TRIF deficiency only system recognize microorganisms and/or parts of micro- partially protected the mice from ileus. organisms and initiate responses through PAMP binding A study by Kuno et al reported a beneficial effect on to PRRs. TLRs are a family of PRRs (similar to, for in- LPS-induced changes in colonic motility in the guinea pig stance, NOD), while PAMPs are often cell-wall molecules. after administration of TAK-242, a selective TLR4 signal LPS, a specific PAMP from Gram-negative bacteria, is transduction inhibitor, illustrating again the potential thera- known as a potent TLR4 ligand. Specific TLR path- peutic options of interference with the TLR4 pathway. WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5529 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus POSSIBLE NOVEL THERAPEUTIC phase Ⅲ trials, although promising results were shown in experimental studies. Other drugs have been withdrawn the risk-benefit ratio, such as tegaserod and alosetron. The The current treatment strategies for sepsis as described in definition of clear end points and biomarkers with clinical the Sepsis Guidelines 2008 were described in the first part relevance emphasizing symptoms and quality of life need of this paper. They largely rely on general supportive mea- to be considered. Secondly, interference with the pa- sures such as fluid resuscitation, cardiovascular support tients’ immune system could affect their first line defence and antimicrobial treatment. The use of corticosteroids against other infections and could affect patient wound is controversial and the use of recombinant activated protein C is reserved for patients with severe sepsis and a high risk of death. More specific anti-inflamma- immunomodulators in severe sepsis were undertaken but failed to show benefit or even increased mortality. tory therapy such as antilipopolysaccharide treatment and As evidence for a bidirectional communication be- blocking of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFa tween the neuroendocrine and immune systems accu- and IL1β were ineffective or have failed to improve mor- tality so far. Selective digestive tract decontamination mulates in the pathogenesis of inflammatory ileus (for is not recommended in the sepsis guidelines. Selective hypothetical scheme, see Figure 1), and also in IBD and IBS, interference with the immune system
