Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


the pathogenesis of inflammatory ileus (for is not recommended in the sepsis guidelines. Selective hypothetical scheme, see Figure 1), and also in IBD and IBS, interference with the immune system seems a prom- digestive tract decontamination reduces infections (mainly ising therapeutic strategy[40,64,114-117]. The interplay between pneumonia) and mortality in a general population of criti- the epithelial barrier function, intestinal motility and se- cally ill and trauma patients, however no studies are avail- able in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock. The cretion, and the cellular function of immunocytes can be juries were split on the issue of selective gut decontamina- influenced by neuronal and immune mediators with thera- tion with equal numbers in favor and against the recom- peutic potential. Several potential target cells, mediators mendation of the use of selective gut decontamination. or intracellular pathways can be proposed such as mast They agreed that further research was needed in patients cells, residential macrophages, glial cells, the cholinergic with severe sepsis or septic shock and they voted against anti-inflammatory pathway, afferent neurons, intracellular inclusion in the current guidelines. signaling pathways such as egr-1, p38 and TLR4 transduc- Therapeutic interventions related to gastrointestinal tion inhibitors, together with a plethora of neuroactive motility, secretion and epithelial barrier function might substances released by damaged or inflamed tissue such be effective as well. As ileus plays a pathogenic role in the as cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6), chemokines, prostaglandins maintenance of sepsis and multiple organ failure and in and leukotrienes, neuropeptides, growth factors (NGF), the occurrence of secondary infections, prokinetic therapy hormones, histamine, tryptase, etc[40,114-116]. In the field of might be of value. Theoretically, ileus could be overcome, inflammation-associated ileus, therapeutic strategies com- increasing gastrointestinal motility thereby reducing bac- bining anti-inflammatory with prokinetic properties might terial stasis, bacterial overgrowth and bacterial transloca- have more potential for future drug development. tion and so interrupting the activation of the inflamma- Ghrelin is one of these compounds with therapeutic tory cascade. Motility can, for instance, be enhanced by potential, as it has been shown to possess anti-inflamma- stimulation of excitatory neuronal pathways or by direct tory properties together with prokinetic activity[114,118-120]. smooth muscle effects. For the treatment of postopera- Ghrelin and the ghrelin receptor are expressed by lym- tive ileus per se, comprehensive reviews are available in phocytes, monocytes and dendritic cells. Activation of the literature. So far, treatment of postoperative the ghrelin receptor results in an inhibition
