Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


tive ileus per se, comprehensive reviews are available in phocytes, monocytes and dendritic cells. Activation of the literature. So far, treatment of postoperative the ghrelin receptor results in an inhibition of proinflam- ileus is also largely supportive and based on a multimodal matory cytokine expression and an increase in survival in approach including fluid restriction, optimal (epidural) various inflammatory disease models. Furthermore, analgesia, minimally invasive surgical procedures, early ghrelin and ghrelin receptor agonists are proven to be pro- mobilization and early oral feeding. kinetic in animal models of delayed gastric emptying and Before going into more detail regarding potential in patients with gastroparesis of different origins (for re- drug development need to be taken into account. First of trials with synthetic ghrelin agonists (TZP-101, TZP-102) all, it has been clearly shown over the last few years that and a selective growth hormone secretagogue (ipamore- the transition of promising drug targets in experimental lin) are currently ongoing. Ipamorelin, a ghrelin mimetic, difficult to predict and few products have been commer- rat. In a phase ⅡB trial, the ghrelin agonist TZP-101 cialized. For instance, with regard to the therapeutic accelerated recovery of the gastrointestinal tract after pipeline for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), another dis- (partial) colectomy compared to placebo. Specifically order associated with motility and sensitivity disturbances related to sepsis, it was shown that ghrelin ameliorates and a possible pathogenic role for inflammation, several the gut barrier dysfunction by reducing serum HMGB1 drugs could not finalize the research developmental tra- and by activation of the vagus nerve via central ghrelin jectory towards clinical use: the neurokinin receptor an- receptors. We have shown the prokinetic potential of tagonists and fedotozine, a peripheral κ-opioid receptor ghrelin and the ghrelin receptor agonist, growth hormone WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5530 November 28, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 44| De Winter BY et al. Sepsis, inflammation and ileus lar model, Dixit et al showed potent anti-inflammatory operative ileus. As interfering with immune responses effects of ghrelin on the mRNA expression of IL-1β, could also affect wound healing as stated above, it is IL-6 and TNFa in the liver, spleen, lungs and mesenteric important to investigate the effect of macrophage deple- lymph nodes of LPS-treated mice, associated with an at- tion on the healing process. Very recently, it was shown tenuation of the LPS-induced anorexia. The combination that pharmacological and genetic inhibition of muscula- of prokinetic and anti-inflammatory properties enhances ris macrophages in mice
