Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


process. Very recently, it was shown tenuation of the LPS-induced anorexia. The combination that pharmacological and genetic inhibition of muscula- of prokinetic and anti-inflammatory properties enhances ris macrophages in mice did not affect intestinal anasto- the potential of ghrelin-related drugs in inflammation- motic healing. Whether this approach is translational induced ileus. These effects are hypothesized to be medi- to the human situation remains questionable. However, ated by the anti-inflammatory cholinergic pathway and by interference with the macrophages could occur at several interactions with immune cells. levels. Additionally, interference with the TLR4 receptor, Another intestinal hormone with potential in the treat- as described above, offers a therapeutic potential. ment of postoperative ileus is glucagon-like peptide 2 An interesting way to downregulate macrophages is (GLP-2). Activation of GLP-2 was recently reported to to interfere with the cholinergic anti-inflammatory path- ameliorate inflammation and intestinal dysmotility associ- way; for instance, by the use of a7 nicotinic acetylcholine ated with surgical manipulation of the bowel in a murine receptors agonists, direct vagal stimulation or the use of model. The beneficial effects on the proinflammatory acetylcholine esterase inhibitors. Electrical stimulation milieu were more pronounced in the mucosa compared of the vagal nerve attenuates systemic inflammation in ro- to the intestinal muscularis and the authors speculate that dent models of endotoxemia, cecal ligation and puncture, the protective effect of GLP-2 is associated with mucosal and intestinal manipulation[76-79]. Pretreatment with the a7 inflammation and barrier dysfunction, not excluding inter- nAChR, AR-R17779, prevented postoperative ileus and ference with the anti-inflammatory vagal pathway. the inflammatory reaction in mice. Nicotine itself has tion of physiological and pathophysiological responses is jeopardized by its toxicity. Electrical stimulation in the gastrointestinal tract such as food intake, emesis, of the vagus nerve remains an invasive procedure and gastric protection, gastric secretion, visceral sensation, pharmacological interference with acetylcholine receptors gastrointestinal motility, intestinal inflammation and cell might have side-effects; both treatment strategies need proliferation. CB1 and CB2 receptors are the classical further optimization. Recently, stimulation of the vagal receptors for all kinds of cannabinoid agonists, whereas nerve in a rodent postoperative model by enteral admin- non-CB receptor-mediated effects of cannabinoids are istration of lipid-rich nutrition was shown to be beneficial also described. Generally it is accepted that CB1 activa- and to be mediated by a CCK-dependent vagal mecha- tion inhibits gastrointestinal motility in different regions nism. of the gastrointestinal tract, whereas the role of CB2 With regard
