Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 November 28; 16(44): 5523-5535
KEYWORDS: ileus, sepsis, cells, gastrointestinal, role, motility, intestinal, postoperative, macrophages, inflammation, inflammatory, mice, model, activation, postoperative ileus


CB1 activa- and to be mediated by a CCK-dependent vagal mecha- tion inhibits gastrointestinal motility in different regions nism. of the gastrointestinal tract, whereas the role of CB2 With regard to mast cells, a first randomized and pla- receptors in the control of physiological motility is less cebo-controlled pilot study in humans undergoing major clear. Both CB1 and CB2 receptors have been shown to abdominal surgery for gynecological malignancy showed play a role in motility in pathophysiological inflammatory that ketotifen, a mast cell stabilizer with histamine 1 re- conditions. In septic ileus in mice and rats, CB1 and ceptor blocking activity, restored gastric emptying, amelio- CB2 receptor antagonists protected against LPS-induced rated abdominal cramping and tended to improve colonic changes in motility (in vitro and in vivo), without affecting transit. Mast cells can also be modulated at several levels the increase in TNFa, but reduced the increase in IL6 in including development, homing, secretory phenotype, sta- the group treated with a low dose of LPS. We dem- bilization, interference with membrane receptors or down- onstrated that septic ileus in mice was associated with an stream pathways, or blocking the effect of the mediators upregulation of intestinal CB1 but not CB2 receptors and released. Potential drugs or drug targets are cromolyn, an increase in fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), which is ketotifen, Syk kinase inhibitors; even TLR antagonists and the principal catabolic enzyme for fatty acid amides. Can- blockers of the mediators released by mast cells such as nabidiol, a non-psychotropic cannabinoid without signifi- tryptase, proteases, chymase, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, cant binding activity to CB1 or CB2 receptors, however, cytokines and growth factors, chemokines and neuropep- further decreased the LPS-induced motility disturbances tides (CRF and substance P). in vivo. Very recently, we showed that LPS-induced sep- sis in mice resulted in a hyperactivation of glial cells, an CONCLUSION increase in intestinal mast cells, macrophages and TNFa. These effects were abrogated by cannabidiol treatment The impact of the gastrointestinal tract on the initiation and associated with a decrease in S100B expression, sug- and maintenance of inflammation and secondary infec- gesting a crucial role of glial cells (personal communica- tions involved in the pathogenesis of multiple organ tion). failure is generally accepted. Therapeutic interventions As mast cells and residential muscular macrophages related to gastrointestinal motility can therefore be effec- are proposed as key players in the pathogenesis of il- tive in sepsis treatment, as
