Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes. © 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of SSIEM. Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025; 48:e70029 1 of 13 1 | Introduction dysfunction. As opposed to the herein reported siblings, the previously described YME1L1 patients displayed a more severe, 3- methylglutaconic aciduria (3- MGCA) is a characteristic bio- infantile- onset phenotype, with prominent neurological fea- chemical feature of a growing number of clinically and geneti- tures including global developmental delay, muscle weakness, cally heterogeneous inherited metabolic disorders. It is defined leukoencephalopathy, and optic nerve atrophy . Our study by abnormally elevated urinary excretion of 3- methylglutaconic establishes for the first time an association between YME1L1 (3- MGC) and 3- methylglutaric (3- MG) acid, which in most cases dysfunction and 3- MGCA, thus expanding the spectrum of in- reflects compromised mitochondrial function of varying degree herited metabolic diseases linked to this biochemical phenotype. and severity . Based on the underlying biochemical defect, inborn errors of metabolism associated with increased 3- MGC acid excretion are classified into primary and secondary 3- 2 | Materials and Methods MGCAs . 2.1 | Qualitative and Quantitative Urine Organic Primary 3- MGCAs include autosomal recessive disorders caused Acid Analysis by defects in the leucine catabolism pathway due to mutations in either the AUH (OMIM #250950) or HMGCL gene (OMIM Urine organic acid analysis was performed by gas chromatogra- #246450), which encode 3- methylglutaconyl- CoA hydratase phy–mass spectrometry (GC–MS). Qualitative urine organic acid (AUH) and 3- hydroxy- 3- methylglutaryl- CoA (HMG- CoA) analysis was performed on an Agilent 6890 N/5973 system, es- lyase, respectively. The metabolic block caused by deficien- sentially as described elsewhere . Briefly, following oxidation cies in either of the above enzymes results in the build-u p of with hydroxylamine hydrochloride, organic acids were extracted intermediates of the leucine catabolism pathway, including from urine samples using liquid–liquid (ethylacetate and ether) 3- methylglutaconyl- CoA (3- MGC- CoA), which is considered the extraction, converted to their corresponding trimethylsilyl esters precursor of 3- MGC and 3-M G acid excreted in urine [4–6]. with BSTFA + 1% TMCS (Sigma- Aldrich, 15 238) and subjected to chromatographic separation. The identity of organic acids Secondary 3- MGCAs constitute a more heterogeneous group of was determined by comparing the generated mass
