Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


(Sigma- Aldrich, 15 238) and subjected to chromatographic separation. The identity of organic acids Secondary 3- MGCAs constitute a more heterogeneous group of was determined by comparing the generated mass spectra to a disorders, which are not caused due to impaired leucine catabo- custom library. Quantitative urine organic acid analysis was per- lism, but result from gene defects affecting proteins with diverse formed on an Agilent 7890/5875C GC–MS system. Extraction function. Unlike primary 3- MGCAs, in secondary 3- MGCAs, the was carried out with ethylacetate, while oxidation and derivat- metabolic etiology of increased 3- MGC and 3- MG acid excretion ization with BSTFA/TMCS were performed as described above. remains unclear. Over the past three decades, several hypothe- Quantification of organic acids was achieved using linear cali- ses have been proposed to explain the biochemical basis of sec- bration curves generated for each analyte by calculating the peak ondary 3- MGCA, as it is found in several, ostensibly different area ratios (analyte/internal standard). Concentrations were inherited metabolic disorders all of which have in common com- normalized to creatinine and expressed as mmol/mol creatinine. promised mitochondrial function. The prevailing notion suggests that secondary 3-M GCA arises from defects that either directly or indirectly affect mitochondrial oxidative energy metabolism, 2.2 | Quantification of Blood Lactate Levels particularly oxidative phosphorylation . Compromised aerobic respiration in non-h epatic tissues prevents NADH and Lactate concentration in blood was determined spectrophoto- FADH produced by oxidative metabolism from being efficiently metrically using the lactate reagent set (Instruchemie, 2864), oxidized, leading to their accumulation in the mitochondrial according to the manufacturer's instructions. matrix . This build- up diminishes the activity of key Krebs cycle enzymes, resulting in increased levels of acetyl- CoA within mitochondria, part of which is shunted into the “acetyl- CoA di- 2.3 | Genetic Analysis version pathway” towards the formation of 3-M GC- CoA, which leads to the production of 3- MGC and 3- MG acid . Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood samples using the QIAmp DNA Blood Midi Kit (Qiagen, 51 185), and sub- To date, defects in more than 20 genes have been linked to in- jected to whole exome sequencing. DNA libraries were prepared born errors of metabolism characterized by secondary 3- MGCA using the TruSeq DNA exome library preparation kit (Illumina, as a discriminative feature . Notably, in almost all condi- 20 020 615), according to the manufacturer's instructions. tions
