Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


3- MGCA using the TruSeq DNA exome library preparation kit (Illumina, as a discriminative feature . Notably, in almost all condi- 20 020 615), according to the manufacturer's instructions. tions featuring secondary 3- MGCA, the affected gene encodes Paired- end sequencing of the pooled libraries was performed a protein with an established role in mitochondrial function on a NextSeq 500 system (Illumina) using the High Output Kit . Therefore, although not specific to a particular disease, v2.5 (300 Cycles), (Illumina, 20 024 908), according to the man- 3- MGCA is widely regarded as a biochemical finding associated ufacturer's guidelines. Demultiplexing and adapter trimming with mitochondrial dysfunction. was performed automatically using BaseSpace Sequencing Hub Apps (Illumina). Bioinformatics processing, analysis, annota- identified in two siblings presenting with sensorineural hearing platform (Version 11.4) using the human reference genome build loss and neurological findings. We provide evidence that the hg19. The presence of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants identified variant leads to functional impairment of YME1L1 or variants of uncertain significance in known genes associated and is linked with 3- MGCA. This study is the second report of with 3- MGCA or mitochondrial disorders was assessed by in sil- patients with a mitochondriopathy associated with YME1L1 ico panel analysis . The identified variant was confirmed 2 of 13 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 by conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by was performed in ImageJ using the Mitochondria Analyzer automated sequencing of exon 18 of the YME1L1 gene. PCR plugin, as previously described . For this, image deconvolu- amplification was carried out using the Amplitaq Gold DNA tion was first conducted on confocal z- stacks of TOMM20 fluo- polymerase (Applied Biosystems, N808- 0240) and the follow- rescently labeled mitochondria with the Iterative Deconvolution ing primers: Forward: 5′- TTGTACTTCTTTCTTGTCCCCCA- 3′, 3D plugin using a theoretical point spread function (PSF) gener- Reverse: 5′- CAGAGGGCCTTCAGCTGTTAT- 3′. Amplification ated with the Diffraction- PSF- 3D plugin in ImageJ . products were purified using the ExoSAP- IT PCR Product Cleanup Reagent (Applied Biosystems, 78 200) and bidirectional Sanger sequencing was performed using the BigDye Terminator 2.7 | Immunoblot Analysis v1.1 Cycle Sequencing Kit (Applied Biosystems, 4 337 449) and the above-m entioned primers. The sequencing reactions were Cell pellets were incubated in ice- cold lysis buffer (150 mM subjected to clean-u p using the Performa DTR Gel Filtration NaCl, 1% Triton X- 100, 0.1% SDS, 50 mM Tris–HCl pH
