Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


| Results marate hydratase (FH), and α- ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (α- KGDH) were measured essentially as described elsewhere 3.1 | Clinical Presentation and Laboratory Results [15–17]. For CS, FH, and α- KGDH, cell suspension was sol- ubilized in 1.5% lauryl maltoside (N- dodecyl- β- D- maltoside), Two siblings, the only offspring of healthy unrelated parents centrifuged, and the supernatant was used for the enzyme from a closed Cypriot community, were referred to the genetics oxaloacetate as substrates and the chromogenic compound of 9 years, was born at term via caesarian section due to pre- 5,5′- dithiobis(2- nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) by monitoring the eclampsia with a birth weight of 3010 g. He failed the neonatal increase in absorbance at 412 nm. FH activity was determined hearing test with initial reported sensorineural hearing loss of using L- malic acid by following the increase in absorbance 45%–50%, which later progressed to 80%. He subsequently de- at 250 nm. For α- KGDH, the reduction of NAD+ (0.5 mM) in veloped speech delay and dysarthria, which greatly improved the presence of α- ketoglutaric acid was monitored at 340 nm. following the placement of cochlear implants at the age of 4.5 For the SQR assay, cell suspension in PBS was employed and and 5.5 years. His weight, height, and head circumference were enzyme activity was calculated based on the reduction of normal. He exhibited a mild delay in motor milestones and was 2,6- dichlorophenolindophenol (DCPIP) monitored by a de- able to walk independently at the age of 19 months. His speech crease in absorbance at 600 nm. All assays were performed in difficulties were attributed to his hearing impairment. He suf- triplicates using a temperature- controlled spectrophotometer fered several episodes of severe neutropenia after viral infections. (Shimadzu UV2600, Japan) at 37°C. Activities were expressed Extensive investigations, including bone marrow aspiration and as nmol of substrate converted per minute and normalized to myelogram were unrevealing. the protein content in the reaction (nmol.min−1.mg prot−1). Total protein amount was determined by the Lowry protein Patient 2, currently at the age of 7 years, is a female patient who assay . All chemicals were purchased from Sigma- Aldrich. was also born at term via caesarian section due to preeclampsia with a birth weight of 3482 g. Like her older sibling, she had an abnormal hearing test with an 80% hearing loss. Cochlear im- 2.12 | Seahorse Analysis of Oxygen plants were
