Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


2. Urine organic acid analysis performed at the age of (Figure 2A). The YME1L1 gene encodes a mitochondrial ATP- 6 months for Patient 1 and 12 months for Patient 2, as part of dependent zinc metalloprotease (YME1L1), which is embedded their metabolic investigation, revealed increased excretion of in the inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM). YME1L1 to- 3- methylglutaconic (3- MGC) (4.8 and 4.4 times above the upper gether with the scaffold protein SLP2 and the rhomboid prote- limit of normal, respectively) and 3- methylglutaric (3- MG) acid, ase PARL form a proteolytic complex in the IMM, known as the which persisted during follow- up (Figure 1A,B). Blood lactate SPY complex , implicated in the regulation of mitochondrial levels were mostly and repeatedly found to be above the normal dynamics and quality control . Specifically, YME1L1 is reference range (Figure 1B). Together, the above findings were implicated together with OMA1 in the proteolytic processing of suggestive of a mitochondriopathy. A brain MRI scan performed the dynamin- like GTPase OPA1, which is a key player in IMM at the age of 3.5 years (Patient 1) and 21 months (Patient 2) fusion . YME1L1 is synthesized as a precursor containing showed bilateral symmetric hyperintense changes in the globus an N- terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS) of 150 pallidus on T2- weighted axial images (Figure 1C), further sup- amino acids . Proteolytic cleavage of the MTS by the mi- porting the possibility of an underlying mitochondrial disorder. tochondrial processing peptidase (MPP) gives rise to the mature form of YME1L1, which assembles into homo- oligomeric com- plexes possessing proteolytic activity within the IMM [25–27]. 3.2 | Identification of a Novel YME1L1 Variant The variant identified in the two patients results in a leucine to valine amino acid substitution at position 667 within the C- To determine the genetic cause of 3- MGC/3- MG aciduria, both terminal metalloprotease domain of the protein (Figure 2B). siblings were referred for whole exome sequencing analysis. The affected amino acid is highly conserved across different A novel variant, c.1999C>G p.(Leu677Val), in exon 18 of the species (Figure 2C). 5 of 13 FIGURE 2 | Identification of a novel YME1L1 variant. (A) Electropherograms showing the presence of the YME1L1 variant in homozygosity in Patient 1 (same for Patient 2) and heterozygosity in both parents. (B) Domain organization of YME1L1 (NP_055078.1), indicating the position of the identified variant p.(Leu667Val). (C) Multiple alignment of
