Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


in Patient 1 (same for Patient 2) and heterozygosity in both parents. (B) Domain organization of YME1L1 (NP_055078.1), indicating the position of the identified variant p.(Leu667Val). (C) Multiple alignment of YME1L1 amino acid sequences (generated by Clustal Omega ) from different species. The affected amino acid is indicated in red color. MTS: Mitochondrial targeting sequence; TM: Transmembrane; HESGH: Motif of metalloprotease (zinc) activity. 3.3 | Effects of the c.1999C > G Variant on YME1L1 epitope (Figure 3C). This detected both the mature and precur- Abundance and Processing sor forms of YME1L1 in each case, but no additional shorter fragment specific to cells expressing the YME1L1L667V variant. We first sought to address possible consequences of the identi- Furthermore, western blotting with the YME1L1_C antibody fied variant on the protein's abundance or processing. For this, failed to detect the 40 kDa fragment present in the patient's fi- we performed western immunoblot in patient- derived fibro- broblasts, in YME1L1L667V- transfected HeLa cells (Figure 3D). blasts using an antibody against the C- terminal part (amino The above results most likely exclude aberrant proteolysis as the acids 348- 716) of YME1L1 (YME1L1_C). We found no signifi- process giving rise to the 40 kDa YME1L1 fragment and may cant changes in the abundance of either the precursor or mature instead indicate a partial splicing defect. form of YME1L1L667V, as compared to the wild- type protein in control fibroblasts (Figure 3A). This finding suggests that the variant does not influence the levels or processing of YME1L1. 3.4 | Patient- Derived Fibroblasts Display Intriguingly, in addition to the mature and precursor forms of Fragmentation of the Mitochondrial Network YME1L1, a prominent, faster- migrating band corresponding to a protein of ~40 kDa was detected only in the patient's fibro- Given the well- established role of YME1L1 in the regulation of blasts (Figure 3A). To further investigate the nature and origin mitochondrial fusion , we next evaluated the morphol- of this truncated protein fragment, we employed an antibody ogy of the mitochondrial network in the patient's fibroblasts. (YME1L1_N) directed against the N- terminal 240 amino acids As revealed by TOMM20 staining, the mitochondrial network of the YME1L1 precursor. As with the YME1L1_C antibody, in the patient's fibroblasts appeared less tubular, as compared the abundance of the mature protein appeared similar in pa- to controls (Figure 4A). Quantification of parameters related to tient and control fibroblasts; however, unlike YME1L1_C, the mitochondrial
