Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


as compared the abundance of the mature protein appeared similar in pa- to controls (Figure 4A). Quantification of parameters related to tient and control fibroblasts; however, unlike YME1L1_C, the mitochondrial morphology and network complexity unveiled YME1L1_N antibody did not detect the 40 kDa fragment, sug- statistically significant differences between the patient's and gesting that this does not encompass the N- terminal part of the control fibroblasts. In particular, mitochondria in patient's fi- protein (Figure 3B). broblasts appeared smaller, as evidenced by decreased area and perimeter, and displayed reduced aspect ratios and form factors, The above findings may suggest that the truncated YME1L1 demonstrating that YME1L1L667V is associated with more glob- protein detected in patient- derived fibroblasts could result ular and less elongated mitochondria (Figure 4B). Furthermore, from either aberrant splicing or proteolytic cleavage of the the mitochondrial tubules in the patient's fibroblasts exhibited YME1L1L667V protein. To address the above, we transiently shorter branch lengths, indicative of a less interconnected mi- expressed either wild- type YME1L1 or YME1L1L667V, fused to tochondrial network (Figure 4B). Taken together, the above a C- terminal myc- FLAG epitope in HeLa cells. Expression of findings suggest that YME1L1L667V is associated with enhanced both wild- type YME1L1 and YME1L1L667V was verified in tran- mitochondrial fragmentation, which may indicate impaired siently transfected HeLa cells using an antibody against the myc YME1L1 function. 6 of 13 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 FIGURE 3 | Effects of the c.1999C>G variant on the levels and processing of YME1L1. (A) Representative western blot and densitometry for the evaluation of YME1L1 protein levels (precursor and mature forms), using an antibody against the C- terminal part of YME1L1 (YME1L1_C, Proteintech, 11 510- 1- AP). Densitometry analysis is presented as a ratio to GAPDH (n = 3). (B) Detection of YME1L1 using an antibody against the N- terminal segment of the protein (YME1L1_N, ABclonal, A10402). GAPDH served as a loading control. (C, D) Western blot of cell lysates from HeLa cells transiently transfected with either wild- type YME1L1- myc- FLAG or YME1L1L667V- myc- FLAG probed with a myc (C) or YME1L1_C (D) antibody. Non- transfected HeLa cells (C, D) and patient- derived fibroblasts (D) served as controls. GAPDH was used as a loading control. The arrow indicates a truncated protein fragment of ~40 kDa detected only in patient's fibroblasts. Data are presented as mean ± SEM, ns, not statistically sig- nificant (one- way ANOVA).
