Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


The arrow indicates a truncated protein fragment of ~40 kDa detected only in patient's fibroblasts. Data are presented as mean ± SEM, ns, not statistically sig- nificant (one- way ANOVA). m: Mature, p: Precursor, u: Unspecific. 3.5 | Leu667Val Is Associated With Impaired to controls (Figure 5B). To exclude a transcriptional origin for Proteolysis of YME1L1 Substrates PRELID1 accumulation in the patient's cells, we evaluated PRELID1 mRNA levels by quantitative PCR. These were found It has been previously reported that YME1L1 loss- of- function to be comparable to those of control fibroblasts, suggesting that impairs the proteolytic processing of OPA1, resulting in elevated PRELID1 protein levels in the patient's fibroblasts are mitochondrial fragmentation in cells and tissues [28–30]. not due to transcriptional upregulation, but rather result from Furthermore, a homozygous YME1L1 variant, previously impaired proteolysis (Figure 5C). identified in a consanguineous family, was reported to cause mitochondriopathy associated with neurological dysfunction To exclude secondary defects that could be associated with mi- and enhanced mitochondrial fission . Given the above and tochondrial fragmentation, we also assessed the levels of MFN2 the observed fragmentation of the mitochondrial network in and DRP1, which are key regulators of mitochondrial fusion the patient's fibroblasts, we sought to assess the effects of the and fission, respectively. Comparable levels of MFN2 and DRP1 YME1L1L667V variant on OPA1 processing. OPA1 undergoes were detected in fibroblasts from both the patient and healthy proteolytic cleavage by OMA1 and YME1L1 in the IMM, at the controls (Figure 5D). Together, the above findings indicate that S1 and S2 cleavage sites, respectively, resulting in the balanced the Leu667Val variant compromises YME1L1 function and accumulation of IMM- anchored long (L- OPA1) and soluble likely underlies the biochemical and cellular abnormalities, as S- OPA1 forms are associated with mitochondrial fission . Immunoblot analysis revealed a distorted cleavage pattern of OPA1 in patient's fibroblasts, as compared to controls, resulting 3.6 | YME1L1L667V Is Associated With Impaired in the accumulation of short forms and concomitant reduction Krebs Cycle Enzyme Activity and Mitochondrial of long forms of OPA1 (Figure 5A). We further evaluated the Respiratory Function lipid transfer protein PRELID1, the turnover of which is medi- ated by YME1L1 . PRELID1 protein levels were found to be Several lines of evidence link secondary 3- MGCA with mito- significantly increased in the patient's fibroblasts, as compared chondrial dysfunction and particularly with attenuated activity 7 of 13 FIGURE 4 |
