Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


dehydrogenase (SQR) and fumarate dehydrogenase (FH) ous pedigree of Saudi Arabian descent . Whether these displayed no statistically significant difference (Figure 6A). We patients also exhibited 3- MGCA remains unknown, since further investigated the functional consequences of YME1L1 this was not assessed in the above study. Moreover, evalu- Leu667Val variant on mitochondrial respiration by means of ox- ation of these patients for 3- MGCA for the purposes of this ygen consumption rate (OCR) measurements using a Seahorse study was not feasible, since they have been lost to follow- up. Extracellular Flux analyzer. We found that basal, ATP- linked, An association between YME1L1 dysfunction and 3- MGCA and maximal respiration were significantly reduced in the pa- is also indirectly supported by a recent study reporting that tient's fibroblasts, as compared to controls, suggesting an atten- impairment of the IMM disaggregase CLPB disrupts the in- uated mitochondrial respiratory capacity (Figure 6B). tegrity and function of the SPY complex, of which one of the components is YME1L1 . Pathogenic variants in CLPB Assessment of components of respiratory chain enzyme com- are known to be associated with 3- MGCA and neutropenia plexes did not reveal any statistically significant changes in (OMIM #619835) . Consistent with the above, one of the their abundance in the patient's fibroblasts (Figure 6C). The patients reported in this study exhibited, in addition to 3- above findings indicate that a diminished capacity of the Krebs MGCA, severe neutropenia, which may underscore the re- cycle and mitochondrial respiration may underlie 3- MGCA in ported functional link between CLPB and components of the the herein reported patients. SPY complex. 8 of 13 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 FIGURE 5 | YME1L1L667V variant is associated with impaired proteolytic activity. (A) Representative western blot and densitometry (ratio to GAPDH, n = 4) for assessing OPA1 proteolytic processing by YME1L1 in control and patient- derived fibroblasts. An aberrant cleavage pattern of OPA1 resulting in the reduction of long (L- OPA1) and accumulation of short (S- OPA1) forms is observed in patient's cells. (B) Representative western blot and densitometry (ratio to GAPDH, n = 3) for the assessment of PRELID1 protein levels in cell lysates from patient's fibroblasts and healthy con- trols. (C) Assessment of PRELID1 mRNA expression levels by quantitative PCR. Values were normalized to mRNA levels of the TBP housekeeping gene (n = 3). (D) Representative western blot and densitometry (ratio to GAPDH,
