Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


PRELID1 mRNA expression levels by quantitative PCR. Values were normalized to mRNA levels of the TBP housekeeping gene (n = 3). (D) Representative western blot and densitometry (ratio to GAPDH, n = 3) for the evaluation of the fusion and fission regulators MFN2 and DRP1, respectively (n = 3). Data are presented as mean ± SEM, ****p < 0.0001; ***p < 0.001; **p < 0.01; *p < 0.05; ns, not statistically significant (one- way ANOVA). The herein described patients exhibit features of a mitochon- by ophthalmological examination performed once a year since hearing loss, mild developmental delay, and learning chal- to the nature of the amino acid substitution and its position lenges, while their brain MRI revealed symmetrical high within the YME1L1 protein in each case. In our patients, the signal in the basal ganglia. These clinical manifestations par- identified variant results in a conservative amino acid substi- tially overlap with those observed in the previously reported tution of leucine to valine, p.(Leu667Val). The affected amino patients and also in cases of 3- MGCA caused by mutations acid lies within a highly conserved region of the C- terminal in other genes . In general, the patients described in the protease domain of YME1L1, and according to our findings, pared to the herein reported cases, characterized by motor, de- tein. On the other hand, the previously identified Arg149Trp velopmental, and speech delay, intellectual disability, hearing variant substitutes a positively charged, polar arginine resi- impairment, leukoencephalopathy, and optic nerve atrophy. due with a non- polar, bulky aromatic amino acid (tryptophan) Additional features, such as short stature, low weight, and within the MTS of YME1L1. The above amino acid change microcephaly or macrocephaly, were inconsistently present was shown to impair MPP- mediated processing and matura- . As opposed to these patients , the siblings described in tion of YME1L1, resulting in the subsequent degradation of this study have normal growth and head circumference and the accumulated precursor , which could be related to a 9 of 13 FIGURE 6 | YME1L1L667V is associated with Krebs cycle dysfunction and attenuated mitochondrial respiration. (A) Assessment of the enzymatic activities of the Krebs cycle enzymes CS, αKGDH, SQR, and FH in patient's and control fibroblasts (n = 3 for αKGDH and FH; n = 4 for CS and SQR). (B) Seahorse oxygen consumption rate (OCR) measurements and quantification of basal, ATP- linked and maximal respiration in
