Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


= 3 for αKGDH and FH; n = 4 for CS and SQR). (B) Seahorse oxygen consumption rate (OCR) measurements and quantification of basal, ATP- linked and maximal respiration in control and patient- derived fibroblasts. The control group represents combined measurements from dermal fibroblasts derived from three unrelated healthy individuals. (C) Representative western blot and densitometry for the evaluation of the abundance of respiratory chain enzyme complexes (CI–CV) in protein extracts from control and patient's fibroblasts (n = 3). GAPDH served as loading control, and densitometry is expressed as a ratio to GAPDH. Data are presented as mean ± SEM, ****p < 0.0001; ***p < 0.001; **p < 0.01; *p < 0.05, ns, not statistically significant (one- way ANOVA for A, C; two- tailed Mann Whitney for B). α- KGDH: α-k etoglutarate dehydrogenase, CS: Citrate synthase, FH: Fumarate hydratase, SQR: Succinate dehydrogenase. It is noteworthy that for both siblings reported in this study, suggesting that it likely results from a partial splicing defect. maternal preeclampsia was present during the final stages of This could be related to the position of the C>G transition, pregnancy. Recent studies revealed a strong correlation between which lies in the proximity of the exon 18/intron junction. As impaired mitochondrial function and preeclampsia, supporting the origin and nature of this truncated YME1L1 fragment are that mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to its pathophysi- currently elusive, its potential role in disease pathogenesis re- ology . Additionally, a shift in mitochondrial dynamics to- mains unknown. wards fission was reported in preeclamptic placenta . The effects of deleterious YME1L1 variants on mitochondrial mor- We provide evidence that the Leu667Val variant is associated phology and function, as described by us and others, may thus with impaired proteolytic activity of YME1L1, supporting its be related to an increased risk for maternal preeclampsia. pathogenicity. This is demonstrated by the increased protein levels of PRELID1 in the patient's fibroblasts. PRELID1 is a lipid Our results indicate the presence of a ~ 40 kDa truncated transfer protein which is constitutively degraded by YME1L1, YME1L1 protein, in addition to the full- length mature protein, as a mechanism to regulate cardiolipin levels and resistance in the patient's fibroblasts. This shorter protein fragment was to apoptosis . Moreover, we demonstrate aberrant proteo- not detected in HeLa cells transiently expressing YME1L1L667V, lytic processing of OPA1, giving rise to the accumulation of 10 of 13 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025
