Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


demonstrate aberrant proteo- not detected in HeLa cells transiently expressing YME1L1L667V, lytic processing of OPA1, giving rise to the accumulation of 10 of 13 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 short forms of OPA1 and increased mitochondrial fission in In conclusion, our findings link YME1L1 dysfunction with 3- patient- derived fibroblasts. Aligned with our results, the previ- MGCA. YME1L1 should thus be considered a potential candi- ously reported YME1L1 Arg149Trp variant was also reported date gene in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with 3- MGCA to induce accumulation of PRELID1 and fragmentation of the presenting with sensorineural hearing impairment and neuro- mitochondrial network associated with abnormal OPA1 pro- logical manifestations. cessing . Additionally, YME1L1 loss- of- function in the heart or the nervous system of mice, resulted in compromised proteo- lytic cleavage of OPA1, leading to mitochondrial fragmentation Author Contributions , Similar to YME1L1, defects in other genes associated with 3- MGCAs have been shown to disturb mitochondrial mor- Petros P. Petrou and Olga Grafakou conceptualized and designed the phology or OPA1 processing. Biallelic pathogenic variants in the study. Anthi Demetriadou performed the experiments, analyzed the data, and wrote the manuscript. Petros P. Petrou evaluated and inter- HTRA2 gene (OMIM #617248) which encodes a mitochondrial preted data, wrote the manuscript, coordinated, and supervised the serine protease impair OPA1 proteolytic processing, resulting in the accumulation of S- OPA1 forms. However, no impairment wrote the manuscript, and provided skin biopsy. Theodoros Georgiou of mitochondrial morphology was observed, suggesting an in- performed whole- exome sequencing and interpreted biochemical re- direct effect of HTRA2 on OPA1, which may result in transient sults. Daniela Burska performed and analyzed Krebs cycle activity fusion events influenced by OPA1 levels . Furthermore, experiments. Anna Malekkou performed Sanger sequencing, family fibroblasts from patients with Costeff optic- atrophy syndrome study, and variant classification. Jana Krizova performed and analyzed Seahorse experiments. Efstathia Paramera, Gavriella Mavrikiou, and (OMIM #258501) caused by compound heterozygous variants in Maria Dionysiou performed biochemical tests. Athina Theodosiou OPA3, exhibited morphological alterations in the mitochondrial analyzed whole- exome sequencing data. Carolina Sismani interpreted network, compatible with fragmented mitochondria . Our genetic data. Violetta Anastasiadou and Ioannis Ioannou performed findings further demonstrate that the YME1L1 Leu667Val vari- clinical evaluation of the patients. Evangelos Papakonstantinou and ant does not interfere with the protein's maturation, suggesting Anthi Drousiotou interpreted biochemical findings. Hana Hansikova that the MPP- mediated processing of the protein
