Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: mitochondrial, patient, fibroblasts, protein, acid, using, control, figure, variant, journal, mgca, metabolic, patients, performed, associated


of the patients. Evangelos Papakonstantinou and ant does not interfere with the protein's maturation, suggesting Anthi Drousiotou interpreted biochemical findings. Hana Hansikova that the MPP- mediated processing of the protein in the IMM is interpreted Krebs cycle enzyme activity and Seahorse measurements. not disrupted. Conversely, and despite the fact that the previ- All authors reviewed, edited, and approved the final manuscript. ously reported YME1L1R149W mutant was correctly targeted to mitochondria, its proteolytic maturation by MPP was compro- Acknowledgments mised . We thank the patients and their parents for participating in this study. We found reduced activities of CS and α- KGDH in patient- derived fibroblasts, without significant changes in FH or SQR Ethics Statement activity. These findings may indicate a diminished capacity of The study was conducted in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration the Krebs cycle. CS catalyzes the condensation of oxaloacetate (https:// www. wma. net/ polic ies- post/ wma- decla ratio n- of- helsi with acetyl- CoA to generate citrate, an irreversible reaction nki/ ) and was approved by the Cyprus National Bioethics Committee. Informed consent was obtained from the patients' parents. representing the first rate- limiting step of the Krebs cycle and a crucial determinant of the energy- generating process through mitochondrial respiration . A reduction in CS activity Consent could restrict the availability of downstream intermediates, All procedures followed were in accordance with the ethical standards thus affecting mitochondrial energy production. Additionally, of the responsible committee on human experimentation (institutional the α- KGDH complex catalyzes the second rate- limiting step of and national) and with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, as revised in the Krebs cycle, the irreversible conversion of α- ketoglutarate to 2000. Informed consent was obtained from all patients for being in- succinyl- CoA in the presence of NAD+ and coenzyme A (CoA). cluded in the study. This enzyme complex is tightly regulated by several factors such as CoA and NAD+, and is particularly sensitive to feedback in- Conflicts of Interest hibition by increased succinyl- CoA/CoA and NADH/NAD+ ra- The authors declare no conflicts of interest. tios . Consistent with the above, mitochondrial respiratory capacity was found to be reduced in patient- derived fibroblasts. Data Availability Statement Together, the attenuated activity of Krebs cycle enzymes and compromised mitochondrial respiration may provide a mecha- The variant reported in this study, NM_014263.4(YME1L1):c.1999C>G nistic link to the 3- MGCA observed in our patients. In partic- (p.Leu667Val) has been
