Respiratory Infections in Adults with Atopic Disease and
KEYWORDS: infections, atopic, respiratory, disease, atopic disease, ige, study, risk, allergic, asthma, specific, respiratory infections, lrtis, antibodies, ige antibodies


population of the Finnish Assessment of the occurrence of respiratory infections Environment and Asthma Study (FEAS), a population-based The main outcomes were occurrences of lower and upper incident case-control study described previously [9–16]. All study respiratory infections assessed based on the following question: subjects signed an informed consent form. The study was How often did you experience the following infections during the past approved by the ethics committees of the Finnish Institute of 12months?Thelistofinfectionsincludedcommoncold,tonsillitis, Occupational Health andtheTampereUniversity Hospital. sinusitis, otitis media, acute bronchitis and pneumonia. The infections were dichotomized according to at least one infection Systematic literature search ($1)versusnoinfection,exceptthatcommoncoldwascategorized We performed a systematic literature search of Ovid Medline as at least two infections ($2) versus 0–1 infection. Respiratory database with free text (‘‘Atopy’’ OR ‘‘Allergic disease’’ OR infections were classified as lower respiratory tract infections ‘‘Allergicpatient’’OR‘‘Allergic’’OR‘‘ImmunoglobulinE’’)AND (LRTI) including acute bronchitis and pneumonia, and upper with Mesh term ‘‘Respiratory tract infections’’. We limited the respiratory tract infections (URTI) including common cold, search for English language and humans studies. The search tonsillitis,sinusitis and otitismedia. produced altogether 262 articles from which three studies [6–8] fulfilledthefollowingcriteria:it(i)wasalongitudinal/cohortstudy Statistical methods orcase-controlstudyand(ii)reportedonrelationsbetweenatopic Westudiedtherelationsbetweenatopicdiseaseperseaswellas diseases and/or specific IgE antibodies and occurrence of in combination with measured specific IgE antibodies and respiratory infections. We further searched the reference lists of occurrence of respiratory tract infections by estimating risk ratios recent review articles as well as relevant articles identified in our (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) from generalized linear search. modelapplyingPROCGENMOD(SASv9.3,SASInstituteInc., Cary, NC, USA) using Poisson regression. The occurrence of Questionnaire infections was compared between subjects with one or several Thestudysubjectsfilledinaself-administeredquestionnaire[9– atopicdiseasesandsubjectswithoutanyoftheatopicdiseases(the reference category). Specific IgE was expressed as a Phadiatop information, including occurrence of respiratory infections in the scorereflectingtheIgEantibodylevelstocommonaeroallergens, past 12months and details of atopic and respiratory diseases, 3) and the risk of infections among those with higher scores was activesmokingandsecondhandtobaccosmoke(SHS)exposure,4) compared with the score 0 (the reference category). Sex, age, occupation andworkenvironment, 5)home environment, and6) education (as an indicator of socio-economic status), personal dietaryquestions.Thepartsofthequestionnairethatwereusedin smoking, and exposure to SHS in the home or at work were this study are included online as Supporting Information adjusted for as covariates. We tested the adjusted linear trend of (Questionnaire S1). theriskofURTIsandLRTIsaccordingtothelevelsofspecificIgE based on binomial proportion and their standard errors derived Assessment of atopic disease and specific allergies fromPoissonregression(procgenmodindentitylink).Inaddition, The determinants of interest were atopic disease and specific we performed the main analyses stratified by gender which we IgE antibodies to
