Respiratory Infections in Adults with Atopic Disease and
KEYWORDS: infections, atopic, respiratory, disease, atopic disease, ige, study, risk, allergic, asthma, specific, respiratory infections, lrtis, antibodies, ige antibodies


Assessment of atopic disease and specific allergies fromPoissonregression(procgenmodindentitylink).Inaddition, The determinants of interest were atopic disease and specific we performed the main analyses stratified by gender which we IgE antibodies to common aeroallergens or a combination of present in Tables S1, S2 and S3. However, these should be these. These were studied as indicators of atopic propensity. interpretedwithcautionasthisstratificationreducesthenumbers Atopic disease was defined as reported doctor-diagnosed allergic inspecific cells. rhinitis and/or dermatitis and/or asthma. In addition, serum concentrations of allergen-specific IgE antibodies were used as indicators ofatopy. Results The questionnaire also inquired the following questions: Have Characteristics of the study population you everundergone allergy testing, such asskinprick tests or allergy-antibody Table 1 presents characteristics of the total study population tests? and Did these tests reveal any allergies (i.e. were the results positive)? and stratified by gender. The prevalence of allergic rhinitis, Reported positive findings of allergy tests were used as an dermatitis and asthma (previous or current) in this working-aged additional indicator of atopic tendency in combination with population was 21.6% (n=218), 34.1% (n=344) and 7.5% diagnosed allergic diseases. We analyzed association between (n=76),respectively. Phadiatop score and reported positive allergy test and they were highly correlated (Cochran-ArmitageTrendTest: P,0.001). Participants gave serum samples at the laboratories of the Association between atopic disease and IgE antibodies Tampere University Hospital Laboratory Center. Serum was The proportion of subjects with atopic disease increased separated bycentrifugation andstored at220uCbeforeshipping significantly with higher IgE levels (i.e. Phadiatop scores 1–6) analyses. Specific IgE antibodies to common aeroallergens, disease was observed to increase with Phadiatop score showing a including birch, timothy, grass, mugwort, cat, dog, horse, dose-responsepattern:adjustedRR1.36(95%CI:1.01,1.82)for Dermatophagoidespteronyssinus,andAspergillusfumigatuswereanalyzed score1–2,1.93(1.44,2.57)forscore3–4,and1.91(0.77,4.73)for from the serum samples by the immunoassay system Pharmacia score .4 (Table 2). The RRs of atopic disease related to the UniCAP (Pharmacia Diagnostics Ab, Uppsala, Sweden; www. different Phadiatop scores were slightly higher among men than unicapinvitrosight.com)givingPhadiatopscores.Phadia- among women(TableS1). topwasexpressedasascorefrom0–6asgradedbytheUniCAP Phadiatopsystem,withthelimitsasfollows:score0=0–0.34kU/ PLOSONE | www.plosone.org 2 July2013 | Volume 8 | Issue 7 | e68582 AtopyandRespiratoryInfections relatedtoincreasedriskofspecificrespiratoryinfectionsincluding Table1. Characteristics ofthe total studypopulation and acutebronchitis,commoncold,sinusitisandotitismedia.TheRR stratified bygender, The FinnishEnvironment andAsthma related to atopic disease was also increased for pneumonia and Study(FEAS). tonsillitis, but these effects did not reach statistical significance, probably because of smaller occurrences of these infections. Gender-stratified results of the relations between atopic disease Female Male All and respiratory infections are shown in TableS2. The RR of Characteristic N(%) N(%) N(%) LRTIs washigher amongmen than among women. Total 540 468 1008
