Respiratory Infections in Adults with Atopic Disease and
KEYWORDS: infections, atopic, respiratory, disease, atopic disease, ige, study, risk, allergic, asthma, specific, respiratory infections, lrtis, antibodies, ige antibodies


higher rate of infections. The risk of Table S1 Association between specific IgE antibody severe respiratory infections (among which they included middle levels and atopic disease stratified by gender, The earinfections,paranasalsinusitisandlowerairwayinfections)was Finnish Environmentand AsthmaStudy (FEAS). higher than the risk of mild infections. Their results are thus (DOCX) consistent with ours covering adult age. We found that allergic rhinitis was a weaker risk factor for infections than asthma or Table S2 Risk of respiratory infections in the past allergic dermatitis. The Italian study did not address these other 12monthsinsubjectswithatopicdiseaseandthosewith forms of allergic diseases. Another Italian study of 3–6years old no atopic disease stratified by gender, The Finnish children referred to an outpatient clinic reported a higher Environment andAsthma Study (FEAS). occurrence of respiratory infections among allergic compared to (DOCX) non-allergicchildren.Kvaernerandco-workersstudiedthe occurrence of URTIs in a population-based cross-sectional study Table S3 Risk of lower and upper respiratory tract ofNorwegianchildrenaged4to5 yearsandfoundthatinfections infections($1infection)inthepast12monthsaccording wereassociatedwithatopicdisease.ABritishstudyfollowedfor3– to the levels of specific IgE antibodies stratified by 4 months 76 cohabiting couples, one having atopic asthma and gender, The Finnish Environment and Asthma Study the other being healthy, and took repeatedly nasal samples for (FEAS). rhinovirus analysis . They did not find differences in (DOCX) rhinovirus-related URTIs, but asthmatics were more likely to have LRTIs. In addition to studies focusing on respiratory tract Author Contributions infections,apopulation-basedcase-controlstudyusingregistriesas Conceivedand designedthe experiments:MSJ JJKJ.Analyzedthe data: sources of information found increased risk of serious pneumo- AR.Contributedreagents/materials/analysistools:JJKJMSJ.Wrotethe coccaldisease(includingsepsis,meningitisandpneumonia)inboth paper:ARJJKJMSJ. children and adults with atopic disease other than asthma . Association between levels of specific IgE antibodies and respiratory infectionshasnot been studied previously.
