Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


1 Recommendations 1.1 Ticagrelor in combination with low-dose aspirin is recommended for up to 12 months as a treatment option in adults with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) that is, people: • with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) – defined as ST elevation or new left bundle branch block on electrocardiogram – that cardiologists intend to treat with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or • with non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or • admitted to hospital with unstable angina – defined as ST or T wave changes on electrocardiogram suggestive of ischaemia plus 1 of the characteristics defined in section 1.2. Before ticagrelor is continued beyond the initial treatment, the diagnosis of unstable angina should first be confirmed, ideally by a cardiologist. 1.2 For the purposes of this guidance, characteristics to be used in defining treatment with ticagrelor for unstable angina are: age 60 years or older; previous myocardial infarction or previous coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG); coronary artery disease with stenosis of 50% or more in at least 2 vessels; previous ischaemic stroke; previous transient ischaemic attack, carotid stenosis of at least 50%, or cerebral revascularisation; diabetes mellitus; peripheral arterial disease; or chronic renal dysfunction, defined as a creatinine clearance of less than 60 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area. 2 The technology 2.1 Ticagrelor (Brilique, AstraZeneca) is an oral antagonist at the P2Y adenosine 12 diphosphate receptor, which inhibits platelet aggregation and thrombus formation in atherosclerotic disease. The summary of product characteristics (SPC) states that ticagrelor, co-administered with low-dose aspirin, is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients with ACS, defined as STEMI, NSTEMI or unstable angina. Patients with ACS who receive ticagrelor and aspirin may receive drugs only (medical management) or may also undergo revascularisation with PCI or CABG. 2.2 According to the SPC, treatment should be initiated with a loading dose of 180 mg ticagrelor (2 tablets of 90 mg) and then continued at 90 mg twice a day for up to 12 months. Patients taking ticagrelor should also take low-dose aspirin daily, unless specifically contraindicated. Following an initial loading dose of aspirin, the maintenance dose is 75 to 150 mg per day. 2.3 Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding, a history of intracranial haemorrhage, or moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment. Co-administration of ticagrelor with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (for example, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, or atazanavir) is also contraindicated. The most
