Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


a history of intracranial haemorrhage, or moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment. Co-administration of ticagrelor with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (for example, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, or atazanavir) is also contraindicated. The most commonly reported adverse reactions to treatment with ticagrelor include dyspnoea, epistaxis, gastrointestinal haemorrhage, subcutaneous or dermal bleeding, and bruising. For full details of adverse effects and contraindications, see the SPC. 2.4 The manufacturer stated in its submission that the cost of 90 mg tablets of ticagrelor is £54.60 for a pack of 56 tablets (28 days). Costs may vary in different settings because of procurement discounts. 3 The manufacturer's submission The Appraisal Committee considered evidence submitted by the manufacturer of ticagrelor and a review of this submission by the Evidence Review Group (ERG). This evidence related to the clinical and cost effectiveness of ticagrelor plus aspirin. Clinical effectiveness 3.1 For the comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin, the manufacturer identified 1 trial, the PLATO trial, an international, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group, phase 3 study. The trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin over 12 months in people with ACS whose symptoms began up to 24 hours before their admission to hospital. In the trial, 18,624 adult patients with ACS with or without ST-segment elevation on electrocardiogram from 43 countries including 18 UK centres (n=281) were admitted to hospital, and randomised to either ticagrelor plus aspirin (n=9,333) or clopidogrel plus aspirin (n=9,291). In the ticagrelor group, patients received a loading dose of 180 mg of ticagrelor, then 90 mg twice a day. Patients randomised to clopidogrel received loading doses of 300 to 600 mg of clopidogrel, then 75 mg every day thereafter. Patients did not need loading doses of clopidogrel if they had taken clopidogrel before admission or had received clopidogrel after admission but before randomisation (median approximately 5 hours). In the time between admission and randomisation, 46% of patients in both the ticagrelor and clopidogrel groups received clopidogrel. All patients also received aspirin (in addition to ticagrelor or clopidogrel) with a loading dose of 325 mg, then 75 to 100 mg daily. Patients already taking aspirin did not need a loading dose of aspirin. 3.2 The primary end point was time to first event (a composite of myocardial infarction, stroke or death from vascular causes). The planned duration of treatment and follow-up was 12 months. If before
