Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


subgroups that included patients whose condition was managed invasively, managed medically, patients with STEMI, patients with diabetes, patients with genetic polymorphisms, and patients undergoing CABG. The results of these 6 subgroup analyses were generally consistent with the primary analysis. 3.5 The manufacturer reported adverse events from the PLATO study, specifically bleeding, dyspnoea and ventricular pauses. There was no statistically significant difference in the primary safety end point of 'major' bleeding between the ticagrelor plus aspirin and clopidogrel plus aspirin groups (11.6% versus 11.2% respectively; p=0.43), or in the end point of bleeding defined by the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) scale. Both were analysed according to which treatment a patient took, rather than to which a patient had been randomised; these findings were consistent across all major subgroups. Patients randomised to ticagrelor experienced more overall major and minor bleeding (HR 1.11; 95% CI 1.03 to 1.20; p=0.008) as well as more major bleeding not related to CABG (HR 1.19; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.38; p=0.03). Intracranial bleeding was more common in the ticagrelor plus aspirin group than in the clopidogrel plus aspirin group, with fatal intracranial bleeding statistically significantly more common in the ticagrelor plus aspirin group (HR not reported; p=0.02). Fatal bleeding excluding intracranial bleeding was statistically significantly more common in the clopidogrel plus aspirin group (HR not reported; p=0.03). There was no difference between the 2 groups in relation to overall fatal bleeding (0.3% in each group). Patients randomised to ticagrelor experienced dyspnoea statistically significantly more often than patients taking clopidogrel (13.8% versus 7.8% respectively; p<0.001). More patients taking ticagrelor plus aspirin discontinued treatment because of dyspnoea than patients taking clopidogrel plus aspirin (0.9% versus 0.1% respectively; p<0.001). Holter monitoring detected more ventricular pauses of 3 seconds or longer during the first week in the ticagrelor plus aspirin group than in the clopidogrel plus aspirin group, but these occurred infrequently at 30 days of treatment and were rarely associated with symptoms. Patients treated with ticagrelor had statistically significantly greater increases from baseline in levels of serum uric acid and serum creatinine compared with those on clopidogrel (p<0.001 for both events throughout the study). 3.6 The manufacturer identified no trials directly comparing ticagrelor plus aspirin with prasugrel plus aspirin. Instead, the manufacturer identified 2 trials comparing prasugrel plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin that provided data for an indirect comparison: the PLATO trial (ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel
