Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


Instead, the manufacturer identified 2 trials comparing prasugrel plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin that provided data for an indirect comparison: the PLATO trial (ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin) and TRITON-TIMI 38, which compared prasugrel plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin in patients (n=13,608) with ACS and scheduled PCI. The manufacturer took the view that the trials were not comparable and, by inference, a comparison between prasugrel and ticagrelor based on these trials was inappropriate and should be viewed with caution. The manufacturer noted that the PLATO and TRITON-TIMI 38 trials were similar in many ways, both including populations with ACS, both comparing the intervention plus aspirin to clopidogrel plus aspirin, and both sharing the same primary end point. However, there were important differences in the use of PCI and medical management, in the size and timing of the loading dose of clopidogrel, and in assessing myocardial infarction. Although the manufacturer considered the indirect comparison inappropriate, it cited a published paper based on the PLATO and TRITON-TIMI 38 trials that showed no statistically significant differences in the occurrence of myocardial infarction, stroke, death from any cause or the composite of these outcomes between the 2 drugs. Ticagrelor plus aspirin was associated with a statistically significantly lower risk of major bleeding and major bleeding specifically associated with bypass grafting than prasugrel plus aspirin. The risk of major bleeding not related to CABG did not differ between patients taking prasugrel and those taking ticagrelor. 3.7 The PLATO trial included a pre-specified sub-study of health economics and quality of life that evaluated the health-related quality of life for ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin. Investigators administered the EuroQual 5D (EQ-5D) questionnaire to 8,840 patients at discharge from hospital for the index ACS event, again at 6 months, and at the end of treatment in all countries where a version of EQ-5D in the country's official language was available. No differences in any of the items on the EQ-5D were found between the ticagrelor plus aspirin group and the clopidogrel plus aspirin group. Cost effectiveness 3.8 The manufacturer did not identify any publications that evaluated the cost effectiveness of ticagrelor for the treatment of ACS. The manufacturer developed a new economic model, informed by 9 existing economic evaluations. For the health economics evaluation of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with prasugrel plus aspirin, the manufacturer presented the results of a
