Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


new economic model, informed by 9 existing economic evaluations. For the health economics evaluation of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with prasugrel plus aspirin, the manufacturer presented the results of a published indirect comparison of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial and the PLATO trial, conducted by an independent group. 3.9 The manufacturer constructed a 2-part cost−utility model with a 1-year decision tree to model effectiveness based on data from the PLATO study, and a Markov model to extrapolate costs and benefits to a lifetime horizon (40 years), and to incorporate major clinical events. Patients in the model had ACS (STEMI, NSTEMI or unstable angina) and included patients whose condition was managed medically or with PCI or CABG; the model therefore reflected the marketing authorisation for ticagrelor. The model compared ticagrelor plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin. 3.10 The 1-year decision tree contained 4 mutually exclusive health states: non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, death from any cause, and no further event. The Markov model included 6 states: non-fatal myocardial infarction, post- myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, post-stroke, death, and no further event. Non-fatal myocardial infarction and non-fatal stroke were tunnel states, which allowed for a worse prognosis the first year after a non-fatal event compared with second and subsequent years. After the first year following a non-fatal event, patients proceeded to 1 of 4 mutually exclusive health states: post-myocardial infarction, post-stroke, death or no further event. Costs and health outcomes were discounted at 3.5%. The Markov model used a half-cycle correction to adjust for simulated costs and outcomes. The model did not permit a patient to discontinue treatment for any reason other than death. 3.11 In the model, costs, life years, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) accrued beyond the first year of treatment with ticagrelor or clopidogrel; however, the model assumed that the beneficial effect of ticagrelor does not persist beyond 1 year. This means that the transition probabilities between states in the Markov model were the same for both treatment arms; the only difference between treatment arms was the number of patients who started the Markov model in each state, which was based on the output of the 1-year decision tree. Adverse events (notably bleeding) were not included in the structure of the model, but the increased costs and decreased health-related quality of life associated with adverse events recorded in PLATO (as part of PLATO-HECON) were included in the first year (decision tree)
