Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


model, but the increased costs and decreased health-related quality of life associated with adverse events recorded in PLATO (as part of PLATO-HECON) were included in the first year (decision tree) of the model. The manufacturer assumed that adverse events including bleeding and dyspnoea have no lasting effects beyond the 12-month duration of the trial. To model the incidence of cardiovascular complications beyond 1 year (in the Markov component of the model), the manufacturer assumed a constant probability of 3.15% per year for non-fatal myocardial infarction and 1.02% per year for non-fatal stroke. The risk of death from MI after the index event (STEMI, NSTEMI or unstable angina) was assumed to be the same as that of death at least 1 year after the index ACS event. 3.12 For the 1-year decision tree, the manufacturer used a parametric time-to-event survival model with a Weibull distribution to determine the baseline risk (that is, the risk of cardiovascular events and death in the clopidogrel group). The manufacturer then applied HRs reflective of the effectiveness of ticagrelor from the PLATO study to this baseline risk to determine the risk in patients taking ticagrelor. Using data in the 1-year decision tree derived from the PLATO study, the manufacturer estimated from patients in the clopidogrel group age-adjusted event rates (myocardial infarction, stroke, death from any cause and death from vascular causes) for a UK population with ACS (mean age of PLATO patients, 62.2 years; reported age of UK patients with ACS in 2009 to 2010, 69.7 years). In the Markov model, the transition probabilities from the no event health state to each of the non-fatal myocardial infarction or non-fatal stroke health states were estimated from a study that the manufacturer commissioned from the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project and the General Practice Research Database. The probabilities of transitioning between all other health states were based on relative risks applied to the probability of death in standard life tables. 3.13 The manufacturer used the 12-month cohort (patients who were eligible for a 12-month follow-up) in the PLATO-HECON study to calculate the utility accrued in the study and reported it as the average utility value for a patient over the 12-month period using the EQ-5D. The manufacturer performed a literature search to assess the relationship between utility values in the PLATO study and in the literature. The lower values from the literature were used in sensitivity analyses. The
