Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


a literature search to assess the relationship between utility values in the PLATO study and in the literature. The lower values from the literature were used in sensitivity analyses. The utility scores from both the PLATO-HECON substudy and the literature were adjusted downwards by 0.0328 to better reflect the patient population that would be treated in UK clinical practice. In addition, because utility decreases with age, the manufacturer applied a utility decrement of 0.004 in the Markov model to each cycle beyond the first year. 3.14 The costs for the generic drugs clopidogrel and aspirin were taken from the NHS Drug Tariff, November 2010. The cost of the drugs used in the economic evaluation were: aspirin 28-pack, £0.82; clopidogrel 30-pack, £3.40; and ticagrelor 28-pack, £54.60. The PLATO-HECON substudy measured resource use and determined costs for all patients participating in the PLATO study by recording admissions to hospital, interventions, investigations, blood products, re-operations due to bleeding, and use of concomitant or study drugs to estimate total healthcare costs associated with ticagrelor and clopidogrel. Resource use included costs from randomisation to the time of discharge from hospital, as well as after discharge from hospital to the end of the PLATO study. The manufacturer also included in sensitivity analyses the costs of a visit to the GP and of a blood test to check renal function, as stipulated in the SPC for ticagrelor. 3.15 In its deterministic base case (40-year time horizon), the manufacturer's model estimated that ticagrelor provides an incremental health gain of 0.108 QALYs compared with clopidogrel, at an incremental cost of £379, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £3,521 per QALY gained. The manufacturer also presented results using time horizons of 1 year, 5 years, 10 years and 20 years: the ICER differed substantially from the base-case ICER only when using the 1-year time horizon, with an ICER of £33,764 per QALY gained. The manufacturer also presented base-case ICERs for the subgroups of ACS specified in the scope, which were £2,551 per QALY gained for STEMI, £5,217 per QALY gained for NSTEMI and £5,310 per QALY gained for unstable angina. 3.16 The manufacturer carried out deterministic sensitivity analyses to the base case and showed the effects of changing 43 model parameters. Only the change to the costs of the 'no further event' health state impacted substantially on the results. When the cost of the 'no further event' health
