Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


43 model parameters. Only the change to the costs of the 'no further event' health state impacted substantially on the results. When the cost of the 'no further event' health state for ticagrelor plus aspirin was set to its lowest, ticagrelor plus aspirin dominated clopidogrel plus aspirin (that is, ticagrelor plus aspirin was more effective and less expensive than clopidogrel plus aspirin), whereas when the cost of the clopidogrel plus aspirin 'no further event' health state was set to its lowest, the ICER was £21,000 per QALY gained. Changes in all other parameters did not increase the ICER beyond £7,620. 3.17 The manufacturer ran scenario analyses for 0% and 6% discount rates, using published rather than PLATO-derived utility values, removing the 0.0328 downwards utility adjustment and removing the age-related decrease in utility per cycle. The results of the scenario analyses showed that the ICER for ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin ranged from £2,358 to £4,699 per QALY gained. 3.18 The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed that at £5,000 per QALY gained, the probability of ticagrelor plus aspirin being cost effective compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin was 76.6%. At £20,000 per QALY gained, the probability of ticagrelor plus aspirin being cost effective compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin was 99.9%. 3.19 The manufacturer's submission also provided results for ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with prasugrel plus aspirin for the subgroup receiving PCI, based on the results of a published indirect comparison of the PLATO and TRITON-TIMI 38 trials. Because of the small proportion of patients who participated in the TRITON-TIMI 38 substudy of quality of life (EQ-5D was collected in only 461 of 13,608 patients at baseline), the model incorporated utility information from the literature, rather than from the substudy. If costs from the PLATO-HECON substudy were not available, the manufacturer used NHS reference costs in the analysis for prasugrel plus aspirin. The manufacturer obtained the cost of prasugrel from MIMS, October 2010. The analysis of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with prasugrel plus aspirin resulted in an incremental cost of £227, incremental QALYs of 0.065 and an ICER of £3,482 per QALY gained, with a 40-year time horizon. The manufacturer stated that the results of the indirect comparison should be viewed with caution because of the problems associated with the indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin with prasugrel plus aspirin discussed in section 3.6. ERG comments 3.20 The ERG conducted a
