Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


with caution because of the problems associated with the indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin with prasugrel plus aspirin discussed in section 3.6. ERG comments 3.20 The ERG conducted a literature search and agreed that the PLATO trial was the only trial relevant to the decision problem. The ERG considered that the PLATO trial was well designed with robust processes for randomisation and blinding. It noted that compliance and deviations in protocol were similar across treatment arms. Although only 281 patients in the PLATO trial were from centres in the UK, the ERG considered that they were not dissimilar to other European participants. The ERG also noted that participants in the PLATO trial were younger than patients with ACS in England and Wales, but that the manufacturer's model accounted for this difference. 3.21 The ERG noted that for patients with STEMI not undergoing PCI, NICE recommends dual antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel plus aspirin) for at least 4 weeks (from NICE's previous guideline on MI: secondary prevention, now replaced by NICE's guideline on myocardial infarction: cardiac rehabilitation and prevention of further cardiovascular disease). From statements in the 'clinical need and practice' and 'evidence and interpretation' sections of NICE's technology appraisal guidance on drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease, the ERG concluded that standard practice for STEMI should include dual antiplatelet therapy for 3 months for patients undergoing revascularisation with bare-metal stents and 12 months for patients undergoing revascularisation with drug-eluting stents. 3.22 The ERG considered that the PLATO trial reflects current clinical practice and that all patients received antiplatelet treatment at a clinically appropriate dose. The ERG was satisfied with the manufacturer's means of categorising adverse events from bleeding. The ERG expressed concerns about the components of the primary efficacy end point in the PLATO trial. Firstly, the primary end point was inconsistent with the concept that all components of an end point should be of similar importance to patients. For example, the average utility values from the 12-month cohort in the PLATO-HECON study used in the manufacturer's model differed by end point and were 0.246 for death from a vascular cause, 0.812 for myocardial infarction and 0.736 for stroke. Secondly, the primary end point was inconsistent with the concept that all components of an end point occur with similar frequencies. For example, in 18,624 participants there were 795 vascular deaths, 1,097 myocardial infarctions and 231 strokes during the
