Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


concept that all components of an end point occur with similar frequencies. For example, in 18,624 participants there were 795 vascular deaths, 1,097 myocardial infarctions and 231 strokes during the median 9.1-month follow-up in the PLATO study. Thirdly, the primary end point was inconsistent with the concept that the effect of a treatment should have an effect of similar magnitude and direction on all components of a primary end point. For example, in the PLATO study, the HR for stroke (non-significantly higher with ticagrelor) differed from those for myocardial infarction and death from vascular causes (significantly lower with ticagrelor). The ERG concluded that the results of the overall composite end point should be interpreted cautiously. The ERG also noted that the manufacturer excluded 'silent' myocardial infarctions (defined as new or presumed pathological Q waves on ECG in the absence of symptoms). The ERG considered that the secondary end points and their components reflected those used in other cardiovascular trials. 3.23 The ERG noted that the manufacturer tested whether the effectiveness and safety of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin differed across 25 pre-specified and 8 post-hoc subgroups, without adjustment for multiple comparisons. The ERG expressed concern about the large number of subgroups and potential overemphasis of any statistically significant results from these analyses, which might have occurred by chance alone. With these caveats noted, the ERG observed that the regional analysis showed that in the USA, patients randomised to ticagrelor plus aspirin did worse than those randomised to clopidogrel plus aspirin. 3.24 For patients with STEMI who receive bare-metal stents, the ERG highlighted concerns about the comparator treatment included in the economic evaluation. It interpreted NICE's technology appraisal guidance on drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease as stating that dual antiplatelet therapy for 3 months was standard practice for patients undergoing revascularisation with bare-metal stents, whereas for patients undergoing revascularisation with drug- eluting stents, NICE's previous guideline on MI: secondary prevention (now replaced by NICE's guideline on myocardial infarction: cardiac rehabilitation and prevention of further cardiovascular disease) recommends dual antiplatelet therapy for 12 months. Another concern of the ERG was that the manufacturer treated the STEMI group as a homogeneous population and estimated a single ICER. By contrast, the ERG believed that STEMI has 4 distinct populations differing by treatment: STEMI with medical management, STEMI revascularised with drug-eluting stent, STEMI revascularised with bare-metal stent and
