Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


ICER. By contrast, the ERG believed that STEMI has 4 distinct populations differing by treatment: STEMI with medical management, STEMI revascularised with drug-eluting stent, STEMI revascularised with bare-metal stent and STEMI with other intervention (for example, CABG). 3.25 The ERG stated that as the trial was designed to test the efficacy of 12 months of treatment, all patients should have been treated for 12 months. The ERG noted that the PLATO trial design did not involve uniform duration of treatment, instead, the protocol stipulated that patients could leave the study at their 6- or 9-month visit if a predetermined number of primary end-point events had occurred by that time. Approximately 44% of patients were followed up for 12 months in the trial. This increased the uncertainty in the estimates of effectiveness at the conclusion of the trial, which in turn was the prime driver of the Markov model and, therefore, the long-term benefits for patients. 3.26 The ERG noted that the model featured 2 separate paths. In 1 path, after first presentation with ACS, patients may have a subsequent non-fatal myocardial infarction at any time during the decision-tree part of the model and remain in the non-fatal myocardial infarction health state to the end of the decision-tree part of the model, then progress to the 'post-myocardial infarction' state for all remaining cycles until death (whether from cardiovascular or non-cardiovascular causes). Similarly, patients may instead have a non-fatal stroke as their first event (after the initial presentation with ACS) during a cycle, and then progress to the post- stroke state until death. The ERG considered that this structure does not represent reality, because it does not allow patients to have more than 1 myocardial infarction, more than 1 stroke, or both myocardial infarctions and strokes in their lifetime following their initial presentation with ACS, and that this may bias future costs and benefits. The ERG also noted that the model simplified the natural history of treated cardiovascular disease by keeping constant the transition probability of previously event-free patients (since initial treatment for ACS) experiencing a non-fatal myocardial infarction or stroke throughout the long-term Markov model. The modelling ignored the increase in risk associated with other factors, notably, increasing age. The ERG considered that this omission may have led to the manufacturer's model inaccurately estimating future events, costs and progressive changes in the outcomes and quality of life of patients. 3.27 The
