Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


considered that this omission may have led to the manufacturer's model inaccurately estimating future events, costs and progressive changes in the outcomes and quality of life of patients. 3.27 The ERG was concerned that the model applied an average utility score for the first year, whereas clinical experience showed that ACS patients experience an initial decline in utility that steadily improves. Therefore, the ERG noted that the ICER at 12 months may be an underestimate. 3.28 The ERG noted that in the manufacturer's submission the subgroups of interest in the economic evaluation did not reflect the subgroups of interest in the clinical section. The ERG could not verify the estimates of clinical effectiveness used in the manufacturer's model ascribed to ticagrelor in patients with NSTEMI or unstable angina. The ERG also noted that the manufacturer considered the subgroup with unstable angina as a homogeneous group whereas, in clinical practice in England and Wales, physicians typically categorise patients into lowest, low, intermediate, high and highest risk groups using the Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) classification and treat them accordingly. 3.29 The ERG noted that the manufacturer adjusted the age of the modelled patients to reflect the UK population with ACS. The ERG noted potential problems with the methods chosen by the manufacturer, which may have led to inaccuracies. The ERG established that these inaccuracies represented an 8% underestimate of benefits from ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin and suggested that the ICER presented by the manufacturer may be an overestimate. 3.30 The ERG acknowledged that use of healthcare resources was estimated in the model using data from an imbedded health economic study, which collected details of hospital care received by patients during the PLATO trial. For the purposes of the model, only data for those patients in the 12-month cohort were included. This cohort comprised of patients who, based on timing of enrolment, had the potential to receive 12 months treatment with ticagrelor. The ERG also noted that for each patient category in the model, the resources used by each patient were calculated separately for each treatment arm, and these were multiplied by a corresponding unit cost and totalled for an estimated hospital- care cost per patient for the first 12-month period. The ERG had some concerns relating to this type of resource analysis, and conducted a combined analysis of resource use (taking the ticagrelor and clopidogrel
