Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


for the first 12-month period. The ERG had some concerns relating to this type of resource analysis, and conducted a combined analysis of resource use (taking the ticagrelor and clopidogrel groups together), making some adjustments for double-counting of costs. Results suggested that the health state costs with ticagrelor were £100 lower (rather than £371 lower, as in the manufacturer's base-case) than the health state costs of clopidogrel, which would have the effect of doubling the estimated ICER at the 1-year time horizon. 3.31 The ERG noted that the manufacturer's base-case analysis estimated costs for the study drugs assuming 100% use in the trial period, despite evidence of deaths before the end of follow-up, treatment withdrawals, and poor adherence in some participants. The ERG instead incorporated data on drug use from the PLATO trial and noted that this reduced the average cost of both ticagrelor and clopidogrel substantially, and the difference in drug costs of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin reduced from £651 to £507 per patient. Applying the ERG's amended age adjustment, resource use, and costs of study drugs to the manufacturer's model resulted in a 42% increase in the manufacturer's ICER for the 1-year time horizon from £36,177 to £51,204 per QALY gained. However, the ERG emphasised that both the incremental costs and additional benefits associated with ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin were very small at longer time horizons, and subject to considerable uncertainty. 3.32 The ERG conducted a wide-ranging sensitivity analysis, calculating overall deterministic cost-effectiveness estimates for all combinations of 4 long-term variables – survival gain at 12 months, life expectancy at 12 months, the mean long-term utility value and the mean long-term discounted cost per patient year. The most favourable ICERs for ticagrelor plus aspirin are £3,407 per QALY gained for all patients, £3,551 per QALY gained for the STEMI group, £3,350 per QALY gained for the NSTEMI group and £3,405 per QALY gained for the group with unstable angina. Incorporating the least favourable combination of assumptions resulted in an estimated ICER for ticagrelor plus aspirin below £20,000 per QALY gained for each of the specified populations compared with 12 months' clopidogrel plus aspirin treatment. The central estimates from these sensitivity analyses were £7,897 per QALY gained for all patients, £8,872 per QALY gained for the STEMI group, £7,215 per QALY gained for the NSTEMI group and £9,131 for the subgroup
