Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


analyses were £7,897 per QALY gained for all patients, £8,872 per QALY gained for the STEMI group, £7,215 per QALY gained for the NSTEMI group and £9,131 for the subgroup with unstable angina. 3.33 The ERG noted that there are no head-to-head trial data comparing ticagrelor plus aspirin with prasugrel plus aspirin. With regard to the indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin with prasugrel plus aspirin, the ERG considered that any comparison of the PLATO and TRITON-TIMI 38 trials posed problems. The ERG agreed with the manufacturer that sufficient clinical evidence is not yet available for a credible indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with prasugrel plus aspirin for patients with ACS. It concluded that the effectiveness and safety of ticagrelor compared with prasugrel remains unknown. 3.34 Full details of all the evidence are in the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report. 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of ticagrelor, having considered evidence on the nature of ACS and the value placed on the benefits of ticagrelor by people with these conditions, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee discussed the clinical management of ACS. It heard from the clinical specialists that, in the UK, treatment options for people with STEMI are prasugrel plus aspirin or clopidogrel plus aspirin, along with PCI with a bare-metal or drug-eluting stent followed by dual antiplatelet treatment. The Committee heard that the duration of treatment of clopidogrel does not vary whether a stent is bare-metal or drug-eluting, because all people with ACS who undergo PCI, in the acute setting, are treated with clopidogrel plus aspirin for 12 months. The Committee heard that in UK clinical practice people with NSTEMI are offered treatments depending on their GRACE or TIMI score; medical management is an option for people at lowest risk of future adverse cardiovascular events, whereas people at higher risk would be offered PCI and subsequent dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that in the UK most people with NSTEMI undergo PCI. The Committee understood that of people in the UK with ACS, few have unstable angina and often do not need revascularisation, but do receive dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin. The clinical specialists stated that in
