Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


the UK with ACS, few have unstable angina and often do not need revascularisation, but do receive dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin. The clinical specialists stated that in the UK it is unusual for a patient with STEMI to undergo CABG and that approximately 10% of patients with NSTEMI undergo CABG. Clinical effectiveness 4.3 The Committee considered the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel. The Committee noted that the manufacturer based its submission on a large trial, PLATO, which compared ticagrelor plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin. The Committee noted that ticagrelor plus aspirin reduced the relative risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and death from vascular causes by 16% compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin. The Committee also noted that if the components of the primary end point were considered individually, the reductions in myocardial infarction and death from vascular causes were statistically significant (16% and 21% respectively) for patients randomised to the ticagrelor plus aspirin group. The Committee also noted the non-statistically significant increase in the incidence of stroke, in particular haemorrhagic stroke, in patients randomised to the ticagrelor group. The Committee considered the clinical evidence for ticagrelor plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin in the subgroups of patients that were specified in the scope (STEMI, NSTEMI and unstable angina) and noted that the test for interaction showed no statistical difference between the groups (p=0.41), interpreting this as no difference in the effectiveness between treatments by clinical presentation of ACS. The Committee noted that the manufacturer had performed a large substudy of quality of life based on EQ-5D scores, which indicated no difference in the quality of life between people taking ticagrelor plus aspirin and those taking clopidogrel plus aspirin. 4.4 The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that in general the trial was representative of the population in the UK, although the trial had a younger population and a higher proportion of men than the population with ACS in the UK. The Committee understood that the manufacturer had accounted for age in its analysis. The Committee noted comments from consultees and commentators questioning the generalisability of the PLATO trial to UK clinical practice because most of the patients presenting with ACS in the UK would receive medical therapy only whereas 21% of patients in the PLATO trial received medical therapy only. However, the Committee noted the clinical specialists' testimonies that most STEMI
