Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


the UK would receive medical therapy only whereas 21% of patients in the PLATO trial received medical therapy only. However, the Committee noted the clinical specialists' testimonies that most STEMI and NSTEMI patients would receive PCI. The Committee was also aware that results of the PLATO study showed no statistically significant difference in effectiveness between the patients whose condition was managed medically or otherwise. The Committee concluded that the trial was broadly reflective of clinical practice in the UK. 4.5 The Committee was aware that nearly half (46%) of all patients in the study received clopidogrel in hospital before randomisation, and that of those randomised to clopidogrel, only approximately one-fifth received a loading dose in the range (600 to 675 mg) recommended in the UK (600 mg). The Committee also noted that not all patients in the PLATO trial received treatment for 12 months and that the median duration of treatment was 9 months. The Committee heard that the results presented included those censored before 12 months. The Committee noted that the Kaplan–Meier curves depicting the 2 arms of the trial separated as early as 1 month and up to 1 year and, therefore, concluded that neither the difference in loading doses of clopidogrel nor censoring was likely to have substantially biased the results. 4.6 The Committee understood that ticagrelor is administered twice a day compared with once a day with clopidogrel and heard from the patient experts that, in practice, people may be less likely to take drugs twice a day. The Committee noted that no clear differences had been established on adherence between once-a-day clopidogrel and twice-a-day ticagrelor. The Committee noted comments from consultees and commentators that, particularly with a gastrointestinal bleed, the fast offset (time taken for ticagrelor to become inactive after it is stopped) could put a patient at increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke more quickly than had the patient been taking clopidogrel, and with insufficient time to consult a cardiologist. However, the Committee heard from the manufacturer that missing a dose of ticagrelor would not result in a lower level of platelet activation than if the patient were treated with clopidogrel without missing a dose. The Committee heard that when a CABG is planned, the marketing authorisation recommends stopping ticagrelor 7 days before the procedure, suggesting that the offset is not as fast as had been suggested in the consultation comments. The Committee
