Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


planned, the marketing authorisation recommends stopping ticagrelor 7 days before the procedure, suggesting that the offset is not as fast as had been suggested in the consultation comments. The Committee also noted comments from consultees and commentators that treatment with ticagrelor should be limited to people who clinicians have counselled on the importance of adherence. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that people taking clopidogrel or ticagrelor would usually receive information to ensure that they understand why adherence is important and why stopping treatment early might increase the risk of recurrent cardiovascular disease. Therefore, the Committee agreed that advice on adherence should not explicitly be factored into the recommendations. Lastly, the Committee noted that most patients with cardiovascular disease take drugs twice a day, including statins in the evening. The Committee concluded that in the 'real world' setting, the need to take medication twice a day rather than once a day would be unlikely to substantially reduce the effectiveness of ticagrelor plus aspirin relative to clopidogrel plus aspirin. 4.7 The Committee discussed the concerns about safety and adverse effects associated with ticagrelor. The Committee heard that dyspnoea (shortness of breath), ventricular pauses, increases in serum uric acid and increases in serum creatinine from baseline were statistically significantly more common in the ticagrelor group compared with the clopidogrel group, and noted that patients randomised to ticagrelor were more likely to discontinue the study drug because of adverse reactions. The Committee heard from the patient experts that dyspnoea frustrated patients with ACS and the clinical specialists stated that a patient randomised to ticagrelor was 9 times as likely to discontinue the study because of dyspnoea as a patient randomised to clopidogrel, but that the absolute risk, at less than 1%, was small. The Committee heard from the manufacturer that the effects of dyspnoea were limited mainly to mild episodes. The Committee noted no statistically significant difference in the primary safety end point of major bleeding between ticagrelor plus aspirin and clopidogrel plus aspirin but that patients on ticagrelor plus aspirin experienced more overall major and minor bleeding as well as more major bleeding not related to CABG. The Committee considered that the mortality benefit associated with ticagrelor outweighed the risks and concluded that ticagrelor was a clinically effective treatment option for people with ACS. 4.8 The Committee discussed whether ticagrelor plus aspirin would be more or less effective in any subgroups
