Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


concluded that ticagrelor was a clinically effective treatment option for people with ACS. 4.8 The Committee discussed whether ticagrelor plus aspirin would be more or less effective in any subgroups including patients with STEMI, NSTEMI or unstable angina. The Committee noted that several additional subgroups were presented in the trial. The Committee noted that among those defined in the scope (STEMI, NSTEMI, unstable angina) there was no statistically significant evidence of heterogeneity, consistent with no difference in effectiveness of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel by clinical presentation of ACS. The Committee appreciated that the numbers of patients by subgroup may have been too small to detect a difference in effectiveness. The Committee heard from the manufacturer that it had not corrected for multiple comparisons when analysing the many subgroups. The Committee noted the comment from a consultee saying that patients with unstable angina are unlikely to benefit from ticagrelor because subgroup analysis shows benefit only for patients whose blood tests following the index event were positive for troponin. The Committee noted, however, that neither the test for interaction by clinical presentation of ACS nor the test for interaction by whether a patient had a positive or negative test for troponin were positive (p value for interaction 0.41 and 0.29 respectively). Lastly, no evidence of statistical or biological plausibility was presented to support effect modification by presentation of ACS, and there are no trials using ticagrelor for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Therefore, the Committee concluded that providing specific recommendations only for patients with STEMI and NSTEMI and excluding those with unstable angina would be speculative, would counter the statistical evidence, and would risk excluding patients who could benefit from treatment with ticagrelor. 4.9 The Committee was aware of comments from consultees and commentators that the estimate of total mortality remained 'exploratory'. This was because the analysis plan for PLATO stated that secondary end points should be tested individually in a pre-specified order, so mortality should not have been included because it followed the non-statistically significant result for stroke. The Committee was aware that the result for the association between ticagrelor and total mortality, while exploratory, had a HR of 0.78 and a 95% CI of 0.69 to 0.89, so was likely to reflect a real decrease in total mortality associated with ticagrelor plus aspirin. 4.10 The Committee noted the concerns around the indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin and prasugrel
