Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


likely to reflect a real decrease in total mortality associated with ticagrelor plus aspirin. 4.10 The Committee noted the concerns around the indirect comparison of ticagrelor plus aspirin and prasugrel plus aspirin highlighted in the manufacturer's submission and reiterated by the ERG. The Committee concurred with this view and concluded that the relative effectiveness of ticagrelor plus aspirin and prasugrel plus aspirin was uncertain. The Committee concluded that no separate recommendations could be made for ticagrelor compared with prasugrel. Cost effectiveness 4.11 The Committee considered the estimates of cost effectiveness presented in the manufacturer's submission and noted that all ICERs for ticagrelor were below £5,400 for the whole population in which ticagrelor is licensed and the subgroups. The Committee was aware of the concerns raised by the ERG around the structure of the model adopted in the manufacturer's submission, and agreed that the assumption that patients could not experience multiple cardiovascular events over-simplified the clinical course of patients with ACS. The Committee noted that if the model had included the possibility of more than 1 cardiovascular event after the index event, and had accounted for the increased risk of a cardiovascular event associated with having had prior events, then the ICERs for ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel would be lower than in the manufacturer's base case. This is because at the end of the 1-year decision tree, more patients on clopidogrel than on ticagrelor had experienced a myocardial infarction or stroke, and were therefore at higher risk of experiencing another event. The Committee was aware of the ERG's concerns over the method used to adjust for age, but agreed that this would not result in major changes to the ICERs. The Committee also noted that it would have been more appropriate to incorporate a utility value that reflected clinical practice rather than modelling the average utility score, but acknowledged that this too was unlikely to have a large impact on the ICERs. The Committee noted comments from consultees that the adverse event profile should be fully built into the structure of the economic model. The Committee was aware that the 1-year decision tree part of the economic model took account of all costs and changes in quality of life associated with the adverse events of treatment. 4.12 The Committee was aware of the ERG's concerns about the manufacturer's method of estimating resource use and costs. It was aware that these limitations
