Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


the adverse events of treatment. 4.12 The Committee was aware of the ERG's concerns about the manufacturer's method of estimating resource use and costs. It was aware that these limitations could skew the differences in total costs between the 2 treatment arms. The Committee accepted the ERG's adjustments to the manufacturer's model and noted the resulting estimates of cost effectiveness. The Committee agreed that the central ICERs from the ERG's sensitivity analysis (£7,897 per QALY gained for all ACS, £8,872 per QALY gained for STEMI, £7,215 per QALY gained for NSTEMI and £9,131 per QALY gained for unstable angina) represented the most plausible estimates for the cost effectiveness of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel. The Committee noted that the ICERs produced with this analysis were within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources and therefore ticagrelor plus low-dose aspirin should be recommended as a treatment option for up to 12 months in adults with ACS. However, the Committee agreed that the patient populations for STEMI and unstable angina needed to be further specified. 4.13 The Committee noted that the inclusion criteria in the PLATO trial for patients with STEMI, defined as ST elevation or new left bundle branch block on electrocardiogram, included the 'intention to perform primary PCI'. The Committee therefore agreed that only patients with STEMI that cardiologists intend to treat with primary PCI should be treated with ticagrelor. The Committee heard that there is a spectrum of severity with respect to unstable angina. The Committee was aware that in clinical practice in the UK a diagnosis of unstable angina could be made using less stringent criteria than those defined in the PLATO trial. The Committee agreed that only patients with unstable angina aligned with the definition in the PLATO trial should be treated with ticagrelor. The Committee noted that the definition of unstable angina in the PLATO trial was that patients were hospitalised and had to have ST-segment changes on electrocardiography indicating ischemia, and that patients had at least 1 of the following characteristics: age 60 years or older; previous myocardial infarction or CABG; coronary artery disease with stenosis of 50% or more in at least 2 vessels; previous ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack, carotid stenosis of at least 50%, or cerebral revascularisation; diabetes mellitus; peripheral arterial disease; or chronic renal dysfunction, defined as a creatinine clearance of less than 60 ml per minute
