Ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, aspirin, plus, plus aspirin, patients, committee, clopidogrel, manufacturer, erg, ticagrelor plus, treatment, noted, model, plato, acs


carotid stenosis of at least 50%, or cerebral revascularisation; diabetes mellitus; peripheral arterial disease; or chronic renal dysfunction, defined as a creatinine clearance of less than 60 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area. The Committee was aware that it may be necessary to start treatment with ticagrelor immediately when a patient presents with symptoms. However, the Committee was concerned that a wrong diagnosis of unstable angina could result in the patient unnecessarily taking ticagrelor. The Committee therefore agreed that it would be appropriate to specify that before ticagrelor is continued beyond the initial treatment, the diagnosis of unstable angina should first be confirmed, ideally by a cardiologist. 4.14 The Committee noted the comments from consultees and commentators about whether 'lowest risk' patients (that is, patients who have a 6-month mortality of 1.5% or less as defined by the GRACE scoring system) should receive ticagrelor, given that NICE's previous guideline on unstable angina and NSTEMI (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) stipulates that these patients would not receive clopidogrel because the harms potentially outweigh the benefits. The Committee concluded that, because patients potentially suitable for treatment with ticagrelor with unstable angina must have at least 1 specific risk factor for myocardial infarction as well as ST-segment changes on electrocardiography, these patients would therefore not be classed as 'lowest risk'. 4.15 The Committee heard from the primary care trust expert that although treatment with ticagrelor relative to clopidogrel appeared cost effective within the range considered to represent good value for money by NICE, the high incidence of ACS in England and Wales means that ticagrelor would substantially impact budgets were it approved for use. The primary care trust expert noted that this would invariably lead to reduced spending elsewhere for health, which would include cardiology services. The Committee noted further comments received from consultees that affordability was an issue that NHS commissioners needed to consider 'very seriously'. Although the Committee agreed that that budget impact would be substantial, it was possible that any services displaced might be less cost effective than ticagrelor relative to clopidogrel. Moreover, the Committee noted that NICE's guide to the methods of technology appraisal states that budget impact and affordability are not relevant to its decision making. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre
