Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


Ingelheim) has a marketing authorisation 'in adults for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction'. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics. Price 2.3 The list price of 10 mg or 25 mg empagliflozin is £36.59 per 28-tablet pack (excluding VAT; BNF online, accessed November 2021). The annual treatment cost is £476.98. Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Boehringer Ingelheim, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG) and responses from stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. The condition People with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction would welcome a new treatment option 3.1 Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is a chronic condition that affects survival and quality of life. The patient experts highlighted the psychological effects of a diagnosis. They explained that breathlessness, extreme fatigue and fluid accumulation in particular can be debilitating. Clinical expert submissions to NICE confirmed that heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is associated with high rates of death and hospitalisation. They also stated that there is an unmet need for new treatment options. Current treatments aim to manage symptoms and stabilise the disease to prevent further decline in quality of life and to keep people alive longer. The clinical experts explained that, despite optimising therapies, many people still have symptoms, including breathlessness. The patient experts said that they would welcome a new treatment option, especially if it could be used early in the treatment pathway. The committee concluded that there is an unmet need for a new treatment option for symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. It also concluded that people with the condition and healthcare professionals would welcome a new treatment option. The treatment pathway People should be optimised on standard care before having a sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor 3.2 NICE's guideline on diagnosing and managing chronic heart failure in adults recommends a range of drug treatments for newly diagnosed heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. These are separated into first-line and specialist treatments. First-line treatments include angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or angiotensin 2 receptor blockers (ARBs) when an ACE inhibitor is not tolerated. Beta blockers can also be offered and a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) can be offered if appropriate
