Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


or angiotensin 2 receptor blockers (ARBs) when an ACE inhibitor is not tolerated. Beta blockers can also be offered and a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) can be offered if appropriate and tolerated. The company's submission had suggested that empagliflozin should be positioned as an add-on to first-line treatment in people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction who may or may not have comorbidities. The committee understood that this is narrower than the marketing authorisation, which does not specify use as an add-on treatment for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. The clinical experts said the company's positioning was now in line with the European Society of Cardiology guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. These guidelines recommend that empagliflozin or dapagliflozin (another SGLT2 inhibitor) could be started earlier in the care pathway for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. The committee noted this was not directly in line with NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dapagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. This recommends that dapagliflozin is used after standard care is optimised. The committee noted that there are a range of treatments for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. It concluded that empagliflozin was an appropriate treatment that should be used as an add-on to optimised standard care. Dapagliflozin is the most appropriate comparator for this appraisal 3.3 The final scope for this appraisal listed 2 comparators: individually optimised standard care without empagliflozin, and dapagliflozin as an add-on to standard care. The company stated that individually optimised standard care was the most relevant comparator. That is, people should have the most appropriate treatments used for standard care before starting treatment with empagliflozin. This was because most people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction in England and Wales would have at least one of these treatment options. It did not consider dapagliflozin to be a relevant comparator because it considered that this was not standard care in the NHS. It cited recent market data suggesting that dapagliflozin is used by very few people with heart failure alone, and is most frequently used by people with heart failure and type 2 diabetes. The committee noted that NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dapagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction had only been published in February 2021 so there had been a relatively short period of time to consider uptake. The
