Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction had only been published in February 2021 so there had been a relatively short period of time to consider uptake. The clinical experts stated uptake had increased widely since publication of the guidance and that it would now be considered as standard care. The committee considered whether empagliflozin and dapagliflozin would likely be used interchangeably in the same place in the treatment pathway for chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. The clinical experts said that the European Society of Cardiology guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure did not distinguish between the 2 SGLT2 inhibitors. For this reason, they would also consider that empagliflozin and dapagliflozin would be used in the same groups of people. They further noted that it would be unlikely that someone who is not eligible for treatment with dapagliflozin would be eligible for treatment with empagliflozin. This was because the technologies are considered to work in the same way. The committee concluded that dapagliflozin was the most appropriate comparator for this appraisal. Clinical evidence EMPEROR-Reduced is the key trial and is broadly generalisable to NHS clinical practice 3.4 EMPEROR-Reduced was a double-blind randomised clinical trial comparing empagliflozin plus standard care with placebo plus standard care. Standard care could include medical therapy with an ACE inhibitor, an ARB, a beta blocker or an MRA. The trial included people aged at least 18 who had had a diagnosis of chronic heart failure for at least 3 months. They had moderate to severe heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. This was defined by a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less based on the New York Heart Association functional class 2 to 4. The clinical experts said that the trial findings were generalisable to NHS clinical practice. However, they highlighted several differences between the population in EMPEROR-Reduced and people having treatment in the NHS: • The average age in the intention-to-treat population was 67 years, while the average in the NHS at diagnosis is 77 years. • The proportion of women (24%) was smaller than would be expected in the NHS. • The proportion of people using an ACE inhibitor or ARB was lower than would be expected in the NHS. The ERG stated that the characteristics of people in EMPEROR-Reduced, may not reflect that of the population in the NHS. The clinical
