Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


lower than would be expected in the NHS. The ERG stated that the characteristics of people in EMPEROR-Reduced, may not reflect that of the population in the NHS. The clinical experts agreed this might be an issue of how people are recruited to take part in clinical trials. People who are older and who might have more comorbidities would be less likely to be involved in a clinical trial so they might be under-represented. The committee noted EMPEROR-Reduced was not powered to show any difference in subgroups by age. The clinical experts said there would be no apparent reason why relative treatment effects would be different between subgroups of younger and older ages. The committee concluded that data from the intention-to-treat population in EMPEROR-Reduced was broadly generalisable to NHS clinical practice. Empagliflozin plus standard care compared with placebo plus standard care is clinically effective 3.5 The primary efficacy outcome in EMPEROR-Reduced was a composite of cardiovascular death and hospitalisation for heart failure. Intention-to- treat analyses showed that empagliflozin plus standard care reduced the incidence of the primary outcome by 25.0% compared with placebo plus standard care (hazard ratio [HR] 0.75; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.65 to 0.86; p<0.0001). At a median follow up of 16 months, results showed that 19.4% of people having empagliflozin plus standard care had an event compared with 24.7% in the placebo group. The committee concluded that empagliflozin is clinically effective compared with placebo and that it reduces the risk of cardiovascular events when added to standard care. Indirect treatment comparison The indirect treatment comparison shows that clinical outcomes between empagliflozin and dapagliflozin are similar 3.6 There were no trials directly comparing empagliflozin with dapagliflozin so the company presented an indirect treatment comparison using the Bucher method. This compared the results from EMPEROR-Reduced with those from DAPA-HF. DAPA-HF was a phase 3 multinational double-blind randomised controlled trial. It compared dapagliflozin plus standard care with placebo plus standard care in people with stable symptoms of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. The company supported the indirect comparison with the results from a published pooled meta- analysis reported by Zannad et al. (2020). This pooled data for dapagliflozin and empagliflozin to create class effect estimates for SGLT2 inhibitors compared with placebo. The ERG broadly agreed that the results from the meta-analyses suggested there was a statistically significant benefit with SGLT2 inhibitors compared with placebo for all outcomes. However,
