Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


compared with placebo. The ERG broadly agreed that the results from the meta-analyses suggested there was a statistically significant benefit with SGLT2 inhibitors compared with placebo for all outcomes. However, the ERG noted that the results of the meta-analysis were only based on 1 trial of empagliflozin and 1 trial of dapagliflozin. It therefore considered the Bucher comparison was a more appropriate method of assessing the comparative efficacy of empagliflozin compared with dapagliflozin. The results of the indirect treatment comparison suggested there was no difference between empagliflozin and dapagliflozin in any of the outcomes (all results are confidential and cannot be reported here). However, the results suggested a trend towards possible differences in cardiovascular deaths, all-cause mortality and renal function. The committee was aware that the ERG had explored this uncertainty in the cost–utility analysis (see section 3.8). The committee noted that there were some baseline differences in the Bucher indirect treatment comparison between people in EMPEROR- Reduced and DAPA-HF. People in EMPEROR-Reduced may have had a more severe renal impairment than people in DAPA-HF. This meant that people in EMPEROR-Reduced may have been more likely to have a hospitalisation for heart failure or mortality event compared with those in DAPA-HF. The committee acknowledged the limitations of the comparison but agreed it was appropriate for decision making. The committee concluded that the results of the Bucher indirect treatment comparison showed that the clinical outcomes between empagliflozin and dapagliflozin are similar. The company's economic model The company's model is suitable for decision making 3.7 The company modelled cost effectiveness using a state transition model with 5 states (4 based on symptom severity plus 1 for death). It captured disease severity using the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) Clinical Summary Score (CSS). This is a disease-specific measure of quality of life. People transitioned through quartiles based on KCCQ-CSS (0 to 100, with high scores indicating lower symptom burden), and a specific utility and cost associated with each state. The committee considered whether the KCCQ is an appropriate measure to capture quality-of-life outcomes. It noted that there may be some inconsistencies in how the size of effect translates from trial data to modelled quality-of-life effects. The clinical experts explained that the KCCQ is a well-validated comprehensive quality-of-life and symptom questionnaire for heart failure. The ERG stated that it was satisfied with the company's choice of KCCQ-CSS states in the model. The committee concluded
