Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


a well-validated comprehensive quality-of-life and symptom questionnaire for heart failure. The ERG stated that it was satisfied with the company's choice of KCCQ-CSS states in the model. The committee concluded that the company's model structure was appropriate for decision making. Cost-effectiveness estimates Empagliflozin is recommended as an option for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction 3.8 The company considered that a cost-comparison was the most appropriate way to estimate the cost effectiveness of empagliflozin compared with dapagliflozin. This was based on an assumption of equivalent effectiveness between empagliflozin and dapagliflozin. It noted that both drugs had the same list price, dosing frequency and method of administration, and that available evidence suggested the treatments were clinically equivalent. The ERG suggested that a cost–utility analysis may have been more appropriate. This was because the company's assumption of equal effectiveness was based on only 2 trials and ignored potential uncertainty (see section 3.6). After technical engagement, the company provided a cost–utility analysis to help with decision making. However, it argued that this type of analysis would amplify any uncertainty in the results of the indirect treatment comparison. The company's base-case cost–utility analysis assumed there was no survival benefit with empagliflozin over dapagliflozin. However, it assumed that taking empagliflozin would lead to improvements in renal function and reduced hospitalisations for heart failure. This was based on the results of the Bucher indirect treatment comparison (see section 3.6). The company's probabilistic and deterministic cost-effectiveness estimates suggested that empagliflozin dominated dapagliflozin (meaning it was less costly and at least equally effective). The ERG did additional scenario analyses to show the effect of adding the different outcomes included in the Bucher indirect treatment comparison. These scenarios included the following assumptions: • equal effectiveness in all outcomes • survival benefit for dapagliflozin • survival benefit for dapagliflozin and a reduction in hospitalisations for heart failure for empagliflozin • survival benefit for dapagliflozin, a reduction in hospitalisations for heart failure and an improvement in renal function for empagliflozin. For the assumption of equal effectiveness, the results showed no difference in total costs or quality-adjusted life years between the 2 treatments. The results for the other scenarios included in the ERG's analyses were in the south-west quadrant of the cost-effectiveness plane. This means that empagliflozin was estimated to be less costly and less effective than dapagliflozin (the exact results are academic in confidence and cannot be reported here).
