Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


the cost-effectiveness plane. This means that empagliflozin was estimated to be less costly and less effective than dapagliflozin (the exact results are academic in confidence and cannot be reported here). The committee understood that the ERG's scenarios were exploratory only. It also agreed that they were uncertain. This was because they were based on the results of the Bucher indirect treatment comparison, which showed no overall difference between the 2 treatments. The committee considered its earlier conclusion that dapagliflozin was the most appropriate comparator (see section 3.3) based on: • its comparable mechanism of action • its use in a comparable place in the treatment pathway • the results of the indirect treatment comparison, which showed no difference between the 2 treatments. The committee was satisfied that empagliflozin is similarly effective to dapagliflozin and that its costs are identical. It concluded to recommend empagliflozin as an option for treating symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Empagliflozin is not a step-change in treatment but does provide choice for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction 3.9 The committee recalled that people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction have a poor prognosis and that there is an unmet need for treatment options (see section 3.1). It noted that empagliflozin is not the first drug of its class to gain regulatory approval for use in heart failure. So, it could not be considered a step-change in treatment. However, the committee concluded that it could be considered a relevant addition to current treatments and increase clinical choice. Other factors No equalities considerations were identified 3.10 The committee noted that the meta-analysis by Zannad et al. (2020; see section 3.6) suggested that SGLT2 inhibitors were most effective in people with a black or Asian family background. It noted that EMPEROR- Reduced mainly included people with a white family background. The committee noted that neither EMPEROR-Reduced or DAPA-HF was powered to show difference between subgroups of different ages or people from a different family background. The clinical experts said that there is no reason to restrict empagliflozin use in adults based on age or family background. The committee noted that its recommendations applied to all people regardless of family background. It recognised that there were no ongoing clinical trials or data collection to validate the possibility of differences in treatment effect because of family background. But it considered that there may be
