Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, empagliflozin, treatment, people, committee, dapagliflozin, reduced, care, fraction, ejection, ejection fraction, reduced ejection, failure reduced


that there were no ongoing clinical trials or data collection to validate the possibility of differences in treatment effect because of family background. But it considered that there may be the potential to explore this issue further in future research. A heart failure specialist should advise on starting empagliflozin and the most appropriate healthcare professional should monitor treatment 3.11 NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management recommends that a specialist heart failure multidisciplinary team should work in collaboration with the primary care team to start new medicines that need specialist supervision. The committee noted that people taking empagliflozin for heart failure who also have diabetes might need adjustments in their diabetes medication for safety reasons because of an increased risk of ketoacidosis. The committee considered that risk factors should be identified, and some increased monitoring may be needed for treating heart failure with empagliflozin. So, it considered that a heart failure specialist was the most appropriate clinician to advise on starting treatment. The committee also noted that the summary of product characteristics states an assessment of renal function is recommended before starting empagliflozin and this should be done periodically during treatment. So, the committee considered that monitoring should be done by the most appropriate healthcare professional. The committee further noted that NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dapagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction included recommendations on who should advise on starting treatment and appropriate monitoring. The committee concluded that a heart failure specialist should advise on starting empagliflozin and monitoring should be done by the most appropriate healthcare professional. 4 Implementation 4.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires clinical commissioning groups, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this appraisal within 3 months of its date of publication. 4.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final appraisal document. 4.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is
