WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


Treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE Treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data WHO guidelines for the treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis. Contents: Web annex D: Evidence profiles and evidence-to-decision framework -- Web annex E: Systematic reviews -- Web annex F: Summary of conflicts of interest 1.Chlamydia trachomatis. 2.Chlamydia Infections - drug therapy. 3.Sexually Transmitted Diseases. 4.Guideline. I.World Health Organization. ISBN 978 92 4 154971 4 (NLM classification: WC 600) © World Health Organization 2016 All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO website ( or can be purchased 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; email: ). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution– should be addressed to WHO Press through the WHO website ( copyright_form/index.html). The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement. The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters. All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use. Printed by the WHO Document Production Services, Geneva, Switzerland WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS i ii WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 4.5 Ophthalmia neonatorum 20 Recommendation 5 20 Recommendation 6 21 Recommendation 7 21 References 22 Annex A: STI guideline development teams 23 Annex B: Detailed methods for guideline development 32 Questions and outcomes 32 Review of the evidence 35 Applying the GRADE approach to making the recommendations 38 Annex C: Lists of references
