WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


B: Detailed methods for guideline development 32 Questions and outcomes 32 Review of the evidence 35 Applying the GRADE approach to making the recommendations 38 Annex C: Lists of references for reviewed evidence 39 Recommendation 1 39 Recommendation 2 40 Recommendation 3a, 3b, 3c 41 Recommendation 4 42 Recommendation 5 43 Recommendations 6 and 7 43 Web annexes available at: www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/rtis/chlamydia-treatment-guidelines/en/ Web annex D: Evidence profiles and evidence-to-decision frameworks Web annex E: Systematic reviews for chlamydia guidelines Web annex F: Summary of conflicts of interest WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS iii ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS thank the members of the STI Guideline Development Harrel Chesson, Craig Cohen, Francisco Garcia, Group for their consistent availability and commitment Suzanne Garland, Sarah Hawkes, Mary Higgins, is also grateful to the STI External Review Group for David Mabey, Angelica Espinosa Miranda, Nelly Mugo, peer reviewing these guidelines, and appreciates Saiqa Mullick, Francis Ndowa, Joel Palefsky, the contribution of the WHO Steering Committee. Keith Radcliffe, Ulugbek Sabirov, Judith Stephenson, The names of the members of each group are listed Richard Steen, Magnus Unemo, Bea Vuylsteke, below, with full details provided in Annex A. Anna Wald, Thomas Wong and Kimberly A. Workowski Special thanks to Dr Nancy Santesso, the guideline STI GDG sub working group for chlamydia: methodologist who also led the systematic review Andrew Amato, Harrell Chesson, Craig Cohen, process, for her hard work and firm commitment of Patricia Garcia, Nicola Low, David Mabey, Angelica the guideline development process. We also thank Miranda, Francis Ndowa, Keith Radcliffe, Judith the members of the Systematic Review Team from Stephenson, Magnus Unemo, Bea Vuylsteke and McMaster University. Judith Wasserheit We appreciate the overall support of the WHO STI external reviewers: Laith Abu-Raddad, Guideline Review Committee Secretariat during the Adele Benaken-Schwartz, Mircea Betiu, Anupong guideline development process, with grateful thanks Chitwarakorn, Anjana Das, Carolyn Deal, to Dr Susan Norris. Margaret Gale-Rowe, William M. Geisler, Amina We thank Theresa Ryle for the administrative El Kettani, Mizan Kiros, Ahmed Latif, Philippe support and 400 Communications for assistance Mayaud, David McCartney, Ali M. Mir, Nuriye Ortayli, with the guideline design and layout. This guideline Khantanouvieng Sayabounthavong and document was edited by Ms Jane Patten, of Green Ink, Aman Kumar Singh United Kingdom. WHO Steering Committee: Dr Teodora Wi led the guideline development process WHO regional offices: Massimo Ghidinelli, Hamida and Dr Nathalie Broutet co-led the process under Khattabi, Lali Khotenashvili, Ornella Lincetto
