WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


serious morbidity and mortality. STIs have a direct impact on cancers and pregnancy complications, and they have an indirect impact through their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have an impact on national and individual economies. More than a million STIs are acquired every day. In 2012, an estimated 357 million new cases of curable STIs (gonorrhoea, chlamydia, syphilis and trichomoniasis) occurred among 15–49 year-olds worldwide, including 131 million cases of chlamydial infection. 2 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS Chlamydial infection, caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, OBJECTIVES is the most common bacterial STI and results in The objectives of these guidelines are: substantial morbidity and economic cost worldwide. Occurring most commonly among young sexually active • to provide evidence-based guidance on treatment adults, C. trachomatis causes cervicitis in women and of infection with C. trachomatis; and urethritis in men, as well as extra-genital infections, • to support countries to update their national including rectal and oropharyngeal infections. guidelines for treatment of chlamydial infection. Asymptomatic infections are common in both men and women. Untreated chlamydial infection may METHODS cause severe complications in the upper reproductive tract, primarily in young women, including ectopic These guidelines were developed following the pregnancy, salpingitis and infertility. Lymphogranuloma methods outlined in the 2014 WHO handbook for venereum (LGV), caused by a more invasive serovar guideline development. The Guideline Development of C. trachomatis, is increasingly prevalent among Group (GDG) included international STI experts, men who have sex with men (MSM) in some settings. clinicians, researchers and programme managers. Maternal infection is associated with serious adverse The GDG prioritized questions and outcomes related outcomes in neonates, such as preterm birth, low birth to treatment of chlamydial infections to include weight, conjunctivitis, nasopharyngeal infection and in this update, and a methodologist and a team of direct immunofluorescence assays (DFAs) and enzyme- WHO Collaborating Centre for Evidence-Informed linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), but nucleic acid Policy, independently conducted systematic reviews amplification tests (NAATs) are preferred due to their of the effectiveness of different treatments for superior performance characteristics. chlamydial infections. The evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and RATIONALE FOR THE GUIDELINES presented to the GDG. Conflicts of interest were Since the publication of the World Health Organization managed according to WHO guidelines and declared (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually before
