WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


to the GDG. Conflicts of interest were Since the publication of the World Health Organization managed according to WHO guidelines and declared (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually before the recommendations were discussed and transmitted infections in 2003, changes in the finalized. Research implications were also developed epidemiology of STIs and advancements in prevention, by the GDG. diagnosis and treatment necessitate changes in STI management. These guidelines provide updated RECOMMENDATIONS treatment recommendations for common infections caused by C. trachomatis based on the most recent The current guidelines provide nine treatment evidence; they form one of several modules of recommendations for genital infections and LGV guidelines for specific STIs. Other modules will focus caused by C. trachomatis. The recommendations on treatments for Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhoea), summarized in Table 1 apply to adults, adolescents herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2; genital herpes) (10–19 years of age), people living with HIV and and Treponema pallidum (syphilis). In addition, future key populations, including sex workers, MSM and work will provide guidance for syphilis screening and transgender persons. Specific recommendations have treatment of pregnant women, STI syndromic approach, also been developed for genital chlamydial infection in other STIs. It is strongly recommended that countries of ophthalmia neonatorum caused by C. trachomatis. take updated global guidance into account as they establish standardized national protocols, adapting this guidance to the local epidemiological situation and antimicrobial susceptibility data. WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS 3 Table 1. Summary of recommendations for treatment of chlamydial infections Recommendations Strength of recommendation and quality of evidence Uncomplicated genital chlamydia Recommendation 1 Conditional recommendation, The WHO STI guideline suggests treatment with one of the following options: moderate quality • azithromycin 1 g orally as a single dose evidence • doxycycline 100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days or one of these alternatives: • tetracycline 500 mg orally four times a day for 7 days • erythromycin 500 mg orally twice a day for 7 days • ofloxacin 200–400 mg orally twice a day for 7 days. Remarks: While good practice based on evidence of large net benefit dictates that patients should be treated for chlamydial infection, the choice of treatment may depend on the convenience of dosage, the cost and quality of the medicines in different settings, and equity considerations. When high value is placed on reducing costs, doxycycline in a standard dose may be the best
