WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


the cost and quality of the medicines in different settings, and equity considerations. When high value is placed on reducing costs, doxycycline in a standard dose may be the best choice; when high value is placed on convenience, azithromycin in a single dose may be the best choice. A delayed-release doxycycline formulation may be an alternative to twice daily dosing of doxycycline, but the high cost of the delayed-release formulation may prohibit its use. Note that doxycycline, tetracycline and ofloxacin are contraindicated in pregnant women (see recommendations 3a–3c). Anorectal chlamydial infection Recommendation 2 Conditional recommendation, The WHO STI guideline suggests treatment with doxycycline 100 mg orally twice a low quality evidence day for 7 days over azithromycin 1 g orally as a single dose. Remarks: This recommendation applies to people with known anorectal infection and to people with suspected anorectal infections with genital co-infection. Clinicians should ask men, women and key populations (e.g. men who have sex with men, transgender persons and female sex workers) about anal sex and treat accordingly. Doxycycline should not be used in pregnant women because of adverse effects (see recommendations 3a–3c). 4 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS Genital chlamydial infection in pregnant women Recommendation 3a Strong recommendation, The WHO STI guideline recommends treatment with azithromycin over erythromycin. moderate quality evidence Recommendation 3b The WHO STI guideline suggests treatment with azithromycin over amoxicillin. Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence Recommendation 3c The WHO STI guideline suggests treatment with amoxicillin over erythromycin. Conditional recommendation, Dosages: low quality evidence • azithromycin 1 g orally as a single dose • amoxicillin 500 mg orally three times a day for 7 days • erythromycin 500 mg orally twice a day for 7 days. Remarks: Azithromycin is the first choice of treatment but may not be available in some settings. Azithromycin is less expensive than erythromycin and since it is provided as a single dose, may result in better adherence and therefore better outcomes. Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) Recommendation 4 Conditional recommendation, very The WHO STI guideline suggests treatment with doxycycline 100 mg orally twice daily low quality evidence for 21 days over azithromycin 1 g orally, weekly for 3 weeks. Remarks: Good practice dictates effective treatment of LGV, in particular for men who have sex with men and for people living with HIV. When doxycycline is contraindicated, azithromycin should be provided. When neither treatment is available, erythromycin 500 mg
