WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


particular for men who have sex with men and for people living with HIV. When doxycycline is contraindicated, azithromycin should be provided. When neither treatment is available, erythromycin 500 mg orally four times a day for 21 days is an alternative. Doxycycline should not be used in pregnant women because of adverse effects (see recommendations 3a–3c). Ophthalmia neonatorum Recommendation 5 Strong recommendation, very low quality evidence In neonates with chlamydial conjunctivitis, the WHO STI guideline recommends treatment with azithromycin 20 mg/kg/day orally, one dose daily for 3 days, over erythromycin 50 mg/kg/day orally, in four divided doses daily for 14 days. Remarks: This is a strong recommendation given the potential for the risk of pyloric stenosis with the use of erythromycin in neonates. In some settings, azithromycin suspension is not available and therefore erythromycin may be used. Side-effects should be monitored with the use of either medication. WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS 5 Recommendation 6 Strong recommendation, low quality evidence For all neonates, the WHO STI guideline recommends topical ocular prophylaxis for the prevention of gonococcal and chlamydial ophthalmia neonatorum. Recommendation 7 Conditional recommendation, low For ocular prophylaxis, the WHO STI guideline suggests one of the following options quality evidence for topical application to both eyes immediately after birth: • tetracycline hydrochloride 1% eye ointment • erythromycin 0.5% eye ointment • povidone iodine 2.5% solution • silver nitrate 1% solution • chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment. Remarks: Recommendations 6 and 7 apply to the prevention of both chlamydial and gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum. Cost and local resistance to erythromycin, tetracycline and chloramphenicol in gonococcal infection may determine the choice of medication. Caution should be taken to avoid touching eye tissue when applying the topical treatment and to provide a water-based solution of povidone iodine. DO NOT USE ALCOHOL-BASED POVIDONE IODINE SOLUTION. 6 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs STI EPIDEMIOLOGY AND BURDEN Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a major Both ulcerative and non-ulcerative STIs are associated of life and causing serious morbidity and mortality. acquiring HIV (7, 8). Infections causing genital ulcers STIs have a direct impact on reproductive and child are associated with the highest HIV transmission risk; complications, and they have an indirect impact through and chancroid), highly prevalent HSV-2 infections their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human substantially increase that risk
