WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


highest HIV transmission risk; complications, and they have an indirect impact through and chancroid), highly prevalent HSV-2 infections their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human substantially increase that risk (9). Non-ulcerative immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have STIs, such as gonorrhoea, chlamydia and trichomoniasis, an impact on national and individual economies. The have been shown to increase HIV transmission through prevention and control of STIs is an integral component genital shedding of HIV (10). Treating STIs with the of comprehensive sexual and reproductive health right medicines at the right time is necessary to reduce services that are needed to attain the related targets HIV transmission and improve sexual and reproductive under Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) No. 3 health (11). Efforts should therefore be taken to (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all strengthen STI diagnosis and treatment. ages), including: target 3.2 – to end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age; target 3.3 WHY NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, – to end the epidemics of AIDS and other communicable TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs? diseases; target 3.4 – to reduce premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases and promote mental Since the publication of the World Health Organization health and well-being; target 3.7 – to ensure universal (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually diagnosis and treatment necessitate changes in STI Worldwide, more than a million curable STIs are management. Indeed, 88% of countries have updated acquired every day. In 2012, there were an estimated their national STI guidelines or recommendations since 357 million new cases of curable STIs among adults aged 2006 (12). Updated global guidance reflecting the most 15–49 years worldwide: 131 million cases of chlamydia, recent evidence and expert opinion is therefore needed 78 million cases of gonorrhoea, 6 million cases of to assist countries to incorporate new developments syphilis and 142 million cases of trichomoniasis (1). into an effective national approach to the prevention The prevalence of some viral STIs is similarly high, with and treatment of STIs. an estimated 417 million people infected with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) (2), and approximately There is an urgent need to update global treatment 291 million women harbouring human papillomavirus recommendations to effectively respond to the (HPV) at any point in time (3). The burden of STIs changing antimicrobial resistance (AMR) patterns varies by region and gender, and is
