WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


papillomavirus recommendations to effectively respond to the (HPV) at any point in time (3). The burden of STIs changing antimicrobial resistance (AMR) patterns varies by region and gender, and is greatest in of STIs, especially for Neisseria gonorrhoeae. resource-poor countries. Effective treatment protocols that take into account global and local resistance patterns are essential to When left undiagnosed and untreated, curable STIs reduce the risk of further development of AMR. can result in serious complications and sequelae, High-level gonococcal resistance to quinolones, such as pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility, a previously recommended first-line treatment, ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage, fetal loss and is widespread and decreased susceptibility to the congenital infections. In 2012, an estimated 930 000 extended-spectrum (third-generation) cephalosporins, maternal syphilis infections resulted in 350 000 adverse another first-line treatment for gonorrhoea, is on pregnancy outcomes, including stillbirths, neonatal the rise (13). Low-level resistance to Trichomonas deaths, preterm births and infected infants (4). vaginalis has also been reported for nitroimidazoles, Curable STIs accounted for the loss of nearly 11 million the only available treatment. Resistance to azithromycin disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2010 (5). has been reported in some strains of Treponema The psychological consequences of STIs include pallidum and treatment failures have been reported stigma, shame and loss of self-worth. STIs have also for tetracyclines and macrolides in the treatment of been associated with relationship disruption and Chlamydia trachomatis (14, 15). gender-based violence (6). WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS 7 A WHO STI expert consultation recommended New rapid, point-of-care diagnostic tests (POCTs) are updating the WHO 2003 guidelines for the first- and changing STI management. Rapid syphilis diagnostic second-line treatments for C. trachomatis, increasing tests are now widely available, making syphilis screening the dosage of ceftriaxone to 250 mg for treatment more widely accessible and allowing for earlier initiation of N. gonorrhoeae with continued monitoring of of treatment for those who test positive. Efforts are antimicrobial susceptibility, and consideration of under way to develop POCTs for other STIs that will whether azithromycin (2 g, single dose) should be augment syndromic management of symptomatic recommended in early syphilis (16). cases and increase the ability to identify asymptomatic infections (12). Updated guidelines are needed that The epidemiology of STIs is changing, with viral incorporate rapid tests into syndromic management pathogens becoming more prevalent than bacterial of STIs and provide algorithms for testing and etiologies for some conditions; this means that
