WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, sti, stis, chlamydia, trachomatis, infections, recommendation, guideline, development, chlamydia trachomatis, recommendations, management, evidence, treatment chlamydia


changing, with viral incorporate rapid tests into syndromic management pathogens becoming more prevalent than bacterial of STIs and provide algorithms for testing and etiologies for some conditions; this means that updated screening (16). information is required to inform locally appropriate prevention and treatment strategies. An increasing Although recent technological advances in diagnostics, proportion of genital ulcers are now due to viral therapeutics, vaccines and barrier methods offer better infections as previously common bacterial infections, opportunities for the prevention and care of STIs, access such as chancroid, approach elimination in many to these technologies is still limited, particularly in areas countries (16, 17). As recommended during the STI where the burden of infection is highest. For optimal expert consultation, treatment guidelines for genital effectiveness, global guidelines for the management ulcer disease (GUD) should be updated to include HSV-2 of STIs need to include approaches for settings with treatment and a longer treatment duration for HSV-2 limited access to modern technologies, as well as for should be explored. In addition, suppressive therapy settings in which these technologies are available. for HSV-2 should be considered in areas with high HIV It is strongly recommended that countries take prevalence (16). The chronic, lifelong nature of viral updated global guidance into account as they establish infections also requires that renewed attention be paid standardized national protocols, adapting this guidance to developing effective prevention strategies, including to the local epidemiological situation and antimicrobial expanding accessibility to available vaccines for HPV susceptibility data. Standardization ensures that all and development of new vaccines for HSV-2. patients receive adequate treatment at every level was recommended for the management of STIs. supervision of health-care providers and facilitates The approach guides the diagnosis of STIs based on procurement of medicines. It is recommended that identification of consistent groups of symptoms and national guidelines for the effective management of easily recognized signs and indicates treatment for STIs be developed in close consultation with local STI, the majority of organisms that may be responsible public health and laboratory experts. for producing the syndrome. The syndromic management algorithms need to be updated in response to the changing situation. In addition to changes to the GUD algorithm, other syndromes need to be re-evaluated, particularly vaginal discharge. The approach to syndromes for key populations also needs to be updated. For example, addition of a syndromic management algorithm for anorectal infections in men who have sex with
