BJR|case reports https:// doi. org/ 10. 1259/ bjrcr. 20190023
KEYWORDS: patient, ppes, polypectomy, case, scan, sign, abdominal, intussusception, perforation, donut, syndrome, procedure, pain, laparoscopy, report


BJR|case reports https:// doi. org/ 10. 1259/ bjrcr. 20190023 Received: Revised: Accepted: 05 March 2019 14 November 2019 19 November 2019 Cite this article as: Plumptre I, Tolppa T, Jawad ZA.R, Zafar N. Donut rush to laparoscopy: post-p olypectomy electrocoagulation syndrome and the ‘pseudo- donut’ sign. BJR Case Rep 2020; 6: 20190023. Case RepoRt Donut rush to laparoscopy: post- polypectomy electrocoagulation syndrome and the ‘pseudo- donut’ sign Address correspondence to: Noman Zafar E-mail: noman. zafar@ nhs. net Isabella Plumptre and Timo Tolppa these authors contributed equally summaRy Colonoscopic polypectomy is a routine procedure with the potential for rare but well-k nown complications, including perforation and bleeding. Post- polypectomy electrocoagulation syndrome (PPES) is a less recognized cause of abdom- inal pain following this procedure. However, it is important to diagnose PPES in order to avoid unnecessary interven- tion. We present the case of a patient with abdominal pain after polypectomy. The patient underwent an unnecessary diagnostic laparoscopy on the basis of misinterpreted radiological findings. Her CT scan demonstrated the "donut" sign that was suggestive of ileocaecal intussusception. This case highlights the importance of recognizing PPES as a possible cause for abdominal pain after colonoscopic polypectomy and that it may also present with a "pseudodonut" sign on CT scan. It also demonstrates the importance of communicating and then integrating full clinical details with radiological findings when formulating a differential diagnosis. Case pResentatIon thrombus. However, the final report of the CT scan disagreed A 64-y ear-o ld female presented to the Emergency Depart- with this and reported ileocolic intussusception. This report ment with generalized abdominal pain associated with was based on images showing a 4 cm invagination of the nausea and diarrhoea. On the morning of presentation, the terminal ileum into the caecum without proximal bowel dila- patient had undergone a colonoscopy during which 4 polyps, tation (Figure 1). up to 18 mm in size, were removed from the caecum. Her The patient was initially managed conservatively for suspected pain had started a few hours after the procedure. She denied post-p olypectomy electrocoagulation syndrome (PPES). any fever, vomiting or bleeding per rectum. Her past medical history included dysfibrinogenaemia and previous laparo- and the final radiology report suggesting intussusception, scopic cholecystectomy. On examination, she was afebrile and the patient underwent a diagnostic laparoscopy. Induction haemodynamically stable. She was found to have generalized of general anaesthesia was unexpectedly complicated. The abdominal tenderness worst in the
