BJR|case reports https:// doi. org/ 10. 1259/ bjrcr. 20190023
KEYWORDS: patient, ppes, polypectomy, case, scan, sign, abdominal, intussusception, perforation, donut, syndrome, procedure, pain, laparoscopy, report


and low-r isk procedure carried out commonly resolves with conservative management including during colonoscopy with the aim of reducing the incidence of intravenous fluids, antibiotics and by keeping the patient nil by colorectal cancer by removing pre-c ancerous dysplastic lesions. mouth. On the other hand, a perforation may require surgery.2 Well-r ecognized complications of polypectomy include perfora- The gold-s tandard investigation for patients presenting in this way tion and bleeding, and though they can be life-t hreatening they is a CT scan, which in the case of PPES demonstrates focal mural are relatively rare in practice.1 However, despite their rarity, it is thickening with a stratified enhancement pattern, low attenuation important to exclude these complications in a patient presenting perilesional submucosal oedema, and high attenuation infiltration shortly following the procedure. In the case presented herein, the of adjacent pericolonic fat in the absence of extraluminal air.4 In the history of localized abdominal pain associated with tenderness and case of this patient, the CT scan was able to differentiate between guarding as well as raised inflammatory markers within 24 h of a perforation and PPES. However, the CT scan raised a diagnostic polypectomy may also be compatible with PPES. CT scan is recom- dilemma due to the interpretation of a "donut sign" suggestive of mended in these patients to exclude the more serious complication intussusception. of bowel perforation.1 In view of the report, a decision was made by the surgical team to PPES, otherwise known as transmural burn syndrome or proceed with a diagnostic laparoscopy and the patient was therefore microperforation, is caused by an injury to the colonic mucosa unnecessarily exposed to the possible complications of the opera- and muscularis layer, resulting in peritoneal inflammation.1,2 tion. The risks of the operation were increased for our patient due The incidence of PPES ranges from 0.003 to 0.1%, whilst the to the pre-e xisting hypercoagulable state from untreated dysfibrin- rates of perforation and bleeding are 0.3 and 0.6% respectively.2 ogenaemia. Additionally, our patient had a difficult intubation, PPES characteristically presents within 12 h of colonoscopy which could have resulted in further complications. The diagnostic with localized abdominal pain at the site of the polypectomy, laparoscopy could have been avoided with careful consideration of fever, peritoneal inflammation and elevated inflammatory the likely cause of the patient’s symptoms and taking into account tation of PPES. Additionally, the patient was at a higher risk complication
