BJR|case reports https:// doi. org/ 10. 1259/ bjrcr. 20190023
KEYWORDS: patient, ppes, polypectomy, case, scan, sign, abdominal, intussusception, perforation, donut, syndrome, procedure, pain, laparoscopy, report


of fever, peritoneal inflammation and elevated inflammatory the likely cause of the patient’s symptoms and taking into account tation of PPES. Additionally, the patient was at a higher risk complication of polypectomy and that this may also manifest on CT of an adverse event based on the size of the polyps. Patients scan with a "pseudo donut" sign may have also avoided an unnec- undergoing polypectomy for polyps larger than 1.5 cm, as well essary procedure. In view of the recent polypectomy, relevant risk as those located in the caecum, are more prone to complica- factors, characteristic symptoms and signs, and the CT scan find- tions following polypectomy.3 ings, the presentation of the patient was most consistent with PPES. Conversely, ileocaecal intussusception in adults is more likely to of a perforation. Differentiation from perforation is essential in making the diagnosis in this case unlikely.5 This case demonstrates 2 of 3 birpublications.org/bjrcr BJR Case Rep;6:20190023 BJR|case reports Plumptre et al the importance of combining the clinical scenario with the radio- leaRnIng poInts logical investigations in order to achieve a differential diagnosis and correct management plan. • Consider PPES in the differential diagnosis in febrile patients with local peritonitis and raised inflammatory markers ConClusIon presenting within 12 h of polypectomy. PPES is a less well-k nown complication that should be considered • PPES may present with a "pseudodonut" sign on abdominal in patients less than 12 h post-p olypectomy, presenting with fever, imaging. localized peritonitis and raised inflammatory markers. Surgeons and radiologists should be aware of the "pseudodonut" sign and • Although management of PPES is generally conservative, it is balance radiological findings in the full context of the patient’s important to recognize promptly in order to avoid unnecessary presentation before considering surgical intervention. surgical procedures.
