Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


ABSTRACT Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones produced by the adrenal cortex. They have pleiotropic effects and contribute substantially to the maintenance of resting and stress-related homeostasis. Although the molecular mechanisms of their actions are not fully understood, most of glucocorticoid effects are mediated by a ubiquitously expressed transcription factor, the glucocorticoid receptor. The latter influences the transcription rate of several glucocorticoid-target genes or interact physically with other transcription factors regulating their transcriptional activity in a positive or negative fashion. We present the molecular mechanisms of glucocorticoid action, and we discuss glucocorticoid treatment in endocrine and non-endocrine disorders, the side effects of glucocorticoids, their concomitant use and interactions with other drugs, and the risk factors for adrenal suppression. We suggest regimens for weaning patients from long-term glucocorticoid therapy, describe the glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome, and provide some future perspectives on glucocorticoid treatment. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones produced by the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex. These molecules are secreted into the peripheral blood under the control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in an ultradian, circadian and stress-related fashion ( 1 ). Glucocorticoids influence a myriad of physiologic functions contributing substantially to the maintenance of resting and stress-related homeostasis. At the cellular level, glucocorticoids regulate proliferation, differentiation and programmed cell death (apoptosis) of various cell types and may change the methylation status of cytosine-guanine dinucleotides (CpG) located in the regulatory regions of many genes, leading to important epigenetic alterations ( 1 , 2 ). Although glucocorticoids have been introduced in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis since 1949, their molecular mechanisms of actions remain an evolving field of molecular and cellular endocrinology. Their anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects are mediated mostly by their cognate receptor, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a transcription factor that belongs to the steroid receptor subfamily of the nuclear receptor superfamily ( 3 ). The therapeutic applications of synthetic glucocorticoids have been greatly broadened to encompass a large number of non-endocrine and endocrine diseases. Indeed, the prevalence of long-term glucocorticoid use worldwide is estimated at between 1% and 3% of adults ( 4 ). When glucocorticoids are used at supraphysiologic doses, glucocorticoid-induced Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression renders the adrenal glands unable to generate sufficient cortisol if glucocorticoid treatment is abruptly stopped. In addition to adrenal suppression, a growing list of glucocorticoid adverse effects have been documented.
