Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


renders the adrenal glands unable to generate sufficient cortisol if glucocorticoid treatment is abruptly stopped. In addition to adrenal suppression, a growing list of glucocorticoid adverse effects have been documented. Glucocorticoid resistance has become another limitation in the therapeutic use of glucocorticoids. Our ever-increasing and deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms of glucocorticoid actions might provide the basis for designing selective GR agonists that will optimize the therapeutic outcome, while minimizing undesired side effects. MOLECULAR MECHANISMS OF GLUCOCORTICOID ACTION Within the glucocorticoid target cell, the human (h) GR interacts with heat shock proteins (HSP90, HSP70) and immunophillins (FKBP51 and FKBP52), forming a multiprotein complex. Upon glucocorticoid-binding, the hGR dissociates from its protein partners, translocates into the nucleus, and forms homo- or hetero-dimers that bind to specific DNA sequences, termed “glucocorticoid response elements” (“GREs”), influencing the transcription of several glucocorticoid target genes in a positive or negative fashion ( 3 , 5 ). For additional information please see the Endotext chapter on Glucocorticoid receptors ( 6 ). Many anti-inflammatory genes are trans-activated by glucocorticoids, while pro-inflammatory genes are trans-repressed by these hormones. Aside from the genomic actions, accumulating evidence suggests that glucocorticoids may exert some effects in a very short time frame, independently of gene transcription and/or translation ( 7 ). These nongenomic glucocorticoid effects are believed to be mediated by membrane-bound hGRs that trigger specific kinase signaling pathways ( 8 ). In addition to the above-mentioned actions, glucocorticoids can influence gene expression independently of hGR binding to DNA. These actions are mediated by physical interaction between the monomeric hGR with other transcription factors, such as the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), the activator protein 1 (AP-1), and the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs), influencing the transcription rate of target genes of the latter ( 3 , 5 , 6 ). SYNTHETIC GLUCOCORTICOIDS Since the introduction of glucocorticoids (GCs) in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 1949, intense efforts have been made by science and industry to maximize the beneficial effects and minimize the side effects of glucocorticoids. Thus, many synthetic compounds with glucocorticoid activity were manufactured and tested ( 9 ). The pharmacologic differences among these chemicals result from structural alterations of their basic steroid nucleus and its side groups. These changes may affect the bioavailability of these compounds - including their gastrointestinal or parenteral absorption, plasma half-life, and metabolism in the liver, fat, or target tissues - and
