Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


groups. These changes may affect the bioavailability of these compounds - including their gastrointestinal or parenteral absorption, plasma half-life, and metabolism in the liver, fat, or target tissues - and their abilities to interact with the glucocorticoid receptor and to modulate the transcription of glucocorticoid - responsive genes ( 10 , 11 ). In addition, structural modifications diminish the natural cross-reactivity of glucocorticoids with the mineralocorticoid receptor, eliminating their undesirable salt-retaining activity. Other modifications increase glucocorticoids' water solubility for parenteral administration or decrease their water solubility to enhance topical potency ( 11 ). Synthetic GCs' clinical efficacy depends on their pharmacokinetics and their pharmacodynamics. Pharmacokinetic parameters such as the elimination half-life and pharmacodynamic parameters such as the concentration producing the half-maximal effect determine the duration and intensity of GC effects ( 12 ). It is known that the presence of an 11β-hydroxyl group is essential for the anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects of GCs and for the sodium retaining effects of the mineralocorticoids (MCs). The most important pharmacokinetic systems for GCs and MCs are the 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (11β-HSDs) because they regulate the target cell adjustment between the active hydroxy- and the inactive oxo- form of a steroid ( 13 , 14 ). 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11β-HSD2, oxidizing enzyme) catalyzes the conversion of cortisol to cortisone, the inactive metabolite, whereas 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1, reductase) converts cortisone to cortisol. Thus, 11β-HSD1, which is expressed in a wide range of tissues, mainly in the liver, facilitates GC hormone action whereas the major role of 11β-HSD2 is to prevent cortisol from gaining access to high-affinity MC receptors and, therefore, the enzyme is predominantly expressed in the MC responsive cells of the kidney and other MC target tissues (colon, salivary glands) and the placenta ( 13 ). The main structural features determining GC potency are the size and the polarity of the substituent in position 6 or 16. A hydrophobic residue increases GC activity (statistically significant enhancement with 6-α methyl and 16-methylene substitution). The more polar 16-hydroxy substitution decreases GC potency. The 6α and 9α-fluorination (such as in 6α and 9α fluorocortisol respectively) leads to increased GC and MC activity and double fluorination in the same positions augments this shift. Moreover, the Δ1-dehydro-configuration (in prednisolone) enhances GC activity but opposite to that effect it attenuates MC potency. The same effect is observed with the 16-methylene, 16α-methyl (dexamethasone) and 16β-methyl (betamethasone)
