Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


Moreover, the Δ1-dehydro-configuration (in prednisolone) enhances GC activity but opposite to that effect it attenuates MC potency. The same effect is observed with the 16-methylene, 16α-methyl (dexamethasone) and 16β-methyl (betamethasone) groups. Thus, the more selective GC transactivation activity of GCs with a 16α-methyl or 16β-methyl group and a Δ1-dehydro-configuration, results from a significantly decreased activity via the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and an enhanced activity via the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ( 15 ). Moreover, whereas GC selectivity can be improved by hydrophobic substituents in position 16 and the Δ1-dehydro-configuration, maximal GC activity needs additional fluorination in position 9α (such as in dexamethasone) ( 16 ). Figure 1 presents the chemical structures of cortisol and the most commonly used synthetic GCs. Figure 1: Chemical Structures of the Most Commonly Used Synthetic GCs. Protein binding is another pharmacokinetic property that influences GCs biological activity because only the unbound GC fraction is biologically active ( 14 ). In humans, endogenous cortisol binding to cortisol binding globulin (CBG) ranges between 67% and 87%, whereas a further 7-19% of total cortisol is bound to albumin, leading to about 95% of cortisol being protein-bound in the plasma. Except for prednisolone, synthetic GCs bind predominantly to albumin and only marginally to CBG. Plasma binding e.g. of dexamethasone and betamethasone is 75% and 60% respectively, and this is quite constant across a wide concentration rate ( 17 ). Thus, CBG binding is not a major determinant of plasma and biological half-lives of synthetic GCs. However, especially for hydrocortisone and prednisone, pharmacokinetics are non-linear due to protein binding. As a result, higher doses result in more rapid clearance rates. It has to be mentioned that prednisone itself is biologically inactive and its 11-keto group must be reduced by hepatic 11βHSD1 to form the active drug, prednisolone. Moreover, clearance rate depends on age and is more rapid in children than adults ( 18 ) and also depends upon individual variability. Finally, certain diseases may influence synthetic GCs' pharmacokinetics. Thus, clearance is reduced particularly in renal and hepatic diseases and hypothyroidism and increased in hyperthyroidism. The concomitant use of other drugs influences synthetic GCs' half-lives and, thus, their final effect in target tissues ( 18 , 19 ). Classic bioassays measure synthetic GC potency by testing the ability to suppress eosinophils and inhibit inflammation and the ability to stimulate hepatic glycogen deposition. The biologic effective half-life of glucocorticoids divides them into short-,
