Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


and also in the suppression of the host-versus-graft and graft-versus-host reaction in cases of organ transplantation. In nervous disorders such as cerebral edema and raised intracranial pressure the use of GCs is also beneficial ( 25 , 26 ). Acute administration of pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids is advocated in a small number of nonendocrine diseases, such as for patients suffering from acute traumatic spinal cord injury, although two recent meta-analyses support that the use of methylprednisolone should be limited ( 27 , 28 ). Moreover, steroid administration should be considered as a post-operative additional therapy for cases with severe neurological deficits even after surgery ( 29 ). Glucocorticoids are also used for postoperative pain relief after severe bone operations ( 30 ). In addition, as it is known that premature birth is associated with an increased risk of neonatal mortality and morbidity, including respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), and because 7-10% of all pregnancies in North America are under such risk, in 1994 the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Developmental Conference on the Effects of Corticosteroids for Fetal Maturation on Perinatal Outcomes concluded that all fetuses between 24 and 34 week gestation at risk of preterm delivery should be considered as candidates for antenatal treatment with GCs. Recommended treatment consisted of 2 doses of 12mg betamethasone given IM 24 hours apart or 4 doses of 6mg dexamethasone given 12 hours apart. In 2001 the NIH Consensus Developmental Panel recommended that repeat courses should not be used routinely until insightful findings are available. However, the Australian Collaborative Trial (ACTORDS), that has been completed, reported that repeat course synthetic GCs improved short-term neonatal outcome compared to single course therapy ( 31 ). Acute administration of pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids is also necessary in some types of acute illness. For years it is known that any type of acute illness or trauma results in loss of the diurnal variation in cortisol secretion. In the early phase of critical illness cortisol levels frequently rise and levels of CBG and albumin are substantially depleted. In the chronic phase of critical illness, however, high ACTH and cortisol levels are generally sustained and CBG levels gradually increase. Both very high and very low cortisol levels have been associated with increased mortality from critical illness. High cortisol levels reflect severe stress, whereas low levels reflect an inability to sufficiently respond to stress ( 32 ). The term "critical
