Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


associated with increased mortality from critical illness. High cortisol levels reflect severe stress, whereas low levels reflect an inability to sufficiently respond to stress ( 32 ). The term "critical illness-related cortisol insufficiency" (CIRCI) defines a state of both the inadequate production of GCs as well as a corticosteroid tissue resistance. It has been estimated that the overall incidence of adrenal insufficiency in critically ill patients is approximately 20%, with an incidence as high as 60% in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock. It is possible that CIRCI is an epiphenomenon and a marker of illness severity ( 33 ). According to the current recommendations, CIRCI should be suspected in hypotensive patients who respond poorly to fluids and vasopressor agents, particularly in the setting of sepsis. To diagnose CIRCI, the clinician may use a delta serum cortisol <9 μg/dl after cosyntropin (250μg) administration or a random plasma cortisol <10μg/dl. The authors suggest that clinicians should not use plasma-free cortisol or salivary cortisol level over plasma total cortisol. For patients with septic shock that is not responsive to fluid and moderate- to high-dose vasopressor therapy, the authors suggest IV hydrocortisone < 400 mg/day for ≥ 3 days at full dose. They, however, do not suggest using corticosteroids in adult patients with sepsis without any evidence of shock. The dose regimen in patients with early moderate to severe ARDS is methylprednisolone 1mg/kg/day for at least 14 days. Finally, glucocorticoids are not suggested for cases of major trauma ( 34 ). In a second part of the guidelines, the authors formulated statements for or against the use of synthetic corticosteroids for other common pathologic conditions, including community-acquired pneumonia, influenza, meningitis, and non-septic systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) that may be associated with shock, namely burns, cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery ( 35 ). Benefits of GCs replacement has been demonstrated in a number of other patient populations including low cardiac output syndrome after cardiac surgery ( 36 ), acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 37 ), and cirrhosis ( 38 ). Adverse Effects (AEs) Although synthetic GCs remain an important component of therapy for many conditions, in recent years there are arguments against their use based mainly on the concern of toxicity. Nowadays, GCs toxicity is one of the commonest causes of iatrogenic illness associated with chronic inflammatory disorders. Despite the fact that the adverse effects of GCs have
