Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


concern of toxicity. Nowadays, GCs toxicity is one of the commonest causes of iatrogenic illness associated with chronic inflammatory disorders. Despite the fact that the adverse effects of GCs have been known for decades, the actual risk-benefit ratio is incomplete and/or inconsistent. This happens because it is in general difficult to separate the effects of GCs from the outcome of the underlying disease, other comorbidities, or the use of other medications. Moreover, toxicity reports usually concern patients using high doses of GCs, different types of GCs with different relative drug potencies, for a heterogeneous group of related diseases, and for different periods of time ( 39 , 40 ). Only recently there has been intense effort by scientists and clinicians to explore and quantify the incidence and severity of the AEs of GC therapy. Generally, it is known that GCs' toxicity is related to both the average and cumulative dose during their use ( 41 ). The question that arises is whether or not patterns relating the frequency of AEs to GC dosage and/or length of GC treatment exist ( 39 ). Historically, GCs at a prednisone equivalent of 5-10mg/day are considered low dose. However, a review of "the 4 extensively reviewed trials on low dose GCs in rheumatoid arthritis" led to the conclusion that definitive association of low dose GCs with many AEs such as osteoporosis, myopathy, cardiovascular disease, glaucoma, increased incidence of any kind of infection, and behavior disturbances remains elusive, and that the fear of GCs toxicity is probably overestimated based on extrapolation from observations with higher dose treatment. However, according to the same analysis, the use of 5-10mg/day of prednisolone (or equivalent) for over 2 years is associated with an increase of mean body weight in the range of 4-8% ( 40 ). The prevalence of GC associated AEs was identified in a large survey of 2167 long term (≥60 days) users of GCs with mean prednisone equivalent dose of 16±14mg/day. The AE with the greatest prevalence was weight gain, experienced by 70% of the individuals, followed by skin bruising/thinning, and sleep disturbances. Cataracts (15%) and fractures (12%) were among the most serious AEs. All AEs demonstrated a strong dose-dependent association with cumulative GC use. Acne, skin bruising, weight gain and cataracts were significantly associated with longer duration (>90 days) of low-dose GCs (≤7.5mg/day of prednisolone), while fractures and sleep disturbances were more strongly associated with
