Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


mycosis, parchment-like skin, shortness of breath, and sleep disturbance. The most clearly attributable adverse drug reaction to GCs, Cushing syndrome, becomes evident after at least one month of treatment and was observed in 2.7, 4.3, 15.8, 24.6% of patients with no GCs in the past 12 months, and <5, 5-7,5 and >7,5mg/d of prednisolone or equivalent for >6 months, respectively. The second pattern identified describes an elevation in the frequency of health problems beyond a certain threshold value and is defined as a "threshold pattern". The threshold for the increase in glaucoma, depression, and an increase in blood pressure was observed at dosages of greater than 7.5mg/d. Dosages of 5mg/d or more were associated with epistaxis and weight gain. A very low threshold was observed for eye cataract (<5mg/d). All the associations found are in agreement with biological mechanisms and clinical observations ( 39 ). However, more extensive research on the risk-benefit ratio of long-term GCs is needed and could help to create new targets for drug development. An overview of the most common and most serious AEs associated with GC therapy is discussed below. ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY (AI) Iatrogenic, tertiary adrenal insufficiency induced by chronic administration of high doses of GCs is the most common cause of adrenal insufficiency ( 45 ). Physiologically, the hypothalamus secretes CRH which stimulates the release of ACTH from the anterior pituitary. ACTH leads to the release of cortisol from the zona fasciculata of the adrenal gland, which in turn exerts negative feedback on CRH and ACTH release. Administration of exogenous GCs even in small doses for only few days leads to a measurable suppression of the HPA axis by decreasing CRH synthesis and secretion and by blocking the trophic and ACTH-releasing actions of CRH on the anterior pituitary. This leads to suppressed synthesis of POMC, ACTH and other POMC derived peptides and later, to the atrophy of the corticotrophin cells of the anterior pituitary. As a result, in the absence of ACTH, the adrenal cortex loses the ability to produce cortisol. Nevertheless, the adrenal cortex retains the ability to secrete enough cortisol for some period of time and also mineralocorticoids, as this latter function depends mainly on the renin-angiotensin system rather than on ACTH. The association between AI and treatment with oral GCs has been recognized for decades, although the magnitude of the risk has not been determined until recently. It has also been
