Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


last 3 months, 6 months or 3 years, had a 30%, 46% or 100% increased risk of serious infection, respectively ( 65 ). Also, caution about GC use in patients with active or dormant TB is well accepted as these individuals are susceptible to contract or to sustain activation of the disease ( 66 ). An epidemiological study of patients with TB showed that they were nearly 5 times more likely to have been using GCs at the time of their diagnosis ( 67 ). OSTEOPOROSIS The effects of GCs on bone homeostasis are both systemic and local. Systemic effects include a reduction in calcium absorption from the intestine and a reduction in calcium reabsorption in the kidney, both enhancing PTH secretion and thus bone loss. Furthermore, the attenuation of sex steroids and growth hormone by GCs enhances bone loss. The direct effects of GCs on bone cells include induction of osteoblast and osteocyte apoptosis through activation of pro-apoptotic molecules, impairment of Wnt signaling, and induction of RANKL, a potent stimulator of osteoclastogenesis produced by osteoblasts ( 68 ). As a result, GCs induced osteoporosis is the most common type of iatrogenic osteoporosis. This has been confirmed by several studies. One of them showed that therapy with high-dose oral GCs caused significant decrease in BMD even in the first 2 months of therapy ( 69 ). As a result, there is an increased risk of osteoporotic fractures ( 70 ) and it has been estimated that fractures may occur in up to 30-50% of patients on GC therapy ( 71 ) but fortunately there is a rapid decrease of the risk on cessation of therapy ( 70 , 72 ). Similar findings were observed by a more recent study showing that low daily dose prednisone (≤7,5mg/d) with high cumulative doses increases the risk for fractures. Intermittent high-dose regimens with cumulative doses less than 1gr, however, did not show an increased risk. Risk declines rapidly, the decrease beginning 3 months after cessation of therapy ( 73 ). For additional details please see the Endotext chapter on Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 74 ). NEUROPSYCHIATRIC EVENTS Despite a slight increase in their overall sense of well-being independent of improvement in disease activity, it has been established that synthetic GC treatment may induce behavioral, psychic, and cognitive disturbances ( 75 ). These disturbances can be detected by structural, functional, and spectroscopic imaging. Behavioral changes in
