Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


been established that synthetic GC treatment may induce behavioral, psychic, and cognitive disturbances ( 75 ). These disturbances can be detected by structural, functional, and spectroscopic imaging. Behavioral changes in feeding and sleeping are commonly observed. Among psychic AEs, hypomania and mania are the most common during acute GC therapy and depression during long-term treatment. Suicides have also been reported ( 76 ). These AEs are usually mild/moderate but are severe in 5-10% of cases. Cognitive changes affect mostly declarative and working memory. All these AEs are generally dose and time dependent (infrequent at prednisone equivalent doses <20mg/d) and usually reversible. There has to be greater concern for pediatric patients. Several medications such as lithium, phenytoin, lamotrigine, memantine and other anti-seizure, anti-psychotics, and anti-depressants could be useful for treating such disorders ( 77 , 78 ). PEDIATRIC EVENTS Prolonged GC treatment of children with chronic illnesses impairs their longitudinal growth ( 79 ). GCs exert multiple growth suppressing effects, such as inhibition of GH secretion and IGF-1 expression, reduction of bone and collagen formation, bone mineralization, and vascularization. These effects are more pronounced with daily oral GCs than alternate day oral GC therapy ( 80 ). According to a study of 224 children with cystic fibrosis who have received alternate day treatment with prednisone, boys but not girls, had persistent growth impairment (mean final height 4cm less than children who were treated with placebo) after discontinuation of treatment ( 81 ). Apart from growth retardation, children may also be more susceptible to other AEs associated with GCs such as osteoporosis, glaucoma and cataracts. Moreover, fracture risk seems to be higher in GC-treated children ( 82 ). Intrauterine exposure to GCs is able to affect fetal HPA axis development causing reduction in fetal and, in some cases newborn and infant HPA axis activity under basal conditions and more consistently after pain-related stress. Although baseline HPA axis function seems to recover within the first 2 weeks postpartum, there is initial evidence that blunted HPA axis reactivity to pain-related stress persists throughout the first 4 months of life. These effects are dose dependent and vary with the time between GC exposure and HPA assessment. It seems that programming of the HPA axis involves interaction with other endocrine systems such as the Hypothalamus-Pituitary-Gonadal axis (HPG). Moreover, exposure to GCs during pregnancy has been linked to impaired fetal growth and modulated fetal immune functions, indicators
