Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


interaction with other endocrine systems such as the Hypothalamus-Pituitary-Gonadal axis (HPG). Moreover, exposure to GCs during pregnancy has been linked to impaired fetal growth and modulated fetal immune functions, indicators of compromised cognitive, neurological and psychological functions, and increased blood pressure into adolescence. Furthermore, there is some evidence that reduced HPA axis activity early in life will switch to a hyperactive state later in life due to over-adjustment and because of that, affected infants may be vulnerable to stress related disorders associated with hypercortisolemia such as depression and cardiovascular disease. Finally, it seems that changes in HPA axis function following antenatal exposure to GCs are trans-generational and likely involve epigenetic mechanisms ( 17 ). In addition, according to a recent meta-analysis, early postnatal GC treatment (≤7 days), particularly with dexamethasone, causes short term AEs including gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and growth failure ( 83 , 84 ). Long term follow-up studies report an increased risk of abnormal neurological examination and cerebral palsy ( 85 ). PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA CRISIS Severe isolated cases of pheochromocytoma crisis have been reported after administration of exogenous GCs ( 86 , 87 ). Thus, GCs should be avoided or administered only if absolutely necessary in patients with known or suspected pheochromocytomas. The most common AEs of GC therapy are summarized in Table 2 . Table 2: Common AEs of Glucocorticoid Therapy ( 88 ) View in own window Onset early in therapy, essentially unavoidable Emotional lability Enhanced appetite, weight gain, or both Insomnia Enhanced in patients with underlying risk factors or concomitant use of other drugs Glucocorticoid-related acne Diabetes mellitus Hypertension Peptic ulcer disease When supraphysiologic treatment is sustained Cushingoid appearance Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal suppression Impaired wound healing Myopathy Osteonecrosis Increased susceptibility to infections Delayed and insidious, probably dependent on cumulative dose Atherosclerosis Cataracts Fatty liver Growth retardation Osteoporosis Skin atrophy Rare and unpredictable Glaucoma Pancreatitis Pseudotumor cerebri Psychosis COMPARTMENTAL GLUCOCORTICOID ADMINISTRATION Topical Glucocorticoids Glucocorticoids are the first line of treatment for various skin disorders such as atopic dermatitis, vitiligo, psoriasis, etc. ( 10 , 89 - 94 ). They are quite effective when applied topically and nontoxic to the skin in the short term. The factors that determine local penetration are the structure of the compound employed, the vehicle, the basic additives, occlusion versus open use, normal skin versus diseased skin, and small areas versus large areas of application. Fluorinated steroids (e.g. dexamethasone, triamcinolone
