Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


the compound employed, the vehicle, the basic additives, occlusion versus open use, normal skin versus diseased skin, and small areas versus large areas of application. Fluorinated steroids (e.g. dexamethasone, triamcinolone acetonide, betamethasone, and beclomethasone) penetrate the skin better than nonfluorinated steroids, such as hydrocortisone. However, fluorinated steroids also produce more local complications and may be associated with systemic absorption and side effects. The most frequent AEs are local and include atrophy, striae, rosacea, perioral dermatitis, acne, and purpura. Less frequently, hypertrichosis, pigmentation alterations, delayed wound healing, and exacerbation of skin infections occur. Furthermore, the rate of contact sensitization against GCs is greater than previously believed. Systemic reactions such as hyperglycemia, glaucoma and adrenal insufficiency are less frequent ( 95 ). Some cases of Cushing's syndrome following overuse of topical GCs have also been described ( 96 ). The frequency of systemic effects by topical corticosteroids is increased in newborns and small children compared to adolescents and adults, because GCs penetrate the skin of newborns and small children more easily and in larger proportional amounts. Infants, especially, have a greater risk for Cushing's syndrome or adrenal insufficiency and also hepatosteatosis. An infant's death due to generalized CMV infection following administration of topical GCs has been reported ( 97 ). Based on the Body Surface Area, a simple guideline for how much topical GC to prescribe for a child has been proposed. Roughly, infants require one fifth of adults' doses, children two fifths and adolescents two thirds of adults' doses ( 98 ). Finally, the use of skin lightning cosmetics used in most African countries includes corticosteroids and may have many serious and sometimes fatal complications, including adrenal insufficiency ( 99 ). Opthalmic Glucocorticoids In the past 10 years intravitreal GCs injections have been increasingly used for patients with a variety of posterior segment diseases, including diabetic macular edema, branch and central retinal vein occlusion, pseudophakic cystoid macular edema, and uveitic macular edema ( 100 ). Currently, novel agents including preservative-free and sustained-release intravitreal implants are being studied in clinical trials. Potential complications of intravitreal steroid treatment are divided into steroid-related and injection-related side effects. Steroid-related side effects include cataract formation and glaucoma ( 101 ). Injection related side effects include retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, and bacterial and sterile endopthalmitis. Inhaled Glucocorticoids GC inhalation therapy is widely used in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Their relative topical to systemic
