Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, and bacterial and sterile endopthalmitis. Inhaled Glucocorticoids GC inhalation therapy is widely used in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Their relative topical to systemic effect ratio or therapeutic index depends upon the pharmacokinetic differences for inhaled GCs. Factors that enhance the therapeutic index are: decreased oral absorption retention in the lung and rapid systemic clearance once the drug is absorbed into the systemic circulation. More recently, it has been posited that the therapeutic index is also enhanced by high plasma protein binding. Inhaled GCs have important pharmacokinetic differences ( 102 ). In general, inhaled GCs have fewer and less severe AEs than oral and systemic GCs. However, systemic AEs may be observed and this risk is influenced by the dose, the period of treatment, the delivery system used, the site of delivery (i.e. gastrointestinal tract, lung), the concomitant use of other medications, and the altered steroid metabolism due to individual's differences in the patient's response to GCs. As far as growth deceleration in children is concerned, the results are somewhat contradictory. Although inhaled GCs seem to cause a dose-dependent reduction in height velocity ( 103 ), these changes are not significantly associated with final adult height ( 104 ). However, a study of 1041 asthmatic children treated with budesonide, nedocromil, and placebo for 4.3 years, a decrease in growth velocity was observed in the budesonide group which was most evident in the first year of treatment ( 105 ). When 90% of these children were followed-up for an additional 4.8 years, a lower mean height was found in the budesonide group and this was more pronounced in girls than in boys ( 106 ). Moreover, as GCs effect on bone metabolism is of great concern, some studies have shown that inhaled GC therapy is associated with increased fracture risk ( 107 , 108 ) but this has not been confirmed by a meta-analysis ( 109 ). Nevertheless, several studies confirm a negative relation between total accumulative dose of inhaled GCs and bone mineral density ( 110 ). The loss in BMD is of concern, especially in early postmenopausal women and boys during puberty ( 111 , 112 ). Again, these results have been argued ( 113 ). It has been shown that adrenal insufficiency is also associated with inhaled GCs, although with lower prevalence ( 114 ). The newest inhaled GC, Ciclesonide, appears to
