Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


( 113 ). It has been shown that adrenal insufficiency is also associated with inhaled GCs, although with lower prevalence ( 114 ). The newest inhaled GC, Ciclesonide, appears to have different pharmacokinetics enhancing its therapeutic index. It is administered as a pro-drug converted to the active metabolite des-Ciclesonide in the lung. Thus, it has low oral bioavailability and also rapid clearance and high protein binding, factors that reduce pharmacologically relevant systemic exposure ( 115 ). Furthermore, Ciclesonide appears to have less suppressive effects on HPA axis function ( 116 , 117 ). Nasal Glucocorticoids Intranasal GCs are effectively used for the treatment of allergic rhinitis, rhinosinusitis, rhinoconjunctivitis, and nasal polyposis ( 118 , 119 ). Topical steroid drops are used for the treatment of sinus ostia stenosis in the postoperative period ( 120 ). Interestingly, molecules designed specifically to achieve potent localized activity with minimum risk of systemic exposure such as mometasone furoate, fluticasone proprionate, and fluticasone furoate may be preferable. Studies in children have not found any adverse effects including HPA axis suppression or growth retardation ( 118 ). Yet, some studies suggest a relationship between intranasal steroids and increased intraocular pressure ( 119 ). Generally, frequent and chronic use should be avoided to prevent local and systemic complications ( 121 ). Intraarticular Glucocorticoids The main beneficial effect of intraarticular GC injection is pain relief. Most favorable results are seen in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients. Local AEs are either rare or insignificant and include joint infection, intraarticular and periarticular calcifications, cutaneous atrophy, cutaneous depigmentation, avascular necrosis, rapid destruction of the femoral head, acute synovitis, Charcot's arthropathy, tendinopathy, Nicolau's syndrome, and joint dislocation ( 122 ). Moreover, some systemic AEs have also been reported. These include a transient HPA axis suppression, a transient increase in blood glucose in diabetic patients, and other metabolic, hematologic, vascular, allergic, visual and psychological AEs ( 123 ). The most used intraarticular glucocorticoids are triamcinolone hexacetonide, triamcinolone acetonide, and methylprednisolone acetate ( 124 ). MONITORING OF PATIENTS ON GLUCOCORTICOID TREATMENT As osteoporosis, with resultant fractures, constitutes one of the most serious morbid complications of GC use, worsening patients quality of life, recently, the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) updated the 2010 recommendations for patients receiving oral GC therapy ( 125 ). In this systematic review, the authors addressed the initial assessment in patients that began or continue glucocorticoid treatment for longer than 3 months,
