Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


receiving oral GC therapy ( 125 ). In this systematic review, the authors addressed the initial assessment in patients that began or continue glucocorticoid treatment for longer than 3 months, and discussed the advantages and disadvantages of lifestyle modification, as well as for calcium, vitamin D and pharmaceutical treatment, including bisphosphonates, raloxifene, teriparatide, and denosumab. According to the ACR guidelines, there are three categories of fracture risk. High risk criteria include patients aged over 40 years, previous osteoporotic fracture, hip or spine BMD T-score ≤ −2.5, or 10-year fracture probability of ≥20% (major osteoporotic fracture) or ≥3% (hip fracture) ( 125 , 126 ). Moderate and low risk criteria are based only on FRAX-derived fracture probability (10–19% and >1 to ≤3% respectively for moderate risk, and <10% and ≤1% respectively for low risk) ( 125 , 126 ). In patients aged less than 40 years, a previous osteoporotic fracture is considered as a high-risk criterion, whereas the criteria of moderate and low risk are based on the BMD. Patients at low fracture risk are recommended to receive only calcium and vitamin D, whereas adults at moderate-to-high fracture risk should be treated with calcium and vitamin D plus an oral bisphosphonate. However, adults in whom oral bisphosphonates are not appropriate, are recommended to continue calcium plus vitamin D but switch from an oral bisphosphonate to another anti-fracture medication ( 125 ). Finally, adults who complete a planned regimen with oral bisphosphonates and continue glucocorticoid treatment, are recommended to continue oral bisphosphonate treatment or switch to another anti-fracture medication ( 125 ). Recommendations were also suggested for children, women of childbearing potential, and people with organ transplants, as well as patients receiving very high doses of glucocorticoids ( 125 ). For additional details please see the Endotext chapter on Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 74 ). CONCOMITANT USE OF GLUCOCORTICOIDS WITH OTHER DRUGS Special attention is required in the concomitant use of glucocorticoids with other drugs because of potential interactions, and because some drugs may affect the metabolism of the steroids, which may lead to a decreased or increased glucocorticoid effect on their target tissues ( 20 ). Such interactions and effects are shown in Tables 3 , 4 and 5 . Table 3: Interactions of Glucocorticoids with Other Drugs ( 20 ) View in own window Drug Side effect Comments Amphotericin B Hypokalemia Monitor potassium levels frequently Digitalis glycosides Digitalis toxicity Hypokalemia Monitor
