Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


of administration such as inhalation, topical, intra-ocular cause HPA axis suppression as well as other systemic AEs and this depends on the systemic bioavailability of the drug ( 19 , 48 , 49 , 95 , 114 , 123 ). Daily Therapy There is evidence that patients are at lower risk for adrenal insufficiency if they can take glucocorticoids on alternate days from the outset or if they can convert to alternate-day therapy before the HPA axis is suppressed ( 21 , 129 ). Split Doses and Night Doses Administering GCs in several different doses during the day imposes a greater risk for HPA axis suppression. In the same way, evening doses of glucocorticoids tend to suppress the normal early morning surge of ACTH secretion, resulting in greater adrenal suppression. Whenever possible, it is better to treat patients with a single morning dose. Once-a-day dosing is usually feasible for intermediate or long acting GCs e.g. prednisone, triamcinolone and dexamethasone. The short-acting hydrocortisone and cortisone acetate are usually given twice a day, at waking and around 5 PM. To mimic normal diurnal cortisol rhythms, the morning dose is two thirds, and the afternoon dose one third of the total daily dose ( 19 , 130 , 131 ). Duration and Cumulative Dose of Glucocorticoid Treatment Although traditionally the duration of glucocorticoid therapy and the cumulative dose of glucocorticoid received have been considered as predictive of the likelihood of HPA axis suppression, several studies suggest that they only roughly predict HPA axis suppression ( 132 - 134 ). Adrenal insufficiency is extremely rare in patients treated for 1 week or less ( 135 , 136 ). Nevertheless, with a so called "short-term" 14-day course of systemic GCs, generally considered safe, in patients with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, suppression of the HPA axis has been defined ( 47 ). Cushingoid Features Patients with Cushing's syndrome symptoms due to GC therapy are more likely to have a suppressed HPA axis and adrenal atrophy ( 19 ). It has been suggested that the best predictor of HPA axis suppression is the patient's current glucocorticoid dosage. A strong correlation has been found between prednisone maintenance doses above 5 mg/d and a subnormal ACTH-stimulation test result ( 137 ). Finally, it can be assumed that patients who are more likely to develop HPA axis suppression are those who receive high doses (>20-30mg prednisolone or
