Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


test result ( 137 ). Finally, it can be assumed that patients who are more likely to develop HPA axis suppression are those who receive high doses (>20-30mg prednisolone or equivalent) of systemic GCs for long periods (>3weeks) and those who appear to have Cushingoid features. As the HPA axis function in patients treated with synthetic GCs cannot be reliably estimated from the above parameters several tests are commonly used in order to assess the axis' recovery. WEANING PATIENTS FROM GLUCOCORTICOID THERAPY Besides their multiple therapeutic uses, GC withdrawal is indicated when their use is no longer recommended as the maximum therapeutic benefit has been obtained or when significant side effects appear and become uncontrollable, such as GC induced psychosis, diabetes mellitus, severe hypertension, and incapacitating osteoporosis. The goal of a successful GC withdrawal regimen can be described as the rapid transition from a state of tissue hypercortisolism to a state of total exogenous GC deprivation without resurgence of the underlying disease and without adrenal insufficiency or any other GC dependency. Although there are no consensus documents, several tapering regimens have been published so far. In clinical practice, the majority of physicians develop their own withdrawal regimens. The common point is that GC withdrawal should never be abrupt ( 19 ). A systematic review published in 2002 found 9 randomized, controlled clinical trials, 7 of which investigated bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which compared different GC tapering regimens. According to this review there was no significant difference between rapid or slow tapering, regarding the diseases' exacerbation and relapse rates, suggesting that prolonged withdrawal may not be necessary for a better outcome of the underlying disease. However, the same review highlighted the uncertainty about the safety and efficacy of GC withdrawal in many chronic diseases, emphasizing the need for further research in this area ( 131 ). In general, patients taking any steroid dose for less than 2 weeks are not likely to develop HPA axis suppression and can stop therapy suddenly without tapering. The possible exception to this is the patient who receives frequent "short" steroid courses e.g. in asthma. Where there has been chronic therapy, the objective is to rapidly reduce the therapeutic dose to a physiological level (equivalent to 7.5mg/d prednisolone) e.g. by reducing 2.5mg every 3-4 days over a few weeks, and then proceed with slower withdrawal in order to permit the HPA axis to
