Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


level (equivalent to 7.5mg/d prednisolone) e.g. by reducing 2.5mg every 3-4 days over a few weeks, and then proceed with slower withdrawal in order to permit the HPA axis to recover ( 19 , 21 ). As far as patients with underlying disease are concerned it is recommended that all available clinical, biochemical and laboratory data on the activity status of the disease be collected in order to easily identify signs of recurrence. In such a case prescribed doses should be increased ( 19 ). After the initial reduction to physiological levels, doses should be reduced by 1mg/d of prednisolone or equivalent every 2-4 weeks depending upon patient's general condition, until the medication is discontinued. Alternatively, after the initial reduction to 5-7.5mg of prednisolone, the clinician can switch the patient to HC 20mg/d and reduce by 2.5mg/d every week until the dose of 10mg/d is achieved. After 2-3 months on the same dose, the HPA axis function should be assessed through a Corticotropin (ACTH-Synachten) test or through an Insulin Tolerance test (ITT). A pass response to these tests indicates adequate function of the axis and GCs can be safely withdrawn. If the axis has not fully recovered, treatment should be continued and the axis function should be reassessed ( 21 ). Other tapering regimens have been published some of them dealing with switching the patient to an alternate dosage of GC before discontinuation ( 138 ). Irrespectively of the tapering regimen used, if GC withdrawal syndrome, adrenal insufficiency's symptomatology, or exacerbation of the underlying disease appears, the dose being given at the time should be elevated or maintained for a longer period of time. Moreover, in the absence of evidence of HPA axis full recovery in patients who have been treated with GCs for prolonged periods, supplementation equivalent to 100-150mg of HC is recommended during situations of severe stress such as major surgery, fractures, severe systemic infections, major burns, etc. Finally, it has become obvious, that all patients treated long-term with GCs should be treated in a similar fashion to patients with chronic ACTH deficiency, thus, they should be instructed to carry some type of identification (worn around the neck or wrist or carried as a card) ( 19 , 21 ). ACUTE ADRENAL CRISIS Full HPA axis recovery after cessation of GC therapy may take as long as 1 year or more ( 11 , 139 ). Abrupt cessation
