Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


21 ). ACUTE ADRENAL CRISIS Full HPA axis recovery after cessation of GC therapy may take as long as 1 year or more ( 11 , 139 ). Abrupt cessation of glucocorticoid treatment or quick tapering can precipitate an acute adrenal insufficiency crisis. The main symptoms range from anorexia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, dyspnea, fever, arthralgia, myalgia, and orthostatic hypotension to dizziness, fainting, and circulatory collapse. Hypoglycemia is occasionally observed in children and very thin adult individuals. The diagnosis is a medical emergency, and treatment should be immediate administration of fluids, electrolytes, glucose, and parenteral glucocorticoids. GLUCOCORTICOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME (GWS) Chronic administration of high doses of GCs and also other hormones such as estrogens, progestins, androgens and growth hormone induce varying degrees of tolerance, resulting in a progressively decreased response to the effect of the drug, followed by dependence and rarely "addiction". Traditionally, the term "Endocrine Withdrawal Syndromes" has been used to describe symptoms and signs of specific hormone deficiency after discontinuation of hormonal therapy or removal of an endocrine gland. However, discontinuation of hormonal therapy frequently results in a mixed picture of two different syndromes: a typical hormone deficiency syndrome and a generic withdrawal syndrome. Four aspects of GCs withdrawal after cessation of pharmacological high-dose therapy are important: 1) relapse of the underlying disease for which the drug was prescribed 2) HPA axis suppression which can persist for a long time 3) psychological dependence 4) a non-specific withdrawal syndrome despite normal HPA axis function and even while patients are receiving physiological replacement doses of GCs ( 140 , 141 ). Amatruda et al. first defined the steroid withdrawal syndrome as a symptom complex resembling true adrenal insufficiency, with nonspecific symptoms like weakness, nausea, and arthralgias, occurring in patients who have finished a dosage reduction of glucocorticoid therapy and who respond normally to HPA axis testing ( 142 ). Thus, after cessation of GC therapy patients may develop anorexia, nausea, emesis, weight loss, fatigue, myalgias, arthralgias, weakness, headache, abdominal pain, lethargy, postural hypotension, fever, skin desquamation, tachycardia, emotional lability, and even delirium, and psychotic states even if the response of the HPA axis to stimuli has returned to normal ( 140 ). Children and adolescents may experience signs and symptoms of GWS even when GCs are still being administered in supraphysiological doses ( 19 ). Biochemical evidence related to the GWS includes hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia ( 140 ). The GWS has
