Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


GWS even when GCs are still being administered in supraphysiological doses ( 19 ). Biochemical evidence related to the GWS includes hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia ( 140 ). The GWS has been considered a withdrawal reaction due to established physical dependence on supraphysiological GC levels ( 140 ). It has also been described as a state of relative GC resistance in these patients, effectively rendering them hypoadrenal ( 141 ). The mechanisms responsible for GWS have not been fully elucidated. Nevertheless, several mediators should be considered and include CRH, vasopressin, POMC, several cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, prostaglandins such as E2, I2, phospholipase A2 and also alterations of the noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems ( 19 , 140 ). The severity of GWS depends on the genetics and developmental history of the patient, on his environment, and on the phase and degree of dependence the patient has reached ( 140 ). The syndrome is self-limited with a median duration of 10 months. Its management should include a temporary increase in the dose of GCs followed by gradual, slow tapering to a maintenance dose ( 141 ). BIOCHEMICAL DIAGNOSIS OF ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY Glucocorticoid treatment may not suppress the HPA axis at all, or it may cause central suppression and adrenal gland atrophy of varying degrees. Several endocrine tests have been used to define progression of glucocorticoid-induced adrenal insufficiency. The insulin tolerance test and the metyrapone test have been employed in the diagnosis of adrenal suppression and are quite sensitive, however, the risks involved with both tests do not justify their use when a rapid ACTH stimulation test can distinguish clinically significant adrenal suppression. To evaluate the adequacy of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis recovery, the rapid Synachten (or high-dose ACTH stimulation test) is mostly used. An intravenous bolus of 250 ug of corticotropin 1-24 is administered and cortisol is measured after 30 or 60 minutes or both. A plasma cortisol concentration > 18 - 20 μg/ dL at these times indicates adequate recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 139 ). The low-dose Synachten test (1ug or 500 ng ACTH(1-24)/1.73 m2) is also being used for the assessment of the HPA axis after prolonged use of GC medication ( 143 - 145 ). It is unclear if the low-dose test is superior to the high-dose test for the detection of secondary adrenal insufficiency. Some studies have shown that the low-dose Synachten test is more sensitive in
