Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


if the low-dose test is superior to the high-dose test for the detection of secondary adrenal insufficiency. Some studies have shown that the low-dose Synachten test is more sensitive in detecting partial secondary adrenal insufficiency (as can occur in chronic use of GCs), which is not detected by the standard high-dose test because the latter provides a supraphysiologic stimulus able to stimulate a partially damaged adrenal ( 146 - 149 ). A meta-analysis of 28 studies evaluated the utility of the high and low-dose ACTH test. At a specificity of 95% the sensitivity of the high-dose test for primary adrenal insufficiency was 97%, greater than that for secondary adrenal insufficiency (57%). The sensitivities for secondary adrenal insufficiency were similar between the high-dose (57%) and the low-dose Synachten test (61%) ( 150 ). In contrast, a review of the literature published between 1965 and 2007 suggests that the low-dose test is the best test currently available for establishing the diagnosis of secondary AI ( 151 ). Further studies are needed to establish if the low-dose Synachten test is preferable for the diagnosis of secondary AI. The Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (CRH) test can also be used in patients taking GC treatment for prolonged periods, as it can assess both the ACTH and cortisol responses and can distinguish between secondary and tertiary adrenal insufficiency ( 133 , 152 ). The Dexamethasone Suppression Test has been shown to predict the later development of an impaired adrenal function after a 14-day course of prednisone in healthy volunteers and this information may allow a more targeted approach for the patients after cessation of steroid therapy ( 153 ). FUTURE PERSPECTIVES ABOUT GLUCOCORTICOID THERAPY Although hydrocortisone (HC) is the most commonly used regimen for replacement in patients with primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency, it is evident that this conventional therapy cannot provide the physiological rhythm of cortisol release. Moreover, with current replacement therapy, the majority of patients with adrenal insufficiency report impaired health-related quality of life, early morning fatigue, socioeconomic health problems and, finally, increased mortality ( 154 ). Circadian infusions of HC delivered by a programmable pump can mimic the normal rhythm of cortisol secretion and improve biochemical control and quality of life in patients with adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Because such infusions are not a practical solution, new formulations of oral HC, which mimic cortisol physiology have been evaluated. A dual-release hydrocortisone tablet
