Glucocorticoid Therapy and Adrenal Suppression
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gcs, patients, glucocorticoid, adrenal, therapy, glucocorticoids, treatment, risk, axis, effects, use, hpa, dose, suppression


adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Because such infusions are not a practical solution, new formulations of oral HC, which mimic cortisol physiology have been evaluated. A dual-release hydrocortisone tablet with an immediate-release outer layer covering a sustained-release core, has been used in patients with Addison’s disease showing improvements in cardiovascular risk factors, including body weight, hemoglobin A1C and blood pressure, as well as a significant improvement in fatigue ( 154 - 156 ). In the long-term, this once-daily formulation was well-tolerated with a small number of adverse effects ( 157 ). Another modified-release multiparticulate hydrocortisone capsule formulation has been developed recently ( 158 ). This formulation was well tolerated and very effective in controlling disease biomarkers of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, such as androstenedione and 17-hydroxyprogesterone, with a lower hydrocortisone dose equivalency ( 154 ). Apart from their use for hormonal replacement, the clinical success of synthetic GCs as anti-inflammatory agents is largely attributed to their ability to reduce the expression of proinflammatory genes, via activation of the GR and the concomitant inhibition of the activity of proinflammatory transcription factors, including NF-κB and AP-1, through a mechanism called trans-repression. On the other hand, the appearance of their AEs mainly arise from their ability to activate, after induction of the GR, target genes involved in the metabolism of sugar, protein, fat, muscle and bone via a mechanism called trans-activation ( 159 , 160 ). There is a plethora of recent work dealing with the characteristics of novel selective GR ligands with equal efficacy and improved side-effects profiles, in other words ligands that show an improved therapeutic index ( 159 - 162 ). These efforts have resulted in a number of different terminologies: Selective GR modulators, selective GR agonists, gene-selective compounds, dissociated compounds, etc. ( 161 , 163 ), which have been developed and are still being developed mainly focusing on the trans-repression mechanism and stimulating the side-effect pathway to a lesser extent, at least in specific tissues. Nevertheless, the likelihood of finding a compound that actually separates all activated genes from all repressed genes is highly unlikely mainly because the transactivation vs trans-repression characteristics are highly cell-type and gene specific. Moreover, it is also unclear whether such a compound would be truly desirable, as upregulation of anti-inflammatory genes may also play a role in the treatment of many diseases ( 159 - 161 ). In addition, many non-steroidal dissociated GR modulators,
