Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


Cardiovascular Disease Thomas Gaziano, K. Srinath Reddy, Fred Paccaud, Sue Horton, and Vivek Chaturvedi Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the number one cause of Predominant Cardiovascular Diseases death worldwide (Mathers and others 2001;Murray and Lopez This chapter focuses on the most common causes of CVD 1996; WHO 2002b). CVD covers a wide array of disorders, morbidity and mortality: including diseases ofthe cardiac muscle and ofthe vascular sys- tem supplying the heart, brain, and other vital organs. This • ischemic heart disease (IHD) chapter reviews the epidemiological transition that has made • stroke CVD the world’s leading cause of death,assesses the status of • congestive heart failure (CHF). the transition by region,and indicates regional differences in the burden ofCVD.It also reviews the cost-effectiveness ofvar- These diseases account for at least 80 percent ofthe burden ious interventions directed at the most relevant causes ofCVD of CVD in all income regions,which share many of the same morbidity and mortality. common risk factors; accordingly, similar interventions are appropriate. A fourth manifestation, rheumatic heart disease (RHD),which accounts for 3 percent of all disability-adjusted EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CVD life years (DALYs) lost as a result ofCVD,does not contribute significantly to the overall global burden of CVD.The burden At the beginning ofthe 20th century,CVD was responsible for ofRHD will likely continue to diminish,but it is still an impor- less than 10 percent of all deaths worldwide,but by 2001 that tant inflammatory cause of heart disease in developing coun- figure was 30 percent.About 80 percent ofthe global burden of tries and accordingly is addressed in this chapter.We do not CVD death occurs in low- and middle-income countries. address many other forms ofCVD because ofthe scope ofthis Murray and Lopez (1996) predicted that CVD will be the lead- volume;the regional rather than global nature ofsome inflam- ing cause of death and disability worldwide by 2020 mainly matory diseases, such as Chagas disease; or the congenital because it will increase in low- and middle-income countries. abnormalities or genetically based cardiomyopathies for which By 2001, CVD had become the leading cause of death in the prevention and treatment options remain limited. developing world,as it has been in the developed world since the mid 1900s (Mathers and others 2001;WHO 2002a).Nearly IschemicHeartDisease. IHDisthesinglelargestcauseofdeath 50 percent ofall deaths in high-income countries and about 28 inthedevelopedcountriesandisoneofthemaincontributors percent ofdeaths in low- and middle-income countries are the tothediseaseburdenindevelopingcountries.Thetwoleading result of CVD (Mathers and others 2001). Other causes of manifestationsofIHDareanginaandacutemyocardialinfarc-
