Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


ofall deaths in high-income countries and about 28 inthedevelopedcountriesandisoneofthemaincontributors percent ofdeaths in low- and middle-income countries are the tothediseaseburdenindevelopingcountries.Thetwoleading result of CVD (Mathers and others 2001). Other causes of manifestationsofIHDareanginaandacutemyocardialinfarc- death,such as injuries,respiratory infections,nutritional defi- tion.In2001,IHDwasresponsiblefor7.3milliondeathsand58 ciencies, and HIV/AIDS, collectively still play a predominant millionDALYslostworldwide(WHO2002b).Seventy-fiveper- role in certain regions,but even in those areas CVD is now a centofglobaldeathsand82percentofthetotalDALYsresulting significant cause ofmortality. fromIHDoccurredinthelow-andmiddle-incomecountries. Glossary ACE inhibitors (angiotensin-converting enzyme Dyslipidemia: a condition marked by abnormal concen- inhibitors): a group of antihypertensive drugs that exert trations oflipids or lipoproteins in the blood. their influence through the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone Embolus: a blood clot that moves through the blood- system. stream until it lodges in a narrowed vessel and blocks Antiplatelets:drugs that interfere with the blood’s ability circulation. to clot. Endocarditis:inflammation ofthe lining ofthe heart and Atheroschlerosis: a chronic disease characterized by its valves. thickening and hardening ofthe arterial walls. Hypertension:abnormally high arterial blood pressure. Atrial fibrillation:an abnormal rhythm of the heart that Reperfusion: restoration of the flow of blood to a previ- can result in an increased risk ofstroke because ofthe for- ously ischemic tissue or organ. mation ofemboli (blood clots) in the heart. Statins:a group ofdrugs that inhibit the synthesis ofcho- Beta-blockers: a group of drugs that decrease the heart lesterol and promote the production of low-density rate and force ofcontractions and lower blood pressure. lipoprotein (LDL)–binding receptors in the liver,resulting Cardiogenic shock: poor tissue perfusion resulting in a decrease in the level ofLDL and a smaller increase in fromfailure ofthe heart to pump an adequate amount of the level ofhigh-density lipoprotein (HDL). blood. Thrombolysis:the breaking up ofa blood clot. Cardiomyopathy: a disorder of the muscle limiting the heart’s function. Thrombus:a blood clot that forms inside a blood vessel or cavity ofthe heart. Chagas disease: a tropical American disease caused by a parasitic infection. Chronic symptoms include cardiac Transient ischemic attack: transient reduced blood flow problems,such as an enlarged heart,altered heart rate or to the brain that produces strokelike symptoms but no rhythm,heart failure,or cardiac arrest. lasting damage. Angina is the characteristic pain of IHD. It is caused by Stroke. Stroke is caused by a disruption in the flow ofblood to atherosclerosisleadingtostenosis(partialocclusion)ofoneor part of the brain either because of the occlusion of a blood more coronary arteries. Patients with chronic stable angina vessel (ischemic stroke) or the rupture ofa blood vessel (hem- have an average annual mortality of 2 percent or less. Acute orrhagic
