Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


more coronary arteries. Patients with chronic stable angina vessel (ischemic stroke) or the rupture ofa blood vessel (hem- have an average annual mortality of 2 percent or less. Acute orrhagic stroke).Many of the same risk factors for IHD apply myocardial infarction (AMI) is the total occlusion of a major to stroke;in addition,atrial fibrillation is an important risk fac- coronaryarterywithacompletelackof oxygenandnutrients tor for stroke.The annual risk of stroke in patients with non- leading to cardiac muscle necrosis.AMI is usually diagnosed valvular atrial fibrillation is 3 to 5 percent,with 50 percent of by changes in the electrocardiogram; by elevated serum thromboembolic stroke being attributable to atrial fibrillation enzymes,suchascreatinephosphokinaseandtroponinTorI; (Wolf, Abbott, and Kannel 1991). Chapter 32 discusses the and by pain similar to that of angina. Thirty-day mortality diagnosis and management ofthe clinical syndromes in greater after an AMI is high: even with best medical therapy it detail. remains at about 33 percent, with half the deaths occurring before the individual reaches the hospital. Even in a hospital CongestiveHeartFailure. CHFistheendstageofmanyheart with a coronary care unit where advanced care options are diseases.Itischaracterizedbyabnormalitiesinmyocardialfunc- such facilities or therapies, the mortality rate is closer to 30 retention,andreducedlongevity.CHFiscausedbypathological percent. Even though mortality among patients who have processes that affect the heart; IHD and hypertension-related recovered from an AMI has declined in recent decades, heart disease are the most common etiologies. The risk of approximately4percentof patientswhosurviveinitialhospi- developingCHFistwotimesmoreinhypertensivemenandthree talization die in the first year following the event (Antman timesmoreinhypertensivewomencomparedwiththosewhoare andothers2004). normotensive.CHFisfivetimesmorecommoninthose who 646 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Thomas Gaziano, K. Srinath Reddy, Fred Paccaud, and others havehadanAMIthaninthosewhohavenot.Theprognosisfor illness and death.Before 1900,infectious diseases and malnu- thosewithestablishedCHFisgenerallypoorandworsethanfor trition were the most common causes of death; however, thosewithmostmalignancies(McMurrayandStewart2000)or primarily because of improved nutrition and public health AIDS,withaone-yearmortalityrateashighas40percentanda measures,they have gradually been supplanted in most high- five-yearmortalitybetween26and75percent. income countries by CVD and cancer.As improvements con- The worldwide burden ofCHF is substantial and continues tinue to spread to developing countries,CVD mortality rates to rise. Throughout the developed world the prevalence is are increasing. about 2 to 3 percent,with an annual incidence rate of0.1 to 0.2 Known as the epidemiological transition,this shift is highly percent (McMurray and Stewart 2000).However,the incidence correlated with changes in personal and collective wealth (the and prevalence ofCHF rise dramatically with age.Prevalence is economic transition), social structure (the social transition), 27 per 1,000 population for those older than 65,compared with and demographics (the demographic transition). Omran 0.7 per
