Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


nitaL ,cificaP eht )cigahrromeh cinorhc ,esu occabot daerpsediw detaerc-namuh fo strap nabru dna ,acirfA htroN dna tsaE elddiM ytilatrom deecxe shtaed esaesid sesaesid )aidnI yllaicepse( snoiger emocni-wol tsom noitirtunlam dna snoitcefni morf dna aciremA nitaL fo strap ,seirtnuoc emocni-hgiH 05(cid:2) dna cimehcsi( ekorts ,DHI 07(cid:1) gnidael era recnac dna DVC evitareneged deyaleD naebbiraC eht FHC ,)cigahrromeh ,ytilatrom dna ytidibrom fo sesuac sesaesid sdiova tnemtaert dna noitneverp ;tesno syaled dna htaed senilced DVC detsujda-ega .b3002 OHW ;1791 narmO ;6891 tluA dna ysknahslO morf detpadA:ecruoS Risk Factors portion of the world’s population lives in East Asia and the Pacific and South Asia and the incidence of IHD is high in The risk of developing CVD depends to a large extent on the Europe and Central Asia. presence ofseveral risk factors.The major risk factors for CVD include tobacco use,high blood pressure,high blood glucose, EastAsiaandthePacific. Thestatusandcharacteroftheepi- lipid abnormalities,obesity,and physical inactivity.The global demiologicaltransitionacrosstheregionreflectsthediversityof variations in CVD rates are related to temporal and regional economiccircumstancesinEastAsiaandthePacific.Sincethe variations in these known risk factors. Discussions of the 1950s,lifeexpectancyinChinahasnearlydoubledfrom37years strength ofthe associations ofthe various factors with CVD are to 71 years . Approximately 60 percent of the found elsewhere (chapters 30,44,and 45).Although some risk populationstilllivesoutsideurbancenters,andasisthecasein factors,such as age,ethnicity,and gender,obviously cannot be mostdevelopingcountries,ratesofIHD,stroke,andhyperten- modified,most ofthe risk is attributable to lifestyle and behav- sionarehigherinurbancenters.Chinaappearstobestraddling ioral patterns,which can be changed. thesecondandthirdstagesofaJapanese-styleepidemiological transition,withCVDrateshigherthan35percent,thoughdom- BURDEN OF DISEASE inatedbystroke,notIHD.However,inurbanChina,thedeath CVDistheleadingcauseofdeathinallWorldBankregionswith ratefromIHDroseby53percentfrom1988to1996. the exception of Sub-Saharan Africa (figure 33.1), where HIV/AIDS has emerged as the leading cause of mortality Europe and Central Asia. The emerging market economies, (Mathers and others 2001). Between 1990 and 2020, IHD is which consist of the former socialist states of Europe, are anticipatedtoincreaseby120percentforwomenand137per- largely in the third phase ofthe epidemiological transition.As centformenindevelopingcountries,comparedwithage-related a group,they have the highest rates of CVD mortality in the increasesof30to60percentindevelopedcountries(Leederand world,similar to those seen in the United States in the 1960s others2004).Eventhough80percentofCVDdeathsoccurin when CVD was at its peak. Belarus, Croatia, Kazakhstan, low- and middle-income countries, the death rates for most Romania,and Ukraine have seen significant increases in IHD regionsarestillbelowtherateforhigh-incomecountries,which death rates (figure 33.2). In the Russian Federation, life is320per100,000populationannually.Themarkedexceptionis expectancy for men has dropped precipitously since 1986 from EuropeandCentralAsia,whichhasarateof690CVDdeathsper 71.6 years to about 59 years in 2004,in large part because of 100,000population. CVD.In the Czech Republic,Hungary,Poland,and Slovenia, age-adjusted CVD rates have been declining. Nevertheless, Regional Burdens CVD rates generally remain higher than in Western Europe. The majority ofthe burden occurs in East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and
