Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa indicate that each year at least 21 million years of future productive life are Middle East and North Africa. Increasing economic wealth in lost because ofCVD.In South Africa,for example,costs for the the Middle East and North Africa has been characteristically direct treatment of CVD were equivalent to 2 to 3 percent of accompanied by urbanization. The rate of CVD has been increasing rapidly and is now the leading cause of death, expenditures (Pestana and others 1996). accounting for 25 to 45 percent of total deaths.Over the past Current expenditures in developed countries are indicators few decades,daily per capita fat consumption has increased in of possible future expenditure in developing countries. For most countries in the region, ranging from a 13.6 percent example, Hodgson and others (2001) estimated that in 2003 increase in Sudan to a 143.3 percent increase in Saudi Arabia the direct and indirect costs ofCVD in the United States would .IHD is the predominant cause ofCVD,with amount to US$350 billion. They also estimated that in 1998 about three IHD deaths for every stroke death.RHD remains a Americans spent US$109 billion on hypertension,equivalent to major cause of morbidity and mortality, but the number of about 13 percent ofthe health care budget.Studies are limited hospitalizations for RHD is declining rapidly. but suggest that obesity-related diseases are responsible for 2 to 8 percent of all health care expenditures in developed South Asia. Some regions of India appear to be in the first countries. phase of the transition, whereas others are in the second or even the third phase. Nonetheless, India is experiencing an alarming increase in heart disease,which seems to be linked to COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS changes in lifestyle and diet,rapid urbanization,and possibly an underlying genetic component. Diabetes is also a major CVD remains one ofthe most studied and written about sub- jects in medicine. As a result, many interventions exist with is expected to reach 57.2 million by 2025 (Ghaffar,Reddy,and strong evidence for significant reductions in morbidity and mortality associated with CVD. by 2010, 60 percent of the world’s cardiac patients will be in India.About 50 percent of CVD-related deaths occur among Intervention Effectiveness by Disease people younger than 70,compared with about 22 percent in the West. Between 2000 and 2030, about 35 percent of all CVD Thischapteraddressesthoseinterventionsbelievedtohavethe deaths in India will occur among those age 35 to 64,compared largest effect because they
