Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


percent in the West. Between 2000 and 2030, about 35 percent of all CVD Thischapteraddressesthoseinterventionsbelievedtohavethe deaths in India will occur among those age 35 to 64,compared largest effect because they result in large reductions in CVD with only 12 percent in the United States and 22 percent in events,areinexpensive,ortheprevalenceorincidenceofthedis- China (Leeder and others 2004). easestowhichtheyaredirectedissignificant.Theomissionofan interventiondoesnotimplythatitisnotcost-effectivebutrather Sub-Saharan Africa. In Sub-Saharan Africa,deaths attributa- thateitherithadaneffectonasmallerpercentageofpeopleor ble to CVD are projected to more than double in between the thechapterwasunabletoencompassallsuchinterventions. years 1990 and 2020.Although HIV/AIDS is the leading over- all cause of death in this region, CVD is the second-leading Acute Myocardial Infarction. Treatment of AMI involves killer and is the first among those over the age of30.Stroke is medical therapies that reduce myocardial oxygen demand and the dominant form,in keeping with patterns characteristic of fatal arrhythmias (beta-blockers), that restore blood flow by earlier phases of the epidemiological transition.With increas- inhibiting platelet aggregation (aspirin), or that dissolve ing urbanization, levels of average daily physical activity are thethrombus occluding the arterial lumen (thrombolytics) or falling and smoking rates are increasing. Hypertension has an invasive intervention with cardiac catheterization and 650 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Thomas Gaziano, K. Srinath Reddy, Fred Paccaud, and others Beta-blockers are used both during and after an AMI. luminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA),and PTCA with stents. Benefits persist for at least 6 years and up to 15 years after the CABG is the placement of grafts,usually from the saphenous first AMI.The second Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction vein or internal mammary artery,to bypass stenosed coronary trial showed significant benefits when beta-blockers were used arteries while maintaining cerebral and peripheral circulation within two hours ofsymptoms (Roberts and others 1991). by cardiopulmonary bypass.CABG is a major operative proce- Aspirin,an antiplatelet agent,and thrombolytic agents,the dure requiring appropriate surgical and anesthetic environ- standard treatments for reopening the artery in AMI, have ments and has a perioperative mortality of1 to 3 percent,with demonstrated an additive effect in reducing mortality (GISSI later complication rates of15 to 20 percent. 1986), with a benefit irrespective of age, sex, blood pressure, Almost 1 million CABGs per year are performed worldwide, heart rate,or previous history ofAMI or diabetes (Fibrinolytic with about 519,000 interventions in the United States alone in Therapy Trialists’Collaborative Group 1994).The benefits are 2000 (American Heart Association 2002).The main indication greater the closer the thrombolytics are given to the time of for CABG is for those with
