Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


D.O.Williams 2004). ofstents to PTCA has lead to a decrease in restenosis rates and The invasive strategy requires a facility and individual physi- readmissions to hospitals but shows no change in mortality cians who conduct enough of the procedures annually to compared with medical therapy. remain proficient. In the absence of these conditions, the American Heart Association recommends that treatment focus Pharmacological Interventions The pharmacological inter- on thrombolytics (Antman and others 2004). Given either a ventions either prevent thrombosis, as does aspirin, or target or long distances to such facilities in many developing coun- ics, beta-blockers, and ACE inhibitors) or statins targeting tries,we did not evaluate this procedure. cholesterol.Furthermore,these agents may possibly have addi- tional properties of reducing the risk of fatal arrhythmias, Long-Term Management of Existing Vascular Disease. The improving repair after AMI (remodeling), or stabilizing the managementofindividualswithchronicvasculardiseasecon- atherosclerotic plaque. sists of invasive techniques, pharmacotherapy, lifestyle and Overall,thelong-termadministrationofantiplateletagents behavioralchanges,andrehabilitativemeasures.Italsoinvolves in those with vascular disease leads to a 25 percent reduction addressingsuchissuesasadherencetotreatment,regularfollow- in the risk of major vascular events: 33 percent for nonfatal upstodeterminecomplianceandassessrisk,andtreatmentof AMI, 25 percent for nonfatal stroke, and 16 percent for any comorbiditiesthatarelikelytohaveanimpactontheprogres- vascular death. The use of aspirin has produced similar sionofvasculardisease(forinstance,renaldisease). benefits in individuals with IHD or prior stroke.Antiplatelet treatment in individuals with a previous AMI has been Invasive Interventions The three most common procedures showntoprevent18nonfatalmyocardialinfarctions,5nonfa- are coronary artery bypass graft (CABG),percutaneous trans- tal strokes, and 14 vascular deaths for every 1,000 patients Cardiovascular Disease | 651 treatedfor two years (Antithrombotic Trialists’Collaboration brain),the long-term benefits oflowering blood pressure have 2002). been clearly established.Lowering blood pressure reduces the The benefits of antiplatelet agents for those with vascular overall risk offuture stroke by 28 percent and ofother vascular disease far outweigh the risks.The risk ofintracranial bleeding events and CHF by 26 percent in patients with a history of increases by nearly 25 percent with the use of antiplatelet stroke disease, irrespective of their hypertension status. The agents,but in absolute terms this risk comes to only one or two benefits are even more pronounced for individuals with a his- intracranial bleeds per 1,000 patients treated per year.The risk tory of hemorrhagic stroke. Larger reductions in blood pres- of major extracranial bleeding, mostly gastrointestinal, also sure confer greater benefits,and benefits are present across dif- increases by 60 percent,or one or two excess events per 1,000 ferent age groups, genders, and ethnicities and with varying patients per year. comorbid status.
