Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


percent and of hospitalization by 35 percent, compared with across and within countries and regions. Thus, our results a placebo in patients with severely advanced heart failure reflect models that used prices and epidemiological data for (Pitt and others 1999); however, this combination requires WorldBankregionswhereapplicable.Interventioneffectswere, intensive monitoring of electrolytes and testing to follow however,based on systematic reviews of randomized trials or patients and thus was not included in our cost-effectiveness meta-analysesindevelopedcountries.Untilinterventiontrials analyses. areconductedindevelopingcountries,thisoptionremainsthe Investigators have shown that ACE inhibitors reduce risks best for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of various interven- tionsinthedevelopingregions.Incasesinwhichmodelsfordis- ization,major coronary events,deterioration ofsymptoms,and easesinselectedregionswerenotdeveloped,wepresentresults progression from asymptomatic to symptomatic left ventricu- ofcost-effectivenessanalysesfromhigh-incomecountries. lar dysfunction, by 25 to 33 percent.The benefit is conferred We used estimates of life expectancy for the model from irrespective ofthe etiology ofsystolic failure;begins soon after data supplied by the volume editors.The model includes only the start oftreatment;persists over the long term;and is inde- the costs related to the intervention itself and to CVD events pendent of age, sex, and baseline use of other medications. Furthermore,the use ofACE inhibitors has proved to be highly cost-effective in developed countries. ume editors.Our analysis does not include indirect costs,such Beta-blockers improve symptoms, decrease hospitalization as those arising from lost work time or family assistance.Drug and deterioration of heart function, and improve mortality. costs are from McFayden (2003).All are in U.S.dollars unless They should be used even when the patient becomes asympto- otherwise specified. Disability weights were taken from matic.Beta-blockers are beneficial at all stages of CHF,reduc- Mathers and others (2001). ing the morbidity and mortality associated with CHF by 25 to 33 percent.Because most patients with CHF die ofsudden car- Ischemic Heart Disease. diac death,the protective effects of beta-blockers are probably related to their antiarrhythmic properties. Acute Myocardial Infarction We evaluated four incremental Digitalis decreases hospitalization rates in individuals with strategies for the treatment of AMI and compared them with CHF but has no effect on vascular or total mortality (Digitalis a strategy of no treatment as a base case.The four treatment Investigation Group 1997). Given that it also has a narrow strategieswereaspirin(162.5mgperdayfor30days);aspirin therapeutic-toxic window and requires careful monitoring,its andatenolol(100mgperdayfor30days);aspirin,atenolol,and role in standard treatment for CHF has diminished and has not streptokinase(1.5millionunits);andaspirin,atenolol,andtis- been included in our cost-effectiveness analyses. sueplasminogenactivator(100mgacceleratedregimen).Doses fortheaspirinandstreptokinasewerethoseusedbytheSecond Rheumatic Heart Disease. The management of patients International Study of Infarct Survival Collaborative Group with ARF includes providing antistreptococcal treatment, (ISIS-2 Collaborative Group 1988), the atenolol regimen was the
