Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


fortheaspirinandstreptokinasewerethoseusedbytheSecond Rheumatic Heart Disease. The management of patients International Study of Infarct Survival Collaborative Group with ARF includes providing antistreptococcal treatment, (ISIS-2 Collaborative Group 1988), the atenolol regimen was the acute stage, all patients with ARF should be treated as if CollaborativeGroup1986),andthetissueplasminogenactiva- they have a group A streptococcal infection—that is, with a tordosingwasthatusedintheGlobalUseofStrategiestoOpen 10-day course of penicillin. Anti-inflammatory agents Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO)–I trial (GUSTO provide symptomatic relief during ARF but do not prevent Investigators 1993). The relative risk of dying from AMI was RHD. Secondary prophylaxis prevents colonization of the reduced for all patients receiving the medications. Patients upper respiratory tract and consists ofpenicillin or sulfadiazine receiving the thrombolytics faced increased risks of major for the first five years (and for life for patients with valvular bleeds and hemorrhagic strokes. Because the effectiveness of heart disease). Noncompliance is frequent, reaching rates streptokinasediminishesovertime,wecarriedouttwofurther as high as one-third of patients (Bassili and others 2000). sensitivity analyses to compare its use for patients over and Tertiary treatment entails surgery for valve replacement or undertheageof75andforpatientswhoreceivetheintervention valvuloplasty. soonerorlaterthansixhoursaftertheonsetofsymptoms. Cardiovascular Disease | 653 (ICERs) for each therapy by region.The incremental cost per ities may not be available to most patients in many developing aspirin and aspirin plus atenolol interventions; US$634 to costs and one without. US$734 for aspirin, atenolol, and streptokinase; and slightly In a setting where hospitals are available,a combination of less than US$16,000 for aspirin,atenolol,and tissue plasmino- aspirin and atenolol dominated no therapy and was cost saving gen activator. Minor variations occurred between regions in all regions (table 33.2). The ICERs for the addition of because ofsmall differences in follow-up care costs.The results enalapril ranged from US$660 per DALY in Sub-Saharan Africa for an analysis that evaluated ICERs as cost per life year saved to US$866 per DALY in Europe and Central Asia.The combi- showed no significant differences. nation of all four medications ranged from US$1,720 per Table 33.3displays the results of the secondary analysis for DALY to US$2,026 per DALY.For CABG the costs per DALY streptokinase and tissue plasminogen activator. Giving the ranged from about US$24,000 to more than US$72,000. streptokinase sooner than six hours following onset reduces the Despite having similar benefits as aspirin and atenolol in rela- incremental cost per DALY to less than US$440 compared with tion to mortality,enalapril and lovastatin demonstrated higher more than US$1,300 ifgiven after six hours.Similar effects are per DALY costs because ofthe added costs
