Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


DALY to less than US$440 compared with tion to mortality,enalapril and lovastatin demonstrated higher more than US$1,300 ifgiven after six hours.Similar effects are per DALY costs because ofthe added costs ofmonitoring renal seen when streptokinase is given to those under 75 compared and liver function, respectively, as is required for these two with those 75 years or older. medications. According to meta-analyses, nitroglycerin has a modest When we assumed that hospitals were not readily available effect on mortality in AMI: a 3 percent reduction. However, (table 33.2),no therapy combination was cost saving compared given that it can have profound effects on blood pressure that with no therapy.The combination ofaspirin and atenolol was could limit the use of beta-blockers that confer more signifi- the next best strategy, with ICERs ranging from US$386 per cant benefits,its use should be limited to patients with ongoing DALY in South Asia to US$545 per DALY in Latin America and ischemic pain and systolic blood pressures greater than 90 mil- the Caribbean.The addition ofenalapril increased the range of lar infarction. When modeled, it had a reasonable cost- addition of lovastatin increased them still further.CABG was effectiveness ratio ofUS$70 per life year saved,but we did not not evaluated because of the underlying assumption that hos- include the analysis in the incremental analysis because of the pitals were not available. blood pressure effects ofthe multiple agents. Table 33.4 shows the number of events prevented with the four-drug combination medical therapy compared with no Secondary Prevention Four medical therapies—aspirin,beta- therapy and the additional number of events averted blockers,statins,and ACE inhibitors—have been the mainstay with CABG compared with the four-drug combination. The of treatment for those with IHD in the developed world. To medical regimen alone would prevent some 2,000 CVD deaths, evaluate the best medical intervention, we used incremental about 4,000 myocardial infarctions, and approximately 200 cost-effectiveness analysis to examine the 15 different possible strokes per million persons treated in each region.The use of combinations ofthe four standard medical therapies.The four CABG in addition to the medical regimen would prevent an therapies were 75 to 100 mg per day ofaspirin,100 mg per day additional 65–70 deaths,nearly 300 myocardial infarctions,and of atenolol,10 mg per day of enalapril,and 40 mg per day of up to 30 strokes per million population. lovastatin. In addition, CABG surgery provides an invasive option that gives added mortality benefit when compared with Congestive Heart Failure. The
