Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


day of up to 30 strokes per million population. lovastatin. In addition, CABG surgery provides an invasive option that gives added mortality benefit when compared with Congestive Heart Failure. The interventions examined for conventional medical therapy in patients with certain anatom- CHF were the addition ofthe ACE inhibitor enalapril,the beta- ical obstructions in coronary circulation. Thus, we evaluated blocker metoprolol,or both to a baseline ofdiuretic treatment. CABG in addition to all four medications for those with left As for the IHD interventions,we performed separate analyses main coronary artery disease or with three-vessel coronary for each assumption ofwhether or not hospital facilities would artery disease and reduced left ventricular function. Because be available. For the model of treatment for CHF assuming these therapies also have significant effects on the incidence of hospitalization (table 33.2),the addition ofenalapril is cost sav- stroke,we included the effect on DALYs and costs for stroke in ing and the ICER for the addition of metoprolol ranges from the analyses. US$124 to US$219 per DALY depending on the region.When In addition to the mortality benefits demonstrated by trials the availability ofhospitals is limited (table 33.2),the enalapril of the individual medications or surgery,they also resulted in plus diuretics strategy is no longer cost saving,but it costs only significant reductions in hospitalizations in developed coun- US$31 per DALY or less,and the ICER for enalapril,metopro- tries. The cost savings from these reduced hospitalizations lol, and diuretics increases only to about US$275 per DALY. make the cost-effectiveness of such interventions quite favor- These figures are probably underestimates of the cost per 654 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Thomas Gaziano, K. Srinath Reddy, Fred Paccaud, and others Cardiovascular Disease | 655 noigeR yb ,tnemtaerT oN htiw derapmoC tnemtaerT rof sRECI 2.33 elbaT YLAD/$SU ECA srotibihni -ateb dna srekcolb FHC rof htiw derapmoc srotibihni ECA fo enilesab srekcolb-ateb dna ,sciteruid derapmoc FHC rof dna ypareht lacideM detimil enilesab htiw derapmoc DHI rof GBAC DHI rof GBAC dna ypareht lacideM rof ypareht lacideM latipsoh ,sciteruid fo ,tnemtaert on fo enilesab htiw ,tnemtaert on fo enilesab htiw derapmoc htiw derapmoc IMA ssecca ssecca latipsoh ssecca latipsoh detimil ssecca latipsoh tnemtaert on fo enilesab ,IECA ,IECA ,BB ,ASA ,BB ,ASA ,BB ,ASA ,BB ,ASA ,BB ,ASA ASA TEM IECA TEM IECA nitatS IECA BB ,ASA GBAC nitatS ,IECA IECA BB ,ASA APT KS ,BB BB ,ASA ASA noigeR gnivas tsoC 022,2 648,33 419,1 gnivas
