Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, percent, dna, disease, cvd, developing, mortality, heart, risk, cid, ofthe, patients, developing countries, stroke, blood


that are borderline cost-effective in devel- tal on time is a problem. Sensitivity analysis of the cost- oping countries include implantable cardioverter-defibrillator effectiveness ofsurgical and medical interventions in develop- for cardiac arrest,primary stenting for single-vessel disease (the ing countries is also needed. study was for men over age 55),CABG for two-vessel disease, Furthermore, the appropriate incentives for technological and angiography for patients with a high probability of coro- changes in health care should be investigated (McClellan and nary artery disease. Kessler 1999). This line of research includes analyses of the pricing oftechnologies (including drugs) or ofnew designs for RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT services, such as point-of-care devices for use by community health workers. Even though most of the interventions currently available The long period of incubation of CVD opens up opportu- appear to be expensive and complex for developing countries, nities for extensive screening based on preclinical signs and the demand for effective care for cardiovascular diseases will biomarkers. However, strong lines of research are needed to exert major pressure on health systems in coming decades. secure effective and safe screening programs and should Increased use of these procedures is already documented in include opportunistic screening for places where visits to 658 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Thomas Gaziano, K. Srinath Reddy, Fred Paccaud, and others Clinical Guidelines Epidemiological Research Thediffusionof healthtechnologiesusuallyleadstoawiden- A basic task ofepidemiological research is to assess geographic ingoftheclinicalindicationbeyondtheevidence-basedscope and secular trends in the distribution ofrisk factors.Ofspecial oftheintervention(PTCAisaclassicexample)(Dravik1998), relevance is the movement from regional to country levels and corresponding to a decrease not only in the procedure’s the trend within a country.The impact ofpoor health status in efficacy, but also in its effectiveness (Anderson and Lomas early life should be assessed from the impact of poor fetal 1988;Blustein 1993).Several studies suggest that overuse and health to the consequence ofmultiple childhood infections on underuse tend to coexist in the same community and that the risk for CVD.Because ofthe scarce availability ofresources, even severe scarcity of resources does not protect against the development and maintenance of health care should be overuse of cardiological interventions, at least among certain supported by a comprehensive information system. Simple, segments of the population (Joorabchi 1979; Soumerai and affordable health information systems are preferable along the others1997). lines of the framework developed by the World Health The consequences of such trends are more dramatic in Organization. developing than developed countries.Therefore,the introduc- tion
