Gut, 1979, 20, 186-189
KEYWORDS: liver, perhexiline, maleate, changes, patients, present, cells, patient, hepatocytes, showed, fig, hepatitis, pectoris, perhexiline maleate, letter


Kopelman and Morgan, 1977; stigmata ofchronic liver disease. An iron deficiency Lageron etal., 1977; McDonald, 1977). anaemia was also present, for which no cause could This paper describes the liver biopsies of two befound.Theserumbilirubin andalkalinephospha- patients in whom treatment ofangina pectoris with tase concentrations were normal, but the serum perhexiline maleate was complicated by the de- glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) activity velopment of raised serum enzymes and striking was 2180 mU/m]2 and the glutamic pyruvic trans- histological changes. aminase (SGPT) 2101 mU/m12. After the first liver biopsy perhexiline was discontinued. This was followed by a gradual disappearance of his symp- toms. The serum transaminase activity decreased 'Addressforcorrespondence and reprint requests: Professor progressively and returned to normal levels after 2001, South Africa. after stopping the perhexiline. Received forpublication 14September 1978 2Normal value <35 mU/ml. Liver damageassociatedwithperhexillne maleate 187 Microscopic examination of the initial liver leucocytes were present within the parenchyma, biospy showed striking histological abnormalities particularly in relation to swollen liver cells. Bile (Fig. 1). Theliverarchitecturewasnormal. Manyof stasis was not noted. The portal tracts showed a the hepatocytes exhibited gross enlargment due to mixed inflammatory infiltrate of neutrophils and marked cytoplasmic swelling. The nuclei were mononuclear cells. There was no evidence ofportal enlarged and exhibited marked variation in size tract fibrosis. with many binucleate hepatocytes, prominent The second liver biopsy showed considerable hyperchromatism, and with nuclear atypia. The resolution of the parenchymal hepatitis and disap- swollen hepatocytes exhibited equally florid cyto- pearance of the cytoplasmic vacuolation. Paren- plasmic changes; many liver cells showed gross chymal changes were, however, stillpresent (Fig. 2). ballooning oftheircytoplasmdue to thepresence of Significant numbers of enlarged hepatocytes were numerous small cytoplasmic vacuoles. Actual fatty noted,andnuclearatypia wasstill present, although change, however, was noted in only a minority of it was far less marked than in the original biopsy. hepatocytes. Focalaggregatesofpolymorphonuclear The portal tracts still exhibited a mild mono- Fig. 1 Case 1. Section ofinitial liverbiopsyshowingmarked atypia with considerablenuclear hyperchromatism andswelling of the cytoplasm. HandE, x 360 (original magnification). EE|~W.jiAl ; Fig. 2 Case1. Repeat biopsy 10 : weeksafterendofperhexiline > i maleate therapy. Someoftheliver Icellsstillshow moderateatypia w andswelling ofthe cytoplasm, but the changes are considerably less than in theoriginal biopsy. H andE, x 360 (original magnification). 188 D.Lewis, H. C. Wainwright, M. C. Kew, S.Zwi, andC. Isaacson nuclear cell inflammatory infiltrate but it was far ascites, or splenomegaly. There werenostigmata of less densethan originally observed. chronic liver disease and
