Gut, 1979, 20, 186-189
KEYWORDS: liver, perhexiline, maleate, changes, patients, present, cells, patient, hepatocytes, showed, fig, hepatitis, pectoris, perhexiline maleate, letter


C. Wainwright, M. C. Kew, S.Zwi, andC. Isaacson nuclear cell inflammatory infiltrate but it was far ascites, or splenomegaly. There werenostigmata of less densethan originally observed. chronic liver disease and the patient was not in cardiac failure. The serum bilirubin was normal, Case2 SGOT 150 mU/mI, SGPT 81 mU/ml, alkaline phosphatase 111 IU, and gamma glutamyl trans- M.K., a 72 year old white male, complained of peptidase288mU/ml. Aliverbiopsywasperformed. anorexia, generalisedweakness, dizziness andblack- The patient subsequently developed broncho- outs, weightloss, andpainful calves. Hewasknown pneumonia andlater died from septicaemia. to suffer from gout, diabetes mellitus, and angina Microscopic examination of the liver biopsy pectoris, andhehad beenreceiving 200mgperhexi- showed marked distortion of the liver architecture, line daily for two years. The patient was taking due to widening and fibrosis of the portal tracts, allopurinol (300 mg daily) for gout but his diabetes with extension ofthefibrous bands into the hepatic was treated with diet alone. There was no history parenchyma (Fig. 3). Considerable bile duct pro- ofexcessivealcoholintake. Onexaminationhehada liferation was noted and an inflammatory infiltrate 4 cm enlargement of the liver but no jaundice, of neutrophils was present in the portal tracts. Fig. 3 Case2. Liverbiopsy showingmarkedly increased portaltractfibrosis with considerableswellingoftheliver cells. Occasionalnecroticliver cellsarepresent. HandE, x 90 (originalmagnification). Fig. 4 Case2. Markedoedema ofaportaltract (upperleft). Some ofthe livercellsshowing eosinophilic cytoplasmic clumpingaresurrounded byneutrophils. Otherliver cells showlarge vesicularnucleiwith prominent nucleoli. HandE, x 360 (originalmagnification). Liver damageassociatedwithperhexiline maleate 189 Striking parenchymal abnormalities were evident. persisted, although admittedly less pronounced, Although generalised, thechanges were most severe after the drug was stopped, must raise the question in the periportal hepatocytes. The latter exhibited of possible permanent change and its further marked cytoplasmic swelling and fragmentation of association with hepatic neoplasia. The presence of their cytoplasm with the formation of clumps of cellular atypia is known to be an important co- intensely eosinophilic irregularly shaped strands existing feature in association with cirrhosis and (Fig. 4). These bore a superficial resemblance to primary hepatocellular carcinoma (Anthony, 1973). Mallory's alcoholic hyalin, although the latter Secondly, thepresence ofadvancedfibrosisincase2 occursinapredominantlycentrilobulardistribution. should similarly be viewedwith some concern, It is, Many cells showing the eosinophilic clumping of however, possible that the portal tract fibrosis may the cytoplasm also demonstrated satellitosis by have antedated the administration of the drug and aggregates of neutrophils, the entire appearance additional cases will have to be studied in order to being reminiscent ofalcoholic hepatitis. Occasional clarifythis point. isolated and degenerate liver cells
