ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cmv, patients, disease, ugi, cmv disease, transplant, ugi cmv, non-transplant, cytomegalovirus, group, response, gastrointestinal, study, transplantation, infection


disease manifestation in immunocompromised prevalence of CMV infection in adulthood is > 60%, with patients, including transplantation recipients, patients the majority of cases persisting as latent infections after an who underwent chemotherapy, those with long-term ste- asymptomatic primary infection, followed by reactivation roid use, and those with HIV infection, and to determine most common type of tissue-invasive CMV disease, which non-transplant patients. accounts for 30% of such cases among immunocompetent patients . GI CMV disease has its highest incidence between 30 and METHODS 90 days after transplant in patients undergoing transplant and is known to have a major impact on patient morbid- Patients ity and mortality . Approximately 10% of all transplant This single-center, retrospective study was conducted at being the second most commonly affected site after the diagnosed with UGI CMV disease in their esophagogastro- colon . Erosions, ulcerations, hemorrhage, GI dysmotility, duodenoscopy (EGD) examination between May 1999 to and, very infrequently, perforations are the possible patho- January 2022. Among them, immunocompetent patients (n logical findings of CMV disease, which can manifest in var- = 51) and patients who did not undergo follow-up endos- ious forms. However, because of the limited investigations copy (n = 48) were excluded from the study. Ultimately, 219 on CMV disease affecting the entire upper gastrointestinal patients were enrolled in this study. Figure 1 illustrates the (UGI) tract, diagnosis is difficult, and treatment is usually de- flowchart of patient inclusion. layed. In addition, with the recent increase in the number of patients with various forms of chemotherapy-induced Definition immunosuppression, long-term administration of steroids, Immunocompromised patients were classified into trans- and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections, CMV plant and non-transplant patients. Transplant patients in- infection has become a problem not only for transplant re- cluded both solid organ transplantation recipients, such as cipients but also for such immunocompromised patients. liver, heart, and kidney transplant recipients, and patients However, transplant recipients, despite being vulnerable who underwent hematopoietic transplantation, including to infections due to long-term immunosuppressive therapy allogeneic and autologous stem cell transplantation. In con- www.kjim.org 395 The Korean Journal of Internal Medicine Vol. 40, No. 3, May 2025 trast, non-transplant patients included those who under- partial response was defined as mucosal healing of < 90% went chemotherapy or long-term steroid administration (> compared with the baseline status. Non-response was de- 20 mg of prednisolone per day for at least 1 month) and fined when the lesion
