ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cmv, patients, disease, ugi, cmv disease, transplant, ugi cmv, non-transplant, cytomegalovirus, group, response, gastrointestinal, study, transplantation, infection


chemotherapy or long-term steroid administration (> compared with the baseline status. Non-response was de- 20 mg of prednisolone per day for at least 1 month) and fined when the lesion remained unchanged or worsened those with HIV infection at the point of diagnosis. Chemo- or a new mucosal lesion was observed. CMV relapse was therapy patients were defined as the patients who were defined as the reappearance of CMV antigenemia/viremia receiving systemic cytotoxic drugs for hematologic malig- or UGI CMV disease after achieving complete remission fol- nancies or solid tumors, as well as those who were under- lowing antiviral therapy, while the patient was under regular going treatment with a combination of cytotoxic drugs and follow-up. radiation therapy. UGI CMV disease was defined as the histological confir- Data collection mation of CMV infection by a positive result of immuno- Patients’ baseline medical information, such as age, sex, and histochemical (IHC) staining or polymerase chain reaction symptoms, was retrospectively collected from their medical (PCR) of CMV from a biopsy specimen obtained via EGD . records. The Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was calculat- Ulcers were classified based on endoscopic findings and cat- ed to evaluate the underlying disease status and comorbid- egorized into active, healing, and scar stages according to ities . In addition, endoscopic data, including the endo- the Sakita–Miwa classification . Multiple UGI involvement scopic features of UGI CMV disease and histopathological was defined as CMV disease diagnosed in two or more UGI reports of the biopsied specimens, were also gathered. organs. In addition, multiorgan CMV disease was defined as CMV disease involving two or more organs, including the Statistical analysis UGI tract and other sites, such as the lower GI tract, retina, Quantitative data, including age, CCI, and duration of fol- and lungs. CMV antigenemia was defined as a positive re- low-up, were expressed as medians with interquartile rang- sult from the CMV antigenemia assay using the C10/C11 es (IQRs). Numbers and proportions were used to express monoclonal antibody (Biotest, Dreieich, Germany), while qualitative data, such as sex, symptoms, CMV infection site, CMV viremia was defined as a positive result from real-time and ulcer stages. Statistical significance was considered at PCR (Biocore, Seoul, Korea) in blood samples. p < 0.05. All statistical analyses were performed using IBM tion of mucosal lesions via EGD and classified into the fol- monk, NY, USA). lowing three groups: complete response, partial response, and
