ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cmv, patients, disease, ugi, cmv disease, transplant, ugi cmv, non-transplant, cytomegalovirus, group, response, gastrointestinal, study, transplantation, infection


2025 plant group than in the non-transplant group. Three pa- at a relatively young age compared with non-transplant pa- tients (1.4%) showed delayed clinical improvement after tients. The disease primarily manifests in the stomach and ganciclovir administration and were subsequently treated typically presents as erosions rather than ulcers alone. In with foscarnet. Among them, two showed improvement contrast, among non-transplant patients, CMV infection oc- with foscarnet treatment. All three patients had undergone curred more frequently in older male patients with greater bone marrow transplantation for hematologic diseases. comorbidities and mainly presented as esophageal ulcers. None of the transplant patients experienced graft dysfunc- The strength of this study lies in the long-term follow-up tion due to UGI CMV disease. Twenty-three (10.5%) pa- (median: 51 mo) period and a large sample size of 219 pa- tients experienced CMV relapse, among whom eight (3.7%) tients with UGI CMV disease. To the best of our knowledge, had an endoscopic relapse of CMV disease. The all-cause this is the largest study analyzing patients with UGI CMV mortality rate was significantly higher in the non-transplant disease. Previous studies on UGI CMV disease were mostly group than in the transplant group (66.7% vs. 37.1%, p < published in the form of case series , had an insufficient 0.001). However, disease-specific mortality showed no sig- number of patients , or had relatively short median nificant differences between the transplant and non-trans- follow-up periods , which were perceived as limitations plant groups (1.5% vs. 1.1%, p = 0.515). Figure 3 shows of those studies. In this study, we analyzed medical records the overall endoscopic findings and treatment results of the and endoscopy data collected over approximately 23 years, patients. including a larger number of patients with UGI CMV disease than those included in the previous studies. Additionally, we included patients who were followed up for a longer period DISCUSSION compared with those in the previous studies. In this study, 43.8% of patients reported symptoms, in- UGI CMV disease in immunocompromised patients, par- as other symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, and anorexia. ticularly in patients who underwent transplantation. We These findings align with the results of previous studies on found that transplant patients experience UGI CMV disease UGI CMV disease . However, 18.7% of patients Transplant Non-transplant (n = 132) (n = 87) Esophagus Stomach Duodenum Multiple UGI Esophagus Stomach Duodenum Multiple UGI (n = 21) (n = 90) (n
