ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cmv, patients, disease, ugi, cmv disease, transplant, ugi cmv, non-transplant, cytomegalovirus, group, response, gastrointestinal, study, transplantation, infection


with GI CMV disease during their respectively. However, CMV antigenemia/viremia was de- EGD or computed tomography examination . Given tected in only 63.2% of tested patients. Most CMV infec- sidering the possibility of UGI CMV disease and performing and usually lead to reactivation as T-cell immunity declines appropriate histological diagnosis in immunocompromised . In transplant patients, CMV infection can occur when a patients, even if they are asymptomatic when minor muco- CMV seronegative recipient receives an organ from a CMV sal lesions are detected on EGD, is essential. seropositive donor . However, according to a study Diagnosing UGI CMV disease can be challenging due to its investigating CMV seroprevalence in Koreans from 1995 varying symptoms, locations, and appearances . to 2015, CMV seropositivity was confirmed in 94.1% of In particular, its similar appearance and location to other the study population . Considering this, the incidence viral infections, such as herpes simplex virus infection, can of new CMV infections through transplanted organs is be- lead to diagnostic difficulties. According to previous stud- lieved to be significantly low. In contrast, CMV seropositivity ies, esophageal involvement is the most common presen- in this study was confirmed in 96.1% of patients at the time tation of UGI CMV disease and is typically characterized by of UGI CMV disease diagnosis, and while CMV detection a deep ulcer with clear margins . However, contrary in the bloodstream was relatively low, more cases of CMV to previous research findings, our study revealed a higher were detected in tissue. This suggests that not only systemic incidence of erosions in the stomach among transplant pa- CMV reactivation but also local CMV reactivation in target tients, while ulcers were more frequently detected in the organs contribute to UGI CMV disease. Therefore, GI CMV esophagus among non-transplant patients. Furthermore, disease cannot be completely ruled out, even in patients clinical responses indicated a higher rate of complete re- with symptoms when no CMV antigenemia or viremia oc- sponse in the transplant group than in the non-transplant curred. group, likely due to the milder manifestation of UGI CMV According to previous studies, GI CMV disease in trans- disease in this group. These differences underscore the vari- plant patients is known to lead not only to infectious dis- disease of the patient. The cause of these differences can also to graft dysfunction, including acute or chronic rejec- be inferred through several hypotheses. First, in
