ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cmv, patients, disease, ugi, cmv disease, transplant, ugi cmv, non-transplant, cytomegalovirus, group, response, gastrointestinal, study, transplantation, infection


only to infectious dis- disease of the patient. The cause of these differences can also to graft dysfunction, including acute or chronic rejec- be inferred through several hypotheses. First, in the case of tion, ultimately impacting patients’ mortality and morbidity transplant patients, UGI CMV disease may have been rela- [2,23-27]. However, in the analysis results of this study, the tively milder due to the administration of CMV prophylaxis transplant and non-transplant groups showed significantly for several days immediately after transplantation surgery. low disease-specific mortality rates of 1.5% and 1.1%, re- In addition, GI involvement of CMV may be relative to the spectively. In addition, no cases of graft dysfunction due to patient’s underlying condition rather than due solely to their CMV disease occurred in the transplant group. This could immunosuppression state. In fact, the non-transplant pa- be attributed to the nature of UGI CMV disease, which tients included in this study were older than the transplant typically presents with easily recognizable symptoms upon patients and had a significantly higher baseline CCI due to onset, and the accessibility of EGD in Korea, allowing for their underlying diseases, such as cancer, connective tissue early diagnosis and treatment through EGD examination. disorder, and HIV infection. Therefore, even if the endo- While the all-cause mortality rate was significantly higher in scopic finding is not the typical deep ulcer with a clear mar- the non-transplant group than in the transplant group, this gin commonly observed when a patient with GI symptoms can be attributed to the presence of patients with advanced is in an immunosuppressed state, such as transplantation, cancer who underwent chemotherapy, resulting in a higher chemotherapy, long-term steroid use, or HIV infection, con- mortality rate due to their disease progression. ducting a careful observation and thorough biopsy is crucial. This study had some limitations. First, this was a sin- www.kjim.org 401 The Korean Journal of Internal Medicine Vol. 40, No. 3, May 2025 gle-center retrospective study, and the number of patients REFERENCES with UGI CMV disease was relatively small. Second, some patients were diagnosed with UGI CMV disease but did not 1. Lemonovich TL, Watkins RR. Update on cytomegalovirus receive antiviral treatment, which could have influenced infections of the gastrointestinal system in solid organ trans- the response evaluation. Third, baseline characteristics, in- plant recipients. Curr Infect Dis Rep 2012;14:33-40. cluding age, sex, and CCI, differed between the transplant 2. Azevedo LS, Pierrotti LC,
