NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atovaquone, liver, injury, malaria, liver injury, proguanil, pubmed, weeks, study, drug, pubmed pmid, pmid, treatment, prophylaxis, atovaquone-proguanil


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Atovaquone. [Updated 2017 Feb 2]. Bookshelf URL: Atovaquone Updated: February 2, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Atovaquone is a naphthoquinone used for the prevention and treatment of Pneumocystis jevorici (formerly carinii) pneumonia and, in combination with proguanil, prevention and treatment of P. falciparum malaria. Atovaquone therapy is associated with low rates of serum enzyme elevations and has been linked to only rare cases of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Atovaquone (a toe' va kwone) is a synthetic naphthoquinone that acts by interfering with mitochondrial electron transport in susceptible organisms. Atovaquone is effective against chloroquine resistant P. falciparum, but is associated with a high rate of resistance, for which reason it is usually given in combination with other agents, most typically with proguanil. Atovaquone was approved for use in the United States in 1992 and the combination with proguanil in 2000. Current indications include treatment and prevention of Pneumocystis jiroveci (formerly carinii) pneumonia (atovaquone alone) and treatment and prevention of falciparum malaria (combined with proguanil). It is sometimes used off-label as a second line agent for Toxoplasma gondii. Atovaquone is available in tablets of 250 and 500 mg and as a suspension of 750 mg/5 mL under the brand name Mepron. A fixed combination of 250 mg of atovaquone and 100 mg of proguanil is available generically and under the brand name Malarone, which is used in a 3 day regimen (4 tablets daily) to treat drug resistant P. falciparum malaria and for the period of exposure (1 tablet daily) to prevent chloroquine resistant Plasmodium falciparium and vivax malaria. A pediatric formulation is also available. The recommended dosage of atovaquone varies by different indications. Specific recommendations on the use of atovaquone for management of opportunistic infections among persons with HIV infection are available at: guidelines/, and recommendations on treatment and prevention of malaria on the CDC website at: http:// www.cdc.gov/malaria/. Common side effects of atovaquone include headache, fever, anxiety, insomnia, vivid dreams, nausea, diarrhea, skin rash and itching. Hepatotoxicity Atovaquone has been linked to serum aminotransferase elevations in a small proportion of patients (1% to 6%). There have also been rare reports of clinically apparent, acute liver injury due to atovaquone. In one published case report (Case 1), the onset of injury was 25 days after starting (and a few days after stopping) treatment. Th e pattern
