NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atovaquone, liver, injury, malaria, liver injury, proguanil, pubmed, weeks, study, drug, pubmed pmid, pmid, treatment, prophylaxis, atovaquone-proguanil


injury due to atovaquone. In one published case report (Case 1), the onset of injury was 25 days after starting (and a few days after stopping) treatment. Th e pattern of serum enzyme elevations was cholestatic. Immunoallergic manifestations (fever, rash and eosinophilia) were not prominent and autoantibodies were not present. The liver injury resolved within 2 months of stopping the medication. Because a combination of proguanil and atovaquone was used, either agent 2 LiverTox could have been responsible for the injury. Atovaquone has also been linked to rare instances of Stevens Johnson syndrome, which is frequently accompanied by mild liver injury or liver enzyme elevations. Likelihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which atovaquone might cause liver injury is unknown. Atovaquone is minimally metabolized by the liver, while proguanil is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system (CYP 2C19). Either a toxic or an immunogenic metabolite may be responsible for the injury. Outcome and Management The severity of hepatic injury due to atovaquone varies from mild serum enzyme elevations that are asymptomatic and transient, to clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice. Acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis and vanishing bile duct syndrome have not been reported after atovaquone therapy. There does not seem to be cross reactivity to hepatic injury among the various antimalarial agents and switching to other drug can be safely done. Drug Class: Antimalarial Agents, see also Proguanil CASE REPORT Case 1. Cholestatic hepatitis after course of atovaquone/proguanil for malaria prophylaxis. [Modified from: Grieshaber M, Lämmli J, Marcus L. Acute hepatitis and atovaquone/proguanil. J Travel Med 2005; 12: 289-90. PubMed Citation] A 31 year old man developed jaundice and abdominal pain a few days after a 25 day course of atovaquone (250 mg) and proguanil (100 mg) for malaria prophylaxis during travel. Other symptoms included poor appetite, itching, fatigue and dark urine. He had no previous history of liver disease or exposures to hepatitis and did not o abuse alcohol. On examination, he had mild fever (37.5 C) and was jaundiced. There was no mention of rash or eosinophilia. Serum bilirubin was mildly elevated at 2.9 mg/dL, and both ALT and alkaline phosphatase levels were prominently increased (Table). Tests for viral hepatitis A, B, C and E were negative as were autoantibody markers. MRI of the abdomen showed a normal appearing liver and biliary system. A liver biopsy was
