Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


ABSTRACT Up to 1.8% of youth and 0.6% of adults in the United States identify as transgender, meaning their gender identity differs from or is opposite their sex at birth. This chapter reviews epidemiology, gender development, and medical interventions for transgender youth as outlined in the Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines and World Professional Association for Transgender Health Standards of Care. The chapter concludes with research on mental health in this population and future directions in research. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Throughout history, and across cultures there have been people who live with, what we would now term, gender incongruence (definitions in Table 1 ). Prior to identification of sex steroids in the 1930s ( 1 - 5 ),and the development of exogenous sex steroids and surgical techniques, there were no options to change one’s secondary sex characteristics. The first modern orchiectomy for gender reassignment was performed in 1930 ( 6 ), and the first feminizing genital surgeries in the 1940s and 50s in Germany and Denmark, respectively ( 7 , 8 ). Harry Benjamin, known for his 1966 book, The Transsexual Phenomenon ( 9 ), treated Christine Jorgensen, the first widely published case of a transgender female in the United States (U.S.), treated with feminizing hormones and surgery. In 1979, the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association was formed, now known as the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). The first standards of care were published in 1979, with the 8 th edition released in 2022 ( 10 ). The Endocrine Society first published a clinical practice guideline regarding the care of transgender persons, including support for pubertal suppression and gender affirming hormone therapy (GAHT) in 2009, with an updated guideline released in 2017 ( 11 , 12 ). In the over 40 years since the first edition of the WPATH Standards of Care, transgender rights, access to care, bathroom use, and sports participation, among other topics, are often featured and steadily more debated in mainstream media, politics, and healthcare ( 13 ). Furthermore, as care becomes increasingly politicized, numerous bills to both expand or limit the rights of transgender people and their access to medical care are being introduced in the U.S. ( 14 ). Medical care that respects the gender identity of the patient is recommended by numerous medical organizations, including the
