Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


and reactions of the other gender (or some alternative gender different from one’s designated gender) The condition is associated with clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. Specify if: The condition exists with a disorder of sex development. The condition is post-transitional, in that the individual has transitioned to full-time living in the desired gender (with or without legalization of gender change) and has undergone (or is preparing to have) at least one sex-related medical procedure or treatment regimen—namely, regular sex hormone treatment or gender reassignment surgery confirming the desired gender (e.g., penectomy, vaginoplasty in natal males; mastectomy or phalloplasty in natal females). ICD-10 Criteria for Gender Incongruence ( 24 ) A disorder characterized by a strong and persistent cross-gender identification (such as stating a desire to be the other sex or frequently passing as the other sex) coupled with persistent discomfort with his or her sex (manifested in adults, for example, as a preoccupation with altering primary and secondary sex characteristics through hormonal manipulation or surgery). Note proposed changes in the ICD-11 ( 25 ) One’s sex refers to the physical attributes that characterize biologic maleness or femaleness and is typically assigned or designated at birth based on the appearance of the external genitalia (or prior to birth based on sex chromosome complement and/or the appearance of the genitalia on the prenatal anatomy ultrasound). Note that terminology in this field is constantly evolving, and for clinicians, it is important to ask individuals what terms they use to describe their gender identity, and what that term means to them. Table 3 includes suggestions on how to ask these questions. Table 3. Suggested Ways of Asking About Name and Gender Identity View in own window Name “Is there a name you go by other than your legal name?” “What name do you go by?” “What would you like me to call you?” Pronouns “What pronouns do you use?” “I’d like to use the pronouns that feel best to you. What pronouns would you like me to use?” “Hello, my name is Dr. ____ I use ___ pronouns. What do you go by and what pronouns do you use?” Gender identity “How do you identify your gender?” “What does [gender identity term] mean to you?” Suggestion for children: “Some kids tell me think of themselves as girls, some as boys, some as part girl and
