Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


your gender?” “What does [gender identity term] mean to you?” Suggestion for children: “Some kids tell me think of themselves as girls, some as boys, some as part girl and boy, or something entirely different. How do you think about yourself?” Suggestion for adolescents: “There are lots of ways people think about their gender identity, how do you think of yours?” GENDER IDENTITY DEVELOPMENT AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENDER INCONGRUENCE Gender identity is multidimensional with biological, cultural, and environmental contributions ( 26 , 27 ). Studies of gender identity among individuals with differences/disorders of sex development underscore the influence of the hormonal milieu, and prenatal androgen exposure in particular, for gender development ( 28 - 31 ). There are also genetic influences, as some studies report concordance rates of gender dysphoria up to 39% among identical twins ( 32 ). Although studies have sought to identify genes associated with transgender identity, results have largely been inconsistent or inconclusive, with a possible role for genes related to sex steroids and their receptors ( 33 - 37 ). In childhood, learning about gender starts early, and progress through many stages.( 38 ) In their review of gender development in childhood, Perry, Pauletti and Cooper describe eight dimensions of gender identity: ( 1 ) gender self-categorization, ( 2 ) felt same-gender typicality, ( 3 ) felt other-gender typicality, ( 4 ) gender contentedness, ( 5 ) felt pressure for gender differentiation, ( 6 ) intergroup bias, ( 7 ) gender centrality, and ( 8 ) gender frustration. By age 18-24 months most children can categorize their own and others’ gender ( 39 ), and by age 6, have a developed gender identity ( 40 ). More individuals with a female sex at birth express dissatisfaction with their gender ( 41 , 42 ). This reflects the current sex ratio of individuals being referred to gender clinics, with more individuals with a female sex at birth currently referred, but the opposite being true prior to the 2000s ( 43 - 45 ). Despite adolescence being a period of identity formation ( 46 , 47 ), there is a surprising lack of research on adolescent gender identity development. Development of identity is an individual and social process and shaped by external surroundings ( 47 ). Numerous psychological and biological factors influence gender identity, as outlined in a review by Steensma and colleagues ( 48 ).
