Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


social process and shaped by external surroundings ( 47 ). Numerous psychological and biological factors influence gender identity, as outlined in a review by Steensma and colleagues ( 48 ). Overall, there is still much to learn about gender development among gender variant or nonconforming individuals. Prospective studies of children referred to gender clinics, primarily in Europe, show that less than a quarter of children will meet criteria for gender identity disorder (the DSM-IV diagnosis prior to the DSM-5 gender dysphoria) after adolescence ( 49 - 52 ). In follow-up studies, the period of early adolescence/puberty, age 10-13 is critically important. One population-based study (ages 11-26) demonstrated that gender non-contentedness peaked in early adolescence at 11% and decreased with age, with 4% of participants reporting gender non-contentedness by their early-to-mid 20s ( 53 ). Furthermore, it is important to recognize and support early exploration as persistent non-contentedness was associated with lower self-esteem and decreased mental health ( 53 ). There are three possible factors that contribute to an increase or decrease in gender discomfort and cross-gender identification: ( 1 ) physical puberty, ( 2 ) changing environment and being treated as their sex at birth, and ( 3 ) the discovery of sexuality ( 52 ). Ongoing studies are needed to better understand the persistence or evolution of gender identity over time. MEDICAL MANAGEMENT The WPATH Standards of Care ( 10 , 54 ), outline three categories of physical interventions for adolescents: ( 1 ) fully reversible interventions, such as the use of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, medications to suppress menses (such as progestins), and medications to decrease the effects of androgens (such as spironolactone); ( 2 ) partially reversible interventions, including testosterone or estradiol; and ( 3 ) irreversible interventions, such as surgical procedures. Many individuals also seek care, including behavioral health consultation, for reversible interventions such as name, pronoun, and gender marker change, discussing gender identity with friends, family and school, voice therapy, or wearables (including binders and packers to flatten the chest or give the appearance of male genitalia, respectively). Pubertal Blockade The onset of puberty (gonadarche) is characterized by breast budding in people with a female sex at birth and by testicular enlargement to 4mL or greater in people with a male sex at birth, characterized as Tanner or Sexual Maturity Rating stage 2 ( 55 , 56 ). The average age of pubertal onset
