Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


or greater in people with a male sex at birth, characterized as Tanner or Sexual Maturity Rating stage 2 ( 55 , 56 ). The average age of pubertal onset is age 10-11 years in someone with a female sex at birth (range 8-13 years, can be younger in African Americans), and 11-12 years in individuals with a male sex birth (range 9-14 years). For individuals with a male sex at birth, external virilization typically starts around a testicular volume of 10 mL ( 12 ), voice drop at > 8-10mL ( 57 ), and spermarche at 10-12 mL ( 58 ). In individuals with a female sex at birth, breast developmental progresses from stage 2 to 5 (fully developed) within 4-5 years and menarche typically occurs about 2-2.5 years after breast budding ( 59 ). Pubic hair and/or axillary hair and/or body odor reflect the onset of adrenarche or adrenal androgen production, which, by themselves are not indicative of central puberty ( 55 , 56 ). Height velocity increases during puberty and peaks about 2.5 years after the start of pubertal growth acceleration ( 60 ). An understanding of typical pubertal development and timing of external secondary sex characteristics is useful in counseling families about the timeliness and risk/benefit of GnRH agonist therapy to halt further pubertal progression. For example, towards the end of puberty or in post-pubertal individuals, GnRH agonist therapy may be used in certain circumstances for sex steroid suppression but would not block any outward pubertal changes, as these are, by then, complete. GnRH agonists were first used in youth for the treatment of central precocious puberty in the 1980s ( 61 ). In 1998, physicians in the Netherlands published the first report of a transgender patient treated with triptorelin, a GnRH agonist ( 62 ). The “Dutch model” of using pubertal suppression followed by gender affirming hormones (testosterone or estradiol) subsequently became incorporated into the WPATH and Endocrine Society standards of care ( 10 , 12 ). Their use became more widespread in the U.S. after publication of the 2009 Endocrine Society guidelines ( 11 ). The 2017 Endocrine Society guidelines suggest that “adolescents who meet diagnostic criteria for gender dysphoria/gender incongruence, fulfill criteria for treatment, and are requesting treatment should initially undergo treatment to suppress pubertal development”( 12 ). The guidelines suggest beginning pubertal hormone suppression after the onset of the physical changes of
