Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


treatment, and are requesting treatment should initially undergo treatment to suppress pubertal development”( 12 ). The guidelines suggest beginning pubertal hormone suppression after the onset of the physical changes of puberty (Tanner Stage or Sexual Maturity Rating 2) for individuals who meet criteria, including being diagnosed with gender dysphoria/gender incongruence, experienced worsening dysphoria or ongoing incongruence with the onset of puberty, existing psychological, medical and/or social problems are addressed and the adolescent has sufficient mental capacity to consent to treatment ( 12 ). Treatment with a GnRH agonist suppresses gonadotropins (after an initial increase of gonadotropins) ( 63 ). There are also gonadotropin releasing hormone antagonists that immediately suppress gonadotropins, but are not available in children. GnRH agonists are typically administered as either an injection (IM or SQ) or as an implant (preparations listed in Table 4 ). Insurance coverage for this off-label, and costly therapy, varies ( 64 ). GnRH agonist treatment will pause or halt pubertal changes and may cause slight regression of breast tissue or testicular volume ( 12 ). On their own, these are reversible interventions, and if the individual decided that they wanted to progress through their endogenous puberty, these medications can be discontinued. During GnRH agonist treatment, the Endocrine Society recommends measurement of height, weight, sitting height, blood pressure and Tanner stages every 3-6 months, measurement of LH, FSH, estradiol or testosterone and 25OH vitamin D every 6-12 months and bone density using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and bone age x-ray of the left hand every 1-2 years ( Table 5 ) ( 12 ). Table 4. Hormonal Interventions for Transgender Adolescents View in own window Pubertal blockade/inhibition of sex steroid secretion GnRH agonist: inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal access Leuprolide acetate IM (1-, 3-, 4- or 6-mo preparations) or SQ (1-, 3-, 4- or 6-mo preparation) Triptorelin IM (4-, 12- or 24-week preparation) Histrelin acetate SQ implant (one-yearly dosing, although reports of longer effectiveness) Medroxyprogesterone acetate: inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal access and direct inhibition of gonadal steroidogenesis Orally (up to 40 mg/day) or IM (150 mg every 3 mo, may be given more frequently for suppression of sex steroids) Inhibition of testosterone secretion or action Spironolactone: inhibition of testosterone synthesis and action Titrate up to 10-300 mg/day orally (typically in divided doses) Cyproterone acetate: inhibition of testosterone synthesis and action (not available in US) 25-50 mg/day orally Finasteride: inhibition of type II 5 α-reductase,
