Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


or the patient is still growing) every 1-2 years Adapted from Table 9 in the 2017 Endocrine Society Guidelines ( 12 ). DXA: dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, FSH: follicle stimulating hormone, LH: luteinizing hormone Reviews of puberty blockade have been published ( 66 - 68 ). Small studies have demonstrated effectiveness of GnRH agonist treatment for suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis in transgender youth ( 69 ). Studies, primarily in Europe, have demonstrated improvements in psychological functioning, behavioral/emotional problems, and depressive symptoms during GnRH agonist treatment in transgender youth ( 70 , 71 ). A systematic review found that GnRH agonist therapy is associated with decreased suicidality in adulthood, improved affect and psychological functioning, and improved social life ( 67 ). A 2025 review of 51 studies found mental health improved significantly, including reduced depression, anxiety, and suicidality, especially when GnRH agonist treatment was followed by gender-affirming hormone therapy ( 72 ). Quality of life improved over time, while body dissatisfaction often persisted during suppression and improved after hormone therapy or surgery ( 72 ). However, a meta-analysis of 10 studies concluded that the overall quality of evidence for outcomes related to gender dysphoria, global function, and depression was low ( 73 ). Potential risks of GnRH agonist therapy include impacts on growth, bone health, body composition, fertility, and neurodevelopment, as well as difficulties accessing treatment due to cost and/or insurance coverage ( 67 , 68 , 74 ). GnRH agonist use in TGD youth is associated with increased body fat and decrease in lean mass after initiation ( 75 , 76 ), compared to age- and BMI-matched control youth ( 77 ), and may also have an adverse effect on insulin sensitivity ( 77 ). If GnRH agonists are started prior to skeletal maturity, they will decrease skeletal advancement during monotherapy due to suppression of sex steroids, which are necessary for growth plate closure ( 78 , 79 ). Adult height arises from a multifactorial interplay of genetic determinants (including the contribution of sex chromosomes), together with prenatal and postnatal (including environmental and nutritional) influences, with sex steroids constituting only one of several regulatory factors. Transgender youth treated with GnRH agonist and subsequent testosterone or estradiol achieve an adult height similar to their predicted genetic target, with slight variability depending on timing, dose and escalation regimen ( 80 , 81 ). One multicenter study in the U.S. showed that transgender
