Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


similar to their predicted genetic target, with slight variability depending on timing, dose and escalation regimen ( 80 , 81 ). One multicenter study in the U.S. showed that transgender youth treated with GnRH therapy have growth velocity similar to prepubertal children, but those who start GnRH agonist treatment later in puberty have growth velocity below the prepubertal range ( 82 ). The growth spurt and skeletal advancement will progress either when exogenous testosterone or estradiol are started, or if the GnRH agonists are discontinued and the individual progresses through their endogenous puberty. There is a growing body of research of bone health in transgender individuals, as well as the impact of GnRH agonists and later gender affirming hormones on bone health. Studies in the Netherlands have demonstrated decreased bone turnover, and a decrease in bone mineral apparent density Z-scores of the lumbar spine in transwomen after initiation of GnRH agonist therapy ( 83 ). However, studies in the U.S. ( 84 ), United Kingdom ( 85 ), and Netherlands ( 83 , 86 ) have also shown decreased bone mineral density Z-scores determined by DXA are low prior to treatment with GnRH agonist, and some studies showing Z-scores did not completely normalize with sex hormone treatment ( 83 , 86 ). More recently, studies have shown pubertal suppression causes transient declines in bone mineral density Z-scores, particularly in those with a male sex at birth, and subsequent estradiol/testosterone treatment helps to restore bone mass ( 87 ). In the U.S., the individuals with lower baseline bone mineral density Z-scores also reported less physical activity, an area warrants further research ( 84 ). Overall, there is a paucity of research on neurodevelopment ( 88 ) and a consensus parameter was published with recommended research methodologies to evaluate the neurodevelopmental effects of puberty suppression in this population ( 89 ). There is also very little research on sexual function and future surgical options among individuals who received early puberty blockade aside from one qualitative study ( 90 ). More information is needed on the impact of GnRH agonist treatment on future sexual function ( 91 , 92 ) (particularly for individuals with a male sex as GnRH agonists limit penile and testicular growth/size ( 93 )) and on implications for future surgical intervention for those individuals pursuing vaginoplasty (as the penile tissue is used to construct the vagina) ( 93 ).
