Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


testicular growth/size ( 93 )) and on implications for future surgical intervention for those individuals pursuing vaginoplasty (as the penile tissue is used to construct the vagina) ( 93 ). One study found that sexual function and dysfunction was similar among adolescents who had received GnRH agonist treatment for puberty suppression compared to those who started hormone treatment in adulthood ( 94 ). Finally, treatment with GnRH agonists will impair spermatogenesis and oocyte maturation temporarily, and the Endocrine Society recommends fertility counseling ( 12 ). Treatment may be delayed to preserve fertility, but many individuals do not chose this, as delay will also cause further progression of unwanted secondary sex characteristics ( 12 ). Sperm retrieval via testicular biopsy has been successful with a testicular volume of at least 10 mL or greater ( 95 ). If GnRH analogues are not available or are cost prohibitive, medroxyprogesterone may be used as an alternative agent for pubertal suppression ( Table 4 ) ( 12 ). At high doses, medroxyprogesterone inhibits the pituitary-gonadal axis and suppresses testosterone ( 96 - 98 ). Medroxyprogesterone was used for treatment of precocious puberty in the 1960s and 70s ( 99 - 101 ). It is typically safe, although may have some side effects, including due to the estrogenic effects (bloating, nausea/vomiting, breast fullness, breakthrough bleeding for those menstruating, irritability, headache, hypertension), pro-gestational effects (headache, breast pain/tenderness, hypertension) and androgenic effects (acne, oily skin, weight gain, hirsutism, fatigue, depression) ( 102 ). At extremely high doses (100 mg four times a day, not recommended doses for transgender individuals), Cushing’s syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, and diabetes have been reported ( 103 ). There is one small study of medroxyprogesterone in transgender youth demonstrating effective sex steroid suppression with doses of oral medroxyprogesterone 10-30 mg BID or 150 mg IM every 2-3 months ( 104 ). Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy Gender affirming hormone therapy or GAHT refers to hormones that induce secondary sex characteristics to align the body with one’s gender identity. The Endocrine Society recommends treatment with sex steroids (testosterone or estradiol) “using a gradually increasing dose schedule after a multidisciplinary team of medical and mental health professionals has confirmed the persistence of gender dysphoria/gender incongruence and sufficient mental capacity to give informed consent, which most adolescents have by age 16 years” (full criteria in guidelines) ( 12 ). However, they also state that “there may be compelling
