Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


an adult dose of 50-200 µg/24 hours. During induction of puberty, it is recommended to measure height, weight, sitting height, blood pressure and Tanner stages every 3-6 months, and measure prolactin, estradiol and 25OH vitamin D every 6-12 months ( Table 5 ) ( 12 ). Additionally, DXA and bone age (if clinically indicated or a growing patient) is recommended every 1-2 years ( 12 ). Potential adverse effects of estradiol therapy as outlined in the Endocrine Society guidelines include thromboembolic disease, macroprolactinoma, breast cancer, coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, cholelithiasis, and hypertriglyceridemia ( 12 ). In adults, studies using three large cohorts have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction and venous thromboembolism. In Europe, transgender women on estradiol therapy have a higher risk of stroke and venous thromboembolism than both cisgender reference women and men, and a higher risk of myocardial infarction than cisgender women (but not men) ( 105 ). In the U.S., two large cohorts have been used to examine outcomes, the Kaiser STRONG cohort and self-report data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). Data on hormone treatment is not collected in BRFSS. Transgender women in BRFSS were more likely (>2-fold increase risk) to have a history of myocardial infarction than cisgender women (but not men) ( 106 , 107 ). In the Kaiser STRONG cohort ( 108 ), both prevalent and incident type 2 diabetes was more common in the transfeminine cohort compared to cisgender females ( 109 ). In a meta-analysis commissioned by the Endocrine Society to accompany the 2017 updated guidelines, transgender women on estradiol therapy had increased triglycerides, but no changes in other lipid parameters ( 110 ). There have been several reviews and meta-analyses on the risk of cardiovascular disease and hormone therapy. Several studies show transgender women on hormone therapy have a higher risk of venous thromboembolism compared to cisgender men ( 111 ). Compared to cisgender women, transgender women on hormone therapy have an increased risk of myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke and venous thromboembolism ( 105 , 112 , 113 ), with one study also showing an increased risk of type 2 diabetes (but this was unrelated to hormone therapy) ( 109 ). One study after three months of feminizing hormone therapy showed improvements in measured glomerular filtration rate and kidney perfusion ( 114 ). It is well-established that transgender women on estradiol therapy have increases in
