Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


months of feminizing hormone therapy showed improvements in measured glomerular filtration rate and kidney perfusion ( 114 ). It is well-established that transgender women on estradiol therapy have increases in body weight and fat and decreases in lean body mass ( 115 ). Estradiol therapy is associated with increases in lumbar spine bone mineral density compared to baseline ( 116 ). Among individuals followed from initiation of GnRH agonist therapy into young adulthood, Z-scores returned to pretreatment values after hormone therapy except for lumbar spine Z-scores in individuals with a male sex at birth treated with estradiol ( 117 ). There are numerous contributors to bone mineral density including body mass index, physical activity, vitamin D and calcium, as well as age and pubertal stage at which GnRH agonists and subsequent hormone therapy are initiated ( 87 ). In youth, there is a growing body of literature on the effects of GAHT, particularly on cardiometabolic health. TGD youth on estradiol have changes in HDL, aspartate aminotransferase, potassium, prolactin and hemoglobin after about two years ( 118 ). One study found that transgender females on estradiol therapy were more insulin resistant than matched cisgender males ( 119 ). The presence of obesity attenuates the beneficial effect of estradiol on HDL ( 120 ). There are also studies investigating baseline differences between TGD youth and cisgender controls prior to hormone therapy, with recent studies showing TGD youth have lower HDL and low bone mineral density ( 82 , 121 ). Testosterone Blockade/Suppression There are many options for blockade and/or suppression of testosterone (all off-label use, Table 4 ). When available and affordable, some centers utilize GnRH agonists for suppression of testosterone. For example, in the United Kingdom, GnRH analogues are heavily subsidized ( 122 ). There are also many antiandrogens available, and a systemic review of options has recently been published ( 123 ). Spironolactone is widely available, inexpensive and commonly used in the U.S. and Australia. Spironolactone is a weak androgen receptor antagonist ( 124 , 125 ), weak progesterone receptor agonist and weak estrogen receptor agonist ( 123 ). Spironolactone also partially inhibits 17α-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase, which are involved in testosterone synthesis ( 126 ). Even at high doses, spironolactone does not cause a significant reduction in serum total testosterone concentration ( 127 ). Although the combination of spironolactone with estradiol does appear to suppress testosterone in transgender women ( 128
