Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


not cause a significant reduction in serum total testosterone concentration ( 127 ). Although the combination of spironolactone with estradiol does appear to suppress testosterone in transgender women ( 128 ). Side effects include irregular menses (only for people who are menstruating, not a consideration for transgender women), hypotension, polyuria, and hyperkalemia ( 129 , 130 ). Cyproterone acetate is available in Europe and Australia, but not in the U.S. and is a moderate androgen receptor antagonist, strong progesterone receptor agonist and does not have any estrogen receptor activity but does suppress the hypothalamic pituitary gonadal axis ( 123 ). Cyproterone acetate use has been associated with increased risk of meningiomas ( 131 ) and prolactinomas ( 132 ). Other side effects include weight gain, headache, gastrointestinal disorders, mood effects, and edema ( 133 ). Nonsteroidal anti-androgens, such as bicalutamide have also been used at some centers. Bicalutamide has strong androgen receptor antagonist activity and does not have any estrogen or progesterone agonist activity ( 123 ); it does not cause a reduction in testosterone concentrations. There is some feminization, thought to be due to increased aromatization of testosterone to estradiol ( 134 ). There are a few studies evaluating use of bicalutamide in transgender adolescents as an alternative to GnRH agonists ( 134 - 136 ). In these studies, there was effective androgen suppression with a favorable short-term safety profile ( 134 - 136 ), though there is a need for longer-term data in larger cohorts. Although concerns have been raised, including a case report of hepatotoxicity in an adolescent ( 137 ), an editorial emphasized that such rare outcomes should be considered in light of broader clinical experience and benefit-risk analysis ( 138 ). Finally, 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, such as finasteride, block conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. These are not recommended by the Endocrine Society due to adverse effects ( 12 ), but the WPATH guidelines state, “these medications have beneficial effects on scalp hair loss, body hair growth, sebaceous glands, and skin consistency” ( 54 ). Side effects include sexual dysfunction and decreased muscle mass (which may be perceived as a risk of benefit in this population), anhedonia, and trouble concentrating ( 139 ). Overall, the selection of which agent alone or in combination with estradiol depends on many factors including patient age, country, insurance coverage, cost, availability, goals of care, and tolerability of side effects (e.g.
