Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


of which agent alone or in combination with estradiol depends on many factors including patient age, country, insurance coverage, cost, availability, goals of care, and tolerability of side effects (e.g. severe and fatal hepatotoxicity has been reported with cyproterone acetate and bicalutamide ( 140 )). Further studies are needed to determine superiority for relevant patient outcomes including body composition, breast development, facial and body hair ( 123 ). MASCULINIZING HORMONE THERAPY Testosterone Therapy For eligible adolescents, the Endocrine Society recommends a gradually increasing dose schedule of testosterone (typically injectable IM or SQ) ( 12 ). This will cause masculinization of the body, with expected effects including skin oiliness/acne, facial/body hair growth, scalp hair loss, increased muscle mass/strength, body fat redistribution, cessation of menses, clitoral enlargement, vaginal atrophy, and deepened voice with onset occurring one to several months after treatment with maximum effects generally about 2-5 years or more into treatment ( 12 , 54 ). For younger individuals, the Endocrine Society recommends starting injectable testosterone esters at a dose of 25 mg/m2 IM or SQ every 2 weeks and increasing every 6 months up to an adult dose of 100-200 mg every 2 weeks ( 12 ). In post-pubertal individuals, the starting dose may be higher and titrated more quickly (start at 75 mg every 2 weeks for 6 months and increase to 125 mg every 2 weeks) ( 12 ). Subcutaneous testosterone is gaining in popularity and has shown to be effective and preferred by patients ( 141 - 143 ). Pharmacokinetic studies of weekly subcutaneous testosterone injections show that steady state is approached after the third dose, and that serum concentrations stay relatively constant throughout the week between doses ( 144 ). Finally, SQ testosterone doses may be lower than those delivered IM, with two studies reporting doses of 50-80 mg/week to achieve target testosterone concentrations in adults or older adolescents ( 141 , 142 ). During induction of puberty, it is recommended to measure height, weight, sitting height, blood pressure, and Tanner stages every 3-6 months, and measure hemoglobin/hematocrit, lipids, testosterone, and 25OH vitamin D every 6-12 months ( Table 5 ) ( 12 ). Additionally, DXA and bone age (if clinically indicated or a growing patient) is recommended every 1-2 years ( 12 ). The most common adverse effect of testosterone is erythrocytosis/polycythemia (hematocrit >50%) ( 12 ). A 2023 cohort study of 511 transgender individuals
