Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


is recommended every 1-2 years ( 12 ). The most common adverse effect of testosterone is erythrocytosis/polycythemia (hematocrit >50%) ( 12 ). A 2023 cohort study of 511 transgender individuals on testosterone individuals reported a 22% incidence of polycythemia, particularly in those with BMI >30 kg/m 2 , obstructive sleep apnea, or higher testosterone dosing ( 145 ). Other risks as outlined in the Endocrine Society guidelines include liver dysfunction, coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, and breast or uterine cancer ( 12 ). In a meta-analysis, testosterone therapy in transgender men was associated with increases in serum triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations and decreases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) ( 110 ). In adults, studies using three large cohorts have shown conflicting results regarding cardiovascular events. In Europe, transgender men on testosterone therapy have a higher risk of myocardial infarction than cisgender women (but not men) and no increased risk of stroke or venous thromboembolism compared to reference populations ( 105 ). Transgender men in the U.S. BRFSS survey (years 2014-2017, hormone treatment was not collected in the survey) had a >2-fold increase risk of myocardial infarction compared to cisgender men and an almost 5-fold increase compared to cisgender women ( 107 ). In the Kaiser STRONG cohort, there was no increased risk of type 2 diabetes among transgender men compared to cisgender men ( 109 ). A meta-analysis showed that transgender men on testosterone showed no difference in risk of myocardial infarction compared to cisgender women ( 111 ). Testosterone therapy in transgender men is known to result in increased body weight and lean mass and decreased body fat.( 115 ) In meta-analyses, testosterone therapy is not associated with significant changes in bone mineral density ( 116 , 146 ). Among individuals followed from initiation of GnRH agonist therapy into young adulthood, Z-scores were similar or slightly improved from pretreatment values after testosterone therapy ( 117 ). Among TGD youth starting testosterone therapy, there is an increase in BMI and decrease in HDL ( 147 ). The decrease in HDL is exacerbated by obesity ( 120 ). Other studies have found that testosterone treatment in TGD youth is associated with statistical, but not clinically significant increases in triglycerides, alanine aminotransferase, potassium, and hemoglobin ( 118 ). There are very limited data regarding differences in cardiometabolic health among youth who did or did not receive GnRH agonist
