Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


in triglycerides, alanine aminotransferase, potassium, and hemoglobin ( 118 ). There are very limited data regarding differences in cardiometabolic health among youth who did or did not receive GnRH agonist therapy. In one small longitudinal study, youth who had been on a GnRH agonist (and continued on it for the first year of testosterone therapy) had lower brachial artery flow mediated dilation than those not on a GnRH agonist, with convergence of results after 12 months of testosterone therapy ( 148 ). Non-Binary Care Non-binary and gender non-conforming individuals comprise an increasing proportion of patients presenting to gender clinics, and Chapter 8 of the WPATH Standards of Care outlines recommendations for their care ( 10 ). Nonbinary people may have additional challenges accessing healthcare ( 149 ). Limited studies have reported worse mental and physical health among individuals who identify as gender non-conforming compared to matched controls ( 106 ). An individualized approach to understand the individual’s gender identity, sources of dysphoria (if any), and gender goals are important. Some individuals may desire reversible interventions such as menstrual suppression, others may request certain hormones and/or surgical interventions as a part of their gender goals. MENSTRUAL MANAGEMENT Many transmasculine and non-binary individuals who have a female sex at birth seek medical attention or desire interventions for menstrual management ( 150 ). Some also utilize these methods for contraception. It is important to ask individuals about their individual goals, as well as their sexual orientation, partners (including sex at birth and what body parts they currently have), and types of sex they are engaging in. These factors can guide choice of intervention for menstrual management and/or contraception. An overview of options is in Table 6 . Progestin-only methods, including norethindrone or depo medroxyprogesterone are particularly popular choices among this population ( 150 ). Review of options for menstrual management and contraceptive options for transgender individuals exist ( 151 ). For those patients wishing to and eligible for testosterone therapy, menses suppression typically is achieved within 6-12 months of the start of testosterone therapy ( 152 ). Table 6. Options for Menstrual Suppression/Management View in own window Combined hormonal contraceptives (pills, patch, ring) Progestins Norethindrone acetate (5-15 mg/day orally) Medroxyprogesterone acetate (150 mg IM every 3 months) Etonogestrel implant Levonorgestrel intrauterine device SURGICAL MANAGEMENT Surgeries that impact fertility are generally not available until the individual has reached the age of majority in their
