Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


IM every 3 months) Etonogestrel implant Levonorgestrel intrauterine device SURGICAL MANAGEMENT Surgeries that impact fertility are generally not available until the individual has reached the age of majority in their country. There are a wide variety of surgical options for transgender adults (and some options, primarily chest surgery, for adolescents) ( 153 ). Physicians (including surgeons and non-surgeons) and behavioral health providers should be aware of the criteria needed for each surgical procedure, including whether social transition is recommended, whether hormonal therapy is needed (and length), and how many referral letters are needed and by whom ( 10 ). Recommendations for surgeons and criteria for surgeries are outlined in the WPATH Standards of Care ( 10 ). Table 7 summarizes the various gender affirming surgical options. Table 7. Gender Affirming Surgical Options View in own window Feminizing Surgeries Breast augmentation Increasing the size of the breasts Facial feminization surgery May include: forehead feminization, rhinoplasty, periorbital rejuvenation, rhytidectomy (face lift), cheek augmentation, rhinoplasty, lip feminization, gonial angle shave, genioplasty Genital surgery/vaginoplasty May include penectomy, orchiectomy, surgical creation of a vagina (penile inversion, intestinal conduit), clitoroplasty, labiaplasty Orchiectomy Removal of testes Tracheal shave Thyroid cartilage shave Masculinizing Surgeries Chest masculinizing surgery (mastectomy) Removal of breast tissue Facial masculinization surgery Rhinoplasty, gonial implants, genioplasty Hysterectomy, salpingectomy, oophorectomy Removal of uterus and/or fallopian tubes, and/or ovaries Metoidioplasty Creation of a phallus using existing genital tissue Phalloplasty Construction of phallus, glansplasty, urethroplasty, erectile prosthesis, scrotoplasty, testicular implants BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND CO-OCCURING CONDITIONS Recent studies have demonstrated a high prevalence of behavioral health disorders among youth diagnosed with gender dysphoria (up to 60%) ( 154 , 155 ). Research on behavioral health among TGD youth consistently demonstrates disproportionately high prevalence of anxiety ( 155 - 157 ), depression ( 156 - 159 ), suicidality ( 22 , 155 - 157 , 160 ), self-harm ( 155 - 158 ), and substance use problems ( 22 ). Large surveys of TGD individuals in the U.S. have shown that 40% of adults ( 161 ) and 35% of youth ( 22 ) have attempted suicide. Poor behavioral health outcomes may be conceptualized as the result of complex and layered socio-cultural and political factors that impact TGD youth ( 17 , 162 ). Risk factors that are likely to impact overall mental health for TGD individuals include minority stress (e.g., victimization, discrimination) ( 22 , 163 ), gender dysphoria
