Medical Interventions for Transgender Youth
KEYWORDS: gender, pubmed, transgender, health, sex, youth, therapy, pmc, free, article, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, testosterone, hormone


growing area of interest, with a scoping review recently published ( 180 ). A meta-analysis found that the prevalence of ASD diagnoses among people with gender dysphoria/incongruence was 11% ( 181 ). In a large 2020 study, TGD individuals were 3.0 to 6.4 times more likely to be diagnosed with ASD than their cisgender counterparts ( 159 ). Other samples have shown that youth with gender dysphoria are about 2 to 3 times as likely to have a diagnosis of ASD than their matched cisgender counterparts ( 154 , 155 ). The exact link between GD and ASD is not known, but factors contributing may include: symptom overlap between the two diagnoses, misclassification due to symptom overlap, children with ASD may be more likely to express their gender identity and dysphoria, or they may be more likely to be referred to care to be diagnosed with either GD or ASD ( 182 ). Finally, there are many other important topics that impact the care of transgender individuals that are beyond the scope of this chapter including dermatologic considerations and hair loss ( 183 - 185 ), chest binding ( 186 ), sexual health ( 92 ), HIV prevention and treatment ( 187 - 189 ), fertility ( 190 ), sleep ( 191 ), athletic performance and sports participation ( 192 , 193 ), eating disorders ( 194 , 195 ), homelessness, the impact of family support, and the underpinnings of links between gender diversity and neurodiversity. CONCLUSION An improved understanding of the variety of individual gender trajectories is needed, as well as how best to individualize care, how to improve mental health and minimize risks of medical interventions. Large, multi-center, prospective cohorts established in the U.S. ( 108 , 196 ) and Europe ( 197 ), should help answer some of these important questions. There is also much to be learned about the impact of early GnRH agonist therapy on growth, bone health, physical development, long-term health, mental health, cognitive development, and overall wellbeing. The American Heart Association published a scientific statement with recommendations to assess and address cardiovascular health among TGD people ( 198 ). Finally, an improved understanding on the impact of other stressors including minority stress and depression on overall health ( 199 , 200 ) for TGD persons is needed. REFERENCES 1. David K, Dingemanse E, Freud J, Laqueur E. On crystalline male hormone from testicles
