NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apixaban, liver, patients, injury, liver injury, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, anticoagulants, alt, oral, warfarin


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Apixaban. [Updated 2023 Feb 16]. Bookshelf URL: Apixaban Updated: February 16, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Apixaban is an oral anticoagulant and direct inhibitor of factor Xa which is used to decrease the risk of venous thromboses, systemic embolization and stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation, and lower the risk of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolus after knee or hip replacement surgery. Apixaban has been linked to a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy and to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Apixaban (a pix' a ban) is a direct and reversible inhibitor of factor Xa (-xaban), the rate controlling last step in the generation of thrombin, the final intermediate in blood coagulation. Inhibiting thrombin prevents the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin and subsequent cross linking of fibrin monomers, platelet activation and amplification of coagulation. Apixaban has been shown to be as effective as warfarin and more effective than aspirin in preventing stroke and systemic embolization in patients with atrial fibrillation. Clinical trials have also shown that apixaban therapy can decrease the risk of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery. Apixaban was approved for use in the United States in 2012, the second oral factor Xa to be approved. Current indications are for prevention of stoke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, prevention of deep vein thrombosis after hip or knee replacement surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and reduction in risk of recurrence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Apixaban is available in 2.5 and 5 mg tablets generically and under the commercial name Eliquis. The usual dose is 2.5 or 5 mg twice daily and varies somewhat by monitoring of bleeding time or INR. Side effects are not common, but can include bleeding, headache, dizziness, fatigue, gastrointestinal upset, nausea, arthralgias and rash. Uncommon, but potentially severe adverse events include severe bleeding episodes and hypersensitivity reactions. Severe adverse events include major bleeding episodes, epidural or spinal hematoma, and increase in risk of thrombotic events with premature discontinuation. Hepatotoxicity Apixaban is associated with serum aminotransferase elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal in 1% to 2% of treated patients. This rate is similar or lower than rates with warfarin or comparator arms. In
