NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apixaban, liver, patients, injury, liver injury, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, anticoagulants, alt, oral, warfarin


greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal in 1% to 2% of treated patients. This rate is similar or lower than rates with warfarin or comparator arms. In premarketing studies, no instances of clinically apparent liver injury were reported, but subsequent to its approval and more wide scale use, several reports of mild but clinically apparent liver injury have been published. The liver injury arose within days of starting apixaban and the pattern of liver enzyme elevations was 2 LiverTox hepatocellular. Immunoallergic and autoimmune features were not present. In most cases, recovery was rapid for acute liver injury after initiation of apixaban therapy was 1 per 2,200 patients treated, a rate similar to that of rivaroxaban. Likelihood score: B (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Apixaban is metabolized in the liver predominantly via the cytochrome P450 system, CYP 3A4, and P- glycoprotein, and potent inhibitors of CYP 3A4 (such as itraconazole, ritonavir and clarithromycin) can cause elevated levels of apixaban, while inducers of CYP 3A4 (such as rifampin or phenytoin) can lead to reduced and ineffective levels of the anticoagulant. Liver injury from apixaban may be due to production of a toxic or immunogenic intermediate. Outcome and Management The severity of liver injury associated with apixaban has ranged from mild, asymptomatic and self-limited elevations in serum aminotransferases to hepatitis with mild jaundice. Recovery is usually rapid once apixaban is stopped, but at least one case of fulminant hepatitis and death has been reported. There have been no reports of chronic hepatitis or vanishing bile duct syndrome attributed to apixaban use. In some instances, patients with acute liver injury due to one direct factor Xa inhibitor (rivaroxaban) have tolerated another (apixaban) without recurrence of liver abnormalities. Drug Class: Antithrombotic Agents, Anticoagulants Other Drugs in the Subclass, Anticoagulants, Factor Xa Antagonists: Betrixaban, Edoxaban, Fondaparinux, Rivaroxaban PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Apixaban – Generic, Eliquis® DRUG CLASS Antithrombotic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH Apixaban 3 CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Apixaban 503612-47-3 C25-H25-N5-O4 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 16 February 2023 Zimmerman HJ. Platelet aggregation inhibitors. Drugs used in cardiovascular disease. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 639-412. (Textbook of hepatotoxicity published in 1999 well before the availability of
