Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


mainly on serum biochemistry. X-ray and other imaging methods of the skeleton provide diagnostically relevant information only in severe forms. From a therapeutic point of view, it is important to prevent the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism as early as possible in the course of CKD. A variety of prophylactic and therapeutic approaches are available, as outlined in the final part of the chapter. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is almost constantly associated with a systemic disorder of mineral and bone metabolism, at present named CKD-MBD ( 1 ). According to this definition, the disorder is manifested by either one or a combination of biochemical abnormalities (abnormal calcium, phosphate, PTH, or vitamin D metabolism), bone abnormalities (abnormal bone turnover, mineralization volume, linear growth, or strength) and vascular or other soft tissue calcification. Subsequently, the underlying pathophysiology has become more complex, with the progressive awareness that fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), a-Klotho (subsequently called "Klotho") as well as the Wnt-b-catenin signaling pathway also play an important role (see below). CKD-MBD generally becomes apparent in CKD stage G3, i.e. at a glomerular filtration rate between 60 and 30 ml/min x 1.73 m2. Initially, it is characterized by a tendency towards hypocalcemia, fasting normo- or hypophosphatemia, and diminished plasma 25OH vitamin D (calcidiol) and 1,25diOH vitamin D (calcitriol) concentrations, together with a progressive increase in plasma FGF23 and intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), a decrease in plasma soluble Klotho ( 2 – 5 ) and the development of renal osteodystrophy. Renal osteodystrophy often presents initially as adynamic bone disease and subsequently transforms into osteitis fibrosa or mixed bone disease ( 6 ). Pure osteomalacia is seen only infrequently. The low bone turnover observed in a significant proportion of patients in early stages of CKD could be due to the initial predominance of bone turnover inhibitory conditions such as resistance to the action of PTH, reduced serum calcitriol levels, sex hormone deficiency, diabetes, inflammation and malnutrition, and uremic toxins leading to the repression of osteocyte Wnt-β-catenin signaling and increased expression of Wnt antagonists such as sclerostin, Dickkopf-1 and secreted frizzled-related protein 4 ( 7 , 8 ). According to this scenario, high turnover bone disease occurs only later on, when sufficiently elevated serum PTH levels are able to overcome the skeletal resistance to its action. Even at that stage,
