Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


this scenario, high turnover bone disease occurs only later on, when sufficiently elevated serum PTH levels are able to overcome the skeletal resistance to its action. Even at that stage, over suppression of PTH by the administration of excessive calcium and/or vitamin D supplements can again induce adynamic bone disease ( 9 ). Nephrologists became progressively aware of the fact that the abnormally high serum phosphorus levels in late CKD stages, associated with either hyperparathyroidism or (mostly iatrogenically induced) hypoparathyroidism, may be detrimental to the patients not only in terms of abnormal bone structure and strength, but also in terms of the relative risk of soft-tissue calcifications and cardiovascular as well as all-cause mortality ( 10 – 13 ). As regards serum PTH levels, observational studies have consistently reported an increased relative risk of death in patients with CKD stage G5 and PTH values at the extremes, that is less than two or greater than nine times the upper normal limit of the assay ( 14 , 15 ). For PTH values within the range of two to nine times the upper normal limit reports of associations with relative risk of cardiovascular events or death in patients with CKD have been inconsistent. A recent observational study done in a very large patient population undergoing hemodialysis therapy in 9 countries confirmed the J-shaped association of all-cause or cardiovascular mortality with PTH and pointed in addition to a direct, linear relationship with total alkaline phosphatase ( 16 ). Interestingly, a direct association between plasma iPTH in the normal range and cardiovascular mortality was found even in elderly men without CKD ( 17 ). From a clinical point of view, it may be useful to complete the term CKD-MBD by two syndromes, namely CKD-associated osteoporosis and CKD-associated cardiovascular disease, as proposed in a recent KDIGO controversies conference ( 18 ). Both hyper and hypoparathyroidism contribute to these syndromes. SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – SEQUENCE OF PLASMA BIOCHEMISTRY CHANGES IN EARLY CKD STAGES Phosphate Retention The precise sequence of metabolic and endocrine anomalies in incipient CKD leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism remains a matter of debate. Many years ago, it was postulated that a retention of phosphate in the extracellular space due to the decrease in glomerular filtration rate and the accompanying reduction in plasma ionized calcium concentration was the primary event in the pathogenesis of secondary hyperparathyroidism. These anomalies would only be transient, and
