Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


in glomerular filtration rate and the accompanying reduction in plasma ionized calcium concentration was the primary event in the pathogenesis of secondary hyperparathyroidism. These anomalies would only be transient, and a new steady state would rapidly be reached, with normalization of plasma calcium and phosphate in response to increased PTH secretion and the well-known inhibitory effect of this hormone on the tubular reabsorption of phosphate (“trade-off hypothesis” of Bricker and Slatopolsky) ( 19 ). However, this hypothesis has become less attractive since it was demonstrated that plasma phosphate is only rarely elevated in early CKD, and phosphate balance was found to be not positive but negative, at least in rats with moderate-degree CKD ( 20 ). Most often, plasma phosphate remains normal until CKD stages G4-G5 ( 2 , 21 ). It may even be moderately diminished in CKD ( 22 ). Oral phosphate absorption remains normal in early stages of experimental CKD ( 20 ), and urinary phosphate excretion after an oral overload in patients with mild CKD was actually found to be accelerated ( 22 ). Nonetheless, one could argue that in early kidney disease normal or even subnormal concentrations of plasma phosphate might be observed after a slight, initial plasma phosphate increase following phosphate ingestion and stimulation. Figure 1. Schematic view of the time profile of disturbances in mineral hormones and bone turnover with progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD). From Drueke & Massy ( 6 ). of the secretion of FGF23 and PTH, which in turn could overcorrect plasma phosphate rapidly, due to a potent inhibition of tubular phosphate reabsorption. However, a subsequent study identified slight increases of plasma phosphate in a large US population sample (NHANES III) with CKD stage G3 as compared to a healthy control population without evidence of kidney disease ( 23 ). Probably both the time of plasma phosphate determinations during the day as well as subtle changes in circulating and local factors involved in the control of phosphate balance determine the actual plasma level of phosphate in patients with CKD. Fibroblast Growth Factor 23 (FGF23) and Klotho FGF23 is recognized at present as a major, if not the most important player in the control of phosphate metabolism. It is mainly produced by osteocytes and osteoblasts. It decreases plasma phosphate by reducing tubular phosphate reabsorption similar to, but independent of PTH. Moreover, in contrast to PTH it decreases the renal synthesis
