Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


produced by osteocytes and osteoblasts. It decreases plasma phosphate by reducing tubular phosphate reabsorption similar to, but independent of PTH. Moreover, in contrast to PTH it decreases the renal synthesis of calcitriol. To activate its receptors, FGFR-1 and FGFR-3 on tubular epithelial cells requires the presence of Klotho (or more precisely α-Klotho), which in its function as a co-receptor confers FGF receptor specificity for FGF23 ( 24 ). Although initially Klotho expression was found only in the distal tubule, it has subsequently been demonstrated to occur in the proximal tubule as well. In line with this finding, the ablation of Klotho specifically from the distal tubules certainly resulted in a hyperphosphatemic phenotype, but to a lesser degree than in systemic or whole nephron Klotho knockout models ( 25 ). The regulation of FGF23 production and its interrelations with PTH, calcitriol, calcium, phosphate, and Klotho are complex, being only progressively unraveled. Isakova et al. provided evidence that serum FGF23 increased earlier than serum iPTH in patients with CKD ( 4 ). This observation is also supported by experiments in an animal model of CKD and the use of anti-FGF23 antibodies ( 26 ). However, the authors of a subsequent large-scale population study took issue with the claim that the increase in circulating FGF23 preceded that of PTH ( 27 ). Klotho expression in kidney, Klotho plasma levels and Klotho urinary excretion decrease with progressive CKD ( 28 , 29 ). The presence of Klotho is required to allow FGF23 to exert its action in the kidney. In addition, Klotho also exerts FGF23 independent effects. It acts from the tubular luminal side as an autocrine or paracrine enzyme to regulate transporters and ion channels. By modifying the Na-phosphate co-transporter NaPi2a it can enhance phosphaturia directly ( 30 ). However, its purported glycosidase activity has been put into question recently ( 31 ). The issue then arises which comes first in CKD, an increase in FGF23 or a decrease in Klotho ? The answer remains a matter of debate ( 32 ). Some studies showed that secreted soluble Klotho levels decrease before FGF23 levels increase ( 33 , 34 ) but the sequence of events may differ depending on experimental models and diverse clinical conditions ( 35 ). CKD is probably the most common cause of chronically elevated serum FGF23 levels ( 36 ). FGF23 production in bone is increased by phosphate, calcitriol,
