Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


clinical conditions ( 35 ). CKD is probably the most common cause of chronically elevated serum FGF23 levels ( 36 ). FGF23 production in bone is increased by phosphate, calcitriol, calcium, PTH, Klotho, and iron. Not all of these effects are necessarily direct. The effect of PTH clearly is both direct, via stimulation of PTH receptor-1 (PTH-R1) ( 37 ) and the orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 ( 38 ), and indirect, via an increase in calcitriol synthesis ( 39 ). On the other hand, FGF23 inhibits PTH synthesis and secretion although in CKD this effect is mitigated by reduced Klotho and FGFR-1 expression in parathyroid tissue ( 40 - 42 ). The increase in circulating FGF23 with the progression of CKD is independently associated with serum phosphate, calcium, iPTH, and calcitriol ( 43 , 44 ). Despite its direct inhibitory action on the parathyroid tissue FGF23 contributes to the progression of secondary hyperparathyroidism by reducing renal calcitriol synthesis and subsequently decreasing active intestinal calcium transport. Figure 2 shows the complex interrelations between serum FGF23, Klotho, phosphate, calcium, calcitriol, and parathyroid function in CKD. Figure 2. Chronic kidney disease-associated mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD). Complex interactions between phosphate, FGF23, FGF receptor-1c (FGFR1c), Klotho, 1,25diOH vitamin D (calcitriol), renal 1α 25OH vitamin D hydroxylase (1α hydroxylase), vitamin D receptor (VDR), calcium, Ca-sensing receptor (CaSR), and parathyroid hormone (PTH). From Komaba & Fukagawa ( 45 ), modified. Calcium Deficiency In early CKD stages, disturbances of calcium metabolism may already be present. They include a calcium deficiency state due to a negative calcium balance resulting from low oral calcium intakes and impaired active intestinal calcium absorption (although a positive calcium balance can be induced by the ingestion of high amounts of calcium-containing phosphate binders) ( 46 , 47 ), a tendency towards hypocalcemia due to skeletal resistance to the action of PTH ( 48 ), and reduced calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) expression in the parathyroid cell. All these factors contribute to the development of parathyroid overfunction ( 48 , 49 ). Their relative importance increases with the progression of CKD. It also depends on individual patient characteristics such as the underlying type of nephropathy, comorbidities, dietary habits, and amount of food intake. Inhibition of Calcitriol Synthesis The progressive loss of functioning nephrons and increased production of FGF23 are mainly responsible for the reduction in renal calcitriol synthesis, favoring the development of hyperparathyroidism. Although PTH in
