Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


Synthesis The progressive loss of functioning nephrons and increased production of FGF23 are mainly responsible for the reduction in renal calcitriol synthesis, favoring the development of hyperparathyroidism. Although PTH in turn stimulates renal tubular 1α-OH vitamin D hydroxylase activity resistance to its action probably attenuates this counter-regulatory mechanism. Whether the direct inhibition of 1α-OH vitamin D hydroxylase activity by FGF23 is more powerful than its stimulation by PTH depends on several other additional factors such as the presence of hyperphosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, and uremic toxins. The marked disturbances of the calcitriol synthesis pathway probably explain the long reported direct relation in patients with CKD between plasma calcidiol and calcitriol, and between plasma calcitriol and glomerular filtration rate ( 50 ). Such relations are not observed in people with normal kidney function. Yet another hypothesis is based on the observation that calcidiol does not penetrate into proximal tubular epithelium from the basolateral side, but only from the luminal side. The complex formed by calcidiol and its binding protein (DBP) is ultrafiltered by the glomerulus, subsequently enters the tubular epithelium from the apical side via the multifunctional brush border membrane receptor megalin, and then serves as substrate for the renal enzyme, 1α-OH vitamin D hydroxylase for calcitriol synthesis ( Figure 3 ) ( 51 ). Reduced glomerular filtration leads to a decrease in calcidiol-DBP complex transfer into the proximal tubular fluid and hence reduced availability of calcidiol substrate for luminal reabsorption and calcitriol formation. However, the validity for the human situation of this mechanism established in the mouse has subsequently been questioned since 1α-OH vitamin D hydroxylase expression was found not only in proximal, but also in distal tubular epithelium of human kidney, that is in tubular areas in which megalin apparently is not expressed ( 52 ). Figure 3. Schematic representation of the role of megalin in renal tubular 25 OH vitamin D reabsorption. Megalin is a multifunctional brush border membrane receptor expressed in the proximal renal tubule. It enables endocytic reabsorption of 25 OH vitamin D (calcidiol) filtered by the glomerulus and the subsequent synthesis of 1,25 diOH vitamin D (calcitriol) by mitochondrial 1-α 25 OH vitamin D hydroxylase. After Nykjaer et al ( 51 ). Finally, the concentration of plasma calcidiol is diminished in the majority of patients with CKD ( 53 , 54 ). The reasons for this vitamin D deficiency state include insufficient hours of sunshine or
