Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


plasma calcidiol is diminished in the majority of patients with CKD ( 53 , 54 ). The reasons for this vitamin D deficiency state include insufficient hours of sunshine or sun exposure especially in the elderly, skin pigmentation, intake of antiepileptic drugs (like in general population), and in addition enhanced urinary excretion of calcidiol complexed to vitamin D binding protein (DBP) in presence of proteinuria, and loss into the peritoneal cavity in those on peritoneal dialysis treatment. All these factors may also contribute to the reduction in calcitriol synthesis ( 55 ). However, low plasma calcidiol has also been postulated to be a risk factor per se for secondary hyperparathyroidism, as suggested by an observational study in Algerian patients on hemodialysis with insufficient exposure to sunshine ( 56 ) and the observation that calcidiol is able to directly suppress PTH synthesis and secretion in bovine parathyroid cells in vitro, although with much less potency than calcitriol ( 57 ). SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – PLASMA BIOCHEMISTRY CHANGES IN ADVANCED CKD STAGES The above-mentioned roles of relative or absolute deficiency states of calcium and vitamin D are steadily gaining importance with the progression of CKD, and phosphate becomes a major player. Role of Hyperphosphatemia In CKD stages G4-G5 hyperphosphatemia becomes an increasingly frequent feature ( 21 ), due to phosphate retention caused by the progressive loss of functioning nephrons and the increasing difficulty in augmenting glomerular phosphate ultrafiltration and to further reduce its tubular reabsorption when it is already maximally inhibited by high serum FGF23 and PTH levels. FGF23 Excess and Klotho Deficiency Circulating FGF23 may reach extremely high, maladaptive concentrations in patients with end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) ( 58 ). In parallel, a reduction of Klotho expression is observed in kidney and parathyroid tissue, as well as of soluble Klotho in the plasma and urine of patients and animals with CKD ( 28 , 29 , 32 ). The reduction is particularly marked in advanced stages of CKD. The resulting resistance to the action of FGF23 in kidney and parathyroid tissue favors hyperparathyroidism (see below). Uremic Syndrome The uremic syndrome itself could also play a role. In addition to phosphate, many other so-called uremic toxins, that is substances which accumulate in the uremic state, are known to interfere with vitamin D metabolism and action ( 59 , 60 ). Indoxyl sulfate has been shown to participate in the pathogenesis of
