Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


in the uremic state, are known to interfere with vitamin D metabolism and action ( 59 , 60 ). Indoxyl sulfate has been shown to participate in the pathogenesis of skeletal resistance to the action of PTH ( 61 ), in addition to direct inhibitory effects on bone turnover ( 62 ). SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – MORPHOLOGICAL PARATHYROID TISSUE CHANGES Normal parathyroid glands are mainly composed of chief cells and few oxyphil cells. In patients with CKD and secondary hyperparathyroidism, the parathyroid oxyphil cell content often increases considerably. Studies showed that such patients whose parathyroid glands had high oxyphil cell counts were likely to be relatively refractory to drug treatment ( 63 ). A recent report demonstrated the existence of a chief-to-oxyphil cell trans-differentiation characterized by gradual mitochondrial enrichment associated with the uremic milieu. The mitochondrial enrichment and cellular proliferation of chief cell and oxyphil cell nodules decreased significantly after leaving the uremic milieu via transplantation into nude mice ( 64 ). MECHANISMS INVOLVED IN THE PATHOGENESIS OF SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Generally speaking, there are at least two major different mechanisms which determine the magnitude of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD. The first is an increase in PTH synthesis and secretion per cell, and the second an increase in parathyroid gland mass, mostly due to enhanced cell proliferation (hyperplasia), and to a lesser degree also an increase in cell size (hypertrophy) (see schematic representation in Figure 4 ). Whereas acute stimulation of PTH synthesis and/or release generally occurs in the absence of enhanced cell growth, these two processes appear to be tightly linked under conditions of chronic stimulation. The main factors involved in the control of the two processes are again calcitriol, calcium, and phosphate whereas the direct effects of FGF23 appear to be essentially limited to the control of PTH synthesis and secretion. In the following, the disturbances of the mechanisms controlling parathyroid function will be discussed subsequently for each of these three factors, although there are numerous interactions between them. Thereafter, the influence of other factors and comorbid conditions related to CKD will be presented. Figure 4. Pathogenesis of secondary hyperparathyroidism. Schematic representation of parathyroid hormone (PTH) synthesis and secretion (upper part) and parathyroid cell proliferation and apoptosis (lower part), as regulated by a number of hormones and growth factors. Calcitriol The above-mentioned decrease in plasma calcitriol aggravates hyperparathyroidism via several mechanisms. The first is direct and results from
