Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


part), as regulated by a number of hormones and growth factors. Calcitriol The above-mentioned decrease in plasma calcitriol aggravates hyperparathyroidism via several mechanisms. The first is direct and results from an insufficient inhibition of PTH synthesis due to low circulating calcitriol levels and a disturbed action of calcitriol at the level of the preproPTH gene. It is well established that calcitriol, after forming a complex with its receptor, vitamin D receptor (VDR) and heterodimerizing with the retinoic acid receptor (RXR), directly inhibits preproPTH gene transcription by binding to a specific DNA response element (VDRE) located in the 5’-flanking region of the gene. In CKD, in addition to low extracellular concentrations of calcitriol, at least two other factors interfere with calcitriol’s action on the preproPTH gene ( 65 ). The first factor is a reduced expression of the VDR gene in hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of CKD patients ( 66 ). This reduction is particularly marked in nodular, as compared to diffusely hyperplastic parathyroid tissue. The second factor is reduced binding of calcitriol to VDR, slowed nuclear migration of the calcitriol–VDR complex and less efficient inhibitory action on the preproPTH gene, in association with the uremic state ( 60 , 67 ). Of note, the extracellular Ca2+ concentration [Ca2+e] appears to play a role in the regulation of VDR expression. In rat parathyroid glands, low [Ca2+e] reduced VDR expression independently of calcitriol, whereas high [Ca2+e] increased it ( 68 ). Hypocalcemia may attenuate by this mechanism the feedback of increased plasma calcitriol concentrations on the parathyroids. The second level at which calcitriol regulates PTH gene expression involves calreticulin. Calreticulin is a calcium binding protein which is present in the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell and also may have a nuclear function. It regulates gene transcription via its ability to bind a protein motif in the DNA-binding domain of nuclear hormone receptors of sterol hormones. Sela-Brown et al. proposed that calreticulin might inhibit vitamin D's action on the PTH gene, based on in vitro and in vivo experiments ( 69 ). They fed rats either a control diet or a low calcium diet, the latter leading to increased PTH mRNA levels despite high serum calcitriol levels that would be expected to inhibit PTH gene transcription. Their postulate that high calreticulin levels in the nuclear fraction might prevent the effect of calcitriol on the PTH gene was strongly supported by the observation that hypocalcemic
