Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


gene transcription. Their postulate that high calreticulin levels in the nuclear fraction might prevent the effect of calcitriol on the PTH gene was strongly supported by the observation that hypocalcemic rats had increased levels of calreticulin protein in parathyroid nuclear fraction. This could explain why hypocalcemia leads to increased PTH gene expression despite high serum calcitriol levels and might also be relevant for the refractoriness of secondary hyperparathyroidism to calcitriol treatment observed in many patients with CKD. The third mechanism of calcitriol’s action could be indirect, via a stimulatory effect on parathyroid CaSR expression, as shown by Brown et al ( 70 ) and subsequently confirmed by Mendoza et al ( 71 ). The fourth mechanism is again a direct one. It is due to the well-known inhibitory effect of vitamin D on cell proliferation and the induction of differentiation towards mature, slowly growing cells. A decrease in plasma calcitriol and a perturbed action at molecular targets favor abnormal cell growth in general. This is the case with parathyroid tissue as well, and parathyroid hyperplasia ensues ( 72 ). The important role of vitamin D in the pathogenesis of parathyroid hyperplasia of experimental uremia was first shown by Szabo et al ( 73 ). These authors administered increasing doses of calcitriol to rats either at the time of inducing chronic kidney failure or at a later time point, when uremia was already well established. They were able to prevent parathyroid cell proliferation entirely when calcitriol was given in initial CKD stages, but not when given later. Fukagawa et al showed that pharmacologic doses of calcitriol repressed c-myc expression in the parathyroid tissue of uremic rats and suggested that the hormone might suppress parathyroid hyperplasia by this pathway ( 74 ). In contrast, Naveh-Many et al. ( 75 ) failed to observe such an antiproliferative effect of calcitriol in parathyroid cells of uremic rats but they administered the hormone for only three days. The short-term administration may not have been sufficient for an efficacious suppression of cell turnover. To answer the question of a possible direct calcitriol action on parathyroid cells, several studies were performed in experimental models in vitro. Nygren et al. ( 76 ) showed in primary cultures of bovine parathyroid cells, maintained in short-term culture, that these cells underwent significant increases both in number and size in response to fetal calf serum, and that the addition of 10-100
