Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


bovine parathyroid cells, maintained in short-term culture, that these cells underwent significant increases both in number and size in response to fetal calf serum, and that the addition of 10-100 ng/mL calcitriol almost completely inhibited cell proliferation whereas cell hypertrophy was unaffected. Kremer et al ( 77 ) subsequently confirmed in same parathyroid cell model that calcitriol exerted an anti-proliferative action. They further suggested that this inhibition occurred via a reduction of c-myc mRNA expression. One report showed an inhibitory action under long-term culture conditions (up to 5 passages) of the effect of calcitriol on bovine parathyroid cell proliferation ( 78 ). Our group subsequently confirmed such a direct antiproliferative effect of calcitriol in a human parathyroid cell culture system derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism ( 79 ) ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Antiproliferative effect of 1,25 diOH vitamin D on parathyroid cells. Reduction of parathyroid cell proliferation in response to increasing medium 1,25diOH vitamin D (calcitriol) concentrations in the incubation milieu of a human parathyroid cell culture system, with parathyroid cells derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. From Roussanne et al ( 79 ). A fifth mechanism is the potential association between parathyroid function and vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphism. Fernandez et al ( 80 ) separated patients on hemodialysis therapy with similar serum calcium levels and dialysis vintage into two groups, according to their serum iPTH levels, namely low PTH (<12 pmol/L) or high PTH (>60 pmol/L). They found that the BB genotype and the B allele were significantly more frequent in the low PTH than in the high PTH group (32.3% vs 12.5%, and 58.8% vs 39.1%, respectively). This information suggests that VDR gene polymorphism influences parathyroid function in CKD. Similar results have been reported in a large sample of Japanese patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 81 ). In this latter study, after excluding patients with diabetes and patients with a dialysis vintage of less than 10 years, the authors observed lower plasma iPTH levels in ESKD patients with BB than with Bb or bb alleles. A relationship between Apa I polymorphism (A/a alleles) and the severity of hyperparathyroidism has also been sought in Japanese patients on hemodialysis ( 82 ). Plasma PTH levels in AA and Aa groups were approximately half that of the aa group. However, other groups found no difference in
