Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


Japanese patients on hemodialysis ( 82 ). Plasma PTH levels in AA and Aa groups were approximately half that of the aa group. However, other groups found no difference in PTH levels for various VDR polymorphisms ( 83 - 85 ). Moreover, although in some clinical conditions VDR polymorphism may be associated with variations of the half-life of the VDR gene transcript ( 86 ) or of VDR function ( 87 ), there has been no report showing that in uremic patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism the density of parathyroid cell VDR varied with different VDR genotypes. In addition, although VDR genotypes may have some influence on the degree of parathyroid cell proliferation, the mechanism by which this could occur remains unknown. Finally, Egstrand et al recently provided experimental evidence for the role of a circadian clock operating in parathyroid glands. This clock and downstream cell cycle regulators were shown to be disturbed in uremic rats, potentially contributing to dysregulated parathyroid cell proliferation in secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 88 , 89 ). Calcium [Ca2+e] is the primary regulator of PTH secretion. Small changes in serum Ca2+ concentration result in immediate changes of PTH release, which are either short-lived or long-lived depending on the velocity of the restoration of serum Ca2+ towards normal. Thus, postprandial urinary calcium excretion was increased in patients with CKD as it was in healthy volunteers, but only in the patients was this accompanied by significantly reduced serum Ca2+ and increased PTH levels ( 90 ). The inverse relation between Ca2+ and PTH in the circulation obeys a sigmoidal curve ( 91 ). While the majority of in vitro studies have reported a decreased responsiveness of hyperplastic parathyroid cells to changes in [Ca2+e] in vivo studies have not always confirmed this. These discrepant findings are likely due to different methods used to assess the dynamics of PTH secretion ( 92 ). Several in vitro studies have shown that the set point of calcium for PTH secretion (that is the Ca2+ concentration required to produce half maximal PTH secretion) is greater in parathyroid cells from primary adenomas and secondary (uremic) hyperplastic parathyroid glands than in normal parathyroid cells ( 93 ). Such a relatively poor response to [Ca2+e] should contribute to the increased PTH levels observed in uremic patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism. We and others have demonstrated that both primary parathyroid adenoma and secondary uremic, hyperplastic parathyroid gland tissue exhibit
