Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


to the increased PTH levels observed in uremic patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism. We and others have demonstrated that both primary parathyroid adenoma and secondary uremic, hyperplastic parathyroid gland tissue exhibit a decrease in the expression of CaSR protein ( 94 , 95 ). In secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism, there is a significant decrease of CaSR in diffusely growing hyperplastic tissue, with the decrease being even more marked in nodular areas (characteristic of advanced hyperparathyroidism with autonomously growing cells) ( 94 ) ( Figure 6 ). Since changes in intracellular Ca2+ elicited by hyper or hypocalcemia depend on the expression and activity of the CaSR, any decrease explains, at least in part, an impaired intracellular calcium response to [Ca2+e] and hence a reduced inhibitory effect of the cation on PTH secretion. Several factors contribute to the downregulation of CaSR expression and/or activity in CKD including reduced calcitriol levels ( 70 , 71 ), low magnesium levels ( 94 ), dietary phosphate intake (probably indirect action) ( 97 ), and metabolic acidosis ( 98 ). However, raising extracellular phosphate has been recently shown to also exert a direct inhibitory action on parathyroid cell CaSR activity of isolated human parathyroid cells and thus to increase PTH secretion ( 99 ). Almaden et al studied calcium-regulated PTH response in vitro, using respectively primary parathyroid adenoma and uremic hyperplastic tissue, the latter either of the nodular or the diffuse type ( 100 ). They found that in primary adenoma tissue PTH secretion was less responsive to an increase in [Ca2+e] than in uremic hyperplastic parathyroid tissue; among the latter, nodular tissue was less responsive than diffusely hyperplastic tissue. The decreased secretory response to Ca2+ observed in nodular uremic hyperplasia may be explained by the markedly reduced CaSR expression in CKD, as demonstrated by Gogusev et al ( 94 ). This decrease can be overcome, at least partially, by PTHrp, as shown by Lewin et al ( 101 ), who observed that the administration of PTHrp significantly stimulated the impaired secretory capacity of the parathyroid glands of uremic rats in response to hypocalcemia. Of note, this observation also implies that the PTH/PTHrp receptor is expressed on the parathyroid cell. Figure 6. Calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) expression in normal and hyperplastic parathyroid glands. Normal parathyroid tissue (in blue), secondary (2°) hyperparathyroidism from dialysis patients (glands with diffuse hyperplasia in yellow; glands with nodular hyperplasia in green), and primary (1°)
