Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


and hyperplastic parathyroid glands. Normal parathyroid tissue (in blue), secondary (2°) hyperparathyroidism from dialysis patients (glands with diffuse hyperplasia in yellow; glands with nodular hyperplasia in green), and primary (1°) adenomatous hyperparathyroidism from patients with conserved kidney function (in orange). Decreased expression of both CaSR protein and mRNA in the majority of hyperplastic glands, with a particularly marked decrease in nodular type secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. After Gogusev et al ( 94 ). The shift of the calcium set point to the right in patients on dialysis in vivo has been a much less constant finding than the right shift observed in the above-mentioned studies in uremic parathyroid tissue in vitro. While in patients with CKD and a mild to moderate degree of hyperparathyroidism the set point was most often found to be normal, an altered set point was observed in presence of severe parathyroid overfunction with hypercalcemia ( 102 ). This anomaly could at least in part be due to CaSR down-regulation. As regards CKD patients with less severe parathyroid overfunction, a considerable controversy took place regarding the results of in vivo assessments of parathyroid gland function ( 103 , 104 ). In part, disparities among study results reflected technical differences in experimental methods and/or variations in the mathematical modeling of PTH secretion in vivo ( 105 ). Another difficulty in interpreting the results of in vivo dynamic tests of parathyroid gland function relates to the issue of parathyroid gland size. Because there is a basal, or non-suppressible, component of PTH release from the parathyroid cell even at high [Ca2+e], excessive PTH secretion may result solely from increases in parathyroid gland mass ( 102 ). This can theoretically occur in the absence of any defect in calcium sensing at the level of the parathyroid cell. Since parathyroid gland hyperplasia is present to some extent in nearly all patients with CKD stages G3-G5, alterations in PTH secretion due to increases in parathyroid gland mass cannot readily be distinguished from those attributable to changes in calcium-sensing by the parathyroid cell using the four-parameter model for in vivo studies ( 104 ). The precise role of calcium in parathyroid cell proliferation is still a matter of discussion. On the one hand, calcium deficiency, in the presence or absence of hypocalcemia and vitamin D deficiency (or reduced production of calcitriol), is considered to be a stimulus of parathyroid hyperplasia. Thus Naveh-Many et al showed
