Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


in the presence or absence of hypocalcemia and vitamin D deficiency (or reduced production of calcitriol), is considered to be a stimulus of parathyroid hyperplasia. Thus Naveh-Many et al showed that calcium deprivation, together with vitamin D deficiency, greatly enhanced the rate of parathyroid cell proliferation in normal rats and also in rats with CKD, using the cell cycle-linked antigen, PCNA ( 75 ). The concomitant decrease in CaSR expression in CKD, as observed in parathyroid glands of both dialysis patients and uremic rats ( 94 , 106 ), should theoretically enhance parathyroid tissue hyperplasia further. Indirect support for this contention came from the observation that the administration of the calcimimetic compound NPS R-568, a CaSR agonist, led to the suppression of parathyroid cell proliferation in rats with CKD ( 107 ). However, in the study by Naveh-Many et al the dietary regimen was poor in both calcium and vitamin D. On the other hand, Wernerson et al observed parathyroid cell hypertrophy, not hyperplasia when feeding normal rats on a calcium-deficient diet alone, in the absence of concomitant vitamin D deficiency ( 108 ). The question of whether the effect of calcium is direct or indirect remains therefore unsolved at present. It can only be answered by in vitro studies. For a long time, available culture systems using normal parathyroid cells did not allow maintaining functionally active cells for prolonged time periods. They were all characterized by a rapid and significant loss of PTH secretion within 3 to 4 days ( 109 - 111 ). One culture model has been described using bovine parathyroid cell organoids, which maintained the ability to modulate PTH secretion in response to [Ca2+e] and tissue-like morphology for 2 weeks ( 112 ). However, only one long-term study using bovine parathyroid cells demonstrated a release of bioactive bovine PTH but with reduced sensitivity to [Ca2+e] ( 113 ). Other reports showed that the rapid decrease in PTH responsiveness of cultured bovine parathyroid cells to changes in [Ca2+e] was associated with a marked reduction in CaSR expression ( 114 , 115 ). Yet other parathyroid cell-derived culture models proposed in the literature were in fact devoid of any PTH secretory capacity ( 116 , 117 ). To study direct effects of [Ca2+e] on the parathyroid cell in vitro, we developed a functional human parathyroid cell culture system capable of maintaining the regulation of its secretory activity and
