Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


study direct effects of [Ca2+e] on the parathyroid cell in vitro, we developed a functional human parathyroid cell culture system capable of maintaining the regulation of its secretory activity and expression of extracellular CaSR mRNA and protein for several weeks. For this purpose, we used parathyroid cells derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients on hemodialysis with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 118 ). In a subsequent study with this experimental model, we surprisingly obtained evidence that parathyroid cell proliferation index, as estimated by [3H]-thymidine incorporation into an acid-precipitable fraction as a measure of DNA synthesis, could be directly stimulated by high [Ca2+e] in the incubation medium, compared with low [Ca2+e] ( 79 ) ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Effect of medium calcium concentration on parathyroid cell proliferation. Stimulatory effect on parathyroid cell proliferation (measured by KI-67 staining method) of high medium calcium concentrations in the incubation milieu of a human parathyroid cell culture system derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. From Roussanne et al ( 79 ). We confirmed this finding in independent experiments using the cell cycle-linked antigen Ki-67 to determine parathyroid cell proliferation. However, the addition of the calcimimetic NPS R-467 to the incubation medium led to a decrease in cell proliferation ( Figure 8 ). Figure 8. Inhibitory effect of calcimimetic on parathyroid cell proliferation. Human parathyroid cells derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism were maintained in high medium calcium incubation milieu and exposed to increasing concentrations of calcimimetic NPS R-467. Determination of cell proliferation by [3H]-thymidine incorporation method. After Roussanne et al ( 79 ). Of interest, calcimimetics have subsequently been shown to upregulate the expression of both CaSR ( 71 , 119 ) and VDR ( 67 ) in parathyroid glands of uremic rats. In an attempt to unify our apparently contradictory in-vitro observations with respect to findings made in vivo, we proposed the following hypothesis. The effect of calcium on parathyroid cell proliferation could occur along two different pathways, via two distinct mechanisms. Inhibition of proliferation would occur via the well-known parathyroid CaSR-dependent pathway, whereas stimulation of proliferation would occur via an alternative pathway ( Figure 9 ). Note that the parathyroid tissue samples used in our study stemmed from uremic patients with long-term ESKD and severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. Since such parathyroid tissue generally exhibits decreased CaSR expression, it is possible
