Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


parathyroid tissue samples used in our study stemmed from uremic patients with long-term ESKD and severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. Since such parathyroid tissue generally exhibits decreased CaSR expression, it is possible that the number of CaSR expressed in the parathyroid cell membranes of our culture model was insufficient to inhibit cell proliferation. Of note, the human CaSR gene has two promoters and two 5’ untranslated exons; therefore, the alternative usage of these exons leads to production of multiple CaSR mRNAs in parathyroid cells ( 120 ). The expression of CaSR mRNA produced by one of the two promoters of CaSR gene is specifically reduced in parathyroid adenomas, suggesting a role in PTH hypersecretion and proliferation. Moreover, the membrane-bound 550-kD Ca2+-binding glycoprotein megalin, which belongs to the low-density lipoprotein receptor superfamily, has been identified in parathyroid chief cells as another putative calcium-sensing molecule. It could be involved in calcium-regulated cellular signaling processes as well ( 121 ). Based on these observations, it is possible that parathyroid cells express multiple CaSR-like molecules. Consequently, if the well-known parathyroid CaSR is downregulated, parathyroid cell proliferation induced by increases in [Ca2+e] may occur via a different type of CaSR. Another possibility is an alteration in post-receptor signal transduction that could occur in hyperparathyroid states or under cell culture conditions. Our observations are in line with findings by Ishimi et al. which were incompatible with a direct effect of low [Ca2+e] in the pathogenesis of parathyroid hyperplasia ( 78 ). However, any extrapolation from such in vitro observations to the in vivo setting should be done with caution. Further work is needed to define the precise pathway(s) by which calcium regulates parathyroid tissue growth. The effect of CaSR activation by calcimimetics on parathyroid cell proliferation may also depend on the timing of calcimimetic administration since CaSR expression exhibits significant diurnal rhythmicity. Egstrand et al recently showed in rats with CKD that the inhibitory effect of cinacalcet administration on parathyroid cell proliferation effectively depended on its timing, suggesting a possible benefit of using chronotherapy ( 122 ). Figure 9. Hypothesis of the regulation of parathyroid cell proliferation by extracellular [Ca2+]. 1) Inhibitory pathway via the calcium-sensing receptor (CaR). 2) Stimulatory pathway via an unknown transmembrane transduction mechanism. Physiologically, pathway 1 predominates over pathway 2. In presence of parathyroid hyperplasia with calcium-sensing receptor down-regulation pathway 2 could become dominant and favor parathyroid cell proliferation over suppression. After Roussanne et
