Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


pathway 1 predominates over pathway 2. In presence of parathyroid hyperplasia with calcium-sensing receptor down-regulation pathway 2 could become dominant and favor parathyroid cell proliferation over suppression. After Roussanne et al ( 79 ). Phosphate A direct action of phosphate on PTH secretion by the parathyroid cell has long been suspected. However, it has been formally demonstrated in vitro only in 1996 (123-125). This demonstration required the use of either intact parathyroid glands (from rats) ( Figure 10 ) or parathyroid tissue slices (from cows) whereas it had not been possible to obtain such direct stimulation using the classic model of isolated bovine parathyroid cells. Elevating plasma phosphate concentration in the incubation milieu of experimental models using intact (or partially intact) parathyroid tissue led to a stimulation of PTH secretion within some hours, in the absence of any change in [Ca2+e]. This effect could be abrogated by an increase in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ( 126 ). Figure 10. Direct inhibition of parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion by phosphate. Intact parathyroid glands obtained from normal rats were maintained in culture and exposed to increasing phosphate concentrations in the incubation medium. After Almaden et al ( 126 ). Silver’s group reported subsequently that phosphate, like calcium, regulates pre-pro-PTH gene expression post-transcriptionally by changes in protein-PTH mRNA interactions at the 3'-UTR which determine PTH mRNA stability. The authors identified the minimal sequence required for protein binding in the PTH mRNA 3'-UTR and determined its functionality. They found that the conserved PTH RNA protein-binding region conferred responsiveness to calcium and phosphate and determined PTH mRNA stability and levels ( 127 ). Thus, a low calcium diet increased stability, whereas a low phosphate diet decreased stability of PTH mRNA ( 128 ) ( Figure 11 ). The PTH mRNA 3’-untranslated region-binding protein was subsequently identified by this research group as adenylate-uridylate-rich element RNA binding protein 1 (AUF1) ( 129 ). Figure 11. Post-transcriptional regulation of PTH mRNA stability by calcium, phosphate, and kidney failure. Pre-pro-PTH gene expression is modulated via changes in protein-PTH mRNA interactions at the 3'-UTR region which determine PTH mRNA stability. Low calcium diet increases stability, whereas low phosphate diet decreases stability of PTH mRNA. PTH mRNA protective factor AUF1 in yellow, PTH mRNA degrading endonuclease in orange. After Yalcindag et al ( 128 , 129 ). In addition to its stimulatory effect on PTH secretion, a high phosphate diet also rapidly induces
