Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


mRNA degrading endonuclease in orange. After Yalcindag et al ( 128 , 129 ). In addition to its stimulatory effect on PTH secretion, a high phosphate diet also rapidly induces parathyroid overfunction and hyperplasia, as shown in experimental animal models ( 130 ). Subsequent studies showed that hyperphosphatemia induced by phosphate-rich diets in animals with CKD led to parathyroid hyperplasia even when changes in plasma Ca2+ and calcitriol concentration were carefully avoided, pointing to a direct effect of phosphate on cell proliferation ( 75 , 125 ). Conversely, early dietary phosphate restriction in the course of CKD was capable of preventing both PTH oversecretion and parathyroid hyperplasia ( 75 , 125 , 131 ). Interestingly, dietary phosphate restriction following phosphate overload in rats led to an immediate decrease in PTH secretion despite no regression of parathyroid gland size ( 132 ). Our group wished to know whether the stimulatory effect of phosphate on parathyroid cell proliferation was direct or indirect. To answer this question, we used the above-described in vitro model of human uremic parathyroid cells maintained in long-term culture ( 118 ). We could show that cell proliferation index was directly stimulated by high phosphate concentrations in the incubation medium, compared with low phosphate concentration ( 79 ) ( Figure 12 ). These experiments demonstrated that phosphate is capable of stimulating not only PTH secretion, but also of inducing parathyroid tissue hyperplasia by a direct mode of action. Figure 12. Direct stimulatory effect of extracellular phosphate on parathyroid cell proliferation. Response of parathyroid cell growth to increasing phosphate concentrations in the incubation milieu of a human parathyroid cell culture system derived from hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. Determination of cell proliferation by [3H]-thymidine incorporation method. After Roussanne et al ( 133 ). FGF23 plays an important role in the control of plasma phosphate. Elevated FGF23 in CKD allows efficient inhibition of proximal tubular phosphate reabsorption and maintenance of plasma phosphate in the normal range. However, since hyperphosphatemia directly stimulates PTH secretion, its correction by FGF23 indirectly leads to a reduction of PTH release, in addition to the direct inhibitory action of FGF23 on parathyroid secretory activity (see above). FGF23 and Klotho As mentioned before, FGF23 directly inhibits PTH synthesis and secretion via its action on parathyroid FGFR-1 ( 134 ). FGF23 also increases parathyroid CaSR and VDR expression, further contributing to the suppression of
