Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


FGF23 directly inhibits PTH synthesis and secretion via its action on parathyroid FGFR-1 ( 134 ). FGF23 also increases parathyroid CaSR and VDR expression, further contributing to the suppression of PTH by this hormone ( 135 ). In advanced stages of CKD FGF23’s effect is partially or even completely abolished owing to downregulation of the expression of its receptor and co-receptor Klotho ( 40 - 42 ). Of interest, in the early stages of CKD there could be an initial upregulation of FGFR-1 and Klotho, with enhanced PTH secretion in response to FGF23 via an Na+/K+ -ATPase driven pathway ( 136 ). Subsequent findings suggested a function for Klotho in suppressing PTH biosynthesis and parathyroid gland growth, even in the absence of CaSR ( 137 ). Moreover, they pointed to a physical interaction between Klotho and CaSR. Specific deletion of CaSR in parathyroid tissue led to elevated serum PTH levels and parathyroid gland hyperplasia, and additional deletion of Klotho in parathyroid glands exacerbated this condition. However, a more recent review concluded that the role of parathyroid Klotho remains controversial ( 138 ). MicroRNAs Shilo et al provided evidence for the important role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the physiological regulation of parathyroid function, and its dysregulation in the secondary hyperparathyroidism of CKD ( 139 , 140 ). The authors found an abnormal regulation of many miRNAs in experimental uremic hyperparathyroidism supporting a key role for miRNAs in this condition. Specifically, their studies showed that inhibition of the abundant let-7 family increased PTH secretion in normal and uremic rats, as well as in mouse parathyroid organ cultures. Conversely, the inhibition of the upregulated miRNA-148 family prevented the increase in serum PTH of uremic rats, and inhibition of let-7 family also reduced PTH secretion in parathyroid organ cultures. Thus, miRNA dysregulation represents yet another crucial step in the pathogenesis of secondary hyperparathyroidism. Other Factors and Conditions As already pointed out above, the uremic state with its accumulation of numerous uremic toxins is another long suspected, albeit yet ill-defined factor in the pathogenesis of secondary hyperparathyroidism. Recently, several pieces of evidence have been provided in favor of the role of the uremic state which interferes with the binding of calcitriol to VDR ( 60 ) and with the nuclear uptake of the hormone-receptor complex ( 67 ). This should have consequences not only for PTH synthesis and secretion, but also for parathyroid cell proliferation.
