Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


) and with the nuclear uptake of the hormone-receptor complex ( 67 ). This should have consequences not only for PTH synthesis and secretion, but also for parathyroid cell proliferation. Another mechanism of excessive proliferation involves the mTOR pathway, which has been shown to be activated in secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 141 ). Inhibition of mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) by rapamycin decreased parathyroid cell proliferation in vivo and in vitro. Parathyroid-specific genetic ablation of mTOR (PT-mTOR−/−) in mice resulted in disrupted gland structure but normal serum PTH levels. Conversely, mice with parathyroid-specific deletion of the tuberous sclerosis complex-1 gene (Tsc1) leading to mTORC1 hyperactivation, exhibited enlarged parathyroid glands and elevated serum PTH and calcium levels ( 142 ). Of note, despite impaired gland structure, PT-mTOR−/− mice with CKD were able to increase serum PTH to levels similar to controls ( 143 ). In keeping with this experimental finding, kidney transplant recipients treated with mTOR inhibitors, as compared to those treated with calcineurin inhibitors, had reduced serum PTH levels and a lower incidence of secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 143 ). Patients with diabetes receiving dialysis therapy have relatively low plasma PTH levels, as compared to those without diabetes. The high incidence of low bone turnover in uremic patients with diabetes ( 144 - 147 ) has been attributed to low levels of biologically active PTH, possibly via an inhibition of PTH secretion or a modification of the PTH peptide by the accumulation of advanced glycation end-products such as pentosidine ( 140 ) or else oxidative modifications of PTH ( 149 , 150 ). However, experimental studies have demonstrated that the metabolic abnormalities associated with diabetes can also directly decrease bone turnover, independent of PTH ( 151 ). In general, patients with low bone turnover tend to develop hypercalcemia when on a normal or high dietary calcium intake, probably due to a diminished skeletal capacity of calcium uptake. This in turn tends to reduce plasma PTH. Thus, not only does hypoparathyroidism promote adynamic bone disease but adynamic bone disease also favors hypoparathyroidism. Another issue is whether in patients with diabetes abnormalities such as hyperglycemia and insulin deficiency or resistance may directly affect parathyroid function. In an in vitro study using dispersed bovine parathyroid cells, high glucose and low insulin concentrations suppressed the PTH response to low Ca2+ concentration ( 152 ). These results are compatible with the view that diabetes directly inhibits parathyroid function.
