Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


high glucose and low insulin concentrations suppressed the PTH response to low Ca2+ concentration ( 152 ). These results are compatible with the view that diabetes directly inhibits parathyroid function. However, when uremic rats were fed on a high phosphate diet to induce secondary hyperparathyroidism, the presence of diabetes did not prevent it ( 152 ). Aluminum bone disease is generally associated with low serum PTH levels ( 153 - 154 ) and a decreased PTH response to stimulation by hypocalcemia ( 155 , 156 ). In aluminum intoxicated patients, high amounts of aluminum are also found in parathyroid tissue ( 157 ). The relatively low PTH levels may reflect either an inhibition of PTH secretion by the hypercalcemia commonly observed in this condition ( 158 ) or a direct inhibitory effect of aluminum on parathyroid cell function ( 159 ). Direct toxic effects of the trace element have also been demonstrated in studies in vitro ( 160 , 161 ). Observations made in experimental animals and results of clinical studies have been less clear. Whereas some authors found that aluminum overload did not decrease plasma PTH levels in vivo ( 160 , 161 ), others reported a decrease ( 162 , 163 ). Whatever the mechanisms involved, subsequent clinical data clearly showed that the introduction of an aluminum-free dialysis fluid and the discontinuation of aluminum contamination of the dialysate or aluminum removal with deferoxamine resulted in an increase in plasma PTH levels and in PTH response to hypocalcemia ( 164 ). Thus, although there appears to be an association between aluminum toxicity and parathyroid gland function, the interaction is complex. Post-Receptor Mechanisms Involved in Polyclonal Parathyroid Tissue Growth As pointed out above, calcitriol reduces parathyroid cell proliferation by decreasing the expression of the early gene, c-myc. This gene modulates cell cycle progression from G1 to S phase. A decrease in plasma calcitriol and/or a disturbance of its action at the level of the parathyroid cell, which are both frequently observed in uremic patients, may cause disinhibition of c-myc expression and progression into the cell cycle. Another mode of action involves the cyclin kinase inhibitor p21WAF1. Calcitriol has long been shown to induce the differential expression of p21WAF1 in the myelo-monocytic cell line U937 and to activate the p21 gene transcriptionally in a VDR-dependent, but p53-independent, manner, thereby arresting parathyroid growth ( 165 ). Slatopolsky’s group further showed that the
