Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


myelo-monocytic cell line U937 and to activate the p21 gene transcriptionally in a VDR-dependent, but p53-independent, manner, thereby arresting parathyroid growth ( 165 ). Slatopolsky’s group further showed that the administration of calcitriol to moderately uremic rats enhanced parathyroid p21 expression and prevented high phosphate-induced increase in parathyroid TGF-β content ( 165 ). In addition, these authors found that calcitriol altered membrane trafficking of the epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR), which binds both EGF and TGF-β, and down-regulated EGFR mediated growth signaling ( 166 ). Induction of p21 and reduction of TGF-β content in the parathyroid glands also occurred when uremia-induced parathyroid hyperplasia was suppressed by high dietary Ca intake. The mechanisms by which a phosphate-rich diet and hyperphosphatemia induce parathyroid hyperplasia, and conversely a phosphate-poor diet and hypophosphatemia inhibit parathyroid tissue growth, have also been examined by this group in a detailed fashion. Thus, Dusso et al showed that feeding a low phosphate diet to uremic rats increased parathyroid p21 gene expression through a vitamin D-independent mechanism ( 167 ). When administering a high phosphate diet, p21 expression was not suppressed. In this condition, they observed an increase in parathyroid tissue TGF-β expression and a direct correlation between this expression and parathyroid cell proliferation rate. This finding is in line with a previous observation by our group of de novo TGF-β expression in severely hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of patients with ESKD ( 168 ). The inducer of TGF-β gene transcription could be activator protein 2α (AP2), whose expression and transcriptional activity at the TGF-β promoter is increased in the secondary hyperparathyroidism of CKD ( 169 ). Although these findings provide more insight into the pathways by which changes in phosphate intake, and ultimately variations in extracellular phosphate concentration, control parathyroid tissue growth, the exciting question of the transmembrane signal transduction mechanism and subsequent nuclear events triggered by phosphate remains yet to be answered. It is possible that phosphate acts as a partial, non-competitive CaSR antagonist to modulate PTH secretion ( 169a ). In addition to p21 and TGF-β, a variety of other growth factors and inhibitors are probably involved in polyclonal parathyroid hyperplasia. PTHrp has been proposed as a possible growth suppressor in the human parathyroid ( 170 ). PTHrp, and probably PTH itself, also exert an inhibitory effect on PTH secretion by acting via a negative feedback loop on PTH-R1 which appears to be expressed in the parathyroid
