Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


in the development of such cell clones but precise knowledge about acquired genetic abnormalities remains limited ( 178 ). To identify new locations of parathyroid oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes important in this disease, Imanishi et al performed both comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and genome-wide molecular allelotyping on a large number of uremia-associated parathyroid tumors ( 181 ). One or more chromosomal changes were present in 24% of tumors, markedly different from the values in common sporadic adenomas (28%), whereas no gains or losses were found in 76% of tumors. Two recurrent abnormalities were found, namely gain of chromosome 7 (9% of tumors) and gain of chromosome 12 (11% of tumors). Losses on chromosome 11, the location of the MEN1 tumor suppressor gene, occurred in only one uremia-associated tumor (2%), as compared to 34% in adenomas. The additional search for allelic losses with polymorphic microsatellite markers led to the observation of recurrent allelic loss on 18q (13% of informative tumors). Lower frequency loss was detected on 7p, 21q, and 22q. Interestingly, the cyclin D1 oncogene, activated and overexpressed by clonal gene rearrangement or other mechanisms in 20-40% of parathyroid adenomas ( 182 , 183 ) has not been found to be overexpressed in uremia-associated tumors ( 183 ). Another interesting question was if somatic genes played a major role in the normal regulation of parathyroid function, such as the CaSR and VDR genes. The expression of these two genes was found to be decreased in the hyperplastic parathyroid tissue of uremic patients ( 66 , 94 , 95 ). The decrease was particularly marked in nodular areas, as compared to diffuse areas of parathyroid gland hyperplasia. Moreover, in uremic rats the decrease in CaSR expression was inversely related to the degree of parathyroid cell proliferation ( 97 ). However, the search for mutations or deletions of the VDR gene or the CaSR gene in uremic hyperparathyroidism has remained unsuccessful ( 178 , 184 , 185 ). The question remains unsolved whether the downregulation of CaSR and VDR expression is a primary event or whether it is secondary to hyperplasia. Whether benign parathyroid tumors may evolve towards malignant forms is still subject to debate. Since in patients on dialysis therapy parathyroid carcinoma is a rare event ( 186 – 188 ), malignant transformation of clonal parathyroid neoplasms is probably exceptional. Genome-wide allelotyping and CGH have directly confirmed the presence of monoclonal
