Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


carcinoma is a rare event ( 186 – 188 ), malignant transformation of clonal parathyroid neoplasms is probably exceptional. Genome-wide allelotyping and CGH have directly confirmed the presence of monoclonal parathyroid neoplasms in uremic patients with refractory secondary hyperparathyroidism whereas the candidate gene approach has led to only modest results. Somatic inactivation of the MEN1 gene does contribute to the pathogenesis of uremia-associated parathyroid tumors, but its role in this disease appears to be limited, and there is probably no role for DNA changes of the CaSR and VDR genes. Recurrent DNA abnormalities suggest the existence of new oncogenes on chromosomes 7 and 12, and tumor suppressor genes on 18q and 21q, involved in uremic hyperparathyroidism. Finally, patterns of somatic DNA alterations indicate that markedly different molecular pathogenetic pathways exist for clonal outgrowth in severe uremic hyperparathyroidism, as compared to common sporadic parathyroid adenomas. Our group did not find a correlation between the presence of microscopically evident nodules and the clonal character of resected parathyroid tissue, and appearances of several glands with histological patterns of diffuse hyperplasia also were unequivocally monoclonal in the absence of detectable nodular formations, suggesting that the current criteria for pathological diagnosis do not reflect the genetic differences among these two histopathological types ( 177 ). Parathyroid Cell Apoptosis It remains uncertain whether reduced apoptosis rates can also contribute to parathyroid tissue hyperplasia ( 68 , 181 , 182 ). One research group examined this issue in rats with short-term kidney failure (5 days). They were unable to detect apoptosis in hyperplastic parathyroid glands ( 183 ). However, this failure could be due to a lack of sensitivity of the employed methods. Negative findings in rats, with no identifiable apoptotic figures at all in parathyroid glands ( 72 , 190 , 191 ), contrast with subsequent positive observations in rats by others ( 192 , 193 ) and with personal observations of significant apoptotic figures in hyperplastic parathyroid glands removed from uremic, severely hyperparathyroid patients during surgery ( 194 ). In our study of human parathyroid glands from patients with ESKD approximately ten times higher apoptotic cell numbers were observed than in normal parathyroid tissue, using TUNEL method ( Figure 14 ) ( 194 ). Figure 14. Increased proportion of apoptotic (TUNEL positive) cells in parathyroid glands from patients with primary or secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism, as compared to normal parathyroid tissue. After Zhang et al (
