Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


14. Increased proportion of apoptotic (TUNEL positive) cells in parathyroid glands from patients with primary or secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism, as compared to normal parathyroid tissue. After Zhang et al ( 194 ). Of note, the uremic state appears to stimulate apoptosis in other cell types as well such as circulating monocytes ( 195 ), possibly via the well-known increase of cytosolic Ca2+ which has been observed in a variety of cell types in kidney failure ( 196 ), and also possibly via the noxious effect of bioincompatible dialysis membranes used for renal replacement therapy ( 197 ). The observed enhancement of parathyroid tissue apoptosis could compensate, at least in part, the increase in parathyroid cell proliferation observed in secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – REGRESSION OF PARATHYROID HYPERPLASIA ? Whether regression of parathyroid hyperplasia occurs in animals or patients with advanced stages of CKD remains a matter of debate. According to some authors regression must be an extremely slow process, if it occurs at all ( 75 , 190 ). This is in sharp contrast to the rapid reversibility of excessive PTH secretion in uremic rats which was observed after normalization of renal function by kidney transplantation ( 198 ), although parathyroid mass probably did not rapidly decrease in this acute experimental model. The issue of regression is of clinical importance. As an example, if a patient on dialysis therapy has a dramatic increase in total parathyroid mass there is practically no chance to obtain gland mass regression after a successful kidney transplantation. In this condition it would seem appropriate to perform a surgical parathyroidectomy prior to transplantation. If however significant regression of hyperplasia can occur as an active or passive process, namely by enhanced apoptosis or reduced proliferation, prophylactic surgery could be avoided. That regression of parathyroid hyperplasia secondary to vitamin D deficiency can occur has been convincingly demonstrated many years ago in experiments done in chicks ( 199 ). The administration of cholecalciferol to these birds that had developed an increase in parathyroid gland mass when fed a rachitogenic, vitamin D-free diet for 8-10 weeks led to a significant (50%) reduction in gland weight. Calcitriol failed to achieve the same effect at low, albeit hypercalcemic, dose but was capable of reducing gland mass at higher dose. However, in an experimental dog model no parathyroid mass regression was found when the animals were first submitted to a
