Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


but was capable of reducing gland mass at higher dose. However, in an experimental dog model no parathyroid mass regression was found when the animals were first submitted to a low-calcium, low-sodium and vitamin D deficient diet for two years and subsequently to a normal diet for another 17 months ( 200 ). In uremic animals, evidence for or against the possibility of regression of increased parathyroid tissue mass remains sparse and inconclusive. The calcimimetic drug NPS R-568 was shown to decrease parathyroid cell proliferation and to prevent parathyroid hyperplasia in 5/6th nephrectomized rats; however, it was unable to entirely revert established hyperplasia ( 191 , 201 ). In apparent contrast, Miller et al showed that in rats with established secondary hyperparathyroidism cinacalcet administration led to complete regression of parathyroid hyperplasia ( 202 ). The cinacalcet-mediated decrease in parathyroid gland size was accompanied by increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. However, these were short-term experiments over an 11-week time period. Interestingly, the prevention of cellular proliferation with cinacalcet occurred despite increased phosphorus and decreased calcium serum levels. In patients with primary hyperparathyroidism spontaneous remission of overfunctioning parathyroid glands has been observed in rare instances, caused by parathyroid “ apoplexy ” due to tissue necrosis ( 203 ). The diagnosis of parathyroid tissue necrosis is more difficult to ascertain in secondary than in primary forms of hyperparathyroidism because the hyperplasia of the former is not limited to a single gland. Regression of parathyroid hyperplasia in patients on hemodialysis in response to intravenous calcitriol pulse therapy for 12 weeks has been reported by Fukagawa et al using ultrasonography ( 204 ). These authors observed a significant decrease in mean gland volume from 0.87 to 0.51 cm3 over this time period, together with a reduction in serum iPTH of more than 50%. In contrast, Quarles et al who also examined parathyroid gland morphology in patients on hemodialysis in vivo in response to intermittent intravenous or oral calcitriol treatment for 36 weeks failed to observe a decrease in parathyroid gland size as assessed by high resolution ultrasound and/or magnetic resonance imaging ( 205 ). Mean gland size was 1.9 and 2.1 cm3 before and 3.3 and 2.3 cm3 after oral and intravenous calcitriol therapy, respectively. The authors achieved a maximum average serum PTH reduction of 43% over this time period. There were marked differences between these two studies, which may explain the
