Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


calcitriol therapy, respectively. The authors achieved a maximum average serum PTH reduction of 43% over this time period. There were marked differences between these two studies, which may explain the apparently diverging results. Hyperparathyroidism probably was more severe in the latter than in the former. Although initial mean serum iPTH levels were similar, serum phosphorus was higher and the decrease in serum PTH achieved in response to calcitriol was less marked in the latter. Moreover, parathyroid mass was more than double. In another study, Fukagawa et al examined the possible relation between parathyroid size and the long-term outcome after calcitriol pulse therapy, by subdividing patients into different groups according to initial parathyroid gland volume assessments ( 206 ). In two patients on hemodialysis with detectable gland(s), in whom the size of all parathyroid glands as well as PTH hypersecretion regressed to normal, secondary hyperparathyroidism remained controllable for at least 12 months after switching to conventional oral active vitamin D therapy. In contrast, in seven patients on hemodialysis in whom the size of all parathyroid glands did not regress to normal by calcitriol pulse therapy, secondary hyperparathyroidism relapsed after switching to conventional therapy although PTH hypersecretion could be controlled temporarily. Similarly, Okuno et al. showed in a study in patients on hemodialysis that plasma PTH levels and the number of detectable parathyroid glands decreased in response to the active vitamin D derivative maxacalcitol (22-oxacalcitriol) given for 24 weeks only when the mean value of the maximum diameter of the parathyroid glands was less than 11.0 mm, but not when it was above that value ( 207 ). Taken together, these findings suggest that the degree of parathyroid hyperplasia, as detected by ultrasonography, is an important determinant for regression in response to calcitriol therapy. It is probable, although not proven, that the type of hyperplasia, namely monoclonal/multiclonal vs polyclonal growth, is even more important as regards the potential of regression than the mere size of each gland. Figure 2 (see above) summarizes in a schematic view the main mechanisms involved in abnormal PTH synthesis and secretion and in parathyroid tissue hyperplasia. It further points to the possible counterregulatory role of apoptosis. Altered PTH Metabolism and Resistance to PTH Action PTH metabolism is greatly disturbed in CKD. Normally, most of full-length PTH1-84 is transformed in the liver to the biologically active N-terminal PTH1-34 fragment and several other, inactive C-terminal fragments. The latter are
