Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


greatly disturbed in CKD. Normally, most of full-length PTH1-84 is transformed in the liver to the biologically active N-terminal PTH1-34 fragment and several other, inactive C-terminal fragments. The latter are mainly catabolized in the kidney and the degradation process involves solely glomerular filtration and tubular reabsorption, whereas the N-terminal PTH1-34 fragment undergoes both tubular reabsorption and peritubular uptake, as does the full-length PTH1-84 molecule ( 208 ). Tubular reabsorption involves the multifunctional receptor megalin ( 209 ). With the progression of CKD, both pathways of renal PTH degradation are progressively impaired. This leads to a marked prolongation of the half-life of C-terminal PTH fragments in the circulation ( 210 – 212 ) and their accumulation in the extracellular space. Moreover, there is no peritubular metabolism of PTH1-84 in uremic non-filtering kidneys, in contrast to peritubular uptake by normal, filtering kidneys ( 213 ). Hepatic PTH catabolism appears however to be unchanged in CKD since uremic livers and control livers released equal amounts of immunoreactive C-terminal PTH fragments ( 213 ). A decreased response to the action of PTH may be another factor involved in the stimulation of the parathyroid glands in CKD. A diminished calcemic response to the infusion of PTH has long been reported, suggesting that PTH oversecretion was necessary to maintain eucalcemia. The skeletal resistance to PTH has been attributed to various mechanisms, including impaired vitamin D action in association with hyperphosphatemia, overestimation of true PTH( 1 - 84 ) by assays measuring iPTH (see below), accumulation of inhibitory PTH fragments, oxidative modification of PTH, increase in circulating osteoprotegerin and sclerostin levels, administration of active vitamin D derivatives and calcimimetics, and altered PTH-R1 expression ( 7 , 149 , 214 , 215 ). Concerning the latter mechanism, studies have suggested the presence of PTH receptor isoforms in various organs of normal rats. Downregulation of PTH-R1 mRNA has been observed in various tissues of uremic rats ( 216 – 219 ) and also in osteoblasts of patients with end-stage renal disease ( 220 ). However, the issue of PTH-R1 expression in bone tissue remains a matter of controversy since one group found it to be upregulated in patients with moderate to severe renal hyperparathyroid bone disease ( 221 ). A recent study claimed that the inhibition of PTH binding to PTH-R1 by soluble Klotho could represent yet another mechanism of PTH resistance ( 222 ). This observation would be
