Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


A recent study claimed that the inhibition of PTH binding to PTH-R1 by soluble Klotho could represent yet another mechanism of PTH resistance ( 222 ). This observation would be compatible with the presence of an upregulated, yet biologically inactive PTH-R1. Other mechanisms involved in the control of the normal balance between bone formation and resorption and their response to PTH are the Wnt-β-catenin signaling pathway and its inhibition by sclerostin and Dickkopf-related protein 1 (Dkk1) ( 7 , 58 , 223 ), and the activin A pathway with its inhibition by a decoy receptor ( 224 ). Wnt-β-catenin inhibitors are expressed predominantly in osteocytes. Whereas reduced activity of sclerostin and Dkk1 leads to increased bone mass and strength, the opposite occurs with overexpression of both sclerostin and Dkk1 in animal models. In CKD, circulating levels of both Wnt-β-catenin inhibitors have generally been found to be increased ( 56 ), and serum sclerostin was found to correlate negatively with serum PTH ( 225 , 226 ), and PTH has been shown to blunt osteocytic production of this Wnt inhibitor ( 227 ). Since high PTH and sclerostin levels coexist in CKD this raises the suspicion that sclerostin contributes to PTH resistance in CKD ( 7 ). Calcitonin and bone morphogenetic proteins stimulate, whereas PTH and estrogens suppress the expression of sclerostin and/or Dkk1 ( 228 , 229 ). Bone formation induced by intermittent PTH administration to patients with osteoporosis could be explained, at least in part, by the ability of PTH to downregulate sclerostin expression in osteocytes, permitting the anabolic Wnt signaling pathway to proceed ( 230 ). In patients with ESKD sclerostin is a strong predictor of bone turnover and osteoblast number ( 231 ). Serum levels of sclerostin correlate negatively with serum iPTH in such patients. Sclerostin was superior to iPTH for the positive prediction of high bone turnover and number of osteoblasts. In contrast, iPTH was superior to sclerostin for the negative prediction of high bone turnover and had similar predictive values as sclerostin for the number of osteoblasts. Serum sclerostin levels increase after parathyroidectomy ( 7 ). As regards activin A, a member of the transforming growth factor-b superfamily, Hruska’s group has demonstrated increased serum levels and systemic activation of its receptors in mouse models of CKD ( 224 ). In humans, serum activin A levels increase already at early stages of CKD, before elevations in
