Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


and systemic activation of its receptors in mouse models of CKD ( 224 ). In humans, serum activin A levels increase already at early stages of CKD, before elevations in intact PTH and FGF23, supporting its role in CKD-MBD and PTH resistance ( 232 ). Interesting new pathways have recently been identified by Pacifici’s group. First, they used various mouse models to demonstrate a permissive activity of butyrate produced by the gut microbiota, required to allow stimulation of bone formation by PTH ( 233 ). Butyrate’s effect was mediated by short-chain fatty acid receptor GPR43 signaling in dendritic cells and by GPR43-independent signaling in T cells. Second, the group showed that intestinal segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) enabled PTH to expand intestinal TNF+ T and Th17 cells and thereby increase their egress from the intestine and recruitment to the bone marrow to cause bone loss ( 234 ). Figure 15 shows these recently detected pathways involving the gut microbiota. Figure 15. Importance of intestinal microbiota for PTH action in bone. The stimulation of bone anabolism by PTH requires butyrate formation by short chain fatty acid (SCFA) producing gut bacteria. CKD probably reduces its production. Butyrate increases the frequency of regulatory T (Treg) cells in the intestine and in the bone marrow and potentiates the capacity of intermittently administered PTH to induce the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Tregs, a population of T cells which induces conventional CD8+ T cells to release Wnt10b. This osteogenic Wnt ligand activates Wnt signaling in osteoblastic cells and stimulates bone formation. Butyrate enables intermittent PTH dosing to expand Tregs via GPR43 signaling in dendritic cells (DCs) and GPR43 independent targeting of T cells. Butyrate may also affect bone remodeling by modulating osteoclast genes. The stimulation of bone resorption by PTH requires the presence of segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) within gut microbiota for the production of Th17 cells in intestinal Peyers' plaques. Continuously elevated PTH levels lead to TNF+ T cell expansion in the gut and the bone marrow via a microbiota-dependent, but SFB independent mechanism. Furthermore, intestinal TNF producing T cells are required for PTH to increase the number of intestinal Th17 cells, and TNF mediates the migration of intestinal Th17 cells to the bone marrow. This migration depends on the upregulation of chemokine receptor CXCR3 and chemokine CCL20. Bone marrow Th17 cells then induce osteoclastogenesis by secreting IL-17A, RANKL, TNF, IL-1, and IL-6.
