Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


bone marrow. This migration depends on the upregulation of chemokine receptor CXCR3 and chemokine CCL20. Bone marrow Th17 cells then induce osteoclastogenesis by secreting IL-17A, RANKL, TNF, IL-1, and IL-6. From Massy & Drueke ( 235 ). It will be interesting to examine the hypotheses that the excessive bone resorption associated with secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD is at least partially due to either insufficient intestinal butyrate availability, excessive intestinal SFB activity, or both ( 235 ). Finally, the analysis of cohort studies performed in diverse populations point towards differences in mineral metabolism control, rather than genetic or environmental factors, as the main drivers of the variability of PTH responsiveness ( 236 ). SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – CLINICAL FEATURES In most patients with ESKD, advanced secondary hyperparathyroidism remains a clinically silent disease. Clinical manifestations are generally related to severe osteitis fibrosa and to the consequences of hypercalcemia and/or hyperphosphatemia. Osteoarticular pain may be present. When patients become symptomatic, they usually complain of pain on exertion in skeletal sites that are subjected to biomechanical stress. Pain at rest and localized pain are rather unusual and suggest other underlying causes. Severe proximal myopathy is seen in some patients, even in the absence of vitamin D deficiency. These symptoms and signs are more frequent in patients who suffer from mixed renal osteodystrophy, resulting from a combination of parathyroid overfunction and vitamin D deficiency. Skeletal fractures may occur after only minor injury. They may also develop on the ground of cystic bone lesions, the so-called “brown tumors”, which occur for still unknown reasons in a small number of uremic patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism. Rupture of the patella or avulsion of tendons may be seen in advanced cases. The relation between serum PTH levels and fracture risk of patients on dialysis has been examined in several observational studies, reporting either a linear or U-shaped relation, increased fracture risk with low PTH levels, or no relation at all. A new recent observational study from Japan in more than 180,000 patients on hemodialysis therapy showed a linear relationship, with a graded reduction towards lower PTH levels ( 237 ). The absolute risk difference associated with higher PTH levels was more pronounced in older individuals, female patients, and those with lower body mass index. Uremic pruritus is most often associated with an elevated Ca x P product although other factors may also be involved. Related symptoms and signs
