Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


those with lower body mass index. Uremic pruritus is most often associated with an elevated Ca x P product although other factors may also be involved. Related symptoms and signs are the red eye syndrome due to the deposition of calcium in the conjunctiva, cutaneous calcification, and pseudogout. The latter is a form of painful arthralgia of acute or subacute onset caused by intra-articular deposition of radio-opaque crystals composed of calcium pyrophosphate dehydrate. The syndrome of “ calciphylaxis ” is an infrequent manifestation of cutaneous and vascular calcification in uremic patients which may occur in association with secondary hyperparathyroidism, although this association is by no means constant. It is characterized by rapidly progressive skin necrosis involving buttocks and the legs, particularly the thighs. It can produce gangrene and may be fatal. It occurs as the result of arteriolar calcification and has also been termed “calcific uremic arteriolopathy” to reflect more accurately the nature of the lesion ( 238 ). Of interest, a post-hoc analysis of the EVOLVE trial in patients on hemodialysis recently showed that cinacalcet administration, which allows improved PTH control, resulted in a significant decrease in the incidence of calcific uremic arteriolopathy as compared to placebo ( 239 ). SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD -- DIAGNOSIS The biochemical diagnosis relies on the determination of plasma iPTH. This is also true for primary hyperparathyroidism. In patients with CKD, there are several limitations to its measurement, in addition to the usual day-to-day variations in healthy people ( 240 ). Physiological iPTH plasma values are not "normal" for uremic patients since values in the normal range are often associated with low bone turnover (adynamic bone disease) whereas normal bone turnover may be observed in presence of elevated plasma intact PTH levels ( 241 – 244 ). It is currently unclear to what extent this is due to imperfections in the PTH assays used (see below), PTH receptor status, post-receptor events, non-PTH-mediated changes in bone metabolism (e.g. supply of vitamin D or its metabolites, supply of estrogens or androgens), or a combination of these factors. The accumulation of a large non ( 1 - 84 ) molecular form of PTH, which is detected by iPTH (so-called "intact" PTH) assays, has been described in patients with CKD ( 245 ). The large PTH fragment was tentatively identified as hPTH( 7 - 84 ) ( 246 ). This finding is of importance in the interpretation
