Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


patients with CKD ( 245 ). The large PTH fragment was tentatively identified as hPTH( 7 - 84 ) ( 246 ). This finding is of importance in the interpretation of PTH values, since true hPTH( 1 - 84 ) represents only about 50-60% of the levels detected by current iPTH assays, and since PTH( 7 - 84 ) antagonizes PTH( 1 - 84 ) effects on serum calcium and on osteoblasts ( 247 ). Moreover, the secretory responses of hPTH( 1 - 84 ) and non-hPTH( 1 - 84 ) to changes in [Ca2+e] are not proportional for these two PTH moieties ( 87 ), and a large variability has been found between different assay methods used for plasma PTH measurement in patients with CKD, recognizing PTH( 7 - 84 ) with various cross-reactivities ( 248 ). Varying plasma sampling and storage conditions may further complicate the interpretation of PTH results provided by clinical laboratories ( 249 ). The development of assays which detect full-length (whole) human PTH, but not amino-terminally truncated fragments ( 250 ), was initially considered as major progress in this field. To further improve the assessment of uremic hyperparathyroidism and the associated increase in bone turnover Monier-Faugere et al proposed to calculate the ratio of PTH-( 1 - 84 ) to large c-terminal PTH fragments ( 251 ). The usefulness in the clinical setting of the whole PTH assay and of the ratio of whole PTH to PTH fragments has however not been convincingly established for the diagnosis of parathyroid overfunction in adult ( 252 , 253 ) or pediatric ( 254 ) patients on dialysis. From a practical point of view, it must be pointed out that at present the measurement of PTH with third-generation assays is not widely available. Another potential issue is the presence of oxidized, inactive PTH in the circulation of patients with CKD, its concentrations being much higher than those of iPTH ( 149 ), although with large interindividual variations ( 149 ). Whereas one study showed a U-shaped association of non-oxidized, but not oxidized, PTH with survival in patients on hemodialysis therapy ( 255 ), a subsequent study done in CKD stage 2-4 patients found iPTH, but not non-oxidized PTH, to be associated with all-cause death in multivariable analysis ( 256 ). The reason for these apparently opposite findings is unclear. The assertion that PTH oxidation is an vitro
