Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


PTH, to be associated with all-cause death in multivariable analysis ( 256 ). The reason for these apparently opposite findings is unclear. The assertion that PTH oxidation is an vitro artifact has been disproved recently ( 257 ). Based on personal findings, Hocher and Zeng postulated that oxidized and non-oxidized PTH should be measured separately to correctly evaluate the degree of severity and clinical relevance of parathyroid overfunction in CKD ( 150 ). However, in a subsequent study Ursem et al observed a strong correlation between serum non-oxidized PTH and total PTH in patients with ESKD ( 258 ). Most importantly, they found that both histomorphometric and circulating bone turnover markers exhibited similar correlations with non-oxidized PTH and total PTH. The authors therefore concluded that non-oxidized PTH is not superior to total PTH as a biomarker of bone turnover in ESKD. However, presently available methods do not enable a precise distinction between biologically active and inactive PTH forms, be it through oxidative or other post-translational modifications of the hormone ( 259 ). A recent study has shown that it is now feasible to standardize all PTH assays by recalibrating PTH immunoassays using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry as the reference method, regardless of the assay methodology (second or third generation immunoassay) ( 260 ). The proposed approach may pave the way for accurate interpretation of PTH in clinical practice ( 261 , 262 ). Most importantly, we will hopefully be able in the future to rely not only on serum PTH but also on appropriate direct markers of bone structure and function for the assessment of renal osteodystrophy and on markers of cardiovascular disease related to secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 263 ). Bone x-ray diagnosis is impossible in mild to moderate forms of secondary hyperparathyroidism, but relatively easy in severe forms. Nevertheless, to date x-ray diagnosis is rarely used in routine clinical praxis. Typical lesions include resorptive defects on the external and internal surfaces of cortical bone, with the resorption particularly pronounced on the subperiosteal surface. Resorption within cortical bone enlarges the Haversian channels, resulting in longitudinal striation; resorption at the endosteal surface causes cortical thinning. These lesions can be generally detected first in the hand skeleton, most characteristically at the periosteal surface of the middle phalanges ( Figure 16 ). Accelerated bone deposition at this site (periosteal neostosis) can also be seen. Another characteristic feature is resorptive loss of
