Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


the periosteal surface of the middle phalanges ( Figure 16 ). Accelerated bone deposition at this site (periosteal neostosis) can also be seen. Another characteristic feature is resorptive loss of acral bone (acro-osteolysis), in particular at the terminal phalanges, at the distal end of the clavicles, and in the skull (‘pepper-pot’ aspect) ( Figure 17 ). Whereas cortical bone is progressively thinning, the mass of spongy bone tends to increase, particularly in the metaphyses. The latter phenomenon results in a characteristic sclerotic aspect of the upper and lower thirds of the vertebrae, contrasting with rarefaction of the vertebral center (‘rugger jersey spine’). Osteosclerosis is also commonly seen in radiographs of the metaphyses of the radius and tibia. Figure 16. Periosteal resorption and small vessel calcification in severe secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism. (a) X-ray aspect of periosteal resorption within cortical bone of middle phalanges of the hand, indicative of osteitis fibrosa, and extensive finger artery calcification in a CKD stage 5 patient with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. (b) Aspect one year after surgical parathyroidectomy: complete bone lesion healing and disappearance of arterial calcification. Figure 17. X-ray pepper-and-salt aspect of the skull in a patient on long-term hemodialysis with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. In addition to the skeletal lesions, radiographs often reveal various types of soft tissue calcification. These comprise vascular calcifications, i.e. calcification of intimal plaques (aorta, iliac arteries) ( Figure 18a ), as well as diffuse calcification (Mönckeberg type) of the media of peripheral muscular arteries ( Figure 18b ). Figure 18. Massive intima (a) and media (b) calcification of hypogastric artery in a patient on long-term hemodialysis. From Amann ( 264 ). Of interest, media calcification of digital arteries can entirely regress after surgical parathyroidectomy ( Figure 16 ). Calcium deposits may also be seen in periarticular tissue or bursas and may exhibit tumor-like features ( Figure 19 ). Figure 19. X-ray feature of a tumor-like periarticular calcification in the shoulder of a chronic hemodialysis patient with adynamic bone disease due to aluminum intoxication. Since the development of electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) and multiple slice computed tomography (MSCT), more reliable means have become available to assess quantitatively vascular calcification and its progression in uremic patients ( 265 ). However, these techniques are not universally available and costly. Moreover, they do not allow a distinction between arterial intima and media calcifications. Such a distinction can be obtained by radiograms of the pelvis and
