Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


not universally available and costly. Moreover, they do not allow a distinction between arterial intima and media calcifications. Such a distinction can be obtained by radiograms of the pelvis and the thigh, combined with ultrasonography of the common carotid artery. Using these simple methods, London et al could show that patients on hemodialysis with arterial media calcification had a longer survival than hemodialysis patients with arterial intima calcification, but in turn their survival was significantly shorter than that of patients on hemodialysis without calcifications ( 266 ). Of note, both severe hyperparathyroidism and marked hypoparathyroidism favor the occurrence of the two types of calcifications in such patients ( 267 – 269 ). In contrast to permanently elevated serum PTH levels, the intermittent administration of PTH1-34 has been shown to decrease arterial calcification in uremic rats ( 270 ) and in diabetic mice with LDL receptor deletion ( 271 ). This observation tends to demonstrate that normal parathyroid function is required not only for the maintenance of optimal bone structure and function, but also as an efficacious defense against soft tissue calcification, and that intermittent PTH administration may not only improve osteoporosis ( 272 ), but also reduce vascular calcification, at least in experimental animals. SECONDARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN CKD – TREATMENT Medical Management Presently available options of medical treatment should take into account plasma biochemistry and x-ray findings, and if available also the dimensions of the largest parathyroid glands, as assessed by ultrasonography. A gland diameter of 5-10 mm or more is considered as being indicative of autonomous growth, which often is resistant to medical treatment ( 206 ). Schematically, there are five major medical treatment options which can be combined in some cases, but not in others, namely the restriction of phosphate intake and/or the administration of calcium supplements, oral phosphate binders, vitamin D derivatives, and calcimimetics ( 273 , 274 ). In patients on dialysis the weekly dose of renal replacement therapy is an additional important factor. An optimal dialysis technique allows controlling hyperphosphatemia and providing enough calcium to avoid PTH stimulation by hypocalcemia during dialysis sessions. To control hyperparathyroidism, it is important to avoid both hypocalcemia and hypercalcemia, and to reduce or correct hyperphosphatemia. In patients with controlled plasma phosphate, this can be achieved by giving either calcitriol or one of its synthetic analogs, or by administering oral calcium supplements. For a long time, calcitriol or alfacalcidol was
