Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


plasma phosphate, this can be achieved by giving either calcitriol or one of its synthetic analogs, or by administering oral calcium supplements. For a long time, calcitriol or alfacalcidol was the preferred therapy in uremic patients with high to very high plasma intact PTH values and normal to moderately elevated plasma calcium levels, when plasma phosphate did not exceed recommended levels, namely 1.5 mmol/L for CKD stages 3-4 and 1.8 mmol/L for CKD stage 5, according to the K/DOQI guidelines of 2003 ( 275 ). However, the administration of active vitamin D derivatives often induces hypercalcemia and/or hyperphosphatemia. The KDIGO CKD-MBD guideline of 2009 ( 276 ) and its subsequent updates in 2017/2018 and 2025 (277-279) suggest maintaining iPTH levels in CKD stage 5D patients (i.e. patients receiving dialysis therapy) in the range of approximately two to nine times the upper normal limit for the assay, to keep serum calcium normal, and to decrease serum phosphorus towards the normal range. Uncertainty prevails regarding ideal PTH and phosphorus targets in patients with CKD stages G3-G5 and those on dialysis therapy. Marked changes in iPTH levels in either direction within the newly defined, broadened range should prompt initiation or change in therapy to avoid progression to levels outside of this range. Patients with CKD stages G3a-G5 not on dialysis whose levels of intact PTH are progressively rising or persistently above the upper normal limit for the assay should be evaluated for modifiable factors, including hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, high phosphate intake, and vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D and Active Vitamin D Derivatives A satisfactory degree of vitamin D repletion should probably be aimed at in case of vitamin D deficiency, knowing that the majority of patients with CKD have at least some degree of vitamin D deficiency ( 53 , 280 ). Relative vitamin D depletion has been shown to be an independent risk factor for secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients on hemodialysis ( 56 ). Repletion with native vitamin D may lead to improved control of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients not yet on dialysis ( 281 ) and in those treated by dialysis ( 282 ) but no beneficial effect has been observed in a subsequent meta-analysis ( 283 ). Vitamin D repletion may allow optimal bone formation, help to avoid osteomalacia, and exert numerous other positive effects due to the pleiotropic actions of vitamin D, but most of these presumably positive actions remain
