Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


allow optimal bone formation, help to avoid osteomalacia, and exert numerous other positive effects due to the pleiotropic actions of vitamin D, but most of these presumably positive actions remain a matter of debate ( 283 , 282 ). Most importantly, randomized controlled trials with native vitamin D or calcidiol have not been performed so far to evaluate hard clinical outcomes of patients with CKD. As regards the administration of active vitamin D sterols during the course of CKD, the updated KDIGO guidelines suggest that calcitriol and vitamin D analogues not be routinely used in patients with CKD G3a-G5. They further state that it is reasonable to reserve the use of these agents for patients with CKD G4-G5 having severe and progressive hyperparathyroidism ( 277 - 278 ). To correct secondary hyperparathyroidism of moderate to severe degree the oral administration of active vitamin D derivatives is generally more efficient than that of native vitamin D. In patients on hemodialysis, calcitriol or its analogs can be given either orally or intravenously. The oral administration can be on a daily basis (for instance 0.125 to 0.5 µg of calcitriol) or as intermittent bolus ingestions (for instance 0.5 to 2.0 µg of calcitriol for each dose) whereas the intravenous administration is always intermittent (0.5 to 2.0 µg of calcitriol or more per injection). The route and mode of administration of calcitriol or alfacalcidol probably play only a minor role. Since the highly active 1α-hydroxylated vitamin D derivatives can easily induce hypercalcemia, intensive research has focused on the development of various non-hypercalcemic analogs, including the natural vitamin D compound 24,25(OH)2 vitamin D3, 22-oxa-calcitriol (maxacalcitol), 19-nor-1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 (paricalcitol), and 1α-(OH) vitamin D2 (hectorol). Despite numerous studies done in many patients none of them has been shown to be entirely devoid of inducing increases in plasma calcium or phosphate, and none has been demonstrated so far to be superior to calcitriol or alfacalcidol in controlling secondary hyperparathyroidism in the long run ( 285 , 286 ). An observational study by Teng et al. showed that paricalcitol administration to a large cohort of patients on hemodialysis conferred a remarkable (16%) survival advantage over the administration of calcitriol ( 287 ). Numerous subsequent observational studies reported a survival benefit, either comparing treatment with active vitamin D derivatives to no treatment, or novel active vitamin D derivatives to calcitriol in CKD patients not yet on dialysis ( 288
