Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


survival benefit, either comparing treatment with active vitamin D derivatives to no treatment, or novel active vitamin D derivatives to calcitriol in CKD patients not yet on dialysis ( 288 ) or those receiving dialysis treatment ( 289 – 291 ). Another observational study conducted in patients on hemodialysis, however, did not find a survival advantage with paricalcitol, as compared to calcitriol ( 292 ). In the absence of randomized controlled trials, it is impossible to conclude that paricalcitol treatment is superior to calcitriol or alfacalcidol in terms of patient survival. Findings of observational studies can only be considered as hypothesis-generating. They need to be confirmed by a properly designed prospective investigation ( 293 ). Calcimimetics The introduction of the calcimimetic cinacalcet into clinical practice led to a change in the above treatment strategy since it enables controlling hyperparathyroidism without increasing plasma calcium or phosphorus. Calcimimetics modify the configuration of the CaSR, a receptor cloned by Brown et al in 1993 ( 294 ). They make the CaSR more sensitive to [Ca2+e], in contrast to the so-called calcilytics which decrease its sensitivity, as schematically shown in Figure 20 . Figure 20. Schematic representation of the modulation of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) by calcimimetics and calcilytics. CaSR is expressed on the cell membrane. Calcimimetics increase its sensitivity to calcium ions whereas calcilytics decrease it. Initial acute studies in patients on intermittent hemodialysis showed that the calcimimetic cinacalcet was capable of reducing plasma PTH within hours, immediately followed by a rapid decrease in plasma calcium and a minor decrease in plasma phosphate ( 295 – 297 ). In addition, calcimimetics can also reduce parathyroid cell proliferation. Both short-term and long-term studies performed in rats and mice with CKD showed that the administration of the calcimimetic NPS R-568, starting at the time of CKD induction, prevented parathyroid hyperplasia ( 191 , 201 , 298 ). This effect is probably due to a direct inhibitory action on the parathyroid cell, as shown by our group in an experimental study in which we exposed human uremic parathyroid cells to the calcimimetic NPS-R467 ( 79 ). An interesting finding of a yet unexplained mechanism and significance is the observation that calcimimetic treatment led to an approximately 5-fold increase in the proportion of oxyphil cells, as compared to chief cells, in parathyroid glands removed from CKD patients with refractory hyperparathyroidism ( 299 - 301 ). Of note,
