Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


5-fold increase in the proportion of oxyphil cells, as compared to chief cells, in parathyroid glands removed from CKD patients with refractory hyperparathyroidism ( 299 - 301 ). Of note, oxyphil cells also exhibited higher CaSR expression than chief cells in such glands ( 302 ). Perhaps more important from a clinical point of view, the administration of calcimimetics enabled an improvement of osteitis fibrosa ( 107 ), halted the progression of vascular calcification both in uremic animals ( 298 , 303 ) and probably also in patients undergoing dialysis ( 304 ), prevented vascular remodeling ( 305 ), improved cardiac structure and function ( 306 ), and prolonged survival ( 307 ) in uremic animals with secondary hyperparathyroidism. The long-term administration of cinacalcet to patients on hemodialysis proved to be superior to « optimal » standard therapy in controlling secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism, in that it was able to induce not only a decrease in plasma PTH but also in plasma calcium and phosphate ( 308 - 311 ). Figure 21 shows the superior control of severe secondary hyperparathyroidism by cinacalcet as compared to placebo treatment with standard of care ( 312 ). The initial daily dose is 30 mg orally, which can be increased up to 180 mg if necessary. Cinacalcet is generally well tolerated, with the exception of gastrointestinal side effects, which however cease in the majority of patients with time. Since its administration generally leads to a decrease in serum calcium, a close follow-up is required, at least initially, to avoid severe hypocalcemia with possible adverse clinical consequences. Cinacalcet can be associated with calcium-containing and non-calcium containing phosphate binders and also with vitamin D derivatives. For PTH lowering a combination therapy may lead to more complete correction than single drug treatment because of less side-effects and greater efficacy in the control of hyperparathyroidism ( 313 , 314 ). Figure 21. Effect of cinacalcet on need of parathyroidectomy in patients on hemodialysis therapy. In the EVOLVE trial, parathyroidectomy was performed in 140 (7%) cinacalcet-treated and 278 (14%) placebo-treated patients. Key independent predictors of parathyroidectomy included younger age, female sex, geographic region and absence of history of peripheral vascular disease. One hundred and forty-three (7%) cinacalcet-treated and 304 (16%) placebo-treated patients met the biochemical definition of severe, unremitting (« tertiary ») hyperparathyroidism. Considering the pre-specified biochemical composite or surgical parathyroidectomy as an endpoint, 240 (12%) cinacalcet-treated and 470 (24%)
