Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


placebo-treated patients met the biochemical definition of severe, unremitting (« tertiary ») hyperparathyroidism. Considering the pre-specified biochemical composite or surgical parathyroidectomy as an endpoint, 240 (12%) cinacalcet-treated and 470 (24%) placebo-treated patients developed severe, unremitting hyperparathyroidism ( 312 ). The subsequent development of an intravenously active calcimetic led to another series of clinical studies aimed at controlling secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients on hemodialysis with an easy access to parenteral drug administration, thereby reducing oral pill overload. Two randomized controlled trials were conducted in such patients with moderate to severe secondary hyperparathyroidism, evaluating the efficacy and safety of the intravenous calcimimetic, etelcalcetide as compared to placebo ( 315 ). Thrice weekly administration of active drug after hemodialysis led to a greater than 30% reduction in serum PTH compared with less than 8.9% of patients receiving placebo. The reduction in PTH was rapid and sustained over 26 weeks. Treatment with etelcalcetide lowered serum calcium in the majority of patients, with overt symptomatic hypocalcemia reported in 7%. Adverse events occurred in 92% of etelcalcetide-treated and 80% of placebo-treated patients. Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea were more common in etelcalcetide-treated patients, as were symptoms potentially related to hypocalcemia. A subsequent double-blind, double-dummy randomized controlled trial compared intravenous etelcalcetide to oral cinacalcet in patients on hemodialysis with moderate to severe secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 316 ). It showed that the use of etelcalcetide was not inferior to cinacalcet in reducing serum PTH concentrations over 26 weeks. In addition, etelcalcetide met several superiority criteria, including a greater reduction in serum PTH concentrations from baseline, and more potent reductions in serum concentrations of FGF23 and two markers of high-turnover bone disease. How about hard patient outcomes? The randomized controlled trial EVOLVE examined the question whether better control of secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism by cinacalcet, as compared to placebo treatment with standard of care, reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events and mortality ( 312 ). The study enrolled 3803 patients receiving long-term hemodialysis therapy. Using intention-to-treat analysis the study outcome was negative ( Figure 22 , upper part). However, after adjustment for age and other confounders, and also when using lag-censoring analysis ( Figure 22 , lower part), there was a nominally significant reduction in the primary cardiovascular endpoint including mortality in the cinacalcet treatment group in whom serum PTH, calcium, and phosphate were better controlled than in the placebo treatment group. Moreover, a post-hoc lag-censoring analysis of EVOLVE further showed
