Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


in the cinacalcet treatment group in whom serum PTH, calcium, and phosphate were better controlled than in the placebo treatment group. Moreover, a post-hoc lag-censoring analysis of EVOLVE further showed that the incidence of clinically ascertained fractures was lower in the cinacalcet than the placebo arm ( 317 ). Figure 22. Effect of cinacalcet on cardiovascular outcomes of patients on hemodialysis therapy. The randomized controlled trial EVOLVE examined the question of whether a better control of secondary uremic hyperparathyroidism by cinacalcet, as compared to placebo treatment with standard of care, reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events and mortality. The study enrolled 3803 patients receiving long-term hemodialysis therapy. Using intention-to-treat analysis the study outcome was negative (upper part of Figure). However, with lag-censoring analysis there was a nominally significant reduction in the primary composite cardiovascular endpoint in the cinacalcet treatment group in whom serum PTH, calcium, and phosphorus were better controlled than in the placebo treatment group (lower part of Figure). From Chertow et al ( 312 ). Phosphate Binders, Inhibitors of Intestinal Phosphate Absorption, Oral Phosphate Restriction, and Phosphate Removal by Dialysis Calcium-containing phosphate binders should be given, preferentially during or at the end of phosphate-rich meals, to patients with CKD and uncontrolled hyperphosphatemia who have no hypercalcemia or radiological evidence of marked soft tissue calcifications. In these latter cases non-calcium-containing phosphate binders should be preferred (see below). The administration of calcium salts alone such as calcium carbonate or calcium acetate is sufficient for the control of hyperphosphatemia in many instances, particularly in patients with CKD stages G3-G5 not yet on dialysis. At the same time these calcium salts will prevent serum iPTH from rising in the majority of patients ( 318 ). They may however lead to calcium overload ( 46 , 47 ) and excessive PTH suppression, resulting eventually in adynamic bone disease ( 319 ). In patients on hemodialysis, the efficacy and tolerance of this treatment may be enhanced by the concomitant use of low-calcium dialysate, for instance a calcium concentration of 1.25 mmol/L, especially if plasma intact PTH levels are not very high. However, long-term studies have shown that the continuous use of a dialysate calcium of only 1.25 mmol/L requires close monitoring of plasma calcium and PTH because of the risk of inducing excessive PTH secretion ( 320 , 321 ). A dialysate calcium concentration between 1.25 and 1.5 mmol/L is more appropriate in terms
