Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


are higher in response to these binders than to calcium-containing phosphate binders ( Figure 23 ) ( 347 , 348 ). Figure 23. Effect of oral calcium vs. sevelamer on serum intact PTH (iPTH) in CKD. In this 54-week, randomized, open-label study the effects of sevelamer hydrochloride on bone structure and various biochemical parameters were compared to that of calcium carbonate in 119 patients on long-term hemodialysis therapy. Serum iPTH was consistently lower with calcium carbonate than with sevelamer treatment. From Ferreira et al ( 347 ). The administration of aluminum-containing phosphate binders should be avoided because of their potential toxicity. They may be given in some treatment resistant cases, but only for short periods of time ( 276 ). Another approach chosen to control hyperphosphatemia and therefore to prevent or delay the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism is pharmacologic interference with active intestinal phosphate transport by oral inhibitors of the phosphate/sodium cotransporter NaPi2b, using either already available drugs such as niacin or nicotinamide ( 349 - 351 ), or more recently developed novel inhibitors such as tenapanor ( 352 , 353 ). The rather disappointing results of available studies have not led so far to their introduction into clinical practice ( 354 ). Dietary phosphate intake should be assessed and diminished, if possible. Special attention should be given to the avoidance of foods containing phosphate additives ( 355 ). The spontaneous reduction of protein intake with age probably explains the often better control of serum phosphate in elderly as compared to younger patients with ESKD, and this may contribute to the relatively lower PTH levels of the former and their propensity to develop adynamic bone disease ( 356 ). However, when reducing dietary phosphate intake and concomitantly protein intake, one has to take care to avoid the induction of protein malnutrition. Restricting dietary protein intake excessively may increase the risk of mortality ( 357 ). In patients on dialysis therapy, an attempt should always be made to improve the efficiency of the dialysis procedure. A better correction of metabolic acidosis by bicarbonate-buffered dialysate, as compared to acetate-buffered dialysate, probably helps to delay the progression of osteitis fibrosa in patients on hemodialysis ( 358 ). One possible mechanism for the beneficial role of acidosis correction is an increase in the sensitivity of the parathyroid gland to plasma ionized calcium ( 359 ). Current recommendations for the medical treatment and prevention of
