Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


role of acidosis correction is an increase in the sensitivity of the parathyroid gland to plasma ionized calcium ( 359 ). Current recommendations for the medical treatment and prevention of patients with CKD-MBD, including secondary hyperparathyroidism, can be found in the 2009 KDIGO CKD-MBD guideline ( 276 ) and its subsequent updates ( 277 , 278 ). It must be pointed out though that there is no definitive proof of a beneficial effect of phosphate lowering on patient-level outcomes ( 257 ). Local Injection of Alcohol and Active Vitamin D Derivatives Since in advanced forms of secondary hyperparathyroidism the hyperplasia of parathyroid glands is asymmetrical, with some glands being grossly enlarged and others remaining relatively small, local injection of ethanol ( 360 , 361 ) or active vitamin D derivatives ( 362 , 363 ) has been proposed as an alternative therapy in patients who become resistant to medical treatment. However, the direct injection technique has not reached widespread use in clinical practice outside of Japan. Other research groups have been unable to obtain convincing results ( 364 , 365 ). Despite major advances in the medical treatment of CKD-MBD the achievement of the targets for plasma calcium, phosphate, Ca x P product, and PTH, as recommended by the K/DOQI guidelines ( 275 ), was found to be far from being optimal in the DOPPS patient population for the years 2002-2004 ( 366 ). It was actually rare in the patients on hemodialysis of this international cohort to fall within recommended ranges for all four indicators of mineral metabolism, although consistent control of all three main CKD-MBD parameters calcium, phosphate, and PTH was found to be a strong predictor of survival in another observational study on patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 367 ). A recent report on such patients in France confirmed that a satisfactory control of serum calcium, phosphate, or PTH was achieved in less than 20% among them ( 368 ). Surgical Treatment Surgical correction remains the final, symptomatic therapy of the most severe forms of secondary hyperparathyroidism, which cannot be controlled by medical treatment ( 369 ). The most important goal remains to prevent or correct the development of major clinical complications associated with this disease. The presence of severe hyperparathyroidism must be demonstrated by clinical, biochemical and imaging evidence. In general, neck surgery should only be done when plasma iPTH values are greatly elevated (> 600-800 pg/mL),
