Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


of severe hyperparathyroidism must be demonstrated by clinical, biochemical and imaging evidence. In general, neck surgery should only be done when plasma iPTH values are greatly elevated (> 600-800 pg/mL), together with an increase in plasma total alkaline phosphatases (or better bone-specific alkaline phosphatase), and only after one or several medical treatment attempts have remained unsuccessful in decreasing plasma iPTH with cinacalcet (in patients on dialysis only) and/or active vitamin D derivatives or if their use is relatively or absolutely contraindicated, namely in presence of persistent hypercalcemia, marked hyperphosphatemia, or severe vascular calcifications. Bone histomorphometry examination is rarely needed. Clinical symptoms and signs such as pruritus and osteoarticular pain are non-specific and therefore no good criteria for operation on their own. Similarly, an isolated increase in plasma calcium and/or phosphate, even in case of coexistent soft tissue calcifications, is not a sufficient criterion alone for surgical parathyroidectomy. However, in the presence of a persistently high plasma PTH the latter disturbances may facilitate the decision to proceed to surgery. The results can be spectacular, including in rare instances the complete disappearance of soft tissue calcifications from small peripheral arteries (see Figure 15b ). A concomitant aluminum overload should be excluded or treated, if present, before performing surgery. Parathyroid gland imaging is useful for the indication of parathyroidectomy, especially for recurrent hyperparathyroidism. Ultrasound examination is the first-line technique but generally misses ectopic glands ( 370 ). CT scan or MRI can be used to visualize ectopic glands but often cannot differentiate parathyroid tissue from lymph node or thyroid nodule. Scintigraphy using 99mTc sestamibi coupled with 123I is a much more specific technique, allowing detection of parathyroid tissue with a false-positive rate inferior to 5% ( 371 ). More recently, this method has been replaced by parathyroid 18F-fluorocholine positron emission tomography (PET/CT), which shows even greater sensitivity and accuracy in detecting abnormal parathyroid glands ( 371 , 372 ). Two main surgical procedures are generally used, either subtotal parathyroidectomy or total parathyroidectomy with immediate autotransplantation. There is no substantial difference in operative difficulties and treatment results between the two procedures. We found that the long-term frequency of recurrent hyperparathyroidism was similar ( 373 ). One group of authors claimed superiority of total parathyroidectomy without reimplantation of parathyroid tissue in terms of long-term control of hyperparathyroidism, tolerance, and safety ( 374 ), but this claim has been questioned by us and others ( 375
