Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: parathyroid, pth, patients, pubmed, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, hyperparathyroidism, kidney, calcium, ckd, phosphate, cell, secondary, vitamin


( 382 ). However, that report did not contain information on serum PTH levels. Whether presently available therapeutic and prophylactic measures taken to attenuate secondary hyperparathyroidism play an important role in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality among patients with ESKD remains a matter of debate. The EVOLVE trial points to better clinical outcomes with a more efficient control of hyperparathyroidism by cinacalcet than by optimal standard treatment but the results, although suggestive, must still be considered as not definitively conclusive ( 312 , 317 ). Surgical Versus Medical Management Whether surgical treatment is superior to medical treatment in controlling severe secondary hyperparathyroidism as regards hard clinical outcomes remains a matter of controversy. In the absence of randomized controlled trials, one has to rely on the results of observational studies. Two recent reports are available, exclusively on patients receiving dialysis therapy. The first study was performed in 209 patients in South Korea, either on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis ( 383 ). It showed that parathyroidectomy reduced the risk of new cardiovascular events by 86% compared to cinacalcet; however, all-cause mortality did not differ. However, the patients undergoing surgery had significantly higher iPTH levels than the patients on calcimimetic therapy (1,290 vs 719 pg/mL, P<0.001). The second study was performed in 3576 patients on hemodialysis in Japan ( 384 ). They were matched for serum iPTH levels (588 vs 566 pg/mL, P=NS). Here parathyroidectomy was associated with a lower risk of mortality compared with cinacalcet, particularly among patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. It is impossible to draw firm conclusions from these two studies regarding the optimal treatment approach, all the more since no comparative information was provided on active vitamin D sterols as the other commonly used alternative medical treatment. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The author wishes to thank Mrs. Martine Netter, Paris for expert assistance in Figure design. REFERENCES 1. Moe S, Drüeke T, Cunningham J, Goodman W, Martin K, Olgaard K, Ott S, Sprague S, Lameire N, Eknoyan G; Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO). Defini-tion, evaluation, and classification of renal osteodystrophy: a position statement from Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO). Kidney Int. 2006 Jun;69(11):1945-53. doi: ..10.1038/sj.ki.5000414 [ PubMed : 16641930 ] [ CrossRef ] 2. Levin A, Bakris GL, Molitch M, Smulders M, Tian J, Williams LA, Andress DL. Prevalence of abnormal serum vitamin D, PTH, calcium, and phosphorus in patients with chronic kidney disease: results of the study to evaluate
