Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


found in isolated rural African communities (Mthwalo of resistance in bacteria that cause human diseases (Wegener and others 1998).This observation,however,should not lead and others 1999).Furthermore,mathematical models indicate to complacency. Increased access to antibiotics in developing that the effect of subtherapeutic use on resistance in humans 1032 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Zulfiqar Bhutta, Adrian Duse, and others is greatest when resistance levels are undetectable (Smith and Disease Burden others 2002). The appearance of drug-resistant strains of Although no estimates ofdisease burden are currently available Enterococcus faecium in broiler meat products at retail outlets that are specific to drug resistance, the contribution of drug declined after the ban of antimicrobial growth promoters in resistance to the burden ofinfectious diseases is believed to be Denmark (Emborg and others 2003). Salmonella has been large. Resistance has emerged in malaria, HIV, TB, and other recovered from chicken (35 percent),turkey (24 percent),and bacterial infections that together constitute a significant pro- pork (16 percent) samples obtained from area supermarkets in portion of the burden of disease in developing countries. Washington,D.C.(White and others 2001).There is evidence An indication of the extent of the problem is provided by that dissemination of tetracycline-resistance-encoding plas- theburden of diseases for which drug resistance is a problem mids between aquaculture and humans has already occurred in (table 55.1),as well as by the levels of drug resistance among Europe (Rhodes and others 2000). The global nature of this these pathogens (table 55.2 and figures 55.1 and 55.2). problem became apparent in 2001,when authorities in some European countries found residues ofchloramphenicol in tiger Pneumococci. Surveillanceofdrugresistanceinpneumococci shrimp imported from China, Indonesia, and Vietnam shows several general trends. The numbers of strains that are (Holmstrom and others 2003). fullysusceptibletopenicillin-G,oncenearlyuniversalinmostof theworld,havedeclinedby30to50percentinmanycountries andby75percentinsome,asresistantcloneshavespreadwidely Transmission of Resistant Pathogens butirregularlythroughouttheworld(Sa-Leaoandothers2002). Once resistance has emerged in a population, it can spread At the same time, percentages resistant to macrolides and to both geographically and between age groups.Unsafe drinking sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim have increased, especially water, unsanitary conditions, and poor infection control in where those drugs have been widely used, and resistance to hospitals are risk factors for the transmission of all infections, tetracycline or chloramphenicol has fluctuated widely. Linked including resistant ones.The transmission of resistant strains resistance to these drugs results in a growing percentage of from children to adults has been suggested by anecdotal reports strains resistant to many or all of them. Resistance to fluoro- as
