Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


bacteria) to be at least pathogen will survive and proliferate.Prolonging the effective US$1.3 billion in 1992 dollars (Office of Technology therapeutic life of existing drugs is not sufficient, however. Assessment 1995). The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Increasing incentives for pharmaceutical firms to bring new Prevention (CDC) estimated that the cost of all hospital- drugs to markets may also be called for. acquired infections, including both antibiotic-resistant and antibiotic-susceptible strains,was US$4.5 billion. Drug Treatment Strategies Patients infected with resistant strains are more likely to be sicker,to be hospitalized for longer periods oftime,and to die The appropriate choice ofdrug treatment is an important step of the infection (Carmeli and others 2002).Both the duration in delaying the evolution of drug resistance. Drug combina- of hospitalization and the attributable cost of treating tions that include drugs with different targets were first used methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus were found to be in the treatment of tuberculosis and have now become rou- nearly three time as large as those for a susceptible infection tine practice in the treatment of cancer and HIV/AIDS. (Abramson and Sexton 1999). One problem with estimating Combinations of artemisinin and its derivatives with other the attributable morbidity and mortality that is caused by antimalarials,notably mefloquine,have accelerated recoveries, resistant pathogens is that patients who are infected with resist- increased cure rates, and reduced transmissibility. In the ant strains are more likely to have been sicker in the first place. refugee camps on the western border ofThailand,where most Therefore,the ability to appropriately control for the underly- ofthe recent studies with artemisinin combinations have been ing severity of the illness that causes hospitalization is a conducted,the use of combinations delayed the development concern. ofresistance and reduced the incidence ofdisease (Nosten and Another important cost of resistance comes from the need others 2000).The rationale behind drug combinations is that, to move to second-line treatments,which are often much more if resistance results from spontaneous genetic mutations, the expensive than the first-line treatment that is no longer effec- chance that a parasite will emerge that is simultaneously resist- tive. For instance, treating the roughly 300 million cases of ant to two drugs with unrelated modes ofaction (that is,drug malaria with artemisinin-based combinations would involve targets) is the mathematical product ofthe individual parasite an excess burden ofroughly US$200 million each year in drug mutation frequencies multiplied by the total number of para- costs.Periodicallychangingfirst-linetreatmentmayalsoinvolve sites exposed to the drugs
