Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


by the replacement ofresistant strains with sensitive ones.The likelihood that resistance will emerge,whereas other interven- effects of antimicrobial removal have best been assessed tions, such as improvements in drug prescribing and patient for antibacterial drugs in northern Europe,where drug use is Drug Resistance | 1037 Table 55.3 Potential Nonclinical Interventions: Evidence from Developing Countries Strategy Intervention Reference Description Study location Treatment Combination therapy Nosten and others 2000 Use of an artesunate-mefloquine combination Thailand strategies for malaria was found to reduce incidence of mefloquine resistance in Plasmodium falciparummalaria. Cycling strategy Kublin and others 2003 Replacement of chloroquine with sulfadoxine- Malawi pyrimethamine resulted in a decline in chloroquine-resistant strains over an eight-year period to levels that permit reintroduction of the drug. Drug heterogeneity Bonhoeffer, Lipsitch, and Modeling studies demonstrated the superiority n.a. Levin 1997; Laxminarayan and cost-effectiveness of policies involving and Weitzman 2002 use of different antibiotics on different patients compared with those using the same antibiotics on all patients. Directly observed Balasubramanian, Oommen, Directly observed therapy reduced the Kerala, India therapy short course and Samuel 2000 probability of treatment failure. Dye and others 2002 Directly observed therapy for TB was 2.8 times South Africa cheaper to deliver and between 2.4 and 4.2 times more effective than conventional treatment. Reducing selection Training providers Bexell and others 1996 Continuing education seminars for paramedical Lusaka, Zambia pressure prescribers resulted in patients being prescribed antibiotics less frequently at intervention centers (34 percent) compared with control centers (42 per- cent). Drug choice and dosing were also improved. Santoso, Suryawati, and One-on-one educational interventions and seminars Yogyakarta and Prawaitasari 1996 for medical and paramedical prescribers reduced Central Java antimicrobial prescription by 17 and 10 percent, provinces, respectively (p(cid:4)0.001). Indonesia Training drug sellers Agyepong and others 2002 Training drug dispensers on patient communication Dangme West resulted in modest improvements in the proportion District, Ghana of patients showing strict, full adherence to antimalarial regimen. Treatment guidelines Qingjun and others 1998 Blister packages increased compliance with Hunan province, with education chloroquine therapy to 97 percent, from 83 percent China in the control group. Direct education of Helitzer-Allen and Introduction of a nonbitter antimalarial tablet and Malawi patients others 1993 a new educational message were effective in improving antimalarial prophylaxis compliance among pregnant women by 57 to 91 percent. Paredes and others 1996 Video, radio, and printed bulletins were used to Lima, Peru educate women in an intervention community on the
