Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


in developing countries vary but can managementofcommunity-acquiredinfectionshavebeenper- be broadly classified into focus group discussions (Hadiyono ceivedasexcessivelyprescriptiveandhavenotbeensuccessful and others 1996) and large seminars (Bexell and others 1996). interventiontools(leGrand,Hogerzeil,andHaaijer-Ruskamp Both models have been found to be of comparable effective- 1999). Devising incentives for compliance could potentially ness; however, applicability and cost are situation-specific lower the higher prescription rates among private providers, (Santoso,Suryawati,and Prawaitasari 1996). wheretreatmentguidelinesbythemselvesarelesslikelytowork. Peer and supervisory monitoring increases professional Drug Quality. Ensuring drug quality is important, both to accountability, thereby promoting the application of knowl- benefit the individual patient and to ensure that a patient is not edge to practice.The requirement that antibiotic prescriptions subjected to suboptimal doses that would promote drug resist- for inpatients be countersigned by an infectious disease con- ance.The few studies that have been conducted indicate that sultant was successful in reducing prescriptions by 50 percent, more than half of the antimicrobials marketed in developing Such a program would have limited applicability in other peutic failure and subinhibitory levels of antimicrobials may countries and settings where the number of trained medical occur.Substandard drugs are those that are degraded as a result professionals is small.A supervisory program in Vietnam,with of expiration or improper storage or that are counterfeit medical equipment incentives,reduced the number ofpatients (Okeke and Lamikanra 2001;Prazuck and others 2002;Taylor for whom antibiotics were prescribed and increased the num- and others 2001). ber who received a correct dose regimen . Interventions at the Patient Level DiagnosticTests. Bacterialcultureandsusceptibilitytesting,a necessary component of rational antimicrobial prescribing,is Improving communication between patients and providers uncommoninmanydevelopingcountries(Okeke,Lamikanra, could improve adherence to prescribed antimalarial regimens andEdelman1999).Furthermore,diagnosticteststoconfirmor (Agyepongandothers2002).Compliancecanalsobepositively refuteinfectionsarealsocommonlyunavailableorunreliable,so affected by packaging. Blister packages, when combined with diagnosesaremadelargelyonthestrengthofclinicalsignsand proper instruction about drug use, have been shown to pro- symptoms (Berkley and others 2001). Laboratory tests are duce modest increases in antimalarial compliance,particularly expensive and routinely cost more than an empiric drug that for long-term regimens,such as with primaquine (Qingjun and couldbeeffective.Incontrast,malariadipstickscanbeaninex- others 1998).Blister packages are also time-savers for primary transmissionsettings(Rimonandothers2003).Clinicianshave advise patients on drug use.However,the introduction ofblis- been known to use chemotherapy as a diagnostic tool:a cure ter packages must be accompanied by clear directions to avoid wouldconfirmadiagnosis.Susceptibilitytestingofatleastsome injury following ingestion ofblister packages. specimenswillprovidemuch-neededsurveillancedatatosup- Reducing patient self-medication may also desirable, port empiric prescribing,although efforts should be made to although the effect on drug resistance remains to be precisely takeintoaccountspatialheterogeneityinresistancepatterns. quantified. Enforcement of prescription-only regulations for most antimicrobials reduces self-medication in developed Retail Pharmacies and Outlets.
