Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


not overused. theprogram,area-specific appraisals,infrastructure,personnel, and technical support as well as continuous supervision Recommended Interventions (Khatri and Frieden 2002).This model is one that may apply in other developing countries. Sets of interventions specific to the diseases discussed in this In New York city, individualized chemotherapy based on chapter are described below. drug susceptibility testing was nearly as effective in new patients with MDR-TB as in those with drug-susceptible TB Pneumococci. A number of affordable interventions can be (Telzak and others 1995), and the number of MDR-TB cases considered.Data suggest that hand washing can interrupt not decreased by more than 90 percent within the decade (Fujiwara only the spread of pathogens causing diarrhea but also the and others 1997). The relatively large number of MDR-TB transmission ofnosocomial pathogens,and it can reduce respi- cases in high-income countries made second-line drugs more ratory infection–related mortality and morbidity.The promo- available and affordable,and experience in the management of tion of a culture of hand washing requires access to clean, MDR-TB grew considerably over the past decade (Mukherjee sufficient water—an urgent goal. Patient education to reduce and others 2004).Yet questions remained about which inter- demand for antibiotics for viral infections, and alteration of ventions had led to the city’s success.In 1999,WHO created a perverse incentives for physicians to prescribe antibiotics exces- working group on DOTS-plus to assess the feasibility and cost- sively are recommended.Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has effectiveness of treating MDR-TB in low- and middle-income been shown to reduce the burden ofantibiotic-resistant invasive countries (Espinal and others 1999). DOTS-plus has already disease, reduce transmission of resistant strains, and reduce negotiated a 90 percent price reduction from the pharmaceuti- antibiotic use in vaccine recipients and their siblings.Strategies cal industry (Gupta and others 2001), and experience from for introducing this type of vaccine into the high-risk popula- Peru suggests feasibility and a mean cost ofUS$211 per DALY tions of developing countries are urgently needed. Better gained (Suarez and others 2002). diagnostics are a key to more appropriate and focused prescrib- ing, but their application is likely to be delayed in poor countries. The long-term effects of blanket recommendations AGENDA FOR ACTION for antimicrobial prophylaxis among HIV-infected populations must be closely monitored. Although the evolution of resistance is a biological phenome- non, it is influenced strongly by the behavior of physicians, Shigella. Interventions must include improved strategies for nomics,drug resistance is an externalityassociated with the use dysentery.These strategies require a
