Chapter
KEYWORDS: resistance, drug, use, countries, treatment, antimicrobial, percent, drugs, control, developing, resistant, journal, antibiotic, new, tuberculosis


is accesstoformalmedicalcareandprescriptions.Theremaybe appropriate and would reduce the likelihood ofthe emergence similareffectsfrommandatingthatantimalarialdrugsbesoldin of resistance. Finally, steps to reduce the burden of malaria combinations that the poor cannot afford. Efforts to manage through the use of insecticide-treated bednets and, in some resistanceshouldnotbebalancedonthebacksofthepoor,how- areas,residual household spraying would help reduce the need ever,becausetherationalefortheseeffortsisthatsocietyasa for antimalarial treatment and thereby reduce treatment selec- wholegainsfromthem.Itisimportantthatstatesubsidiesbe tion pressure. usedtoensurethatinterventionstomanageforresistancedonot reducepatients’accesstoeffectiveandaffordabledrugs. Huge gains in life expectancy have come from the introduc- Research Agenda tion of effective drugs to treat infectious diseases.Our history A description of a research agenda to explain the full range of of treating infections successfully is brief, however, and dates issues related to drug resistance is outside the scope of this back only 50 or 60 years.Sustaining this ability in the long term 1046 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Zulfiqar Bhutta, Adrian Duse, and others requires a willingness to invest in interventions both to extend Diarrhoea on Morbidity and Mortality in Bangladeshi Children: the therapeutic life of existing drugs and to discover and Community Randomised Trial.” British Medical Journal 325 (7372): 1059. develop new ones.Some of these interventions,such as better Barker, R. D., F. J. Millard, and M. E. Nthangeni. 2002. “Unpaid infection control, introduction of affordable vaccines, and Community Volunteers—Effective Providers of Directly Observed proper dosing, would benefit patients immediately; others, Therapy (DOT) in Rural South Africa.”South African Medical Journal such as using combination treatments for malaria and invest- 92 (4):291–94. ing in new drugs,may not bear fruit in the near term.Without Bavestrello,L.,A.Cabello,and D.Casanova.2002.“Impact ofRegulatory Measures in the Trends ofCommunity Consumption ofAntibiotics in a sustainable, long-term vision of coexistence with harmful Chile”(in Spanish).Revista Medica de Chile130 (11):1265–72. microbes and imaginative solutions to the problem of resist- Bergstrom,C.T.,M.Lipsitch,and J.E.McGowan Jr.2000.“Nomenclature ance,our ability to control infectious diseases stands in peril. and Methods for Studies ofAntimicrobial Switching (Cycling).”Paper prepared for the Conference on Antibiotic Resistance:Global Policies NOTE Berkley,J.A.,I.Mwangi,C.J.Ngetsa,S.Mwarumba,B.S.Lowe,K.Marsh, and C.R.Newton.2001.“Diagnosis ofAcute Bacterial Meningitis in 1.The fitness cost ofresistance is an evolutionary disadvantage placed Children at a District Hospital in Sub-Saharan Africa.” Lancet 357 on resistant pathogens. However, some argue that although most (9270):1753–57. resistance-determining mutations engender some fitness cost,these costs Bexell,A.,E.Lwando,B.von Hofsten,S.Tembo,B.Eriksson,and V.K. are likely to be ameliorated by subsequent compensatory mutations. Diwan.1996.“Improving Drug Use through Continuing Education: A Randomized Controlled Trial in Zambia.” Journal of Clinical Epidemiology49 (3):355–57. REFERENCES Bhutta,T.I.,and C.Balchin.1996.“Assessing the Impact ofa Regulatory Intervention in Pakistan.” Social Science and Medicine
