diagnostics
KEYWORDS: liver, aih, ced, disease, patient, treatment, hepatitis, celiac, gfd, antibodies, normal, score, specific, autoimmune, diagnosis


saflul enlcetmioenn-tass,s tohcei adtieadg nstoesaitso ohfe CpeaDtit wis a(sM cAonSfiHr)m aesd a. completely sep- justmetabolicdysfunction-associatedsteatohepatitis(MASH)asacompletelyseparated arated disease associated to CeD. According to the complete diagnostic criteria for AIH, diseaseassociatedtoCeD.AccordingtothecompletediagnosticcriteriaforAIH,thepatient the patient had a score of 16 before treatment and a score of 18 after treatment initiation, hadascoreof16beforetreatmentandascoreof18aftertreatmentinitiation,ascorewhich ishighlysuggestiveofthediagnosisofAIH.AccordingtothesimplifiedcriteriaforAIH, the patient has a score of six which probably corresponds to AIH. The patient’s score was based on the increased gamma globulin levels, absence of viral markers, lack of a positivehistoryforhepatotoxicdrugsandalcohol,presenceofceliacdiseaseasasecond autoimmunepathology,andthepresenceofspecificanatomical–pathologicalchangesin AIH,particularlypiecemealnecrosis(interfacehepatitis). Thefinaldiagnoseswereseronegativechronicautoimmunehepatitiswithcirrhotic evolution, CeD, and obesity. A GFD was initiated, and prednisone was introduced as Figure 3. Duodenal biopsies: (A) intestinal villi with normal architecture and moderate inflamma- treatment,buttthoeryp iantfiieltnrattew ians lanmoinn-ac opmropprliiaa n(HtwE sittahinth ×e40d),i e(Bt,)t lreesas ttmhaenn 3t,0 ainntdrapepeirtihoedliiacl clyhmecpkh-ocytes per 100 ups. Non-compenlitaenrocceytiems (pHaEc tsetadint h×e10b0)i;o (lCo)g iinctaelsteivnaoll vuitliloi wn,itahn ledssu tnhatinl 3S0e ipntteramepbiethre2li0a2l l3y,mthpehocytes per 100 transaminasesevnatleuroecsyrteesm (HaiEn setdaine l×e2v0a0)t.e d. Since September 2023, discussions about the importanceofdietandtreatmenthaveresumed. Consequently,alifelongGFDandpred- At this stage, the differential diagnoses considered were hepatitis as a form of onset of CeD, seronegative autoimmune hepatitis associated with CeD as second autoimmun- ity, or just metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) as a completely sep- arated disease associated to CeD. According to the complete diagnostic criteria for AIH, the patient had a score of 16 before treatment and a score of 18 after treatment initiation, Diagnostics 2024, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 11 Diagnostics 2024, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 11 a score which is highly suggestive of the diagnosis of AIH. According to the simplified a score which is highly suggestive of the diagnosis of AIH. According to the simplified criteria for AIH, the patient has a score of six which probably corresponds to AIH. The criteria for AIH, the patient has a score of six which probably corresponds to AIH. The patient’s score was based on the increased gamma globulin levels, absence of viral mark- patient’s score was based on the increased gamma globulin levels, absence of viral mark- ers, lack of a positive history for hepatotoxic drugs and alcohol, presence of celiac disease ers, lack of a positive history for hepatotoxic drugs and alcohol, presence of celiac disease as a second autoimmune pathology, and the presence of specific anatomical–pathological as a second autoimmune pathology, and the presence of specific anatomical–pathological changes in AIH, particularly piecemeal necrosis (interface hepatitis). changes in AIH, particularly piecemeal necrosis (interface hepatitis). The final diagnoses
