diagnostics
KEYWORDS: liver, aih, ced, disease, patient, treatment, hepatitis, celiac, gfd, antibodies, normal, score, specific, autoimmune, diagnosis


as a second autoimmune pathology, and the presence of specific anatomical–pathological changes in AIH, particularly piecemeal necrosis (interface hepatitis). changes in AIH, particularly piecemeal necrosis (interface hepatitis). The final diagnoses were seronegative chronic autoimmune hepatitis with cirrhotic The final diagnoses were seronegative chronic autoimmune hepatitis with cirrhotic evolution, CeD, and obesity. A GFD was initiated, and prednisone was introduced as evolution, CeD, and obesity. A GFD was initiated, and prednisone was introduced as treatment, but the patient was non-compliant with the diet, treatment, and periodic check- treatment, but the patient was non-compliant with the diet, treatment, and periodic check- ups. Non-compliance impacted the biological evolution, and until September 2023, the ups. Non-compliance impacted the biological evolution, and until September 2023, the transaminases values remained elevated. Since September 2023, discussions about the im- Diagnostics2024,14,1832 transaminases values remained elevated. Since September 2023, discussions about the5 oimf1-1 portance of diet and treatment have resumed. Consequently, a lifelong GFD and predni- portance of diet and treatment have resumed. Consequently, a lifelong GFD and predni- sone for 3 months with gradual dose reduction in association with azathioprine were in- sone for 3 months with gradual dose reduction in association with azathioprine were in- troduced. Subsequently, with the introduction of prednisone and azathioprine therapy tnriosdounceefdo.r S3umbsoenqtuhesnwtlyit,h wgirtahd tuhael idnotrsoedruecdtuiocnti oonf ipnreadssnoiscoianteio annwd iathzaatzhaiothpiroinper intheewraeprye and strict adherence to the GFD, transaminase levels gradually decreased until normali- ainntdro sdtruiccte dad. Shuerbesnecqeu eton ttlhye, wGiFthD,t htreainnstaromdiuncatsieo nleovfelpsr gedrandisuoanlley adnedcraezaastehdio upnrtiinl entohremraapliy- zation and both anti-tissue transglutaminase and anti-endomysium antibodies normal- zaantdiosnt raicntda dbhoethre nacnetit-otistshueeG tFraDn,stgraluntsaammiinnaassee alenvde lasngtri-aednudaollmyydseicurmea saendtiubnodtiilenso nrmoramliazla-- ized (Figures 4 and 5). Regarding the ultrasound findings, the liver appears within normal itzioend a(Fnidgubroetsh 4a anntdi- t5is).s Rueegtraarndsingglu tthaem uilntraasseoaunndda finntdi-ienngdso, mthye sliiuvemr aapnptiebaords iwesitnhoinrm naolrimzeadl parameters, but there is a mild splenomegaly. p(Fairgaumreeste4rsa,n bdu5t )t.heRreeg isa rad minigldt hspeleunltormaseoguanlyd. findings, the liver appears within normal parameters,butthereisamildsplenomegaly. Figure 4. Dynamics of transaminases. FFiigguurree 44.. DDyynnaammiiccss ooff ttrraannssaammiinnaasseess.. FFiigguurree 55.. DDyynnaammicicss ooff GGGGTT.. Figure 5. Dynamics of GGT. TThhee ppaattiieenntt iiss ccuurrrreennttllyy iinn rreemmiissssiioonn, ,aass iinnddiiccaatteedd bbyy nnoorrmmaal llelevveelsls oof ftrtraannssaammininaasseess, , The patient is currently in remission, as indicated by normal levels of transaminases, gamma globulins, and specific antibodies for AIH (which have consistently been nega- gamma globulins, and specific antibodies for AIH (which have consistently been gamma globulins, and specific antibodies for AIH (which have consistently been tive). According to European guidelines, azathioprine treatment should be
