diagnostics
KEYWORDS: liver, aih, ced, disease, patient, treatment, hepatitis, celiac, gfd, antibodies, normal, score, specific, autoimmune, diagnosis


globulins, and specific antibodies for AIH (which have consistently been gamma globulins, and specific antibodies for AIH (which have consistently been tive). According to European guidelines, azathioprine treatment should be continued for 3 years . Consequently, the patient remains on a GFD and continues to receive vorableandifthepatientmaintainsremissionafter3yearsofazathioprinetherapy,this medicationwillbediscontinued,whiletheGFDwillbemaintainedforlife. Animportant aspect,consideringthatthepatientisobese,consistsoftheimplementationofnutritional counselingaimedatachievingweightlossandmaintainingahealthyweightthereafter. This involves creating a personalized diet plan, monitoring the progress regularly, and providingongoingsupporttoensureadherencetodietaryrecommendations. Effective managementofweightiscrucialforoverallhealthandoptimizingthepatient’sresponseto ongoingtreatments. Diagnostics 2024, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 11 negative). According to European guidelines, azathioprine treatment should be continued for 3 years . Consequently, the patient remains on a GFD and continues to receive able and if the patient maintains remission after 3 years of azathioprine therapy, this med- ication will be discontinued, while the GFD will be maintained for life. An important as- pect, considering that the patient is obese, consists of the implementation of nutritional counseling aimed at achieving weight loss and maintaining a healthy weight thereafter. This involves creating a personalized diet plan, monitoring the progress regularly, and providing ongoing support to ensure adherence to dietary recommendations. Effective management of weight is crucial for overall health and optimizing the patient’s response Diagnostics2024,14,1832 6of11 to ongoing treatments. 3. Discussion 3. Discussion While CeD primarily affects the small intestine, it is increasingly recognized for its WhileCeDprimarilyaffectsthesmallintestine,itisincreasinglyrecognizedforits wide array of extraintestinal manifestations, which can complicate diagnosis and manage- widearrayofextraintestinalmanifestations,whichcancomplicatediagnosisandmanage- ment. Extraintestinal symptoms are common in patients with CeD, occurring in 20–30% ment. ExtraintestinalsymptomsarecommoninpatientswithCeD,occurringin20–30% of cases, and liver involvement is well documented in the medical literature . The as- of cases, and liver involvement is well documented in the medical literature . The sociation between CeD and liver injuries, first described in 1977, has been classified in associationbetweenCeDandliverinjuries,firstdescribedin1977,hasbeenclassifiedin three main categories: mild and asymptomatic liver injury characterized by non-specific threemaincategories: mildandasymptomaticliverinjurycharacterizedbynon-specific histological alterations which are usually reversible on GFD (Figure 6), autoimmune liver histologicalalterationswhichareusuallyreversibleonGFD(Figure6),autoimmuneliver injury including AIH, autoimmune overlap syndrome, primary sclerosing cholangitis and injuryincludingAIH,autoimmuneoverlapsyndrome,primarysclerosingcholangitisand primary biliary cirrhosis which usually require immunosuppressive therapy associated to primarybiliarycirrhosiswhichusuallyrequireimmunosuppressivetherapyassociatedto GFD, and liver failure which usually is reversible on GFD . However, two principal GFD,andliverfailurewhichusuallyisreversibleonGFD.However,twoprincipalforms forms of liver injury in CeD are recognized: the non-specific celiac hepatitis and autoim- ofliverinjuryinCeDarerecognized: thenon-specificceliachepatitisandautoimmune mune forms. It is not yet very well clarified if the two forms are completely different dis- forms. Itisnotyetverywellclarifiedifthetwoformsarecompletelydifferentdiseases eases or if they are only two different stages of the same disease (“celiac liver disease”) or
