Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


ABSTRACT In this chapter, indications for screening for diabetes mellitus are reviewed. Criteria for diagnosis are fasting plasma glucose ≥ 126 mg/dl (7.0 mmol/l) or random glucose ≥200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) with hyperglycemic symptoms, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) ≥6.5%, and oral glucose tolerance testing (OGTT) 2-h glucose ≥200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) after 75 g of glucose. One-step and two-step strategies for diagnosing gestational diabetes using pregnancy-specific criteria as well as use of the 2-h 75-g OGTT for the postpartum testing of women with gestational diabetes (4-12 weeks after delivery) are described. Testing for other forms of diabetes with unique features are reviewed, including the recommendation to use the 2-h 75 g OGTT to screen for cystic fibrosis-related diabetes and post-transplantation diabetes, fasting glucose test for HIV positive individuals, and genetic testing for monogenic diabetes syndromes including neonatal diabetes and maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). Elevated measurements of pancreatic islet autoantibodies (e.g., to the 65-KDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65), tyrosine phosphatase related islet antigen 2 (IA-2), insulin (IAA), and zinc transporter (ZnT8)) suggest autoimmune type 1 diabetes (vs type 2 diabetes). IAA is primarily measured in youth. The use of autoantibody testing in diabetes screening programs is recommended in first degree relatives of an individual with type 1 diabetes or in research protocols. C-peptide measurements can be helpful in identifying those who have type 1 diabetes (low or undetectable c-peptide) from those who may have type 2 or monogenic diabetes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . SCREENING FOR DIABETES MELLITUS AND PREDIABETES Early detection and treatment of diabetes mellitus is important in preventing acute and chronic complications of this disease. Individuals with symptoms suggestive of hyperglycemia, such as polyuria, polyphagia, polydipsia, unexplained weight loss, blurred vision, excessive fatigue, or infections or wounds that heal poorly should be promptly tested. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends routinely screening for type 2 diabetes in adults every three years beginning at age 45. In asymptomatic people, testing for type 2 diabetes should be considered in adults of any age if they are overweight or obese (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m 2 , or ≥ 23 kg/m 2 if Asian background), planning pregnancy, and/or if they have additional risk factors as listed below in Table 1 . Repeat screening should be performed at least every three years. Patients with prediabetes should be screened
