Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


and/or if they have additional risk factors as listed below in Table 1 . Repeat screening should be performed at least every three years. Patients with prediabetes should be screened yearly ( 1 ). The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends glucose screening for all asymptomatic overweight or obese adults ages 40-70 ( 2 ); the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists recommends screening at risk individuals at any age ( 3 ). Table 1. Risk Factors for the Development of Type 2 Diabetes View in own window Physical inactivity First-degree relative with diabetes High-risk race/ethnicity (e.g., African American, Latino, Native American, Asian American, Pacific Islander) Women who delivered a baby weighing >9 lb. or were diagnosed with Gestational Diabetes Hypertension (≥130/80 mm Hg or on therapy for hypertension) HDL cholesterol level <35 mg/dL (0.90 mmol/L) and/or a triglyceride level >250 mg/dL (2.8 mmol/L) Individuals with polycystic ovary syndrome People with prediabetes (HbA1C ≥5.7%, Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT), or Impaired Fasting Glucose (IFG)) Other clinical conditions associated with insulin resistance (e.g., severe obesity, acanthosis nigricans. Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease) History of cardiovascular disease Individuals in other high-risk groups (HIV, exposure to high-risk medicines, evidence of periodontal disease, history of pancreatitis Type 2 diabetes is becoming a growing problem in children and adolescents in high-risk populations. To address this issue, the ADA recommends screening overweight [body mass index (BMI) ≥85th percentile] or obese (BMI ≥95 th percentile) youth at least every 3 years, beginning at age 10 or at the onset of puberty, if they have 1 or more additional risk factors listed below in Table 2 . Repeat testing should be done more frequently if BMI increases ( 1 ). Table 2. Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents View in own window Family history of type 2 diabetes in first and second-degree relatives Race and ethnicity (Native American, African American, Latino, Asian American, Pacific Islander) Signs of insulin resistance or conditions associated with insulin resistance (acanthosis nigricans, hypertension, dyslipidemia, small-for- gestational-age birth weight, or polycystic ovary syndrome) Maternal history of diabetes or gestational diabetes during child's gestation DIAGNOSING DIABETES AND PREDIABETES Table 3. ADA Criteria for the Diagnosis of Diabetes View in own window HbA1C ≥6.5%. The test should be performed in a laboratory using a method that is National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program certified and standardized to the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) assay. FPG
