Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


The test should be performed in a laboratory using a method that is National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program certified and standardized to the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) assay. FPG ≥126 mg/dL (7.0 mmol/L). Fasting is defined as no caloric intake for at least 8 h. 2-h plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) during an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT). The test should be performed as described by the WHO, using a glucose load containing the equivalent of 75 g anhydrous glucose dissolved in water. In an individual with classic symptoms of hyperglycemia or hyperglycemic crisis, a random plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L). Random is any time of day without regard to time since previous meal. The diagnosis of diabetes can be made using the fasting plasma glucose, random plasma glucose, oral glucose tolerance test, or hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) ( 1 ). Testing should be performed on 2 separate days using one or more of the above tests, unless unequivocal hyperglycemia is present. Alternatively, in the absence of symptoms of hyperglycemia, diabetes can be diagnosed if there are two different abnormal test results from the same sample ( 1 ). An overview of the ADA criteria is shown in Table 3 . HbA1c The use of the HbA1c assay was recommended for the diagnosis of diabetes in 2009 by an International Expert Committee ( 4 ). HbA1c levels reflect overall glycemic control and correlate with the development of microvascular complications. An HbA1c ≥ 6.5% on two separate occasions can be used to diagnose diabetes. An HbA1c level of 6.0% to ≤ 6.5% identifies high risk of developing diabetes. The ADA considers individuals with a HbA1c of 5.7% to 6.4% at increased risk for developing diabetes ( 1 ). HbA1c should not be used to diagnose gestational diabetes, diabetes in HIV positive individuals, post-organ transplantation, or in people with cystic fibrosis. Fasting and Random Plasma Glucose Fasting plasma glucose is one method recommended by the ADA for the diagnosis of diabetes in children and non-pregnant adults ( 1 ). The interpretation of fasting glucose measures is shown in Table 4 . The test should be performed after an 8 hour fast. For routine clinical practice, fasting plasma glucose may be preferred over the oral glucose tolerance test because it is rapid, easier to administer, is more convenient for patients and providers, and has a lower cost ( 1 ). A
