Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


preferred over the oral glucose tolerance test because it is rapid, easier to administer, is more convenient for patients and providers, and has a lower cost ( 1 ). A random plasma glucose level, which is obtained at any time of the day regardless of the time of the last meal, can also be used in the diagnosis of diabetes in a patient with classic symptoms of hyperglycemia or hyperglycemic crisis. Table 4. Fasting Plasma Glucose Criteria View in own window Fasting Plasma Glucose Normal glucose tolerance <100 mg/dl (5.6 mmol/l) Impaired fasting glucose (pre-diabetes) 100-125 mg/dl (5.6-6.9 mmol/l) Diabetes mellitus ≥126 mg/dl (7.0 mmol/l) For the diagnosis of diabetes, standard venous plasma glucose specimens should be obtained. Specimens should be processed promptly, since glucose is metabolized at room temperature. This process is influenced by storage temperature, storage time as well as other factors, and is accelerated in the presence of bacteria or leukocytosis. Whole blood glucose specimens obtained with point-of- care devices should not be used for the diagnosis of diabetes because of the inaccuracies associated with these methods. Capillary and venous whole blood glucose concentrations are approximately 15% lower than plasma glucose levels in fasting specimens. However, most devices account for this difference in their calibration. Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) OGTTS FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF DIABETES AND IMPAIRED GLUCOSE TOLERANCE IN NON-PREGNANT INDIVIDUALS A formal OGTT can be used to establish the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus ( Table 5 ). OGTT is more cumbersome and costlier than the fasting plasma glucose test; however, the use of only the fasting plasma glucose may not identify a proportion of individuals with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes ( 5 ). A plasma glucose level 2-hours after a glucose challenge may identify additional individuals with abnormal glucose tolerance who are at risk for microvascular and macrovascular complications, particularly in high-risk populations in which postprandial (versus fasting) hyperglycemia is evident early in the disease ( 6 , 7 ). When using an OGTT, the criteria for the diagnosis of diabetes is a 2 h glucose >200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) after a 75-gram oral glucose load (ADA and WHO criteria). The 75-gram glucose load should be administered when the patient has ingested at least 150 grams of carbohydrate for the 3 days preceding the test and after an overnight fast. Dilution of the 75-gram oral glucose load (300-900 ml) may improve acceptability and
