Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


least 150 grams of carbohydrate for the 3 days preceding the test and after an overnight fast. Dilution of the 75-gram oral glucose load (300-900 ml) may improve acceptability and palatability without compromising reproducibility ( 8 ). The patient should not be acutely ill or be taking drugs that affect glucose tolerance at the time of testing, and should abstain from tobacco, coffee, tea, food, alcohol and vigorous exercise during the test. Table 5. Oral Glucose Tolerance Test Glucose Criteria View in own window 2-h Plasma Glucose (after 75-gram Glucose Load) Normal glucose tolerance <140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) Impaired glucose tolerance(pre-diabetes) 140-199 mg/dl (7.8-11.1 mmol/l) Diabetes mellitus ≥200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) OGTTS FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF GESTATIONAL DIABETES Please see the Endotext Chapter on Gestational Diabetes for additional details on the diagnosis of gestational diabetes. The prevalence of gestational diabetes (GDM) varies among racial and ethnic groups and between screening practices, testing methods, and diagnostic criteria. The overall frequency of GDM in the 15 centers participating in the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) Study was 17.8% ( 9 ), and regional estimates may vary from 10% to 25% depending on the population studied ( 10 ). The prevalence increases with increased number of risk factors ( Tables 6 and 7 ), such that 33% of women with 4 or more risk factors have gestational diabetes ( 11 ). This condition is important to diagnose early because of the increased perinatal morbidity associated with poor glycemic control. The US Preventive Task Force recommends screening for gestational diabetes in asymptomatic women after 24 weeks of gestation ( 12 ); the ADA recommends screening all pregnant women routinely between 24- and 28-weeks’ gestation ( Table 8 ). If the woman has risk factors, however, screening should be performed at the initial prenatal visit using standard criteria ( 1 ). Table 6. Risk Factors for the Development of Gestational Diabetes View in own window Overweight or obese Previous history of impaired glucose tolerance, gestational diabetes, or delivery of a baby weighing >9 lb. Glycosuria or history of abnormal glucose tolerance Family history of diabetes (especially first degree relative) Polycystic ovarian syndrome, hypertension, glucocorticoid use History of poor obstetric outcome Age (>25 years) High risk ethnicity Multiple gestation Table 7. Low Risk for the Development of Gestational Diabetes View in own window Age (< 25 years) Normal weight pre-pregnancy Low risk ethnicity No first-degree
