Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


risk ethnicity Multiple gestation Table 7. Low Risk for the Development of Gestational Diabetes View in own window Age (< 25 years) Normal weight pre-pregnancy Low risk ethnicity No first-degree relatives with diabetes No history of abnormal glucose tolerance No history of poor obstetric outcome Table 8. Time of Initial Testing for Gestational Diabetes View in own window Risk of Development of Gestational Diabetes Time of Initial Testing for Gestational Diabetes Low risk 24-28 weeks gestation Average risk 24-28 weeks gestation High risk As soon as feasible; repeat at 24-28 weeks if earlier testing normal More than one method has been recommended for the screening and diagnosis of gestational diabetes. The criteria for the diagnosis of this condition remain controversial because the glucose thresholds for the development of complications in pregnancies with diabetes remain poorly defined. Currently, the ADA suggests screening for GDM with either the “one-step” or “two-step” approach ( 1 ). Long term outcome studies evaluating pregnancies complicated by GDM are currently underway and hopefully a uniform approach will be adopted. One-Step Strategy The International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group (IADPSG), an international consensus group with representatives from multiple obstetrical and diabetes organizations including the ADA recommend that all women not previously known to have diabetes undergo a 75-gram 2-hour OGTT at 24-28 weeks of gestation ( Table 9 ). This approach, which has been adopted internationally, is expected to increase the prevalence of GDM as only one abnormal value is sufficient to make the diagnosis ( 1 , 13 ). In 2017, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) stated that clinicians may make the diagnosis of gestational diabetes based on only one elevated blood glucose value if warranted, based on their population, although this organization still supports the “two step” approach for diagnosis of GDM ( 14 ). These glucose thresholds were based on outcome data of the HAPO study that conveyed an odds ratio for adverse maternal, fetal, and neonatal outcomes of at least 1.75 based on fully adjusted logistic regression models ( 15 ). Table 9. Oral Glucose Tolerance Test Glucose Criteria for the Diagnosis of GDM View in own window 75-gram 2- hour OGTT: Performed at 24-28 weeks gestation in the morning after an overnight fast of at least 8 hours. GDM is diagnosed when any of the following values are exceeded: Fasting ≥ 92 mg/dL (5.1 mmol/L) One Hour
