Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


mmol/l) ≥165 mg/dl (9.2 mmol/l) Three Hours ≥140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) ≥145 mg/dl (8.1 mmol/l) OGTTS FOR POSTPARTUM TESTING OF WOMEN WITH GESTATIONAL DIABETES Women with a history of GDM are at a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes than women without GDM ( 18 , 19 ). Women at the highest risk are those with multiple risk factors, those who had more severe gestational diabetes, and those with poorer beta cell function ( 11 ). The ADA recommends testing women 4-12 weeks after delivery using a two-hour 75-gram OGTT. Women with normal results should be retested at least every 3 years. It is recommended that women with impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance be retested on a yearly basis ( 1 ). Special Populations OGTTS FOR DIAGNOSIS OF CYSTIC FIBROSIS- RELATED DIABETES Diabetes is common in patients with cystic fibrosis and is associated with adverse effects on nutritional status as well as pulmonary function. Annual screening for diabetes is recommended for individuals over age 10 with cystic fibrosis ( 1 ). HbA1c and fructosamine can be inaccurate in this population. In a retrospective analysis of the Toronto cystic fibrosis database, screening for diabetes using a HbA1c cutoff of 5.5% had a sensitivity of 91.8% and specificity of only 34.1% ( 20 ) but more studies need to be performed before the use of HbA1c is generally recommended for the diagnosis of diabetes in these individuals. The use of the 2-hour 75 gm OGTT is recommended for the screening of healthy outpatients with cystic fibrosis. For patients receiving continuous drip feedings, laboratory glucose levels at the midpoint or immediately after feedings should be obtained. The diagnosis of diabetes is based on glucose levels ≥200 mg/dL on 2 separate occasions. If the patient is acutely ill or ingesting glucocorticoids, a FPG ≥126 mg/dL or 2-hour postprandial glucose ≥200 mg/dL that persists for >48 hours is sufficient to diagnose diabetes ( 21 , 22 ). FASTING GLUCOSE FOR DIAGNOSIS OF PREDIABETES AND DIABETES IN PEOPLE LIVING WITH HIV Screening for prediabetes and diabetes by measuring fasting glucose before and 3-6 months after starting or changing antiretroviral therapy is recommended for everyone living with HIV ( 1 ). If normal, a fasting glucose test should be performed yearly. Screening using a HbA1c test is not recommended for diagnosis due to risk of inaccuracies ( 1 , 23 ). OGTTS FOR DIAGNOSIS
