Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


fasting glucose test should be performed yearly. Screening using a HbA1c test is not recommended for diagnosis due to risk of inaccuracies ( 1 , 23 ). OGTTS FOR DIAGNOSIS OF POST- TRANSPLANTATION DIABETES After an individual has had an organ transplant and is on stable immunosuppressive therapy, routine screening for diabetes is recommended. The recommended screening test is an OGTT post- transplantation ( 1 ). TESTS USED FOR CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETES General Approach Other tests are used for the purpose of classifying diabetes. For details see individual chapters in Endotext: Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Monogenic Diabetes Atypical Forms of Diabetes Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation Diabetes in People Living with HIV Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents In brief, most patients with diabetes can be classified as either type 1 or type 2 diabetes using clinical judgement and simple tests if needed. However, the pathophysiology of diabetes is complex and significant overlap can exist, potentially leading to misclassification. While youth with type 1 diabetes typically present with rapid onset symptoms, adults with type 1 diabetes may have a much slower, more indolent course. While the incidence rate of type 1 diabetes is higher in youth, over half of individuals diagnosed with type 1 diabetes are adults ( 24 ). This is why ~40% of adults with new onset type 1 diabetes are initially misclassified as having type 2 diabetes ( 25 ). Another term for slowly progressing type 1 diabetes is latent autoimmune diabetes in the adult (LADA). However, the American Diabetes Association classifies LADA as type 1 diabetes. It is important to recognize these individuals because they require insulin sooner than individuals with type 2 diabetes ( 26 ) and they have a higher long-term risk of complications ( 27 ). On the other hand, type 2 diabetes can present in some populations (particularly those with Black or Latinx background) with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and this is termed ketosis prone diabetes ( 28 ). The importance of this is that about half of individuals initially presenting with DKA who have normal c-peptide and negative autoantibodies may be able to come discontinue insulin therapy ( 1 , 29 ). The most discriminating features of type 1 diabetes are younger age (<35 years), lower body mass index (<25 kg/m 2 ), unintentional weight
