Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


insulin therapy ( 1 , 29 ). The most discriminating features of type 1 diabetes are younger age (<35 years), lower body mass index (<25 kg/m 2 ), unintentional weight loss, ketoacidosis, and severe hyperglycemia (>360 mg/dl) at presentation ( 1 , 25 ). A helpful pneumonic is AABBCC which stands for age, autoimmunity (personal or family history of other autoimmune disorders), body habitus, background (family history of type 1 diabetes), control (glucose), and comorbidity (such as treatment with a checkpoint inhibitor for cancer). However, these features are not absolute, and the correct classification may only become apparent over time. An overview of the classification for suspected type 1 diabetes is shown in the Figure. For anyone with possible type 1 diabetes, testing for autoantibodies such as glutamate decarboxylase isoform 65 (GAD65A), insulin, insulinoma antigen 2, and zinc transporter isoform 8 (Znt8A) should be performed. The GAD antibody is the most prevalent autoantibody, but false positives can occur and the presence of multiple positive autoantibodies, and/or higher titers increases specificity. The c-peptide is often normal at the time of diagnosis. Among individuals who have had diabetes for many years, it is important to note that autoantibodies may become undetectable. On the other hand, while the c-peptide is often normal at the time of diagnosis, it typically declines over time (and glucose fluctuations become more difficult to manage) making the clinical diagnosis clearer. The c-peptide should be obtained from a random (nonfasting) sample and interpreted within the context of a concomitant serum glucose level (ideally ≥144 mg/dl) ( 30 ). If normal, it should be measured periodically where the diagnosis is unclear. Figure. Classification of suspected type 1 diabetes (T1D). Ab=antibody, MODY=maturity onset diabetes of youth, T2D=type 2 diabetes, Rx=treatment, Dx=diagnosis. While type 2 diabetes is considered polygenic, several forms of monogenic diabetes are well known. These are often nonsyndromic and include neonatal diabetes and older onset forms that collectively were formerly known as maturity onset diabetes of youth (MODY). Monogenic diabetes is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and should be suspected in individuals diagnosed as children or young adults (<25 years) with a strong family history and without other clinical features of type 1 or type 2 diabetes such as obesity or type 1 diabetes autoantibodies ( 1 ). Individuals commonly have an intact c-peptide and HbA1c <7.5% at diagnosis. When these forms are suspected, patients should be
