Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


such as obesity or type 1 diabetes autoantibodies ( 1 ). Individuals commonly have an intact c-peptide and HbA1c <7.5% at diagnosis. When these forms are suspected, patients should be referred for genetic testing. Some mutations leading to diabetes involve multiple organ systems and can be categorized as syndromic diabetes. Syndromic features include maternally inherited deafness, renal cysts, partial lipodystrophy, or severe insulin resistance in the absence of obesity. Such individuals should also be referred for genetic testing. A comparison of features of types of diabetes is shown in Table 12 . Table 12. Characterization of Common Types of Diabetes ( 1 ) View in own window T1D “LADA” T2D MODY Age Often young >age 25 Often adult <age 25 Family history Occasional Occasional Usually Yes C-peptide Low, often undetectable Varies Normal or high normal Auto-ab + + - - Weight Tend to be lean Tend to be lean Usually overweight Tend to be lean Metabolic syndrome No Varies Usually No Insulin requirement Yes Varies, rapid progression Varies Varies C-peptide During the processing of proinsulin to insulin in the beta cell of the pancreas, the 31 amino acid connecting peptide which connects the A and B chains, called c-peptide, is enzymatically removed and secreted into the portal vein. C-peptide circulates independently from insulin and is mainly excreted by the kidneys. Levels are elevated in renal failure. Standardization of different c-peptide assays is still suboptimal. C-peptide testing is used to examine insulin secretory reserve in people with diabetes. At the time of type 1 diabetes diagnosis, c-peptide levels commonly overlap with those observed in type 2 diabetes and cannot reliably distinguish between these diabetes types. With longer duration, there is progressive loss of c-peptide, and although c-peptide levels in many individuals with long-standing type 1 diabetes are extremely low or undetectable, there is heterogeneity in residual beta cell function with detectable c-peptide being more common in adult-onset type 1 diabetes ( 33 ). In type 1 diabetes, detectable c-peptide is associated with better glycemic control, less hypoglycemia, and decreased microvascular disease ( 34 - 35 ). Type 2 diabetes is heterogeneous, with many individuals having progressive loss of beta cell function over many years evidenced by decreasing c-peptide levels. Fasting and glucose-stimulated c-peptide levels have been used in the past to distinguish type 1 (severe insulin deficiency) from type 2 diabetes with limited success. However, targeted testing may be more discriminatory.
