Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


glucose-stimulated c-peptide levels have been used in the past to distinguish type 1 (severe insulin deficiency) from type 2 diabetes with limited success. However, targeted testing may be more discriminatory. When random c-peptide testing was performed >3 years after clinical diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, 13% had a c-peptide ≥200 pmol/L, and after islet autoantibody and genetic testing, 6.8% of these were reclassified: 5.1% as having type 2 diabetes and 1.6% as having monogenic diabetes ( 36 ). C-peptide stimulation using glucagon or a mixed meal such as Sustacal, has also been used to help differentiate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and to determine the need for insulin therapy in type 2 diabetes. In the glucagon stimulation test, glucose, insulin and c-peptide levels are measured 6 and 10 min after the intravenous injection of 1 mg of glucagon. Normal stimulation of c-peptide is a 150- 300% elevation over basal levels. In the mixed meal tolerance test, Sustacal (6 mg/kg up to a maximum or 360 ml) is ingested over 5 minutes, and glucose and c-peptide are measured 90 min after oral ingestion. These tests have had limited general clinical utility since they do not reliably discriminate between patients who require insulin therapy. They have been used in research studies and in the evaluation of patients after pancreatectomy and pancreatic transplantation. In the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial, a basal c- peptide value of <0.2 pmol/ml and stimulated level of <0.5 pmol/ml were used to confirm the presence of type 1 diabetes at entry ( 37 ). According to the ADA guidelines, a random c-peptide and concomitant glucose level obtained within 5 hours of eating is sufficient for classification. Pancreatic Autoantibodies Islet autoantibodies can be detected early in the development of type 1 diabetes and are considered markers of autoimmune beta cell destruction. They predict progressive beta cell destruction and ultimately beta cell failure. The autoantibodies for which specific immunoassays are available include the 65-KDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65), insulin autoantibodies (IAA), zinc transporter antibodies (ZnT8), islet cell antigen 512 autoantibodies (ICA512), and autoantibodies to the tyrosine phosphatase related antigens islet antigen 2 (IA-2) and IA-2b. Measurements of ICA512, which are autoantibodies to parts of the IA-2 antigen, are no longer recommended. The presence of high levels of 2 or more antibodies is strongly predictive of type 1 diabetes mellitus. These antibodies may be detected before the
