Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, diagnosis, pubmed, c-peptide, risk, mmol, screening, test, insulin, gestational, gestational diabetes, fasting


antigen, are no longer recommended. The presence of high levels of 2 or more antibodies is strongly predictive of type 1 diabetes mellitus. These antibodies may be detected before the onset of type 1 diabetes, at the time of diagnosis, and for variable amounts of time after diagnosis. They have been used in screening for type 1 diabetes in first-degree relatives of an individual with type 1 diabetes or in research studies related to the early detection, treatment, and prevention of type 1 diabetes (www.diabetestrialnet.org). These measurements are not recommended for use in general screening programs in low-risk individuals. The American Diabetes Association recommends offering screening via autoantibodies in persons with a strong family history of type 1 diabetes or otherwise known risk ( 1 ). Additional information on screening for type 1 diabetes may be found in the Endotext Chapter “Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes”. Commercially available assays for autoantibodies are often useful in distinguishing type 1 diabetes from type 2 diabetes. The absence of detection of these antibodies, however, does not exclude the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. Since IAA can form in response to insulin therapy, detection can be the result of insulin injections or autoimmune insulin antibody formation. GAD65 antibodies are frequently observed early in the course of type 1 diabetes. They are also present in the rare neurological disorder, stiff-man syndrome, and in some patients with polyendocrine autoimmune disease. In adults with newly diagnosed diabetes for whom type 1 diabetes is a possible diagnosis, GAD65 is commonly measured first, along with or followed by IA2 and ZnT8. IAA are more commonly detected in young children who develop type 1 diabetes. Lynam and coworkers ( 38 ) developed a clinical multivariable model to help differentiate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes in adults ages 18-50 years. The model includes age at diagnosis, BMI, islet autoantibodies (GAD, IA-2), and a type 1 diabetes genetic risk score. The authors define type 1 diabetes by a non-fasting c-peptide <200 pmol/L and rapid insulin requirement within the first 3 years of diagnosis. The definition of type 2 diabetes was not requiring insulin treatment within the first 3 years after diagnosis or, if insulin was used, having a c-peptide measurement of >600 pmol/L at ≥5 years post-diagnosis. Since the measures of the genetic variants in the type 1 diabetes genetic risk score are not widely available,
