Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


of 25 g were obtained from Harlan Winkelmann (Borchen, Germany). All experiments were performed in accordance with the federal law regarding the protection of animals. The principles of laboratory animal care were followed. Animals were maintained on a 12-hr light/dark cycle and provided with commercially available rodent chow and tap water ad libitum. Animals should be housed at least 7 days after arrival in your animal facility before experiments. Note that all experiments can be easily adapted to rats or other species and with slight modifications into large animal models. 2. Operative Procedure 1. Anesthesia is induced and maintained with isoflurane (Abbott, Wiesbaden, Germany) in oxygen. After onset of anesthesia place animals in supine position and fix extremities with adhesive tape (Leukosilk, Beiersdorf, Hamburg, Germany). 2. After shaving and surgical disinfection of the abdominal wall a median laparotomy is performed on a length of 2 centimeters. Enter the abdominal cavity via an incision along the Linea alba. Place two sterile retractors to keep the abdomen open. Carefully eventerate the small bowel to the left and place it on a wet cotton gauze. 3. Evacuate the entire small bowel luminal contents with two moist and sterile cotton applicators (MaiMed, Neunkirchen, Germany) by simultaneously rolling the applicator from the pylorus to the cecum. CAUTION: Avoid hemorrhages of the small bowel wall or lesions of the gut vessels. Put the gut back into the peritoneal cavern without twisting to prevent ischemia or mechanical obstruction and close the abdominal incision using a two layer continuous 5/0 polyamid non-absorbable sutures (Ethicon, Norderstedt, Germany). Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com 3. Postoperative Care 1. After the procedure place the animal under a heating lamp, observing it until it recovered from anesthesia. Put the mouse back in its cage and allow access to water and food. Due to the property of opioids to affect peristalsis, we perform perioperative analgesia with NSAIDs (for example metamizol) in drinking water. 4. Functional Studies 24 hr after IM a. Gastrointestinal Transit (GIT) 1. Anaesthetize mice slightly with isoflurane in oxygen 22.5 hr after IM. Carefully hyperextend the head of the mouse and pull out the tongue with a blunt forceps. Fill a 1 ml syringe with at least 100 μl fluorescein-labeled dextran (FITC-dextran, 70,000 MW, Sigma Aldrich, Taufkirchen, Germany), connect it to an arterial catheter (Vygon, Ecouen, France) and carefully insert the catheter as a gastric tube into the stomach. 2. Briefly
