Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


(FITC-dextran, 70,000 MW, Sigma Aldrich, Taufkirchen, Germany), connect it to an arterial catheter (Vygon, Ecouen, France) and carefully insert the catheter as a gastric tube into the stomach. 2. Briefly inject 100 μl FITC-dextran and pull out the catheter. Let the animal awake and wait for 90 min. During this time mice have access to food or water. 3. Prepare fifteen 2 ml spinning tubes and label them consecutively. 4. Euthanize mice 90 min after gavage and remove the entire gastrointestinal tract from stomach to rectum. Place the intestine onto a polystyrene pad and avoid stretching. CAVE: It is crucial to remove the gut gently to avoid shifting of liquid FITC-dextrane into the nearby segment. For the beginning it might be helpful to use clips at the beginning and at the end of each segment. 5. Measure full length of small bowel and full length of colon. Divide the small bowel into 10 equal sized segments by pinning it down to the polystyrene pad with cannulas. Divide the colon into 3 segments. You have prepared 15 segments (stomach #1), ten equally sized small bowel segments (#2-11), cecum (#12) and three 3 equally sized colonic segments (#13-15). 6. Transect the intestine at the marked positions, grab it with a forceps and flush them once with 1.0 ml KHB into the previously prepared KHB containing 2.0 ml tubes and vortex vigorously for 20 sec. The stomach and cecum are placed directly and cut in the prepared tubes. Fill these tubes with 1.0 ml KHB, thereby rinsing traces of luminal contents from the scissor into the tubes. 7. Centrifuge the probes at 12,000 rcf for 5 min at room temperature in a table top centrifuge. During centrifugation prepare another 15 consecutively numbered 1.5 ml tubes. 8. Transfer the clear supernatants into the new 1.5 ml tube and store in the dark at 4 °C until analysis (next step). The probes can be stored for several days at 4 °C without significant loss of FITC signal. For longer storage add 0.09% Natrium-azide or store at < -18 °C. 9. Pipette 100 μl duplets of the supernatants on a black 96-well plate (Greiner Bio One, Frickenhausen, Germany). Pipette two 100 μl samples of KHB as blank. 10. Read the plate in a fluorescence reader (Safire, Tecan, Crailsheim, Germany) and quantify the fluorescence at 494 nm (absorption) / 521 nm (emission) wavelength. Subtract blank values from
