Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


blank. 10. Read the plate in a fluorescence reader (Safire, Tecan, Crailsheim, Germany) and quantify the fluorescence at 494 nm (absorption) / 521 nm (emission) wavelength. Subtract blank values from samples. 11. Calculate the geometric center (GC) of FITC-dextran distribution, which is actually the center of gravity for the distribution of marker, by the following formula: GC = ∑ (% of total fluorescent signal per segment * segment number) / 100 Note: By multiplying percentage of fluorescence of each segment with its segment number a weighted mean of the distribution of marker within the intestine is assessed. This point is influenced by both the distribution and distance traveled by marker, but assumes no specific underlying distribution.7 The calculated GC value is often presented in combination with a graph demonstrating the distribution of FITC dextran over the gastrointestinal tract (Figure 1A). b. Colonic Transit 1. Mice should be weakly anaesthetized with isoflurane 2 % in oxygen. CAUTION: Ensure that the animal will awake within 40 sec. 2. Carefully examine colonic patency by inserting a fistula probe (metal rod, 2 mm diameter) through the anus into the colon. 3. Using the fistula probe push forward a 2 mm glass ball 3 cm into the colon and pull out the probe immediately. Place the mouse in a transparent cage and start measuring the time after the fistula probe was pulled out of the colon. Keep an eye to the mouse and stop the time directly after the glass ball became excreted. 5. Histochemical Analysis of Isolated ME Specimens 1. Midjejunal segments are cut from the bowel and immersed in cold KHB in a Sylgard-filled dish. 2. Mesentery is pinned to the dish with 0.2 mm insect needles (Fine Science Tools, Heidelberg, Germany). 3. Cut open the segment along its mesenteric border and stretch to ~120 % of its length and width. Finalize the fixation with insect pins on opposite site of the mesentery. Rinse the sylgard dish carefully with fresh ice cold KHB, thereby flushing all luminal contents. ME can now mechanically separated from the tunica mucosa starting from the mesentery. During preparation replace fresh chilled KHB several times. 4. Separated tunica mucosa can be shock frozen in liquid nitrogen for further analysis or discarded. 5. Fix the isolated ME whole mount with 100 % ethanol for 10 min at room temperature. Wash the whole mount three times using chilled KHB. Note: other
