Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


or discarded. 5. Fix the isolated ME whole mount with 100 % ethanol for 10 min at room temperature. Wash the whole mount three times using chilled KHB. Note: other fixatives (i.e. 4% formaldehyde, acetic acid, aceton) can also be used after testing its compatibility with the subsequent analysis. 6. The ME whole mounts are ready for further histochemical or immunhistochemical staining: a. Histochemistry: myeloperoxidase (MPO) staining Infiltrated PMNs can be examined by the following MPO staining protocol. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com 1. Solve 10 mg Hanker Yates reagent (Polyscience Europe, Eppelheim, Germany) in 10 ml KHB and add 100 μl of 3% H O . Prepare the 2 2 solution freshly immediately before use and do not reuse. 2. Incubate whole mounts for 10 min at room temperature. 3. Rinse specimens extensively with cold KHB and incubate for 10 min. 4. Mount specimens in aqueous mounting medium (Aquatek, Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) After drying for 2 hr analyze slides at under a light microscope. 5. Count numbers of cells in 5 randomly chosen fields and calculate as MPO positive cells / mm2. b. Immunohistochemical Staining: Accordingly to the histochemical MPO staining, immunohistochemical stainings of the whole mounts can be performed. Principally, your established immunohistochemical staining protocols of cell cultures or tissue slices can be easily adapted to a whole mount staining. However, optimizing the procedure for specific antibodies is strongly recommend. 1. Cut specimens into 5 x 5 mm pieces and perform staining in 2.0 ml round bottom centrifuge tubes in ~150 μl - 200 μl antibody solution. 2. Fixation and blocking procedure (i.e. 3% BSA in PBS for 1 hr at room temperature) can be performed in the "sylgard dish". 3. Washing steps in PBS or other buffers can be performed in 12-well plates. 4. Transfer the .specimens carefully with a sharp forceps between staining tubes and washing plates. 5. After the final washing procedure mount specimens in anti-fading mounting medium with cover slips and analyze with a fluorescent microscope. 6. Organ Culture of ME 1. The whole small intestine is resected 24 hr after IM and placed in cold KHB containing 200 U/ml penicillin G and 100 μg/ml streptomycin (KHB + P/S). 2. Cut the gut into 3 cm lengths and pin each segment down to a Sylgard containing glass dish. 3. Remove the mesentery with fine scissors and slip the intestine on a knitting needle. 4.
