Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


3 cm lengths and pin each segment down to a Sylgard containing glass dish. 3. Remove the mesentery with fine scissors and slip the intestine on a knitting needle. 4. Gently incise the ME with a sharp forceps and strip it off from the submucosa using a moist cotton applicator. The tunica mucosa remains on the knitting needle and can be snap frozen for further investigation. The ME is collected in cold KHB + P/S. 5. Cut the isolated ME strips into small pieces of 2 - 4 mm length and incubate it in ice cold KHB + P/S for half an hour and rinse the specimen several times. 6. Transfer approximately 50-60 mg ME (at least half ME of one small bowel) in a sterile 24-well plate containing 500 μl Dulbecco s modified Eagle medium (DMEM). 7. Incubate at 37 °C and 5 % CO for additional 24 hr. 8. Inspect the cell cultures for bacterial or fungal contamination under a microscope. 9. Collect supernatant, spin down for 5 min at 1,000 rcf and snap freeze in liquid nitrogen. Meanwhile blot dry the muscle tissue on a clean tissue for 30 sec and weight. 10. Supernatants can be used for subsequent analysis of released cytokines (IL-6) by ELISA or other metabolites (i.e. nitrite) in the supernatant by following manufactures instructions. 11. Normalize measured concentrations per weight of ME tissue. 7. Representative Results 1. Functional Studies The most important parameter to evaluate the severity of POI is the examination of GIT in vivo. Figure 1A demonstrates a typical distribution of FITC dextran along the gastrointestinal tract in untreated controls and intestinally manipulated mice 24 hr after surgery. "Sham operated" animals showed a normal GIT with a calculated geometric center (GC) in the cecum while IM led to a significant delay of GIT in the proximal jejunum (Figure 1B) Colonic motility was separately focused on by measurement of the ball excretion time of a 2 mm glass ball. Sham operated mice show an excretion time of 48 - 200 sec while IM led to a prolonged excretion time between 470 - 775 sec (Figure 1C). 2. Morphological Studies To describe the inflammatory extend within the ME several phenotypes of leukocytes could be analyzed using histochemistry or immunohistochemistry. In figure 2A+B a low presence of PMNs in "sham operated" animals was observed (39±7 cells/mm2). IM of the small bowel led to a
