Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


be analyzed using histochemistry or immunohistochemistry. In figure 2A+B a low presence of PMNs in "sham operated" animals was observed (39±7 cells/mm2). IM of the small bowel led to a strong PMN infiltration (660±86 cells/mm2) compared with sham operated mice 3. ME Organ Culture Many inflammatory mediators liberated from cells are difficult to detect in tissue lysates. Organ cultures allow detection of liberated mediators in the culture supernatant. A representative mediator in POI is NO, which is as major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the gastrointestinal tract.5 NO could not be detected in ME organ culture supernatants of unoperated control animals (5±6 μM/ 24 hr /mg tissue). In sham operated (laparotomy) mice basal NO levels of 53±36 μM/ 24 hr /mg tissue were observed. ME cultures of intestinally manipulated (harvested 24 hr after surgery) mice produce significantly more NO (2254±853 μM/ 24 hr /mg tissue) during 24 hr ME organ culture (Figure 3). Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 1. Effect of IM on GIT (A+B) and colonic transit (C) GIT was measured as the percent of non-absorbable fluorescein-labeled dextran in 15 gastrointestinal segments-stomach (Sto), small intestine (SI 1-9), cecum (Cec), and colon (Co)-90 min after oral ingestion. Colonic transit was measured as the time from pulling out the fistula probe until excretion of a 2 mm glass bead. (A)Gastrointestinal distribution of fluorescein isothiocyanate- dextran after sham operation or IM. In sham operated animals most of the marker is located in the cecum or the proximal colon compared with proximal jejunal location in manipulated animals. Dotted lines indicate calculated GC. (B) Calculation of the GC demonstrated a prolonged gastrointestinal transit time after IM. (C) Colonic transit time showed a significant delay in IM mice compared with sham operated animals. GC for the 15 intestinal segments are displayed as mean (n=5). Colonic transit times were displayed mean with all individual values Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 2. Detection of MPO positive cells within small bowel ME.(A) ME whole mounts were stained with Hanker Yates reagent for detection of MPO positive PMN 24 hr after laparotomy (sham) or IM procedure. (B) Quantification of MPO positive cell within 5 randomly chosen fields per Figure 3. NO production in culture supernatants of ME. Muscle specimens from unoperated controls, sham operated and IM mice were taken 24 hr postoperatively and cultured for 24 hr. Untreated mice showed only a very low basal production of NO. After
