Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


from unoperated controls, sham operated and IM mice were taken 24 hr postoperatively and cultured for 24 hr. Untreated mice showed only a very low basal production of NO. After laparotomy NO liberation is increased without measuring significant differences between the control group and sham operated mice. 24 hr after IM NO production is dramatically increased compared with untreated or sham operated mice. n= 5 animals per group. *** = p<0.001, 1 way ANOVA. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Discussion A comparative study analyzing different levels of IM (small bowel eventration for 10 min versus gently inspection of the small bowel using two cotton applicators versus IM with evacuation of small bowel content into the cecum) revealed a correlation between the extent of surgical manipulation and POI. Compared with the other groups IM showed the highest amount of leukocytes in the ME (PNMs, macrophages and mast cells) resulting in prolonged and severe POI.8. When establishing the model of IM, standardized operation and strength of bowel manipulation are critical steps. Touching the mesentery during this procedure must be strictly avoided to prevent hemorrhages. Insufficient strength during IM will result in a lack of small bowel distension. IM technique and strength varies between different surgeons can results in significant variation of POI occurrence. The same operator should manipulate all animals in one experiment. Analyzing GIT and colonic transit in vivo is critical and must be performed carefully. Each animal should be housed during the procedure in darkened cages and in a silent room. Animals should be housed at least 7 days after arrival in the animal facility to adept to the environment (food, water, rooms, light dark cycles, immunological conditions). Measurement of both, GIT and colonic transit, allows one also to distinguish between intestinal inflammation and paralysis in treated and non-treated areas.9 Another sophisticated method of in vivo motility recordings in awake rodents was described by Konigsrainer et al. 10 using strain gauge transducers placed on stomach, jejunum and colon. The great advantage of this method is that motility disturbances can be examined independently and continuously in different parts of the gastrointestinal tract in the same animal on consecutive days. However the production of strain gauge transducers and the necessary operation to implant them are elaborate compared to the GIT. In POI, the dissemination of intestinal paralysis is known as gastrointestinal field effect.11 A previous work of our group shows by the
