Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: bowel, small, mice, intestinal, animals, gastrointestinal, khb, small bowel, sham, germany, transit, git, operated, colonic, sham operated


implant them are elaborate compared to the GIT. In POI, the dissemination of intestinal paralysis is known as gastrointestinal field effect.11 A previous work of our group shows by the use of the present methods that immunocytes from intestinally manipulated small bowel disseminate to the unmanipulated colon.12 The surgical procedure should not result in any death or major complication (like hemorrhage or peritonitis). Measurement of GIT and PMN infiltrates in ME whole mounts demonstrates that IM is a highly reproducible and feasible model to induce POI in rodents. Fixation and myeloperoxidase staining must be performed immediately after organ harvesting. Longer storage of the samples in aqueous buffer results in elution of myeloperoxidase from the tissue. Measurement of nitric oxide is one example of mediator release from organ cultures: As shown before intestinal manipulation resulted in an upregulation of iNOS in macrophages of the ME leading to an excessive liberation of NO and intestinal dysmotility.5 By measuring the concentration of NO in the supernatant of cultured ME a statement about the inflammatory extent or the efficacy of therapeutics is possible. Several other molecules (Il-6, TNF-alpha etc) can be easily examined in the supernatants of cultured tissue by classical ELISA or multiplex approaches like Luminex Multiplex Immunoassay13 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). In summary, IM is a reliable and valuable model inducing bowel inflammation and subsequent motility disturbances. The simple mechanical separation of ME and tunica mucosa allows researchers to distinguish between the effect in both bowel wall compartments, that is of major interest since the intestinal ME has been shown to be a highly immunological active tissue. In vivo analysis of GIT and colonic transit has been developed as gold standards in detection and quantification of intestinal motility disturbances. Disclosures No conflicts of interest declared. Acknowledgements This work was supported by grants from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (KA1270/3-1/2) and BONFOR (O-112.0040).
