NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atorvastatin, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, patients, statins, liver injury, simvastatin, elevations, therapy, months, hepatitis


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Atorvastatin. [Updated 2025 Mar 3]. Bookshelf URL: Atorvastatin Updated: March 3, 2025. OVERVIEW Introduction Atorvastatin is a commonly used cholesterol lowering agent (statin) that is associated with mild, asymptomatic and self-limited serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy and rarely with clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Atorvastatin (a tor" va stat' in) is a potent, orally available inhibitor of hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl- coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the major rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis. Like other members of its class (the “statins”), atorvastatin lowers total serum cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL) concentrations, thereby reducing the risk of atherosclerosis and its complications – myocardial infarction and stroke. Atorvastatin was approved for use in the United States in 1996 and has become one of the most commonly prescribed drugs in America, with more than 100 million prescriptions filled yearly. The current primary indication for atorvastatin is the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in persons at high risk for coronary, cerebrovascular and peripheral artery disease. Atorvastatin is available in tablets of 10, 20, 40 and 80 mg generically and under the trade name Lipitor. It is also available in combination with other cardiovascular agents such as amlodipine (Caduet and generics) and ezetimibe (Lypqozet). The recommended dose is 10 to 80 mg once daily based upon tolerability and lipid levels. Common side effects include muscle cramps, headache, joint aches, abdominal pain, nausea, and weakness, symptoms that occur with all the currently available statins. Rare but potentially severe adverse events include liver injury, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy. Hepatotoxicity Atorvastatin therapy is associated with mild, asymptomatic and usually transient serum aminotransferase elevations in 1% to 3% of patients but levels above 3 times ULN in less than 1%. In summary analyses of large scale studies with prospective monitoring, ALT elevations above 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 0.7% of atorvastatin treated versus 0.3% of placebo recipients. These elevations were more common with higher doses of atorvastatin, being 2.3% with 80 mg daily. Most elevations were self-limited and did not require dose modification. Atorvastatin is also associated with frank, clinically apparent hepatic injury but this is rare, occurring in from simple cholestatic hepatitis to mixed forms, to frankly hepatocellular injury. The latency to onset of injury is also highly variable ranging from 1 month to several years. However, most
