NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atorvastatin, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, patients, statins, liver injury, simvastatin, elevations, therapy, months, hepatitis


from simple cholestatic hepatitis to mixed forms, to frankly hepatocellular injury. The latency to onset of injury is also highly variable ranging from 1 month to several years. However, most cases arise within 6 months of 2 LiverTox starting atorvastatin or several months after a dose escalation. The most common presentation is a cholestatic hepatitis that tends to be mild-to-moderate in severity and self-limiting in course (Cases 1 and 2). Atorvastatin hepatotoxicity can also present with a distinctly hepatocellular pattern of injury with marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels and minimal or no increase in alkaline phosphatase. Rash, fever and eosinophilia are uncommon, but at least one-third of hepatocellular cases have features of autoimmunity, marked by high immunoglobulin levels, ANA or SMA positivity and liver biopsy findings that resemble autoimmune hepatitis (Cases 3 and 4). These autoimmune cases usually resolve once atorvastatin is stopped, although they may require corticosteroid therapy for resolution. Strikingly, however, some cases of apparent autoimmune hepatitis caused by atorvastatin do not resolve with stopping the medication but are self-sustained and require long term immunosuppressive therapy. It is unclear whether these cases of persistent autoimmune hepatitis are caused by the statin therapy or are triggered by statin in a susceptible host. Another possibility is that the association is coincidental and represents a de novo onset of autoimmune hepatitis in someone who happens to be taking a statin. Likelihood score: A (well known cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of hepatic injury from atorvastatin is unknown. Atorvastatin is largely metabolized in the liver via CYP 3A4 and is excreted in bile. The mild, self-limited ALT elevations are likely due to a toxic intermediate of drug metabolism and the reversal of these elevations due to adaptation. The idiosyncratic, clinically apparent liver injury associated with atorvastatin has many features of autoimmunity and may be immune mediated. Other cases may be due to failure of adaptation. Because atorvastatin is metabolized by CYP 3A4, it is susceptible to many drug-drug and even drug-food and drug-herb interactions. Strong inhibitors of CYP 3A4 such as clarithromycin, ritonavir (and other HIV protease inhibitors), itraconazole, verapamil and grapefruit juice (high consumption) can increase atorvastatin levels, and the dose should be kept to 20 mg daily or less. Cyclosporine, fibrates and niacin can increase the risk of myopathy from atorvastatin. On the other hand, rifampin and other inducers of CYP 3A4 can
