NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atorvastatin, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, patients, statins, liver injury, simvastatin, elevations, therapy, months, hepatitis


to 20 mg daily or less. Cyclosporine, fibrates and niacin can increase the risk of myopathy from atorvastatin. On the other hand, rifampin and other inducers of CYP 3A4 can decrease atorvastatin levels and efficacy. Drug induced liver injury from atorvastatin has sometimes occurred after long term use of the statin, but shortly after additions or discontinuations or modifications of other medications being taken. Outcome and Management The product label for atorvastatin recommends screening for liver test abnormalities before starting therapy and repeating tests as clinically indicated. The mild ALT elevations associated with atorvastatin therapy are usually self-limited and do not require dose modification. Atorvastatin should be stopped if ALT levels rise above 10- fold normal or persist in being above 5-fold elevated or are associated with symptoms of liver injury. However, prospective monitoring of serum enzymes upon initiating atorvastatin therapy is no longer recommended. Clinically apparent liver injury attributed to atorvastatin is usually self-limited and recovery is complete within 1 to 4 months. Several instances of an autoimmune chronic hepatitis have been reported after atorvastatin therapy that required long term immunosuppressive therapy despite stopping atorvastatin, suggesting that the drug triggered an underlying predisposition to autoimmune hepatitis. In other instances, the liver disease ultimately resolved with stopping atorvastatin. In addition, rare instances of acute liver failure have been attributed to atorvastatin, but in these cases the role of atorvastatin in causing the hepatic injury was not always clear. In view of the widescale use of atorvastatin, clinically apparent and severe liver injury is extraordinarily rare. Recurrence of injury with rechallenge has been reported and should be avoided. Switching therapy to another statin a fter atorvastatin induced injury is apparently safe, but few instances have been reported, and it should be done with careful monitoring for recurrence. In cases of autoimmune hepatitis-like injury, corticosteroids have been used Atorvastatin 3 but with unclear efficacy. If corticosteroids are used, the dose and duration of treatment should be kept to a minimum, and careful follow up after stopping is essential. Drug Class: Antilipemic Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Statins: Ezetimibe [used in combination], Fluvastatin, Lovastatin, Pitavastatin, Pravastatin, Rosuvastatin, Simvastatin CASE REPORTS Case 1. Abnormal serum enzymes arising during atorvastatin therapy.(1) A 71 year old woman was found to have marked elevations in serum ALT and alkaline phosphatase 6 weeks a fter switching from simvastatin to atorvastatin (80 mg/day) for hyperlipidemia. Her serum ALT
