Von Hippel-Lindau Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, vhl, disease, von, hippel-lindau, von hippel-lindau, patients, tumors, hippel-lindau disease, vhl disease, pheochromocytoma, hemangioblastomas, free, renal, tumor


are no markers yet that can reliably distinguish a benign from a malignant pheochromocytoma [ 117 ]. The detection of a pheochromocytoma in patients with VHL syndrome is particularly important, given the possible need for surgical interventions for other tumors such as CNS hemangioblastomas. Just like in any patient with an undetected pheochromocytoma, surgery and other factors can lead to life-threatening hypertensive attacks intraoperatively. During pregnancy, surgery usually should take place in the second trimester and may include interval adrenalectomy [ 118 ]. Screening for pheochromocytoma in at high risk patients (VHL type 2A,B,C) should include measurements of urinary catecholamines and fractionated metanephrines, as well as of plasma free metanephrines, acknowledging that normetanephrine is the predominant biochemical marker for adrenal and extra-adrenal VHL-associated pheochromocytomas, and that methoxytyramine a helpful marker for head and neck paragangliomas [ 119 , 120 ]. Determining the screening age for pheochromocytoma should likely be made dependent on potential beneficial and negative sequelae that could occur if screening were not performed, i.e. malignancy (lower than 5% in VHL disease!), hypertension, radiation exposure from frequent imaging. There is marked intrafamilial variation, and the penetrance of pheochromocytoma may be as late as age 54 years [ 101 , 121 ]. In a recent study of 37 Danish patients from the national VHL research database and additional international children and adolescents with VHL disease the age range of clinical manifestations (mostly retinal and CNS hemangioblastomas) was from 6 to 17 years of age [ 122 ]. At present, experts recommend pheochromocytoma screening be started already in childhood at the age of 8 years [ 99 , 123 ] [ 9 ]. The adrenal glands (suprarenal) can be visualized while undergoing an MRI to look for renal abnormalities in patients with VHL disease. More than 70% of pheochromocytomas presenting in children are due to VHL disease. The diagnosis can further be established by abdominal computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging [ 9 ]. Given the low frequency rate of extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas (approx. 15%) and malignant pheochromocytomas (< 5%) in patients with VHL disease, only selected patients should undergo 123I-MIBG scanning to search for extra-adrenal or metastatic lesions, before operation [ 113 , 124 ]. Importantly, (isolated) pheochromocytoma can be the presenting manifestation of VHL syndrome [ 3 , 125 ]. Approximately 50% of patients with apparently isolated familial pheochromocytoma have VHL disease and approx. 10% of patients with apparently sporadic
