Von Hippel-Lindau Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, vhl, disease, von, hippel-lindau, von hippel-lindau, patients, tumors, hippel-lindau disease, vhl disease, pheochromocytoma, hemangioblastomas, free, renal, tumor


sterility. Epididymal cystadenomas are well visible on ultrasound. Women who are affected by VHL disease develop cystadenomas of the broad ligaments, which play no major clinical role. Figure 5. VHL disease associated epididymal cystadenomas consistently reveal papillary (pap), tubular (tu) and cystic (cy) architecture [ 140 ]. PANCREATIC MANIFESTATIONS IN VHL SYNDROME Pancreatic manifestations include pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, cysts and cystadenomas. Overall, 35–70% of VHL patients develop a pancreatic manifestation [ 142-144 ]. Distinguishing between a benign microcystic adenoma and a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor can be difficult. Similar to hemangioblastomas, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors reveal a staggering growth pattern [ 145 ]. Most pancreatic tumors in VHL disease are asymptomatic. Extremely rare – and depending on size and location – are bile duct obstruction and/or pancreatic insufficiency. Most patients do not need any treatment. This is important for patients with pancreatic cysts and/or microcystic adenomas. In a recent study of 48 patients with VHL disease, branch duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms were present in 10% [ 146 ]. (68)Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT appears to be a very sensitive screening tool in detecting pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in VHL disease [ 147 ]. All patients should be investigated by MRI with intravenous contrast administration. It is very important that imaging is performed in the early arterial phase. In contrast to the multicystic appearance of microcystic adenoma, neuroendocrine pancreatic tumors present as solid lesions and need to be considered for surgical removal. Mutations in exon 3, especially of codons 161/167 are at enhanced risk for metastatic PanNETs [ 148 ]. However, most VHL associated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are small and slowly growing. In general, VHL associated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors have a favorable prognosis compared to sporadic tumors [ 149 ]. Tumors with a diameter over 2.8 cm should be treated surgically to avoid metastasis according to a recent multicenter study [ 148 ]. Resection of pancreatic tumors may also be performed if the patient is undergoing laparotomy for other lesions [ 150 , 151 ]. In cases of biliary obstruction and/or pancreatic insufficiency treatment consists of placing biliary stents and/or replacing pancreatic enzymes. A new option is organ-sparing endoscopic resection which can be applied to tumors in the tail and the body of the pancreas [ 152 ]. Chemotherapy is currently under investigation. Occasional patients respond well to somatostatin analog therapy [ 153 ]. ENDOLYMPHATIC SAC TUMORS IN VHL SYNDROME Endolymphatic sac tumors are benign cystadenomas
