Von Hippel-Lindau Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, vhl, disease, von, hippel-lindau, von hippel-lindau, patients, tumors, hippel-lindau disease, vhl disease, pheochromocytoma, hemangioblastomas, free, renal, tumor


152 ]. Chemotherapy is currently under investigation. Occasional patients respond well to somatostatin analog therapy [ 153 ]. ENDOLYMPHATIC SAC TUMORS IN VHL SYNDROME Endolymphatic sac tumors are benign cystadenomas that arise in the vestibular aqueduct and may extend into the extraosseous portion of the endolymphatic sac, into the petrous bone, and into the inner ear [ 154 , 155 ]. Large tumors have been reported to extend into the brain [ 50 ]. The vestibular aqueduct connects the inner ear with the extraosseous portion of the endolymphatic sac, a dural fold at the posterior surface of the petrous bone. Despite their benign nature these lesions grow locally invasive into the temporal bone due to their origin in the osseous portion of the vestibular aqueduct. Patients may present with hypakusis or hearing loss (100%), tinnitus (77%), disequilibrium (62%), and facial paresis (8%) [ 156 ]. Hearing loss and vestibulopathy may occur suddenly due to tumor-associated intralabyrinthine hemorrhage, or insidiously, consistent with endolymphatic hydrops [ 157 ]. Diagnosis is established by MRI, which shows homogeneous or variable patterns of patchy enhancement and CT (bone window) revealing widening of the osseous portion of the vestibular aqueduct ( figure 6 ). Radical resection allows for complete excision of the tumors. The preoperative level of hearing can usually be preserved. The timing of surgery depends on the severity of symptoms, the slow but variable growth of the tumors, the possibility of injury to the 7 th and 8 th cranial nerves and possible bilateral occurrence. Hearing preserving early surgical resection is recommended to enhance the opportunity for complete resection and decrease irreversible audiovestibular symptoms [ 47 ]. Endolymphatic hydrops can be detected early on contrast-enhanced delayed FLAIR MRI even before the tumoral mass itself is visible [ 45 ]. The role of radiation in the treatment of these tumors remains controversial (see [ 50 ] for a review). Figure 6. VHL-associated ELST (endolymphatic sac tumor). MRI reveals an in homogenously enhancing mass in the left temporal bone, CT shows osteolysis. PROGNOSIS IN VHL SYNDROME Before the introduction of clinical screening programs and timely prophylactic treatment of VHL associated lesions, the life expectancy of affected patients used to be impaired with a median survival around 50 years [ 2 , 11 ]. Nowadays, life expectancy may be significantly improved by clinical screening programs with early detection and treatment of VHL manifestations [ 158 ]. Modern
