Von Hippel-Lindau Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, vhl, disease, von, hippel-lindau, von hippel-lindau, patients, tumors, hippel-lindau disease, vhl disease, pheochromocytoma, hemangioblastomas, free, renal, tumor


50 years [ 2 , 11 ]. Nowadays, life expectancy may be significantly improved by clinical screening programs with early detection and treatment of VHL manifestations [ 158 ]. Modern management of VHL has meanwhile achieved a life expectancy of additional 10 years [ 159 ]. VHL SCREENING All patients with hemangioblastoma, the index tumor of VHL disease, should receive a careful family history, screening for detection of other lesions associated with VHL ( table 2 ), and should undergo genetic testing for VHL disease [ 160 , 161 ]. Once the diagnosis of VHL disease is established, patients should undergo an annual screening program in order to identify manifestations early before deficits or metastasis occur. Screening includes periodic contrast enhanced MRI scans. CNS gadolinium accumulation will eventually occur in virtually all VHL patients, however, no pathological effect of this accumulation is known so far [ 47 ]. The screening programs vary slightly between different centers. An example of a routine surveillance protocol for von Hippel–Lindau disease (modified from Maher [ 162 ]) is presented in table 2 : Table 2: Screening Procedures View in own window Screen for retinal hemangioblastoma: Annual ophthalmic examinations (direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy), beginning at age 1 (from birth on). Screen for CNS hemangioblastoma: Contrast enhanced MRI brain and full spine, beginning at age 12. Annual or biennial depending on manifestations. Screen for renal cell carcinoma and pancreatic tumors: MRI (or ultrasound) examinations of the abdomen every 12 months, beginning from the age of 12 years. Screen for pheochromocytoma: Annual blood pressure monitoring and 24-h urine studies for catecholamine metabolites starting at age 6. Alternatively measuring plasma metanephrines. MRI starting at age 12. Screen for epididymal cystadenoma: Ultrasonography of the testes starting at 18 years. Screen for ELST with audiogram: Biennial audiogram starting at age 16 Additional investigations in response to symptoms or signs of specific complications. MOLECULAR ASPECTS IN VHL SYNDROME Patients with VHL disease carry a germline mutation of the VHL tumor suppressor gene (VHL). The VHL gene had originally been linked to chromosome 3p25 in 1988 [ 163 ] and was subsequently cloned in 1993 [ 164 ]. The evolutionarily conserved VHL gene encodes two protein products, a 30-kDa full-length form (p30) and a 19-kDa form (p19). The protein product of the VHL gene (pVHL) interacts with elongins B, C and Cullin-2 to form the VBC complex, an E3 ubiquitin ligase [
