Von Hippel-Lindau Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, vhl, disease, von, hippel-lindau, von hippel-lindau, patients, tumors, hippel-lindau disease, vhl disease, pheochromocytoma, hemangioblastomas, free, renal, tumor


and a 19-kDa form (p19). The protein product of the VHL gene (pVHL) interacts with elongins B, C and Cullin-2 to form the VBC complex, an E3 ubiquitin ligase [ 165 ]. This multiprotein complex targets proteins for ubiquitin-mediated degradation, analogous to the S. cerevisiae SCF (Skp1/Cdc53/F-box) ubiquitination machinery [ 166-168 ]. Major targets of the VBC complex include the regulatory subunits of the heterodimeric transcription factor, hypoxia inducible factor (HIF). Therefore, VHL inactivation causes an up-regulation of HIF and downstream proteins under normoxic conditions. Many of the HIF targets are involved in the adaptation to acute or chronic hypoxia and include genes involved in the uptake and metabolism of glucose (GLUT-1), angiogenesis (VEGF, PDGF), control of extracellular pH (CA9), mitogenesis (TGFα), and erythropoiesis (erythropoietin) [ 169-172 ]. In addition to HIF degradation, the VHL protein is involved in HIF-independent cellular processes. It directs the proper deposition of fibronectin and collagen IV within the extracellular matrix [ 173 ]. Furthermore, it works to stabilize microtubules and foster the maintenance of primary cilium. The VHL protein also promotes the stabilization and activation of p53 and, in neuronal cells, promotes apoptosis by downregulation of Jun-B [ 173 ]. It was furthermore shown that acute VHL inactivation causes a senescent-like phenotype independently of HIF but dependent on the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) and the SWI2/SNF2 chromatin remodeler p400 [ 174 ]. Biallelic inactivation of the VHL tumor suppressor gene is suspected as initiating step of tumorigenesis. In general, two genetic events or “hits” are thought to occur to the two alleles of a tumor suppressor gene: The first hit is represented by a germline mutation and the second hit is characterized by inactivation of the wild-type allele [ 175 ]. More recent work suggests, that the biallelic VHL inactivation is only a first step in VHL tumorigenesis. Tumorigenesis in VHL disease shares fundamental principles in the different affected organ systems: Germline VHL inactivation leads to persistence of microscopic developmentally arrested structures. These microscopic cell clusters already reveal biallelic VHL inactivation and consequent up-regulation of hypoxia inducible factor and down-stream targets like VEGF, EPO etc. This principle has been shown for CNS hemangioblastomas [ 61 , 62 ], renal cell carcinomas [ 176 ], endolymphatic sac tumors [ 154 ] and epididymal cystadenomas [ 140 ] and is most likely valid for all VHL associated tumors. Current research for pharmacotherapy of VHL disease targets proteins
