4 patients with chest pain, LVH, and elevated troponin: which has Occlusion MI?
KEYWORDS: patient, pain, ecg, troponin, chest, chest pain, reperfusion, cath, cath lab, lab, lad, year old, patient year, old, occlusion


Four patients presented with chest pain, an ECG showing LVH, and an elevated troponin. Which patient has an acute coronary occlusion? Patient 1: 50 year old, no past medical history, with chest pain that began on exertion but continues, and feels like heartburn Back to Patient 1: Queen of Hearts identified LAD OMI with ECG signs of reperfusion, but clinically the patient still had pain at the time of the ECG. The ECG was repeated 15 minutes later, when the patient reported reduction but still ongoing pain Queen now calls this OMI: Cath lab was activated: 100% mid LAD occlusion, with RCA CTO and 80% circumflex stenosis. LAD stented. First troponin I was 2,000 ng/L and peak 10,000ng/L. Discharge ECG showed reperfusion T wave inversion: Discharge diagnosis was “STEMI” because of rapid reperfusion, even though no ECG had a final interpretation of STEMI, because STEMI criteria cannot be applied in the presence of LVH. Patient 2: 55 year old, no past medical history, with exertional chest pain and syncope The ECG was repeated on arrival. Cath lab was canceled and the patient was sent to the emergency department for assessment. Troponin rose from 30 to 55 ng/L, the patient was admitted as NSTEMI. Angiogram showed minimal coronary artery disease and echo showed severe aortic stenosis (explaining the exertional chest pain and syncope), treated with aortic valve replacement. Patient 3: 60 year old, history of hypertension, with one week of chest pain and shortness of breath on exertion Cath lab was activated by the emergency physician but canceled by cardiology. Serial troponins were stable at 17ng/L (normal <16 in females) and echo diagnosed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Patient 4: 55 year old, no past medical history, with 3 days exertional chest pain Thereʼs minimal LVH criteria, making the biphasic T waves V2-4 concerning for primary ischemic changes from reperfusion (rather than secondary to LVH). Wellens syndrome requires resolution of ischemic symptoms and intact R waves (ie reperfusion before a major infarct); but V4 has lost most of its R wave, and when the first troponin returned at 8,000ng/L the nursing notes documented the patient still had chest pain. The patient was admitted as ‘high risk NSTEMIʼ, and after troponin rose to 12,000 two hours later the patient was taken to cath lab. Door-to-cath was 5hr40 minutes. There was 100% mid LAD occlusion, and peak troponin was 30,000 ng/L, with EF 48%. Discharge diagnosis
