Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


weeks (20). Thus, whereas the physiological interrelationships between the various deiodinases in the fetus and placenta seem designed to maintain circulating T3 concentrations at a reduced level, specific mechanisms have evolved for maintaining brain T3 concentrations so that normal development can proceed. Role of the Placenta Contributions of the maternal thyroid to fetal thyroid economy. In the human infant under normal circumstances, the placenta has only limited permeability to thyroid hormone and the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops relatively independent of maternal influence. Placental thyroid hormone transporters, thyroid hormone binding proteins, iodothyronine deiodinases, sulfotransferases and sulfatases regulate the transport of maternal thyroid hormones to the fetus (20a,20b). The transport of iodine through the placenta is also important as the organ has shown to actively concentrate the anion (20c). The human placenta expresses iodothyronine Type 2 deiodinase I (D2) (which activates T4 to T3) and Type 3 (D3) (which inactivates T4 and T3). Maternal T4 is metabolized by D3 having 200 times the activity of D2 (20b). Both D2 and D3 activity decrease with advancing gestation (20b). Thus, the relative impermeability of the human placenta to thyroid hormone is due to the presence of D3 which serves to inactivate most of the thyroid hormone presented from the maternal or fetal circulation. The iodide released in this way can then be used for fetal thyroid hormone synthesis. Iodine is actively transported from the maternal circulation to the fetus through the placenta that express placental sodium iodide transporter (NIS) (20c,20d). NIS actively concentrates Iodine. NIS protein levels are significantly correlated with gestational age during early pregnancy and increase with increased placental vascularization (20e). Interest in the potential role of maternal T4 in the fetal thyroid economy was reawakened with the recognition that in infants with the congenital absence of thyroid peroxidase, the cord serum concentration of T4 is nonetheless between 25 and 50% of normal (21). Since these infants are completely unable to synthesize T4, the measured hormone must be maternal in origin. Similar results are obtained in retrospective studies of cord serum in infants with sporadic congenital athyreosis. This maternal T4 disappears rapidly from the newborn circulation with a half-life of approximately 3 to 4 days. There is also evidence that maternal-fetal T4 transfer occurs in the first half of pregnancy, when fetal thyroid hormone levels are low (19,22). Low concentrations of T4, presumably of maternal origin, have been detected in human embryonic
