Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


T4 concentration in amniotic fluid is approximately equal to that in fetal serum at 20 weeks gestation. It has been shown on numerous occasions in both animals and humans that amniotic fluid iodothyronine concentrations reflect those in the maternal circulation (23). Placenta is permeable to TRH (15) and to immunoglobulins G (IgG) from midgestation. At the time of delivery, cord blood TPOAb correlate with maternal TPOAb concentrations (23a). Maternal passage of TPOAb and TgAb are not associated with thyroid fetal dysfunction. On the contrary, maternal TSH receptor antibodies (both stimulating and blocking) can be dangerous for the fetus and the newborn. Fetal and neonatal hyperthyroidism can be caused by transplacental passage of TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb), whereas hypothyroidism can be due to transpancental passage of blocking TSH receptor antibodies, from mothers with severe Graves’ disease or severe hypothyroidism due to chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis.( The placenta is also permeable to certain drugs (15). Thus, the administration to the mother of excess iodide, drugs (especially propylthiouracil or methimazole), can affect thyroid function in the fetus and the newborn. Role of Maternal Thyroid Hormone for fetal brain development and neurocognitive development in the offspring The essential role that thyroid hormones (TH) play on the fetal brain development starts long before the onset of fetal thyroid function (22-22a). Thus, during the first trimester of pregnancy, fetal brain development is totally dependent on maternal thyroid function. Because the action of TH on critical genes for fundamental neurobiological processes is limited to specific time window, even a short period deficiency of TH may cause permanent brain damage. TH deficiency may affect neuronal cell differentiation and migration, axonal and dendritic outgrowth, myelin formation and synaptogenesis (22b-22f). It is well known that severe Iodine deficiency during pregnancy causes inadequate thyroid hormone production and irreversible brain damage known as cretinism, still endemic in many areas of the world (23b). None of the neurological features of severe endemic cretinism (24) due to iodine deficiency are found in infants with sporadic congenital hypothyroidism whose mothers have normal thyroid function and who receive early and adequate postnatal treatment. Similarly, impaired hearing, when found is much milder and less frequent (25). This would appear to provide unequivocal evidence that the neurological damage sustained by infants with endemic cretinism can be largely prevented by maternal T4. In addition to endemic cretinism, significant developmental delay despite early and adequate postnatal therapy has also been reported
