Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


by infants with endemic cretinism can be largely prevented by maternal T4. In addition to endemic cretinism, significant developmental delay despite early and adequate postnatal therapy has also been reported in other models of combined maternal-fetal hypothyroidism, such as materno-fetal POU1F1 deficiency (26) and TSH receptor blocking antibody-induced congenital hypothyroidism (27). In iodine sufficient areas the main cause of maternal thyroid dysfunction (hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism or hypothyroxinemia) is thyroid autoimmunity, detectable in up to 17% of women (27a). Several studies reported on the consequences of maternal thyroid dysfunction in the progeny. Studies in children born to women with non-iodine deficient hypothyroidism during pregnancy (28,29,29a,29b) as well as in children from hypothyroxinemic mothers (30,30a-30e) have been published. Different parameters and different periods of pregnancy (i.e., increased TSH, low T4, presence or absence of autoimmunitity, prevalent obstetrical or developmental outcome) were analyzed, reporting conflicting results and conclusions. Impairment in psychomotor development in the offspring of pregnant women with thyroid dysfunction was first reported by Man et al (28). They examined 131 hypothyroxinemic untreated pregnant women and found 36% of their 7-year-old children scored in the dull normal range or below compared to 16% of children of euthyroid mothers (28). Haddow detected a seven point IQ deficit in 7 to 9 year old children whose mothers were retrospectively found to have been hypothyroid at 17 weeks gestation (29). Accordingly, Pop demonstrated that even babies born to women whose free T4 levels were in the lowest 10% of normal at 12 weeks gestation had a measurable impairment in psychomotor development at 2 years of age as compared with the rest of the population, but this effect was not observed if maternal thyroid function was normal at 32 weeks (30). At variance with the aforementioned studies, Liu and more recently, Momotami failed to demonstrate any IQ deficit in babies born to hypothyroid mothers as long as the hypothyroidism was corrected by the end of the second trimester (31a, 31b). Similar results were obtained by Downing et al in 3 children born after severe feto-maternal hypothyroidism due to TSH receptor blocking antibodies (31c). Attention deficit disorder (30f,30g) autistic symptoms in offspring (30h) and schizophrenia in later life (30K) have also been associated with maternal hypothyroxinemia. Attention deficit disorder was previously noted in offspring from mothers with thyroid autoimmunity (30i). Children from mothers with anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies have been found to have intellectual impairment in early infancy
