Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


deficit disorder was previously noted in offspring from mothers with thyroid autoimmunity (30i). Children from mothers with anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies have been found to have intellectual impairment in early infancy (30j) and a reduced childhood cognitive performance at age 4 and 7 and sensineural hearing loss at both ages (30l). An interesting association study, derived from the Rotterdam cohort, (the population based prospective study from Rotterdam (Generation R) for the first time analyzed the effects of maternal thyroid function on brain morphology of the offspring. In this study 3839 mother-child pairs were included. Maternal serum samples were taken before 18 weeks of gestation (9-18w). MRI were performed in 646 children (mean age 8 years) and IQ determined at mean age 6 years. They found that both high maternal and low FT4 showed an inverted U shaped association with child IQ (-1.4-3.8 points), child grey matter volume and cortex volume (32c). Recently, in the prospective double blind randomized controlled antenatal thyroid screening study (CATS), levothyroxine treatment was started from the 13th week of gestation if serum TSH was >97.5th percentile and/or FT4 was <2.5 th percentile. The outcome was the IQ in the offspring at 3 years. No significant differences in IQ values were found between 390 children of treated mothers compared to 404 children of untreated mothers (32). The incidence of maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy (3 per 1000 in iodine-sufficient populations (33) is almost ten times that of congenital hypothyroidism for which routine population screening is widespread. Because maternal hypothyroidism has been associated not only with potential adverse effects on fetal brain development but an increased risk of preterm delivery and of miscarriage as well (33a ), some have argued that all pregnant women should be screened for hypothyroidism, a position that has been endorsed by some but not other professional societies. Updated guidelines for the management of thyroid disease during pregnancy have been recently released from ATA (33b). THYROID FUNCTION IN THE NEONATE, THE INFANT, AND DURING CHILDHOOD The Full-term Neonate Marked changes occur in thyroid physiology at the time of birth in the full term newborn. One of the most dramatic changes is an abrupt rise in the serum TSH which occurs within 30 minutes of delivery, reaching concentrations as high as 60 to 70 mU/L (8). This causes a marked stimulation of the thyroid and an increase in the concentrations of both serum T4 and T3 (34).
