Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


is under debate. Two screening strategies for the detection of congenital hypothyroidism have evolved. In the primary T4/backup TSH method, still favored in much of North America and the Netherlands, T4 is measured initially while TSH is checked on the same blood spot in those specimens in which the T4 concentration is low. In the primary TSH approach, favored in most parts of Europe and Japan, blood TSH is measured initially. A primary T4/backup TSH program will detect overt primary hypothyroidism, secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, babies with a low serum T4 level but delayed rise in the TSH concentration, TBG deficiency and hypothyroxinemia; this approach may, however, miss subclinical hypothyroidism. A primary TSH strategy, on the other hand, will detect both overt and subclinical hypothyroidism, but will miss secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, a delayed TSH rise, TBG deficiency and hypothyroxinemia. There are fewer false positives with a primary TSH strategy. Both programs will miss the rare infant whose T4 level on initial screening is normal but who later develops low T4 and elevated TSH concentrations. This pattern has been termed “atypical” congenital hypothyroidism or “delayed TSH” and is observed most commonly in premature babies with transient hypothyroidism or infants with less severe forms of permanent disease. In a few regions, a second routine specimen is collected from all births at 2-4 weeks of age (51). Results from the Northwest Regional Screening program, coordinated in Oregon, (USA), that applied this method, have recently been published (51a). In 2014 the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology, (ESPE) on behalf of all the scientific societies of pediatric endocrinologists worldwide (ESPE,PES, SLEP, JSPE, APEG, APPES, ISPAE) published updated guidelines about screening, diagnosis, and management of congenital hypothyroidism (51b, 51c). According to the ESPE guidelines, the most sensitive test for detecting primary CH is the determination of TSH concentration that detects primary CH more effectively than primary T4 screening (51b,51c). Primary T4 screening with confirmatory TSH testing can detect some cases of CCH, but some cases of mild CH can be missed, depending on the cutoff T4 value used. When available, screening strategies for the identification of CCH are: a) a combination of primary T4 and primary TSH screening, b) a combination of primary T4 screening with secondary TSH testing followed by T4 binding protein determination (TBG). The last one is employed by the Netherlands where, in addition to a primary T4/backup TSH approach, TBG is
