Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


with secondary TSH testing followed by T4 binding protein determination (TBG). The last one is employed by the Netherlands where, in addition to a primary T4/backup TSH approach, TBG is assessed in those filter paper specimens with the lowest 5% of T4 values (52). The T4/TBG ratio is used as an indirect reflection of the free T4, which is difficult to be measured directly in dried blood spots. This approach has been reported to result in improved sensitivity and specificity in detecting milder cases of primary congenital hypothyroidism that might otherwise be missed. An additional reported advantage was the identification of >90% of infants with central hypothyroidism compared with only 22% with primary T4 screening and none with a primary TSH approach. Since on subsequent testing > 80% of the babies with central hypothyroidism had multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies, a disorder associated with high morbidity and mortality for which effective treatment exists (53,53a), and in view of an apparent frequency (1 in 16,000) similar to that of phenylketonuria (1 in 18,000), the authors have argued that the goals of newborn thyroid screening should be extended to include the detection of babies with central hypothyroidism. Recently a primary FT4 and TSH strategy was applied in Kanagawa Prefecture in Japan. A different method to determine FT4, based on enzyme-immunometric assays in filter paper blood eluates was used. They found a CCH prevalence of 1:31000 infants (53b,53c). Measurement of T4 and/or TSH is performed on an eluate of dried whole blood (DBS) collected on filter paper by skin puncture on day 1-4 of life. Primary CH screening has been shown to be effective for the testing of cord blood or the blood collected on filter paper after the age of 24 hours. Blood is applied directly to the filter paper and after drying the card is sent to the laboratory. The best time to collect blood for TSH screening is 48 to 72 hours of age. The practice of early discharge from the hospital of otherwise healthy full term infants has resulted in a greater proportion of babies being tested before this time. For example, it has been estimated that in North America 25% or more of newborns are now discharged within 24 hours of delivery and 40% in the second 24 hours of life (54). Because of the neonatal TSH surge and the dynamic changes in serum T4 and T3 concentrations that
