Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


hours of delivery and 40% in the second 24 hours of life (54). Because of the neonatal TSH surge and the dynamic changes in serum T4 and T3 concentrations that occur within the first few days of life, early discharge increases the number of false positive results. It is important that in the screening laboratory the results of TSH are interpreted in relation to time of sampling. Ethnicity seems to play a role in determining mean TSH values at birth (54a). Physicians caring for infants need to appreciate that there is always the possibility for human error in failing to identify affected infants, whichever screening program is utilized. This can occur due to poor communication, lack of receipt of requested specimens, or the failure to test an infant who is transferred between hospitals during the neonatal period (55). Therefore if the diagnosis of hypothyroidism is suspected clinically, the infant should always be tested (Figure 5). Similarly, as is obvious from the discussion earlier in the chapter, adult normative values, provided by many general hospital laboratories, differ from those in the newborn period and should never be employed. Normal values according to both gestational and postnatal age for cord blood T4, free T4, TBG, T3, reverse T3, and TSH up to 28 days of life (10) are shown in Figure 2. Normal serum levels of Tg in premature and full-term infants (13,14) and normal serum levels of free T4 and TSH in the first week of life (56) have also been published, though it should be noted that precise values may vary somewhat, depending on the specific assays used. Figure 15-4 Three month old male infant who was diagnosed clinically when he presented with a history of poor feeding at 3 months of age. The child was born in Puerto Rico prior to the development of newborn screening. Note the dull face, periorbital edema and enlarged tongue. Screening in special categories of neonates at risk of CH Special categories of neonates with CH can be missed at screening performed at usual time, particularly preterm babies and neonates with serious illnesses and multiple births. Drugs used in neonatal intensive care (i.e., dopamine, glucocorticoids that suppresses TSH), immaturity of hypothalamic-pituitary thyroid axis, decreased hepatic production of thyroid binding globulin, reduced transfer of maternal T4, reduced intake of iodine or excess iodine exposure, fetal blood mixing in multiple births can affect the first sample,
