Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


hepatic production of thyroid binding globulin, reduced transfer of maternal T4, reduced intake of iodine or excess iodine exposure, fetal blood mixing in multiple births can affect the first sample, and in many center a second specimen is required to rule out CH. (See section thyroid function in infants for more details). Preterm babies have a higher incidence of a unique form of hypothyroidism, characterized by a delayed elevation of TSH. These babies can later develop low T4 and elevated TSH concentrations. This pattern has been termed “atypical” congenital hypothyroidism or “delayed TSH”. Preterm babies with a birth weight of less than 1500 gr. have an incidence of congenital hypothyroidism of 1:300. Survival of even extremely premature babies (<28 weeks of gestation) is around 90% in developed countries, and the incidence of prematurity is around 11.5 % in US and 11.8 % worldwide. So, an increasing subpopulation of preterm babies and high risk newborns deserves a special sight about screening and follow up of CH. In these categories a second specimen 2-6 weeks from the first (ESPE guidelines suggested at about 15 days, or after 15 days from the first) may be indicated: preterm neonates with a gestational age of less than 37 weeks, Low Birth Weight and Very Low Birth Weight neonates and ill and preterm neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care unit, specimen collection within the first 24 hours of life, and multiple births, particularly in the case of same sex twins. The interpretation of the screening results should consider the results of a multiple sampling strategy, the age of sampling and the maturity (GA/birth weight) of the neonate. Two recent papers (56a,56b) showed that a second screen (using a lower TSH cutoff) is able to detect the delayed elevation of TSH that occurs in these babies. Vigone et al (56a) revaluated the children with a diagnosis of CH detected at second screen and treated with L-thyroxine after 2 years of age and found 24% of cases with permanent congenital hypothyroidism, 52% with transient hypothyroidism and 24% with persistent hypertropinemia. Neither screening nor confirmatory TSH levels were able to predict the thyroid function after 2 years of age in these children. Timing of normalization of thyroid hormones is critical for brain development (56c) and treatment should be started immediately if DBS TSH concentration is 40 mUI/l or more, after baseline TSH and FT4 serum determination, because this value
