Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


critical for brain development (56c) and treatment should be started immediately if DBS TSH concentration is 40 mUI/l or more, after baseline TSH and FT4 serum determination, because this value strongly suggests decompensated hypothyroidism (56d). If TSH is < 40 mUI/l the clinician may postpone treatment, pending the serum results, for 1-2 days. ESPE guidelines (51b,51c) suggest treatment should be started if venous TSH concentration is persistently >20 mUI/l, even if serum FT4 is normal. Overtreatment can be dangerous for neurocognitive outcome and should be avoided, individualizing the dosage. It is still a matter of debate if treatment can be beneficial in otherwise healthy babies with venous TSH concentration between 6-20 mUI/l and FT4 concentration within the normal limits for age. In these cases, diagnostic imaging is recommended to try to establish a definitive diagnosis. If TSH concentration remains high for more than 3 or 4 weeks, it is possible (in discussion with the family) either starting LT4 supplementation immediately and retesting, off treatment, at a later stage, or retesting two weeks later without treatment. Waiting for larger studies that are able to answer to this question, and given the irreversibility of a possible harm to the child, treating during early childhood and revaluating the thyroid function after myelination of the central nervous system is completed (by 36 to 40 months of age) can be a prudent behavior (56e). LT4 treatment must be started immediately if FT4 or TT4 levels are low, given the known adverse effect of untreated decompensated CH on neurodevelopment and somatic growth. CH is defined on the basis of serum FT4 levels as severe when FT4 is <5 pmol/l, moderate when FT4 is 5 to 10 pmol/l and mild when FT4 is 10 to 15 pmol/l respectively. Determination of serum thyroglobulin (Tg) is useful, if below the detection threshold, to suggest athyreosis or a complete thyroglobulin synthesis defect. Measurement of Tg is most helpful when a defect in Tg synthesis or secretion is being considered. In the latter condition the serum Tg concentration is low or undetectable despite the presence of a normal or enlarged, eutopic thyroid gland. Serum Tg concentration also reflects the amount of thyroid tissue present and the degree of stimulation. For example, Tg is undetectable in most patients with thyroid agenesis, intermediate in babies with an ectopic thyroid gland and may be elevated in patients with abnormalities of thyroid hormonogenesis not involving
