Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


and to IQ outcome, and is thus a reliable index of intrauterine hypothyroidism. Imaging Techiniques in CH Imaging studies are helpful to determine the specific etiology of CH . Both scintigraphy and ultrasound (US) should be considered in neonates with high TSH concentrations. Ideally, the association of US and scintigraphy gives the best information in a child with primary hypothyroidism. Scintigraphy shows the presence/absence (athyreosis), position (ectopic gland, in any point from the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue to the anterior mediastinum) and rough anatomic structure of the thyroid gland. US, in experienced hands, is a valid tool in defining size and morphology of a eutopic thyroid gland, however, US alone is less effective in detecting ectopic glands. Color Doppler US improves the effectiveness of US (57a). It is important to remember that an attempt to obtain an imaging of the thyroid in a newborn should never delay the initiation of treatment. Scintigraphy should be carried out within 7 days of starting LT4 treatment. Scintigraphy may be carried out with either 10-20 MBq of technetium -99 m ( 99 mTc) or 1-2 MBq of iodine -123 (I 123 ). Tc is more widely available, less expensive, and quicker to use than I 123 . Scintigraphy with I 123 , if available, is usually preferred because of the greater sensitivity and because, I 123 , unlike of technetium -99 is organified. Therefore, imaging with this isotope allows quantitative uptake measurements and tests for both iodine transport defects and abnormalities in thyroid oxidation. An enrichment of the tracer within the salivary gland can lead to misinterpretation, especially on lateral views, but this can be avoided by allowing the infant to feed before scintigraphy, thus empting the salivary glands and keeping the child calm under the camera. The perchlorate discharge test is considered indicative for a organification defect when a discharge of > 10% of I 123 administred dose occurs in a thyroid in normal position (when perchlorate is given at 2 hours). Excess iodine intake through exposure (i.e from antiseptic preparation), maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies, inactivating mutation in the TSH receptor and in the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS), and TSH suppression from LT4 treatment can give interfere with the I 123 uptake, showing no uptake in the presence of a thyroid in situ (apparent athyreosis). Thyroid ultrasonography is performed with a high frequency linear array transducer (10-15 MHz) and
