Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


I 123 uptake, showing no uptake in the presence of a thyroid in situ (apparent athyreosis). Thyroid ultrasonography is performed with a high frequency linear array transducer (10-15 MHz) and allows a resolution of 0.7 to 1mm. Thyroid tissue is more echogenic than muscle and less echogenic than fat. In the case of absence of the thyroid fat tissue can be misdiagnosed as dysplastic thyroid gland in situ. Distinguish between thyroid hypoplasia and dysplastic non thyroidal tissue in a newborn requires an enormous experience, and reevaluation at later age can result in a different diagnosis (57a). Combining scintigraphy and thyroid ultrasound improve diagnostic accuracy, and helps to address further investigations, including molecular genetic studies. Infants found to have a normal sized gland in situ in the absence of a clear diagnosis should undergo further reassessment of the thyroid axis and imaging at a later age. Therapy Replacement therapy with L-thyroxine (L-T4) should be begun as soon as the diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism is confirmed. In babies whose initial results on newborn screening are suggestive of severe hypothyroidism therapy should be begun immediately without waiting for the results of the confirmatory serum. Severe hypothyroidism is defined by T4 <5 mcg/dL (64 nmol/L) and/or TSH >40 mU, or. accordingly with ESPE guidelines(51g,51k), CH is defined on the basis of serum FT4 levels as severe when FT4 is <5 pmol/l, moderate when FT4 is 5 to 10 pmol/l and mild when FT4 is 10 to 15 pmol/l. As noted above, treatment need not be delayed in anticipation of performing thyroid imaging studies as long as the latter are done within 5-7 days of initiating treatment (before suppression of the serum TSH). Parents should be counseled regarding the causes of congenital hypothyroidism, the importance of compliance and the excellent prognosis in most babies if therapy is initiated sufficiently early and is adequate and educational materials should be provided (58). An initial dosage of 10-15 mcg/kg/day of L-T4 is generally recommended to normalize the T4 as soon as possible. The highest dose is indicated in infants with severe disease, and the lower in those with a mild to moderate form. L-T4 Tablets can be crushed and given via a small spoon, with suspension, if necessary in a few milliliters of water or breast milk or formula or juice, but care should be taken that all of the medicine has been swallowed. Thyroid hormone should not
