Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


and then every 2 weeks until TSH levels are completely normalized and then every 1- 3 months until 12 months of age. Between the age of one and three years, children should undergo frequent clinical and laboratory evaluations (every 2 to 4 months).” Thereafter, evaluations should be carried out every 3 to 12 months until growth is completed. “More frequent evaluations should be carried out if compliance is questioned or abnormal values are obtained. Any reduction of L-T4 dose should not be based on a single increase of FT4 concentration during treatment. “Measurements should be performed after 4-6 weeks any change in the dosage or in the L-T4 formulation”. Re-evaluation and Trial Off Therapy In hypothyroid babies in whom an organic basis was not established at birth and in whom transient disease is suspected, a trial off replacement therapy can be initiated after the age of 3 years when most thyroxine-dependent brain maturation has occurred, as shown by magnetic risonance imaging studies (56e). Re-evaluation is recommended if the treatment was started in a sick child (i.e. preterm), if thyroid antibodies were detectable, if no diagnostic assessment was completed, and in children who have required no increase in L-T4 dosage since infancy. Re-evaluation is recommended also in the case of a eutopic gland with or without goiter, if not enzyme defects have been detected, if any other cause of transient hypothyroidism is suspected. Re-evaluation is not necessary if venous TSH concentration has risen during the first year of life, due to either LT4 underdosage or poor compliance. To perform a precise diagnosis LT4 treatment is suspended for 4-6 weeks, and biochemical testing and thyroid imaging are carried out. To establish the presence of primary hypothyroidism, without defining the cause, L-T4 dose may be decreased by 20-30% for 2 to 3 weeks. If TSH serum levels rise to > 10 mU/L during this period, the hypothyroidism can be confirmed. Prognosis Although all are agreed that the mental retardation associated with untreated congenital hypothyroidism has been largely eradicated by newborn screening, controversy persists as to whether subtle cognitive and behavioral deficits remain, particularly in the most severely affected infants (59-64). Both the initial treatment dose and early onset of treatment (before 2 weeks) are important. Time to normalization of circulating thyroid hormone levels, the initial free T4 concentration, maternal IQ, socioeconomic and ethnic status have also been related to outcome (59,62,63,64). The long
