Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


are important. Time to normalization of circulating thyroid hormone levels, the initial free T4 concentration, maternal IQ, socioeconomic and ethnic status have also been related to outcome (59,62,63,64). The long term problems for these babies appear to be in the areas of memory, language, fine motor, attention and visual spatial. Inattentiveness can occur both in patients who are overtreated and those in whom treatment was initiated late or was inadequate. In addition to adequate dosage, assurance of compliance and careful long-term monitoring are essential for an optimal developmental outcome. More details about long term follow up are reported in ESPE guidelines (51g,51K). Progressive hearing loss in CH should be recognized and corrected, because strongly influenced the outcome). Recently, extensive reports on long term outcome of congenital hypothyroidism in young adults have been published (64a,64b). In the French cohort of 1202 CH young adults, hearing impairment was found at a mean age of 23.4 years in 9.5% versus 2.5% of general population, and the risk of developing hearing impairment was three times higher in these patients than in general population (64c). Also interesting data about pregnancy outcomes in young women with CH came out from the French cohort (64d). CAUSES OF PERMANENT CONGENITAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Permanent congenital thyroidal (primary) hypothyroidism can be the consequence of a disorder in thyroid development and/or migration (thyroid dysgenesis), or due to defects at every step in thyroid hormone synthesis (thyroid dyshormonogenesis). Although congenital hypothyroidism (CH) is in the great majority of cases a sporadic disease, the recent guidelines (51g,51k) for CH recommend genetic counseling in targeted cases. Positive family history for CH, association with cardiac or kidney malformation, midline malformation deafness, neurological sigs (i.e., choreoathetosis, hypotonia, any sign of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, lung disorders, suggest genetic counseling, in order to assess the risk of recurrence and to provide further information about a possible genetic etiology of CH. Recently a targeted next-generation (NGS) panel, covering all exons of the major CH genes, has been proposed as a useful tool to identify the genetic etiology of CH (64e). Lowering TSH cut off value at screening increases the diagnosis of CH with eutopic thyroid. A targeted next-generation (NGS) panel has been applied to patients with CH and thyroid in situ (64f). Thyroid Dysgenesis Unlike in iodine-deficient areas of the world where endemic cretinism continues to be a major health hazard, the majority (85 to 90%) of cases of permanent
