Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


situ (64f). Thyroid Dysgenesis Unlike in iodine-deficient areas of the world where endemic cretinism continues to be a major health hazard, the majority (85 to 90%) of cases of permanent congenital hypothyroidism in North America, Western Europe and Japan are due to an abnormality of thyroid gland development (thyroid dysgenesis). Thyroid dysgenesis may result in the complete absence of thyroid tissue (agenesis, 20-30%) owing to a defect in survival of the thyroid follicular cells precursors) or it may be partial (hypoplasia); the latter often is accompanied by a failure to descend into the neck (ectopy) mostly located in a sublingual position as a result of a premature arrest of its migratory process. Lowering of cut off TSH values for newborn screening increases the percentage of CH with thyroid in situ. Females are affected twice as often as males. In the United States, thyroid dysgenesis, is less frequent among African Americans and more common among Hispanics and Asians. Babies with congenital hypothyroidism have an increased incidence of cardiac anomalies, particularly atrial and ventricular septal defects (65). An increased prevalence of renal and urinary tract anomalies has also been reported recently (66). Most cases of thyroid dysgenesis are sporadic. Familial cases represent 2%. Discordance between monozigotic twins is inexplained (67). Although both genetic and environmental factors have been implicated in its etiology, in most cases the cause is unknown (67a). The occasional familial occurrence, the higher prevalence of thyroid dysgenesis in babies of certain ethnic groups and in female versus male infants as well as the increased incidence in babies with Down syndrome (68) all suggest that genetic factors might play a role in some patients. Thyroid transcription factors would appear to be obvious candidate genes in view of their important role in thyroid organogenesis and in thyroid-specific gene expression. To date, however, abnormalities in these genes have been found in only a small proportion of affected patients, usually in association with other developmental abnormalities (68a). Thyroid transcription factors (TTF) such as NKX2-1 (or formerly TTF1/TITF1), FOXE1 (Forkhread Box E1, formerly TTF2/TITF2), PAX8 (Paired box gene 8), and NKX2-5, are expressed during early phases of thyroid organogenesis (budding and migration), instead thyroid stimulating hormone receptor gene (TSHR) is expressed during the later phases of thyroid development. All these genes are involved in normal thyroid development and in thyroid dysgenesis. Alternately, epigenetic modifications, early somatic mutations or stochastic developmental events may play a
