Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


in children and adolescents with isolated non-autoimmune hyperthyrotropinemia (68d). NKX2-1 (OMIM 600635) NKX2-1 (previously TITF-1, TTF-1) gene encodes for a transcription factor of the NK family. It is involved in early development of brain, thyroid and lung. In thyrocytes, NKX2-1 activates the transcription of TG, TPO, TSHR and PDS genes. In the lung is important for the branching of the lobar bronchi and regulates the expression of surfactant proteins in pneumocytes. In the brain, NKX2 is expressed in basal ganglia and forebrain and it is involved in the specification and migration of neurons. Haploinsufficiency of NKX2-1 is responsible for the brain-lung-thyroid (BLT) syndrome (OMIM 610978) characterized by CH, infant respiratory distress syndrome and benign hereditary chorea. NKX2-1 defects occur either as a sporadic cases or as familial cases inherited in an autosomal-dominant manner. The clinical presentation ranges from the complete BLT syndrome (50%) to incomplete forms with brain and thyroid disease (30%) or only benign hereditary chorea (13%), the mildest expression of the syndrome. TD ranges from hypoplasia (about 35%) to normal morphology (>50% of patients ) (68e) . Recently, a case of BLT syndrome has been reported with thyroid ectopy (68f). The severity of symptoms varies widely, even in families with the same disease causing mutation. In a detailed study (68g) lung disease, if present at birth, manifests as a surfactant deficiency syndrome and can be fatal. Asthma, recurrent pneumonia in childhood, spontaneous pneumothorax, and interstitial lung disease has also been reported. Neurologic forms present with muscular hypotonia in early infancy and psychomotor delay, which progresses to benign hereditary chorea between 1 and 5 years. Additional non classical features including hypodontia o oligodontia, microcephaly, growth retardation, genitourinary abnormalities, skeletal disorders, and congenital heart defects have been reported in patients with large deletions on chromosome 14, including the NKX2-1 gene and surrounding genes. Interestingly, a more extended phenotype associating hypothalamic symptoms, frequent recurrence of fever without infection, dysrhytmic sleep, and abnormal height in patients with point NKX2-1 mutations was described (68g). So far, 116 NKK2-1 genetic anomalies have been reported worldwide (68h). PAX8 (OMIM218700) Paired box gene 8 (PAX8) codes for a TTF of the paired homeodomain transcription factors family. PAX8 is expressed during thyroid organogenesis in the median anlage and in the kidney development. In synergy with NKX2-1, PAX 8 influences the expression of TPO, TG and NIS in thyroid follicular cells. The prevalence of PAX8 mutations in CH
