Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


and in the kidney development. In synergy with NKX2-1, PAX 8 influences the expression of TPO, TG and NIS in thyroid follicular cells. The prevalence of PAX8 mutations in CH patients is about 1%, ranging from 0.3 to 3.4% (68b,68i) . Thyroid hypoplasia is the more common phenotype, but athyreosis to normal morphology have also been reported. Thyroid function varies from severe hypothyroidism to mild hypertropinemia, and different phenotypes can be found in the same family. The association with kidney malformations is possible, but remains a facultative sign in CH patients with PAX8 mutations. So far, 29 mutations have been reported (68h). FOXE1 (OMIM#602617) The Forkhead Box 1 E1 (FOXE1) gene encodes for a transcription factor of the forkhead/winged-helix transcription factor family. Foxe1 is expressed in the thyroid primordium, in the pharyngeal endoderm derivates such as the palate and the esophagus and in the hair follicoles (68j) . Foxe1 interacts with TG and TPO promoters and with regulatory regions of DUOX2 and NIS genes (68k). The Bamforth-Lazarus syndrome is caused by FOXE1 mutations. It is characterized by CH (usually athyreosis), cleft palate and spinky hair. Bifid epiglottis and choanal atresia can be present. So far, six mutation with loss of function (68h) and 1 mutation with gain of function have been reported in patients with Bamforh-Lazarus syndrome, showing the effect of FOXE1 gene dosage in this disorder (68m). NKX2-5 (OMIM #600584) Because an increased prevalence of heart congenital malformations have been reported in CH, genes involved in heart organogenesis as NKX2-5 have been suggested as a cause of CH. NKX2-5, that encodes for a transcription factor with a major role in heart development has been investigated in a cohort of 241 patients with thyroid dysgenesis. Heterozygous missense mutations had been reported in this study in 4 patients with ectopy and athyreosis, and all mutations were transmitted from one of the parents but only 1 patient had minor cardiac phenotype (68n). A major pathogenetic role of NKX2-5 mutations in thyroid dysgenesis has been questioned: given the absence of TD in carriers of NKX2-5 mutations, and the high number of TD patients without mutations. Better defining the role of NKX2-5 in thyroid organogenesis need further studies (68o). New Candidates Genes NTN-1 A new gene Netrin-1 (NTN-1), has been recently identified in a patient with thyroid ectopy and ventricular sept defect, and considered as a possible link between thyroid and heart defects (68p).
