Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


new gene Netrin-1 (NTN-1), has been recently identified in a patient with thyroid ectopy and ventricular sept defect, and considered as a possible link between thyroid and heart defects (68p). JAG1 (20p12.2 OMIM 6019220) A role for the Notch pathway in thyroid morphogenesis has recently been demonstrated in zebrafish (68q). JAG1 is a gene encoding one single pass transmembrane ligand of the notch receptors. Heterozygous variations of JAG1 are the cause of Alagille syndrome type 1, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by paucity of intrahepatic bile ducts, cardiac malformations as pulmonary artery stenosis, coarctaction of aorta, atrio-ventricular septal defects and Fallot tetralogy. Many other organs as eye, skeleton, kidney, nervous system can be involved, with a characteristic facial phenotype. A study investigating the role of JAG1 loss of function variations in the pathogenesis of congenital thyroid defects in Alagille syndrome and in patients with congenital hypothyroidism supported the role of this gene as a predisposing factor in congenital hypothyroidism (68r). The authors reported, in a series of 21 patients affected with Alagille syndrome non autommune hypothyroidism in 6 patients (28%), two of them with thyroid hypoplasia. Analyzing 100 patients with congenital hypothyroidism for JAG1 variants they found JAG1 variants in 4. Interestingly, 2 of them had cardiac malformations. Inborn Errors of Thyroid Hormonogenesis Inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis (thyroid dyshormonogenesis) are responsible for most of the remaining cases (15%) of neonatal thyroidal hypothyroidism. Unlike thyroid dysgenesis, mostly a sporadic condition, these inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis are commonly associated with an autosomal recessive form of inheritance, consistent with a single gene abnormality. DUOX2 mutations can be transmitted in autosomal dominant way. Thyroid dysormonogenesis is caused by genetic defects in proteins involved in all steps of thyroid hormone synthesis (68s) often associated with goiter formation. Goiter can be present in utero or at birth. .A number of different defects have been characterized based on radioiodine uptake and perchlorate test and include: 1) Iodide transport defect (ITD) (SLC5A5, Sodium/Iodide Symporter NIS), that shows failure to concentrate iodide, with low or absent radioiodine uptake, also in salivary glands and gastric mucosa; 2) Iodide organification defect (IOD) with normal radioiodine uptake and altered perchlorate discharge test. In these patients, less than 90% of the iodide is organified and remains stored in the follicles. Total IOD is defined as >90% of the given dose back to the blood. Partial IOD is defined as 10-90% of
