Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


iodide is organified and remains stored in the follicles. Total IOD is defined as >90% of the given dose back to the blood. Partial IOD is defined as 10-90% of radioiodine washout after perchlorate application. Total IOD is due to Thyroid peroxidase mutations (TPO) and Dual Oxidase 2 (DUOX2), partial IOD is due to DUOX2, Dual Oxidase Maturation Factor 2 mutations ( DUOX2A), SLC26A4, pendrin and TPO defects. 3 ) Forms with normal radioiodine uptake and a normal perchlorate test: Thyroglobulin TG mutations, iodide recycling defects IYD, Iodothyrosine Deiodinase mutations (DEHAL1). 4) Iodide Transport Defect (OMIM 274400) ITD is rather a rare form and is due a mutation of the Sodium/Iodide Symporter (NIS). The NIS is expressed at the basolateral membrane of the thyrocite and it is responsible for the active iodide uptake through the membrane into the thyrocite (69) . This form of hypothyroidism is characterized by goiter and absence of radioiodine uptake. In contrast with athyreosis, uptake is lacking also in salivary glands and in the stomach (white scintigraphy). The severity of hypothyroidism depends on the residual function of the mutated NIS protein, ranging with severe to mild forms, often detected in infancy or childhood. Pendred Syndrome (OMIM274600) Pendred syndrome is defined by the association of familial profound deafness with multinodular goiter. It is caused by biallelic mutation in the pendrin gene (70-71). Pendred syndrome is the only form of thyroid dyshormonogenesis associated with a malformation. The inner ear presents a characteristic malformation of the cochlea. Congenital hypothyroidism is present in only 30% of cases, goiter occurs often in childhood. Thyroid phenotype is variable . Perchlorate test shows a partial organification defect. Pendred syndrome is the most frequent etiology of familial deafness. SLC264A mutations (mostly in the heterozygous state) have been also described in isolated enlargement of the vestibular aqueduct, with no thyroid disease (71a). More than 150 mutations have been described. Specific mutation cluster in Asia (H723R), and Europe (L236P, T416P, IVS8, 1-GA) (71b). Thyroid peroxidase mutations (OMIM #274500) Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) is a heme peroxidase that regulates two rate-limiting step of thyroid hormones synthesis, first the organification of iodide to iodinated thyrosyl residuates such as MIT and DIT, and then the coupling of MIT and DIT to T3 and T4. TPO action needs hydrogen peroxide as the final electron acceptor. Mutations are mostly in the heme-binding domain of the protein, encoded by exons 7-9 (71c). TPO
