Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


to T3 and T4. TPO action needs hydrogen peroxide as the final electron acceptor. Mutations are mostly in the heme-binding domain of the protein, encoded by exons 7-9 (71c). TPO mutations are a common form of thyroid dyshormonogenesis. Severe congenital hypothyroidism with goiter is present in the great part of patients, with a total IOD. Recently, a few patients with partial IOD have been reported (72,72a). Dual Oxidase 2 and Dual Oxidase Maturation Factor 2 mutations (OMIM#607200 and 274900) DUOX2 (formerly THOX2) and DUOXA2 are components of a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase complex that produces hydrogen peroxide indispensable for TPO action. The first mutation in DUOX2 has been reported in 2002. Heterozygous mutations have been found in a part of the patients, suggesting autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive inheritance both possible in this form (72b). Monoallelic mutations usually cause mild hypothyroidism; biallelic mutations are present in mild to severe hypothyroidism. In some cases, DUOX2 mutations lead to transient congenital hypothyroidism, with normalization of thyroid function at follow up. DUOX2 mutations usually cause partial IOD, but total IOD is also reported (72c). Mutations in DUOXA2 were described in patients detected by neonatal screening with mild CH. Partial IOD was found in these cases (72d). Thyroglobulin Mutations (OMIM#274700) Thyroglobulin (Tg) is a glycoprotein synthetized by the thyrocytes that serves as a matrix for thyroid hormones synthesis and storage in the follicles (68t). Tg is also in part released in the blood and it is a useful marker of thyroid tissue. In CH, Tg serum determination can differentiate between a true and apparent athyreosis, the last with same residual dysgenetic tissue and Tg detectable. In dyshomonogenesis, Tg levels are low in patients with Tg mutations, but are normal or high in the other defects of hormonogenesis (68t). CH due to Tg mutations is usually severe, with goiter in utero or at birth. Different mechanisms cause hypothyroidism in Tg mutations: a )Tg synthesis defects alter protein synthesis; b) Tg transport defects limit Tg excretion in the follicle; c) a abnormal structure of T impairs coupling of MIT and DIT; d) a large imperfect DNA inversion in Tg gene is a novel cause for CH (72e-72g). Iodothyrosine Deiodinase Mutations cause Iodide Recycling defects (OMIM#274800) DEAHAL 1(IYD) is the enzyme that regulates the recycling of iodide from MIT and DIT to the follicle, thus allowing the synthesis of thyroid hormones. Dietary Iodine is scarce in
