Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


DEAHAL 1(IYD) is the enzyme that regulates the recycling of iodide from MIT and DIT to the follicle, thus allowing the synthesis of thyroid hormones. Dietary Iodine is scarce in nature and it is the limitating factor for thyroid hormones synthesis. Failure of DEAHL1 cause iodotyrosine deiodinase deficiency, characterized by hypothyroidism, goiter and mental retardation. It is important to stress that these patients are not detected by neonatal screening for CH, probably because the maternal iodine protect for a period the newborn. Diagnosis is reported between 18 month and 16 years with hypothyroidism and mental retardation (72h ). The first mutations in DEAHAL1 has been reported in 2008 ( 72i). The use of MIT and DIT -as early markers to identify iodotyrosine deiodinase deficiency before mental retardation-is under investigation. Central Congenital Hypothyroidism (CCH) Central hypothyroidism (CCH) is caused by an insufficient thyroid hormone biosynthesis due to a defective stimulation by TSH, in the presence of an otherwise normal thyroid. This condition includes all causes of congenital hypothyroidism due to a pituitary or hypothalamic pathology (secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism). CCH was previously considered a very rare disease with a prevalence initially estimated to be 1:100000 in newborns (73). In more recent data, CCH had an incidence that could reach 1:16.000, as shown from results from screening for congenital hypothyroidism applied in the Neetherlands, based on T4/TSH/TBG determination (73a). Also with this sophisticated method of screening, CCH is sometime not identified at birth, because the limiting step is “how low is a low T4”, low enough to be considered an effective cutoff value and allow the determination of TSH and TBG. Many cases are diagnosed in infancy or childhood, if not later in adulthood (73b). The majority of screening programs are based on TSH determination and a high index of suspicion is needed to identify CCH in the preclinical phase. Delayed diagnosis may result in neurodevelopment delay. More than 50% of children with CCH have moderate or severe hypothyroidism, so, if not treated, the risk of neurodevelopmental delay should not be underestimated (73c). In the majority of cases identified early, TSH deficiency is a part of combined pituitary hormone deficiency. A timely correction of ACTH and cortisol deficiency, and/or GH deficiency may avoid life threatening emergencies. CCH can be transient (mostly due to drugs or maternal hyperthyroidism), or permanent. Genetic Central Hypothyroidism ( Table 1 ) Isolated Thyroid Stimulating Hormone deficiency Two
