Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


avoid life threatening emergencies. CCH can be transient (mostly due to drugs or maternal hyperthyroidism), or permanent. Genetic Central Hypothyroidism ( Table 1 ) Isolated Thyroid Stimulating Hormone deficiency Two forms of non-efficient TSH are known, the first one is very rare and is due to defects in the receptor that regulates the action of TRH on thyrotropes (TRHR), the second form is due to several mutations in the β-subunit of TSH. a)Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor (TRHR ) gene defects. TRHR mediates the correct action of TRH on thyrotropes toward the synthesis, glycosylation and secretion of TSH. This is a very rare cause of central hypothyroidism. Mutations in TRHR gene have been described so far in 3 patients from 2 families, the first from Canada, the second from Italy, with autosomal recessive inheritance (73d, 73e ). Index cases were detected at 9 and 11 years for short stature and symptoms related to hypothyroidism. Neonatal hypothyroidism could not be proven because neonatal screening was based on TSH level. No psychomotor delay or intellectual deficit was reported in these children. TSH was in the low normal range with a suspected low bioactivity; T4 or FT4 were low, TRH test showed no response of TSH and PRL. A compound heterozygosis with 2 different mutations in TRHR gene was found in the Canadian patient. The first mutation in the paternal allele was a premature stop codon R17X that completely inactivated protein function. The second one, on the maternal allele was a complex combination of mutations: 9-nucleotide deletion followed by a point mutation resulting in an in-frame deletion of three aminoacids (Ser115-Thir117) plus a missense change located at the cytoplasmatic end of the transmembrane domain of the receptor (73d ). The Italian patient had a homozygous nonsense mutation (pR17X). A novel homozygous missense mutation (P81R) in TRHR has been published in a female infant presented at age 19 days with prolonged jaundice due to isolated hyperbilirubinemia. Thyroid function showed CCH (TSH 2.2 mU/L (RR 0.4-3.5). FT4 7.9 pmol/L (RR10.7-21.8). She was treated with L-thyroxine and at 4 years of age growth and neurological development are in the normal range. The location of the mutated aminoacid (proline 81) in the second transmembrane helix underlines the functional role of this helix in hormone binding and receptor activation (73f). b)TSH β Gene defects TSH is a glycoprotein hormone with an α subunit common with FSH, LH and hCG, and
