Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


of this helix in hormone binding and receptor activation (73f). b)TSH β Gene defects TSH is a glycoprotein hormone with an α subunit common with FSH, LH and hCG, and a β-subunit, specific for TSH. Mutations of the β-subunit of TSH are the cause of the most severe forms of central congenital hypothyroidism. All mutations described so far caused central hypothyroidism, either because truncated protein or alterations in key structural features required for heterodimeric integrity occur (74, 74a, 74b). Another consequence of mutations of the β-subunit of TSH is the modification of bioactivity and immunoreacivity of the TSH heterodimer. Diagnosis of central hypothyroidism can be complicated because of impaired TSH immunoreactivity and/or bioactivity. For instance, TSH is not detectable when the heterodimer formation between TSHα and TSH β subunit is completely not allowed from mutations (i.e. p.G49, p.32), in other cases some mutant heterodimeric TSH is present and measurable in an immunoassay dependent manner (i. e. p.Q69, c.373 delT). TSH can be measurable but not shows normal bioactivity (74a). Interestingly, a variant (c223A>G, pR75) causing normal bioactive TSH, but with impaired immunoreactivity has been described (74c, 74d). These individuals are euthyroid, but erroneous diagnosis and inappropriate treatment have been reported. In children affected with CCH due to mutations of the β-subunit of TSH, psychomotor and mental retardation can occur, depending on the time of diagnosis and treatment. Most are clinically diagnosed after 3 months of age because they are not identified by neonatal screening based on increased TSH levels. Hyperplastic pituitary, high levels of serum glycoprotein alfa-subunit and hypoplasic thyroid gland have been reported (74a). Several mutations have been reported, including missense, nonsense and frameshift mutations (74,74a), as well as slice mutations (74b). Recently a homozygous TSHβ mutation was found (74e) . A novel missense mutation (c.2T>C) in which a methionin codon, is replaced by a threonine, has been very recently reported in a child with very low levels of TSH (0.45mU/l, (NR 0.4-3.5) and FT4.(<5.1 pmol/l (NR 13.8-22.5). This child was diagnosed at 3.5 months of age because feeding difficulties, somnolence, constipation and severe growth retardation. She was treated with L-thyroxine with a good response in growth, but she has severe neurodevelopmental deficits, with bilateral sensorineural deafness, nistagmus, motor and language development delay at age of 10. She was on autistic/Asperger spectrum and needed special education at school (74f). Immunoglobulin superfamily member1 (IGSF1) gene defects IGSF1 (immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily
