Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


and language development delay at age of 10. She was on autistic/Asperger spectrum and needed special education at school (74f). Immunoglobulin superfamily member1 (IGSF1) gene defects IGSF1 (immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily member1) gene mutations were described in 2012 as a cause of central hypothyroidism, with an incidence of about 1:100.000 (75,75a). IGSF1 gene is located on X chromosome (Xq26.1) and encodes for a plasma membrane glycoprotein that is mainly expressed in the pituitary, brain and testes. Several pathogenetic mutations in IGSF1 gene have been reported so far ( 75,75a,75b ). An extensive case series, expanding the clinical phenotype has been published very recently (75c,75d). The first patient was diagnosed by neonatal screening in the Neetherlands where a screening program for congenital hypothyroidism that includes T4 determination (T4/TBG/TSH) is applied. Many other cases of central hypothyroidism were identified in this family and in others with an age at diagnosis ranging from 3 weeks to 69.9 years (75). Typical phenotype in adult males includes central hypothyroidism and macroorchidism (>30 ml by Prader orchidometer). Hypoprolactinemia and GH deficiency can be present. GH deficiency is usually transient and detectable in childhood. Body mass index tends to be elevated. Testicular volume is normal in childhood and increases at a normal age in puberty, but the testosterone rise is delayed, as well as the pubertal growth spurt and the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics. Thyroid volume is small, TSH is usually detectable, TSH response to TRH is diminished. No clear correlation genotype-phenotype has been established. IGSF1 gene is located on X chromosome. Male are affected but 1/3 of females heterozygous carriers shows a milder phenotype, with central hypothyroidism, delayed menarche, mild prolactin deficiency and benign ovarian cysts sometime requiring surgical resection . Recently a familial form of isolated central hypothyroidism with neurological phenotypes due to a novel IGSF1 gene mutation has been reported from Israel (75e). TSH deficiency in combined pituitary hormone deficiency Central congenital hypothyroidism can be a component of combined pituitary hormone deficiency. This form represents the majority of cases detected by the neonatal screening when T4 determination is used ( 73b ) . Early diagnosis in these cases helps to prevent dangerous hypoglycemic and adrenal crisis due to associated GH and ACTH deficiency. TSH deficiency can be present at diagnosis or occurs later, as a component of an evolving phenotype. In a minority of patients, mutations of known transcriptor factors (i.e POU1F1 ,PROP1,HESX1,LHX3,LHX4,SOX3 and
