Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


deficiency can be present at diagnosis or occurs later, as a component of an evolving phenotype. In a minority of patients, mutations of known transcriptor factors (i.e POU1F1 ,PROP1,HESX1,LHX3,LHX4,SOX3 and OTX2) that are involved in pituitary development can be identified (76) (See Table 1 ). Mutations in early transcriptor factors cause developmental abnormalities, i.e., septo-optic dysplasia, midline defects, holoprosencephaly, ocular or skeletal defects, intellectual impairment, associated with variable hypopituitarism. Mutations in HESX1, OTX2 and SOX3 have been found in patients with septo-optic dysplasia and TSH deficiency (76). TSH deficiency in association with other pituitary hormone deficiencies may be associated with abnormal midline facial and brain structures (particularly cleft lip and palate, and absent septum pellucidum and/or corpus callosum) and should be suspected in any male infant with microphallus and persistent hypoglycemia (76a). One of the more common of these syndromes, septo-optic dysplasia, has been related in some cases to a mutation in the HESX 1 homeobox gene in some cases (76b). Other genetic causes of congenital hypopituitarism include molecular defects in the genes for the transcription factors LHX3 (76c), LHX4, POU1F 1 (76d) or PROP 1 (76d). POU1F 1 (Pit-1 in mice) is essential for the differentiation of thyrotrophs, lactotrophs and somatotrophs while PROP 1, a homeodomain protein that is expressed briefly in the embryonic pituitary, is necessary for POU1F 1 expression. Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum For complete coverage of this and related areas visit the chapter entitled: “Defects of thyroid hormone transport in serum” by Samuel Refetoff, MD in this book. Inherited abnormalities of the iodothyronine-binding serum proteins include TBG deficiency (partial or complete), TBG excess, transrethyretin (TTR) (prealbumin) variants and familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH). In these conditions the concentration of free hormones is unaltered, but the abnormal total thyroxine concentrations can be misleading during neonatal screening and in the evaluation of thyroid function. Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone For complete coverage of this and related areas visit the chapter entitled: “Impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone: defects of transpor t, metabolism and action” by.Alexandra M. Dumitrescu, MD and Samuel Refetoff, MD, in this book. Impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone, previously known as “reduced sensitivity to thyroid hormone”, include defects in thyroid hormone action, transport and metabolism. They are classified in a)Thyroid hormone cell membrane transport defect (THCMTD),b) thyroid hormone metabolism defect (THMD) and c) thyroid hormone action defect that include Resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) (77).The
