Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


They are classified in a)Thyroid hormone cell membrane transport defect (THCMTD),b) thyroid hormone metabolism defect (THMD) and c) thyroid hormone action defect that include Resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) (77).The first defect, recognized almost 50 years ago, produces reduced sensitivity to TH and was given the acronym RTH, for resistance to thyroid hormone (77a, 77b). Its major cause, found in more than 3,000 individuals, is mutations in the TH receptor ß (THRB ) gene. More recently mutations in the THRA gene were found to produce a different phenotype owing to the distinct tissue distribution of this TH receptor (77c, 77d). Two other gene mutations, affecting TH action, but acting at different sites have been identified in the last 10 years. One of them, caused by mutations in the TH cell-membrane transporter MCT8 , with decreased T4 uptake into brain cells produces severe psychomotor defects (77e,77f). In this syndrome, first described as Allan Herdon Dudley syndrome, (77g) mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( MCT 8 gene, located on the X-chromosome), have been associated with male- limited hypothyroidism and severe neurological abnormalities, including global developmental delay, dystonia, central hypotonia, spastic quadriplegia, rotary nystagmus and impaired gaze and hearing (77e, 77f). Heterozygous females had a milder thyroid phenotype and no neurological defects. A defect of the intracellular metabolism of TH, identified in 11 members from 9 families, is caused by mutations in the SECISBP2 gene required for the synthesis of selenoproteins, including TH deiodinases (77h). Knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved in mediation of TH action allows the recognition of the phenotypes caused by genetic defects in the involved pathways. While these defects have opened the avenue for novel insights into thyroid physiology, they continue to pose therapeutic challenges. CAUSES OF TRANSIENT NEONATAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Transient neonatal hypothyroidism should be distinguished from a ‘false positive’ result in which the screening result is abnormal but the confirmatory serum sample is normal. Causes of transient abnormalities of thyroid function in the newborn period are listed in Table 2 . While iodine deficiency, iodine excess, drugs and maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies are the most common causes of transient hypothyroidism, in some cases the cause is unknown. TABLE 2 CAUSES OF TRANSIENT HYPOTHYROIDISM IN THE NEWBORN View in own window · 2.1 PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM · · Prenatal or postnatal iodine deficiency or excess · · Maternal antithyroid medication · · Maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies ·
