Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


View in own window · 2.1 PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM · · Prenatal or postnatal iodine deficiency or excess · · Maternal antithyroid medication · · Maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies · · Mild gene mutations (i.e. DUOX2, TSH-R ) · · Maternal hypothyroidism · · Prematurity, VLBW · · Drugs, (i.e. Dopamine, steroids) · Hypothyroxinemia (low T4, normal TSH) · 2.2 CENTRAL HYPOTHYROIDISM · · Prenatal exposure to maternal hyperthyroidism · · Prematurity (particularly <27 weeks gestation) · · Drugs Iodine Deficiency or Excess In addition to iodine deficiency, both the fetus and newborn infant are sensitive to the thyroid-suppressive effects of excess iodine, whether administered to the mother during pregnancy, lactation or directly to the baby (78). This occurs, in part because, as noted earlier, recovery from the thyroid-suppressive effect of iodine does not mature before 36 weeks gestation; however, other factors, including increased skin absorption are also likely to play a role. Reported sources of iodine have included drugs (e.g., potassium iodide, amiodarone), radiocontrast agents and antiseptic solutions (e.g., povidone-iodine) used for skin cleansing or vaginal douches. In contrast to Europe, iodine-induced transient hypothyroidism has not been documented frequently in North America (79). For other information see the chapter “Iodine deficiency disorders” in this book. Maternal Antithyroid Medication Transient neonatal hypothyroidism may develop in babies whose mothers are being treated with antithyroid medication (either propylthiouracil, PTU or methimazole, MMI) for the treatment of Graves ’ disease. Even maternal PTU doses of 200 mg or less have been associated with an effect on neonatal thyroid function, illustrating the increased fetal sensitivity to these drugs (80). Babies with PTU- or MMI-induced hypothyroidism characteristically develop an enlarged thyroid gland and if the dose is sufficiently large, respiratory embarrassment may occur. Both the hypothyroidism and goiter resolve spontaneously with clearance of the drug from the baby’s circulation. Usually replacement therapy is not required. Maternal TSH Receptor Antibodies Maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies, a population of antibodies closely related to the TSH receptor stimulating antibodies in Graves’ disease, (81) may be transmitted to the fetus in sufficient titer to cause transient neonatal hypothyroidism. The incidence of this disorder has been estimated to be 1 in 180,000 (81a,81b). TSH receptor blocking antibodies most often are found in mothers who have been treated previously for Graves’ disease or who have the non goitrous form of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (primary myxedema). Occasionally these mothers are not aware
