Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


is found in 50% of babies of less than 30 weeks gestation. Often the free T4 when measured by equilibrium dialysis is less affected than the total T4 (83). The reasons for the hypothyroxinemia of prematurity are complex. As well as hypothalamic-pituitary immaturity mentioned earlier, premature infants frequently have TBG deficiency due to both immature liver function and undernutrition, and they may have “sick euthyroid syndrome”. They may also be treated with drugs that suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Hypothyroxinemia of prematurity may be associated with adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. L-T4 treatment overall has no proven benefit and can be harmful (83a). Long term outcome evaluation in young adults did not find association between transient hypothyroxinemia of prematurity and neurodevelopmental outcome (83b). Whether or not premature infants with hypothyroxinemia should be treated remains controversial at the present time (83c,83d,83e). Although several retrospective, cohort studies have documented a relationship between severe hypothyroxinemia and both developmental delay and disabling cerebral palsy in preterm infants <32 weeks gestation a causal relationship could not be determined since the serum T4 in premature infants, as in adults, has been shown to reflect the severity of illness and risk of death (83c). Drugs Drugs that suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary axis include known agents such as steroids and dopamine, but also aminophylline, caffeine and diamorphine, other commonly used in sick premature infants (84). Other causes of hypothyroidism in infancy Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) is a rare disease in infancy, but if not recognized and treated, can cause severe hypothyroidism in a short time with permanent brain damage (85). CLT can be associated with other autoimmune disease as type 1 diabetes or a manifestation of IPEX syndrome (85a). In the cases described by Foley, no goitrous was found. Clinical manifestations and biochemical hypothyroidism (TSH ranged from >42 to 928 mU/L) were severe and very high levels of antibodies were detectable. IPEX related disorders Lymphocytic thyroiditis has also been described in newborns with severe defects in tolerance and autoimmunity with immunodysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked (IPEX) syndrome, a polyglandular disorder characterized by early-onset diabetes and colitis (85a,85b). IPEX disorders are an expanding spectrum of disease with mutations in FOXP3, CD25 deficiency, STAT5 deficiency and other. Hepatic hemangiomas: consumptive hypothyroidism Hepatic emangioendothelioma is a rare tumor typically presenting in infancy. Hypothyroidism is caused by a production of type 3 deiodinase by the vascular tumor (85c). D3 deoidinase increases inactivation of T4
