Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


either by prior radioablation, surgery or by coincident destructive autoimmune processes so that potent thyroid stimulating antibodies, present in the maternal circulation, are silent in contrast to the neonate whose thyroid gland is normal (87d). Fetal/neonatal thyrotoxicosis can occur also in newborn from hypothyroid mothers with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (87f). Clinical manifestations Maternal TSH receptor antibody-mediated hyperthyroidism may present in utero. Fetal hyperthyroidism is suspected in the presence of fetal tachycardia (pulse greater than 160/min) especially if there is evidence of failure to thrive. Obstetric complications are common. Fetal goiter can by monitored by ultrasound. In the neonate infant most often the onset is during the first one-two weeks of life but can occur by 45 days. This is due both to the clearance of maternally-administered antithyroid drug (propylthiouracil, PTU, methimazole or carbimazole) from the infant ’s circulation and to the increased conversion of T4 to the more metabolically active T3 after birth. Rarely, as noted earlier, the onset of neonatal hyperthyroidism may be delayed until later if higher affinity blocking antibodies are also present. In the newborn infant, characteristic signs and symptoms include tachycardia, irritability, poor weight gain, and prominent eyes (Figure 5). Goiter, when present, may be related to maternal antithyroid drug treatment as well as to the neonatal Graves’ disease itself. Figure 15.5. A baby with neonatal hyperthyroidism secondary to maternal Graves ‘disease. Note the prominent eyes in the baby and mother in whom Graves’ disease developed after radioiodine therapy for Hodgkin’s disease. In contrast, the father was unaffected. Rarely, infants with neonatal Graves’ disease present with thrombocytopenia, jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, and hypoprothrombinemia, a picture that may be confused with congenital infections such as toxoplasmosis, rubella, or cytomegalovirus (87g). In addition, arrhythmias and cardiac failure may develop and may cause death, particularly if treatment is delayed or inadequate. In addition to a significant mortality rate that approximates 20% in some older series, untreated fetal and neonatal hyperthyroidism is associated with deleterious long-term consequences, including premature closure of the cranial sutures (cranial synostosis), failure to thrive, and developmental delay (87h). The half-life of TSH receptor antibodies is 1 to 2 weeks. The duration of neonatal hyperthyroidism, a function of antibody potency and the rate of their metabolic clearance, is usually 2 to 3 months but may be longer. Laboratory Evaluation TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) are Immunoglobulin of G class and freely cross the placenta. Different type of TRAb can
