Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


usually 2 to 3 months but may be longer. Laboratory Evaluation TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) are Immunoglobulin of G class and freely cross the placenta. Different type of TRAb can be found: TRAb that bind to the TSH receptor and stimulates the production of thyroid hormones, (TSH receptor stimulating antibodies, TSI), TRAb that bind to the TSH receptor, do not stimulate the production of thyroid hormones and can block the binding of TSH (TSH receptor blocking antibodies TBI) .TSH receptor neutral antibodies have also been identified which do not block TSH binding and are unable to stimulate cAMP production (88).. The receptor binding assays usually used to measure TRAb are not able to distinguish between TSH-receptor stimulating and blocking or neutral antibodies. Bioassays that measure TSI activity based on cAMP on cultured cells can be useful if TRAb are not detectable (88a,88b). The recent guidelines for management of hyperthyroidism (88c) and the updated guidelines for the management of thyroid disease during pregnancy released from the American Thyroid Association ATA (33b) both suggest to anticipate the determination of TRAb in pregnant women with Graves’ disease at 18-22 weeks instead of 20-24 weeks of gestation because a severe case of fetal Graves’ disease has occurred at 18 weeks of pregnancy (88d). Because of the importance of early diagnosis and treatment, infants at risk for neonatal hyperthyroidism should undergo both clinical and biochemical assessment as soon as possible. All neonates born from a woman with TRAb positivity in pregnancy should undergo determination of TRAb from cord blood at delivery. If TRAb are negative, the risk to neonatal hyperthyroidism is negligible (Sensitivity is around 100%). FT3, FT4 and TSH determination from cord blood did not predict neonatal hyperthyroidism. Determination of FT4 increase on day 3 to 5 seems to better indicate the onset of hyperthyroidism (88e) Situations that should prompt consideration of neonatal hyperthyroidism are listed in Table 4 . A high index of suspicion is necessary in babies of women who have had thyroid ablation because in them a high titer of TSH receptor antibodies would not be evident clinically. Similarly, women with persistently elevated TSH receptor antibodies and with a high requirement for antithyroid medication are at an increased risk of having an affected child. The diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is confirmed by the demonstration of an increased concentration of circulating T4 (and free T4, and T3, if possible) accompanied by a suppressed
