Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


an affected child. The diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is confirmed by the demonstration of an increased concentration of circulating T4 (and free T4, and T3, if possible) accompanied by a suppressed TSH level in neonatal or fetal blood. The latter can be obtained by cordocentesis if someone experienced in this technique is available. Results should be compared with normal values during gestation. Fetal ultrasonography may be helpful in detecting the presence of a fetal goiter and in monitoring fetal growth. Demonstration in the baby or mother of a high titer of TSH receptor antibodies will confirm the etiology of the hyperthyroidism and, in babies whose thyroid function testing is normal initially, indicate the degree to which the baby is at risk. TABLE 4 SITUATIONS THAT SHOULD PROMPT CONSIDERATION OF NEONATAL HYPERTHYROIDISM View in own window · Unexplained tachycardia, goiter or stare · Unexplained petechiae, hyperbilirubinemia, or hepatosplenomegaly · History of persistently high TSH receptor antibody titer in mother during pregnancy · History of persistently high requirement for antithyroid medication in mother during pregnancy · History of thyroid ablation for hyperthyroidism in mother · History of previously affected sibling As noted in the case of TSH receptor blocking antibody-induced congenital hypothyroidism, the receptor binding assays are a cost-effective, rapid and technically feasible approach. In general, babies likely to become hyperthyroid have the highest TSH receptor antibody titer whereas if TSH receptor antibodies are not detectable, the baby is most unlikely to become hyperthyroid (87g, 89,89a). In the latter case, it can be anticipated that the baby will be euthyroid, have transient hypothalamic-pituitary suppression or have a transiently elevated TSH, depending on the relative contribution of maternal hyperthyroidism versus the effects of maternal antithyroid medication, respectively (89). Close follow up of all babies with abnormal thyroid function tests or detectable TSH receptor antibodies is mandatory. Therapy In the fetus, treatment is accomplished by maternal administration of antithyroid medication. Until recently PTU was the preferred drug for pregnant women in North America, but current recommendations suggest the use of MMI rather than PTU after the first trimester because of concerns about potential PTU-induced hepatotoxicity (123) (discussed under Graves’ disease, below). The goals of therapy are to utilize the minimal dosage necessary to normalize the fetal heart rate and render the mother euthyroid or slightly hyperthyroid. In the neonate MMI (0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg/day) has been used initially in 3 divided doses. If the hyperthyroidism
