Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


fetal heart rate and render the mother euthyroid or slightly hyperthyroid. In the neonate MMI (0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg/day) has been used initially in 3 divided doses. If the hyperthyroidism is severe, a strong iodine solution (Lugol’ s solution or SSKI, 1 drop every 8 hours) is added to block the release of thyroid hormone immediately. Often the effect of MMI is not as delayed in infants as it is in older children or adults, a consequence of decreased intrathyroidal thyroid hormone storage. Therapy with both antithyroid drug and iodine is adjusted subsequently, depending on the response. Propranolol (2 mg/kg/day in 2 or 3 divided doses) is added if sympathetic overstimulation is severe, particularly in the presence of pronounced tachycardia. If cardiac failure develops, treatment with digoxin should be initiated, and propranolol should be discontinued. Rarely, prednisone (2 mg/kg/day) is added for immediate inhibition of thyroid hormone secretion. Measurement of TSH receptor antibodies in treated babies may be helpful in predicting when antithyroid medication can be safely discontinued (87). Lactating mothers on antithyroid medication can continue nursing as long as the dosage of PTU or MMI does not exceed 400 mg or 40 mg, respectively. The milk/serum ratio of PTU is 1/10 that of MMI, a consequence of pH differences and increased protein binding, so one might anticipate less transmission to the infant, but concerns about potential PTU toxicity need to be considered. At higher dosages of antithyroid medication, close supervision of the infant is advisable. A review about management of neonates born to mothers with Graves’ disease has been recently published (89b). Permanent neonatal hyperthyroidism Rarely, neonatal hyperthyroidism is permanent and is due to a germline mutation in the TSH receptor (TSH-R) resulting in its constitutive activation (90,90a,90b,90c). A gain of function mutation of the TSH-R should be suspected if persistent neonatal hyperthyroidism occurs in the absence of detectable TSH-R antibodies in the maternal circulation. Prematurity, low birth weight and advanced bone age are common. Most cases result from a mutation in exon 10 which encodes the transmembrane domain and intracytoplasmic tail of the TSH-R, a member of the G protein coupled receptor superfamily (90,90a,90b,90c). Less frequently, a mutation encoding the extracellular domain has been described (90d). An autosomal dominant inheritance has been noted in many of these infants; other cases have been sporadic, arising from a de novo mutation. Early recognition is important because the thyroid function of
