Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


dominant inheritance has been noted in many of these infants; other cases have been sporadic, arising from a de novo mutation. Early recognition is important because the thyroid function of affected infants is frequently difficult to manage medically (90a-90c), and, when diagnosis and therapy is delayed, irreversible sequelae, such as cranial synostosis and developmental delay may result (90c). For this reason early, aggressive therapy with either thyroidectomy or even radioablation has been recommended (90c). Two clinical forms were described: the first one is the “familial non-autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism” (FNAH). High variable age of manifestation from neonatal period to 60 years, with. variability also within the same family is reported. Goiter is present in children, with nodules in older age. The second one is “Persistent sporadic congenital non autoimmune hyperthyroidism” (PSNAH) includes forms with sporadic (de novo) germline mutations in the TSH-R. PSNAH is characterized by fetal-neonatal onset or within 11 months and more severe hyperthyroidism requiring early aggressive therapy. Guidelines about this rare condition have recently been published (90e). McCune Albright syndrome McCune Albright is a syndrome due to somatic activating mutations in Gsα gene, can rarely presents with neonatal hyperthyroidism (90f). THYROID DISEASE IN CHILDHOOD AND ADOLESCENCE Hypothyroidism and Thyroiditis Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is the more common cause of acquired hypothyroidism in children and adolescents. Occasionally, patients with disorders classified as congenital hypothyroidism, i.e thyroid dysgenesis, inborn error of thyroid hormonogenesis, central hypothyroidism may be recognized later in childhood and adolescence. Causes of hypothyroidism in children and adolescents are listed in table 5 . TABLE 5 CAUSES OF HYPOTHYROIDISM IN CHILDHOOD AND ADOLESCENCE View in own window PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM A) Congenital Thyroid dysgenesis Inborn error of thyroid hormonogenesis Thyroidal Gsα protein abnormalities (pseudohypoparathyroidism 1B) B) Acquired Autoimmune Chronic Lymphocytic Thyroiditis Reversible autoimmune hypothyroidism (silent and postpartum thyroiditis, cytokine-induced thyroiditis Infiltrative : Cystinosis, Hemocromathosis, Thalassemia,-Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis I nfective : acute, subacute thyroiditis Post ablative Surgery Thyroiditis due to I 131, external irradiation of non-thyroidal tumors (i.e. lymphomas, brain tumors, TBI Iodine deficiency and iodine excess Drugs : antithyroid agents, lithium, natural and synthetic goitrogenic chemicals, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, lithium, thionamides, aminosalicylic acid, aminoglutethimide Goitrogens (cassava, water pollutants, cabbage, sweet potatoes, cauliflower, broccoli, soya beans) CENTRAL HYPOTHYROIDISM A)Congenital Pituitary hypoplasia, septo-optic dysplasia, basal encephalocele Functional defects in TSH biosynthesis and release Mutations in genes encoding for TRH receptor, TSHß, pituitary transcription factors (Pit-1, PROP1, LHX3, LHX4, HESX1), or LEPr,
