Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


hypoplasia, septo-optic dysplasia, basal encephalocele Functional defects in TSH biosynthesis and release Mutations in genes encoding for TRH receptor, TSHß, pituitary transcription factors (Pit-1, PROP1, LHX3, LHX4, HESX1), or LEPr, IGSF1 B)Acquired Tumors (pituitary adenoma, craniopharyngioma, meningioma, dysgerminoma, glioma, metastases) Trauma surgery, irradiation, head injury Infections Vascular damage ischemic necrosis, hemorrhage, stalk interrruption, Hypotalamic disorders Drugs: dopamine; glucocorticoids; bexarotene; L-T4 withdrawal “Peripheral” (extrathyroidal) hypothyroidism Consumptive hypothyroidism (massive infantile hemangioma) Mutations in genes encoding for MCT8, SECISBP2, TRα or TR β (impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormones) Chronic Lymphocytic Thyroiditis Autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITD) are defined by the lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid (91). Usually antibodies against thyroid antigens as thyroperoxidase (TPOAb), thyroglobulin (TgAb), and anti-TSH receptor (TRAb) are detectable in serum. Thyroid antibodies in serum correlate with the presence of lymphocytic infiltrate in the thyroid gland. The clinical spectrum of AITD ranges from hypothyroidism to hyperthyroidism and include chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) and Graves’ disease . CLT is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in children and adolescents (91,91a). Graves’ disease and CLT are closely associated and in fact overlapping syndromes .Patients can move from one to the other category, depending upon the stage of their illness. For example, an individual might first be observed with thyroid enlargement and positive antibody tests for anti-thyroglobulin or anti-TPO antibodies, and thus qualify as having CLT. At a later stage, this individual might become hyperthyroid (Hashitoxicosis) and fit in the category of Graves’ disease. Or, the patient with hyperthyroidism might have progressive destruction of the thyroid, or develops blocking antibodies, and become hypothyroid or ultimately develop myxedema. Incidence The prevalence of CLT in children and adolescents was reported to be 1.2% by Rallison in 1975 (91b). In this 6 year-survey study 5179 school children were examined in Arizona. Goiter was evaluated by palpation (91b). More recently, a study from Sardinia in 8040 children and adolescents aged 6-15 years reported TPOAb detectable in 2.9% (91c). Similar results were found in Berlin with a prevalence of TPOAb of 3.4% (mean age 11 years) (91d) and in Greece after correction of iodine deficiency. In this study examining 440 children and adolescents aged 5-18 years a prevalence of TPOAb and TgAb was reported to be 4.6% and 4.3% respectively. The prevalence of CLT, confirmed by ultrasound was 2.5% (91e). In childhood the most common age at presentation is adolescence, but the disease may occur at any age, even
