Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


respectively. The prevalence of CLT, confirmed by ultrasound was 2.5% (91e). In childhood the most common age at presentation is adolescence, but the disease may occur at any age, even infancy. CLT in infancy is rare, but can cause in a short time severe hypothyroidism and permanent damage to CNS if not recognized and treated (85). The female/male ratio in AITD is up to 6:1, but In prepubertal age the female/male ratio is lower than reported in adolescents and adults. Etiology and Pathogenesis CLT is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic susceptibility and environmental factors. Both thyroid-specific genes and genes involved in immune recognition and/or response have been identified (91f, 91g). (See chapter Autoimmunity, by A Weetman for an exhaustive information). Some genes are common to both disorders and some tend to predominate only in Graves’ disease. AITD has a striking predilection for females, but in prepubertal age the female/male ratio is lower. A family history of autoimmune thyroid disease (both chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and Graves’ disease) is found in 30% to 40% of patients. A study about familial clustering of juvenile AITD found thyroid antibodies detectable in 56% of mothers and 25% of fathers. Interestingly, HLA DQ alleles and antibody status in fathers influenced the susceptibility to AITD in children (91h). Siblings recurrence in childhood is 20-30% (91i). AITD are often associated with other autoimmune disorders. The plethora of associations and their familial occurrence indicates that a defect in the immune system may be more likely than primary defects in each organ, as these diseases often share similar genetic associations, including HLA, CTLA-4, PTPN22 and CD25 gene polymorphisms. It is also clear however that there is a difference in the kind of clustering of other autoimmune disease in CLT and Graves’ disease, presumably related to differences between these two types of thyroid disease in genetic predisposition (91j,91k). There is also an increased incidence of CLT in patients with certain chromosomal abnormalities as Down syndrome (91l) Turner syndrome (91m), Klinefelter syndrome (91n) as well as in patients with Noonan syndrome (91o). Environmental factors as infection, environmental toxins, substances as iodine, selenium, stress, smoking, estrogens, drugs (amiodarone, interferon alfa, lithium) have been suggested as precipitating factors for CLT (91p). The precise environmental trigger has not been yet established. An epigenetic mechanism may be implicated (91q). Clinical Manifestations Both goitrous (Hashimoto’s thyroiditis) and nongoitrous (atrophic thyroiditis, also called primary
