Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


(91p). The precise environmental trigger has not been yet established. An epigenetic mechanism may be implicated (91q). Clinical Manifestations Both goitrous (Hashimoto’s thyroiditis) and nongoitrous (atrophic thyroiditis, also called primary myxedema) as variants of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis have been distinguished. The term “Hashimoto’s thyroiditis” is often used as a synonymous of CLT, not necessary linked to the presence of goiter (91, 91a). Goiter, present in approximately two-thirds of children with CLT is caused by lymphocytic infiltration that may be extensive, with lymphoid germinal centers, TSH stimulation, or production of antibodies that stimulate thyroid growth (92). Progressive thyroid cell damage, with cell mediated cytotoxicity and follicular cell apoptosis, can change the apparent clinical picture from goitrous hypothyroidism to that of “atrophic” thyroiditis. Atrophic thyroiditis, or primary hypothyroidism/mixedema, is considered to be the end stage of CLT (91). Children with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis may be euthyroid, or may have subclinical or overt hypothyroidism. Occasionally, children may experience an initial thyrotoxic phase due to the discharge of preformed T4 and T3 from the damaged gland. Alternatively, as indicated above, thyrotoxicosis may be due to concomitant thyroid stimulation by TSH receptor stimulatory antibodies (Hashitoxicosis). The onset of hypothyroidism in childhood is insidious. Affected children often are recognized either because of the detection of a goiter on routine examination or because of a poor interval growth rate present for several years prior to diagnosis (92a). Because the deceleration in linear growth tends to be more affected than weight gain, these children can be relatively overweight for their height, although they rarely are significantly obese (Figure 6). If the hypothyroidism is severe and longstanding, immature facies with an underdeveloped nasal bridge and immature body proportions (increased upper-lower body ratio) may be noted. Dental and skeletal maturation are delayed, the latter often significantly. Patients with central hypothyroidism tend to be even less symptomatic than are those with primary hypothyroidism. Figure 15-6 Sequential changes in physical appearance in a young girl who presented at 15 years of age with amenorrhea and hyperprolactinemia secondary to severe hypothyroidism. Note her poor linear growth since at least 11 years of age. The classical clinical manifestations of hypothyroidism can be elicited on careful evaluation, though they often are not the presenting complaints. These include sluggishness, lethargy, cold intolerance, constipation, dry skin or hair texture, and periorbital edema. Bradycardia and delayed deep tendon reflexes can be present. In severe, long-standing hypothyroid children pericardial
