Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


(92d). Consistent with the latter hypothesis, there is little increase in serum testosterone as might be expected if the FSH, but not luteinizing hormone (LH) receptor is involved and serum gonadotropins are frequently not increased. Long term follow up studies of children with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis have suggested that while most children who are hypothyroid initially remain hypothyroid, spontaneous recovery of thyroid function may occur, particularly in those with initial compensated hypothyroidism (93,93a, 93b). A recent five-years prospective study in children and adolescents affected with CLT showed that thyroid dysfunction increased from 27.3% to 47.4% (93c). Therefore, close follow up is necessary. Although chronic inflammation, leading to neoplastic transformation, is a well-established clinical phenomenon, if CLT can increase the risk for thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer remains controversial. In the past autoimmune thyroiditis has been thought to be protective from thyroid cancer, but several studies both in adults and in children suggested the opposite. Thyroid nodules in healthy children in iodine replete regions are detected in up to 1.6% (94). High prevalence of thyroid nodules, ranging from 13% to 31%, has been reported in children and adolescents with CLT. In a multicentric pediatric retrospective study from Italy, nodules were found in 115/365 patients with CLT (31.5%), and papillary thyroid carcinoma in 11/115 (9.5%) (94a). In a recent study from Turkey, thyroid nodules were detected in 39/300 (13%) of cases of pediatric CLT and papillary thyroid carcinoma was diagnosed in 2 of the 12 cases that underwent FNAB (94b). Recently, in. a retrospective study from United States examining ultrasound characteristic of the thyroid in 154 children and adolescents with goiter, nodules were reported in 20/154 (13%) and PTC in 4/154 (2.5% ) of children. In this study, the same prevalence of nodules (17%) was found in TPOAb positive and TPOAb negative children. Interestingly, one case of PTC was first classified at ultrasound as pseudonodule. Only 15 % of nodules and none of the papillary thyroid carcinoma in these series (PTC) were palpable, although PTC has a diameter ranging from 1.2 to 2.6 cm (94c). A rare variant of PTC, the diffuse sclerosing variant, has also been reported in children with CLT(94d). Associated Disease AITD are frequently associated with other common autoimmune disorders as type 1 diabetes (94e,94f) and celiac disease. AITD can be also the first manifestation of autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes (APS1 and 2) (95,95a,95b). A pletora of other autoimmune conditions,
