Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


disorders as type 1 diabetes (94e,94f) and celiac disease. AITD can be also the first manifestation of autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes (APS1 and 2) (95,95a,95b). A pletora of other autoimmune conditions, organ or non-organ specific disease, can be associated with AITD in childhood and adolescence. CLT is more frequently associated with adrenal and β cell autoimmunity than Graves’ disease (91j). Early identification and treatment of these disorders may be critical and even preserve children from life-threatening events. Long term surveillance is required, because a second autoimmune disorder may occur any time. Type 1 diabetes. CLT is the most common associated autoimmune disease in type 1 diabetes. In a ten-years observational study of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes (mean age at diagnosis 10 years), the prevalence of TPOAb and TgAb at diagnosis was 15.4% and 14.4% respectively. The cumulative incidence increased especially in females in mid puberty. In this study about 14% of patients required treatment with L-thyroxine (95c). Children with AITD had islet cell antibodies in 2.3% (95d). Screening for AITD is suggested at diagnosis and every 2-3 years if negative (ADA and ISPAD recommendation). Thyroid function should be checked every year or more frequently if needed, because thyroid dysfunction (both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism) affects metabolic control. In overt hypothyroidism hypoglycemia can occur because glucose absorption may be slow and the sensitivity and rate of degradation of insulin is increased. Hepatic gluconeogenesis and peripheral glucose utilization are also reduced. Long term dyslipidemia may affect cardiovascular risk in these patients. Hyperthyroidism in type 1 diabetic children can precipitate acute complications. In a study on 60456 children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, hyperthyroidism was diagnosed in 276 (0.46%). Hyperthyroid state was associated with diabetic ketoacidosis, hypoglycemia and hypertension (95e). Life-long surveillance is required. C eliac disease. Another strong association is with celiac disease, which is found 3 times more commonly in patients with AITD. Intriguingly the autoantibodies which are the hallmark of celiac disease, directed against transglutaminase, can bind to thyroid cells and thus could be implicated directly in thyroid dysfunction (95f). A recent meta-analysis showed that the prevalence of celiac disease in AITD patients in higher in children (6.2%) than in adults (1.2%) (95g). Prevalence of AITD in celiac patients is about 20%. The presence of celiac disease in type 1 diabetes seems to increase the risk for AITD (95h). Undiagnosed celiac disease causes malabsorption with or without gastrointestinal
