Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


patients is about 20%. The presence of celiac disease in type 1 diabetes seems to increase the risk for AITD (95h). Undiagnosed celiac disease causes malabsorption with or without gastrointestinal symptoms. Delayed linear growth may be the first manifestation as unexplained change in L-T4 requirement (95i). Addison’s disease. Addison’s disease is also associated with AITD. In an old report, the prevalence of adrenal antibodies in children with AITD, was found to be 2.3%, while the great majority of children affected with Addison’s disease presented with CLT (95d). Addison’ disease is more often a component of autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes (APS1 and 2) (95,95a,95b). Addison's disease and/or type 1 diabetes mellitus and AITD occasionally co-exist and form the classical autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type2 (Schmidt syndrome). Undiagnosed adrenal insufficiency, is a life-threatening condition and can be exacerbated by L-thyroxine therapy, because L-thyroxine increases cortisol clearance. Moreover, symptoms of overt hypothyroidism can overlap with adrenal insufficiency manifestations. Adrenal insufficiency is a rare but non-obvious diagnosis in childhood and should be considered in when autoimmune disorders are diagnosed. Autoimmune gastritis . Autoimmune gastritis was first described in association with AITD as thyrogastric syndrome. Common clinical manifestations in adults are iron deficient or pernicious anemia (95j). Perhaps 45% of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis have circulating gastric parietal cell antibodies. Also in children with AITD, early manifestations of gastric autoimmunity has been reported, with a prevalence of gastric parietal cell antibodies of 30%. In this series, 45% of PCA positive children presented with increased gastrin plasma levels (a marker of atrophic body gastritis) (95l). Autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes (APS1 and 2) CLT can be the first manifestation of autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes (APS1 and 2) (95,95a,95b). APS1 tends to present in early childhood and is characterized primarily by mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism and adrenal deficiency. APS1 is also defined as autoimmune polyendocrinopaty-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). APS1 results from mutations in the AIRE (autoimmune regulator) gene. It is a rare autosomal dominant disorder with incomplete penetrance (96). In APS1, chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is found in approximately 10% of patients. APS1 was originally described in Europe. Recently, a report from USA described different clinical features and diagnostic criteria in APECED patients from Western Hemisphere i.e., as initial signs urticarial eruptions, intestinal dysfunction, enamel dysplasia. Classical triad presentation (mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism and adrenal deficiency) was delayed. Life threatening endocrine complications can be prevented by an early diagnosis (96a). APS2, tends to occur later in
