Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


dysplasia. Classical triad presentation (mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism and adrenal deficiency) was delayed. Life threatening endocrine complications can be prevented by an early diagnosis (96a). APS2, tends to occur later in childhood or in the adult with a polygenic predisposition. APS2 can be clustering in families with heterogeneous clinical phenotypes. Other disorders, including vitiligo, celiac disease, myasthenia gravis, premature ovarian failure and chronic active hepatitis may be present (95,95a). An extensive review of these associations has been published (96b) and large population data bases have clarified the strength of the various associations in adults (95k,96c). Many other autoimmune conditions, organ or non-organ specific disease, can be associated with AITD in childhood and adolescence. Increased prevalence of CLT has been found in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (96d), non-segmental vitiligo (96e) and alopecia areata (96f). CLT may be associated with chronic uriticaria (96g) and rarely with immune-complex glomerulonephritis (96h). High prevalence of antinuclear antibodies (ANA) has recently been reported in a series of 93 children (86 with CLT and 8 with GD) without overt rheumatic disorders. In this series ANA positivity was found in 71% of children, ENA positivity in 4% and anti-DNA antibodies in 1% (96i). Growth hormone deficiency on an autoimmune basis has been suggested in a small number of children, of whom 43% have CLT (92j-96k). Nevertheless this is a rare association, hypothetically a growth disorder in a child with CLT can be due to other causes than hypothyroidism as celiac disease or GH deficiency. It is important that clinicians are cognizant of these associations in order to maintain a high index of vigilance. Laboratory Evaluation Measurement of TSH is the best initial screening test for the presence of primary hypothyroidism. If the TSH is elevated, then evaluation of the free T4 will distinguish whether the child has subclinical (normal free T4) or overt (low free T4) hypothyroidism. Measurement of TSH, on the other hand, is not helpful in central hypothyroidism. In these cases hypothyroidism is demonstrated by the presence of a low free T4 accompanied by an “inappropriate ‘’ TSH. In the past TRH testing (TRH 7 mcg/kg) was sometimes utilized to distinguish a hypothalamic versus pituitary origin of the hypothyroidism; in hypothalamic hypothyroidism there tends to be a delayed peak in TSH secretion (60-90 minutes versus the normal maximal response at 15-30 minutes) whereas in hypopituitarism there usually is little or no TSH response. However TRH is no longer
