Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


peak in TSH secretion (60-90 minutes versus the normal maximal response at 15-30 minutes) whereas in hypopituitarism there usually is little or no TSH response. However TRH is no longer available in the USA. Furthermore, the reliability of this test in the pediatric range has been questioned (97). Occasionally mild TSH elevation is seen in individuals with hypothalamic hypothyroidism, a consequence of the secretion of a TSH molecule with impaired bioactivity but normal immunoreactivity. Thyroid hormone resistance is characterized by elevated levels of T4 and T3 and an inappropriately normal or elevated TSH concentration. Antibodies to Tg and TPO, the thyroid antibodies measured in routine clinical practice, are detectable in over 90% of patients with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. Therefore, they are useful as markers of underlying autoimmune thyroid damage, TPO antibodies being more sensitive. TSH receptor antibodies also are found in a small proportion of patients with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. When stimulatory TSH receptor antibodies are present, they may give rise to a clinical picture of hyperthyroidism, the coexistence of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and Graves’ disease is known as Hashitoxicosis. In one study, TSH receptor blocking antibodies were found in <10% of children and adolescents with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, patients overall, but in 17.8% of those with severe hypothyroidism (defined as a serum TSH concentration >20 mU/L). Unlike in adults, they were found in goitrous as well as nongoitrous patients, and, when present at a high concentration, appeared to persist indefinitely, suggesting that the presence of potent TSH receptor blocking antibodies in adolescent females might identify patients at risk of having babies with transient congenital hypothyroidism in the future (97a,97b). Imaging studies (thyroid ultrasonography and/or thyroid uptake and scan) may be performed if thyroid antibody tests are negative or if a nodule is palpable. If no goiter is present, imaging studies are helpful in identifying the presence and location of thyroid tissue, and therefore, of distinguishing primary myxedema from thyroid dysgenesis. Inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis beyond a trapping defect are usually suspected by an increased radioiodine uptake, and a large gland on scan. Other etiologies of hypothyroidism usually are evident on history. Ultrasound (US) is useful to define size, anatomy, echogenity of the thyroid. Occasionally the finding of heterogeneous echogenicity on ultrasound examination has been described prior to the appearance of antibodies. Diffuse reduction in echogenity, (hypoechoic), and pseudonodules are common findings (98). Moreover, US can be useful in
