Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


echogenicity on ultrasound examination has been described prior to the appearance of antibodies. Diffuse reduction in echogenity, (hypoechoic), and pseudonodules are common findings (98). Moreover, US can be useful in detecting unsuspected thyroid nodules and cancer. In a study examinating US characteristic of the thyroid in 154 children and adolescents with goiter, nodules were reported in 20/154 (13%) and PTC in 4/154 (2.5%) of children. None of the papillary thyroid carcinoma in these series (PTC) was palpable, although a PTC diameter ranging from 1.2 to 2.6 cm was found. Interestingly, one case of PTC was first classified as pseudonodule (94c). The diffuse sclerosing variant of PTC, with a typical US appearance, has also been reported in children with CLT (94d). If there is a cost-effective benefit in performing US in all cases of children with CLT and/or goiter deserves sufficiently powered prospective studies. Therapy The typical replacement dose of L-thyroxine (derived from congenital hypothyroidism) in overt severe hypothyroidism is about 4 to 6 mcg/kg/day for children 1 to 5 years of age, 3 to 4 mcg/kg/day for these ages 6 to10 years and 2-3mcg/kg/day for these 11 ages and older. Lower dose as 1 to 3 mcg/kg/day may be sufficient in less severe cases. The dose should be individually titrated as the lowest useful to keep TSH in the normal range and FT4 or T4 in the upper half of the reference range. L-thyroxine should be given once daily preferably half to 1 hour before meal. Somministration of preparates (i.e., calcium, soya), or drugs that can interfere with absorption should be avoided. T4 and TSH should be measured after the child has received the recommended dosage for at least 6-8 weeks. Once a euthyroid state has been achieved, patients should be monitored every 6 to 12 months. In patients with a goiter a somewhat higher L-thyroxine dosage is used so as to keep the TSH in the low normal range, and thereby minimize its goitrogenic effect. Close attention is paid to interval growth and bone age as well as to the maintenance of a euthyroid state. Thyroid hormone replacement is not associated with significant weight loss in overweight children, unless the hypothyroidism is severe (99b). Some children with severe, long standing hypothyroidism at diagnosis may not achieve their adult height potential even with optimal therapy (99c), emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis and treatment. Treatment is usually continued indefinitely. Treatment
