Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


standing hypothyroidism at diagnosis may not achieve their adult height potential even with optimal therapy (99c), emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis and treatment. Treatment is usually continued indefinitely. Treatment of children and adolescents with subclinical hypothyroidism (normal free T4, elevated TSH) is controversial (100). Because normalization of TSH is also possible if the patient is not symptomatic, a reasonable option is to reassess thyroid function in 3- 6 months prior to initiating therapy because of the possibility that the thyroid abnormality will be transient. In adults in whom the risk of progression to overt hypothyroidism is significant, treatment has been recommended whenever the serum TSH concentration is >10 mU/L ; if the TSH is 6-10 mU/L treatment on a case by case basis is suggested (100a). In children and adolescents, a recent five-years prospective study showed that in patients with CLT thyroid dysfunction increased from 27.3% to 47.4% (93c). Some considerations about “to treat or not to treat” “subclinical hypothyroidism” in children with a known cause of thyroid failure as CLT may be useful. Well designed and adequately powered trials needed to establish the advantages of treating “subclinical hypothyroidism” are not available in adults and seem to be very difficult in children, also because some of the clinical consequences- i.e cardiovascular events- of untreated mild hypothyroidism may hypothetically occur later in adult life. In adults, variations in thyroid function within the reference range may be associated with adverse health outcome (100b), and some data suggesting clinical consequences of subclinical hypothyroidism are also available in children and adolescents. A positive relationship was found for TSH levels and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (100c), atherogenic lipid profiles, (100d) and other risk factors for cardiovascular diseases (100e). Moreover, adult patients with a thyroid nodule and TSH in the upper tertiles of the reference range may be at increased risk of malignancy (100f). Given an individual set point for TSH, more than an absolute TSH value (i.e more or less 6 7-, 8 UI/mL) the decision about treatment may consider the temporal trend of TSH in a patient. An increase of TSH value over the time suggests the progression of the grade of hypothyroidism. Both the decisions to “wait and see” or “to treat” require monitoring the thyroid function and clinical follow up. A careful discussion about “the state of the art” must be taken with the child and the family. Guidelines about
