Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


treat” require monitoring the thyroid function and clinical follow up. A careful discussion about “the state of the art” must be taken with the child and the family. Guidelines about the management of subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy and in children have been published by the European Thyroid Association in 2014 (100g), but it as an evolving and open field (100). Thyroid Dysgenesis and Inborn Errors of Thyroid Hormonogenesis Occasionally, patients with thyroid dysgenesis will escape detection by newborn screening and present later in childhood with non goitrous hypothyroidism or with an enlarging mass at the base of the tongue or along the course of the thyroglossal duct. Similarly, children with inborn errors of thyroid hormonogesis may only be recognized later in childhood because of the detection of a goiter. Drugs or Goitrogens In addition to antithyroid medication, a number of drugs used in childhood may affect thyroid function, including certain anticonvulsants, lithium, amiodarone, aminosalicylic acid, aminoglutethimide and sertraline (101-101a). Similarly, a large number of naturally occurring goitrogens (broccoli, cabbage, sweet potatoes, cauliflower, soya beans, cassava and water pollutants) have been identified. Both radioiodine therapy and thyroidectomy, occasionally used in childhood for the definitive treatment of Graves’ disease, frequently cause permanent hypothyroidism. Worldwide, iodine deficiency continues to be an important cause of hypothyroidism, affecting at least 800 million people living largely in developing countries. In addition, even in certain parts of Europe, an estimated 100-120 million individuals are thought to have borderline iodine deficiency (101b). Although one rarely sees iodine deficiency in North America, an iodine sufficient area, a 6 year old boy with goitrous hypothyroidism has been described in whom iodine deficiency was due to multiple food allergies and severe dietary restriction (101c). In addition, the child consumed a large intake of thiocyanate-containing foods that blocked organification of iodine. Miscellaneous Causes of Acquired Hypothyroidism Rarely, the thyroid gland may be involved in generalized infiltrative or infectious disease processes that are of sufficient severity to result in a disturbance in thyroid function (i.e., (Langerhans cell histiocytosis) (101 d). Alternatively, hypothyroidism may be a long term complication of mantle irradiation for Hodgkin’s disease or lymphoma. External irradiation of brain tumors in the posterior fossa of the brain may be associated with both primary and secondary hypothyroidism because of the inclusion of the neck in the radiation field. Rarely, hypothyroidism has been reported in infants with large hemangiomas (85b,85c). In these cases, the
