Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


Clinical examination in both instances reveals a diffusely enlarged thyroid gland. Therefore, the distinction is dependent upon the presence of elevated titers of TPO and Tg antibodies in chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis but not colloid goiter. All patients with negative thyroid antibodies initially should have repeat examinations because some children with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis will develop positive titers with time. Therapy Thyroid suppression in children with a euthyroid goiter is controversial (103a). A significant decrease in goiter size in patients with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis as assessed by standard deviation score on ultrasonography has been demonstrated recently in patients treated for 3 years (103b). However, the absolute difference quantitatively was not reported and so, whether or not this difference was significant clinically remains unclear. Given the variability in response in different patients, it would be reasonable to attempt a therapeutic trial in patients whose goiter is large. Painful thyroid: Acute suppurative thyroiditis, subacute thyroiditis Painful thyroid enlargement is rare in pediatrics and suggests the probability of either acute (suppurative) (106) or subacute thyroiditis (106a). Rarely chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis may be associated with intermittent pain and be confused with the latter disorders. In acute suppurative thyroiditis, progression to abscess formation with the potential of rupture may occur rapidly so prompt recognition and antibiotic therapy are essential (106b). Acute suppurative thyroiditis is a potentially life-threatening endocrine emergency. It is often preceded by an upper respiratory infection, and can be initially misdiagnosed in a young child presenting with high fever, sore throat, and severe dysphagia. A tender very painful swelling in the region of the thyroid gland is present and the abscess can progress to the surrounding tissues and to the skin. Recurrent attacks and involvement of the left lobe suggest a pyriform sinus fistula between the oropharynx and the thyroid as the route of infection (106c). In the latter case, surgical extirpation of the pyriform sinus will frequently prevent further attacks. The management of this condition has recently been reviewed (106,106b). Subacute viral thyroiditis (or de Quervain or granulomatous thyroiditis) it is rarely reported in childhood and adolescence, but cases at 2-3 years of age are known (106a). Usually subacute thyroiditis presents with sore throat, fever and firm, painful tender enlargement of the thyroid. Mild signs of hyperthyroidism can be overlooked. Subacute thyroiditis may occur as a acute, subacute or rarely chronic disorder. A painless variant has been described also in children. (106d). Therapy
