Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


Mild signs of hyperthyroidism can be overlooked. Subacute thyroiditis may occur as a acute, subacute or rarely chronic disorder. A painless variant has been described also in children. (106d). Therapy is usually symptomatic, because the disease is self-limiting. Sometimes treatment with prednisone (0.5-1mg/kg/die) for a short period (i.e. one week) can be useful. THYROTOXICOSIS AND HYPERTHYROIDISM Thyrotoxicosis is defined as the clinical syndrome of hypermetabolism resulting from increased free thyroxine (T4) and/or free triiodothyronine (T3) serum levels (107)). The term thyrotoxicosis is not synonymous with hyperthyroidism, the elevation in thyroid hormone levels caused by an increase in their biosynthesis and secretion by the thyroid gland ( Table 6 ). For example, thyrotoxicosis can result from the destruction of thyroid follicles and thyrocytes in the various forms of thyroiditis, or it can be caused by an excessive intake of exogenous thyroid hormone. It should also be noted that the elevation of free thyroid hormone levels does not always result in thyrotoxicosis in all tissues. In the syndrome of Resistance to Thyroid Hormone (RTH), dominant negative mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor β ( TR β) result in decreased thyroid hormone action in tissues where TRβ is the predominant receptor, for example in the liver and the pituitary, whereas other tissues such as the heart, which express mainly TR α, show signs of increased thyroid hormone action. The determination of the etiology of thyrotoxicosis is of importance in order to establish a rational therapy. TABLE 6 CAUSES OF THYROTOXICOSIS IN CHILDHOOD AND ADOLESCENCE View in own window THYROTOXICOSIS DUE TO HYPERTHYROIDISM (increased production of T3, T4) Autoimmune hyperthyroidism · Graves’ disease · Hashitoxicosis Congenital non autoimmune hyperthyroidism · Sporadic (de novo Persistent sporadic congenital non autoimmune hyperthyroidism (PSNAH) · Hereditary familial non-autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism (FNAH) Autonomous functioning nodules · Toxic adenoma · Hyperfunctioning papillary or follicular carcinoma · Toxic multinodular goiter · McCune Albright disease T SH-induced hyperthyroidism · TSH-producing pituitary adenoma · Thyroid Hormone resistance Tumors · Hydatiform mole, choriocarcinoma · Struma ovari, teratoma (autonomous function of thyroid tissue in ovarian) THYROTOXICOSIS WITHOUT HYPERTHYROIDISM- Transient thyrotoxicosis (Release of stored hormones) · Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis · Subacute thyroiditis · Silent thyroiditis · Drug-induced thyroiditis · Exogenous causes · Thyroid hormone ingestion · Iodine -induced hyperthyroidism (iodine, radiocontrast agents, amiodarone) Graves’ Disease Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), including Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and Graves’ disease share immunological abnormalities, histological changes in the thyroid, and
