Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


· Iodine -induced hyperthyroidism (iodine, radiocontrast agents, amiodarone) Graves’ Disease Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), including Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and Graves’ disease share immunological abnormalities, histological changes in the thyroid, and genetic predisposition and associated diseases. (See chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis section). The clinical spectrum of AITD ranges from hypothyroidism to hyperthyroidism. More than 95% of cases of hyperthyroidism in children and adolescents are due to Graves’ disease, (107a) an autoimmune disorder characterized by hyperthyroidism, goiter and a particular opthalmopathy. TSH receptor antibodies that mimic the action of TSH (TRAb), causing increased thyroid hormonogenesis and growth are specific of Graves’ disease, but other autoantibodies, as AbTPO and AbTg, are detectable. Incidence Graves’ disease is rare in children and adolescents. However, incidence rates of thyrotoxicosis below 15 years of age are increased in the last years. A study from Denmark reported an incidence of 1.58/100.000 person-years in the period 1998-2012 versus 0.79/100.000 person-years in 1982-1988 (107b). There is a strong female predisposition, the female:male ratio being 6 to 8:1. Although it can occur at any age, it is most common in adolescence. Prepubertal children tend to have more severe disease, to require longer medical therapy and to achieve a lower rate of remission as compared with pubertal children (107c). This appears to be particularly true in children who present at <5 years of age (107d). Graves’ disease has been described in children with other autoimmune diseases, both endocrine and non endocrine. These include diabetes mellitus, Addison’s disease, vitiligo, systemic lupus erythematosis, rheumatoid arthritis, myasthenia gravis, periodic paralysis, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura and pernicious anemia. (See also associated diseases in CLT). There is an increased risk of Graves’ disease in children with Down syndrome (trisomy 21) (107e). Pathogenesis The cause of Graves’ disease is unclear. For unknown reasons the immune system produces TSH receptor antibodies that mimic the action of TSH. Binding of ligand results in stimulation of adenyl cyclase and thyroid hormonogenesis and growth (107f, 107g). Presumably a complex interaction between genetic susceptibility (i.e., HLA, CTLA4, PTN22 genes) and environmental factors contribute. A familial history of AITD is often present, as well as for other autoimmune diseases. Unlike chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis in which thyrocyte damage is predominant, the major clinical manifestations of Graves’ disease are hyperthyroidism and goiter. As noted earlier, TSH receptor blocking antibodies, in contrast, inhibit TSH-induced stimulation of adenyl cyclase. Both stimulatory and blocking TSH receptor antibodies bind to the extracellular
