Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


are hyperthyroidism and goiter. As noted earlier, TSH receptor blocking antibodies, in contrast, inhibit TSH-induced stimulation of adenyl cyclase. Both stimulatory and blocking TSH receptor antibodies bind to the extracellular domain of the receptor and appear to recognize apparently discrete linear epitopes in the context of a three-dimensional structure (107g). A number of different monoclonal stimulating Abs including one derived from a patient with Graves’ disease have now been generated (107h) and the crystal structure of the human monoclonal stimulating TSH receptor Ab complexed with a portion of the TSH receptor ectodomain has been accomplished (107i). Taken together, a picture has emerged of distinct but overlapping binding sites of both stimulating and blocking TSH receptor Abs and of TSH to the leucine rich TSH receptor ectodomain (107j). Current evidence suggests that it is the shed A subunit rather than the intact, holoreceptor that induces TSH receptor Abs leading to hyperthyroidism (107j). Studies employing monoclonal TSH receptor antibodies cloned from patients and recombinant mutant TSH receptor have demonstrated that there exist multiple TSH receptor antibodies each with different specificities and functional activities. There is evidence that stimulatory antibodies are mostly lambda and of the IgG1 subclass, strongly suggesting that they are monoclonal or pauciclonal (107k). Blocking antibodies, on the other hand, are not similarly restricted. Clinical Manifestations The major clinical manifestations of Graves’ disease are hyperthyroidism and goiter. Opthalmopathy is usually mild, pretibial myxedema and acropachy are not described in children and adolescents. The onset of Graves’ disease in often insidious and a delay in diagnosis of several months is common, especially in prepubertal children (107c). In children below 4 years of age, the prolonged hyperthyroidism can be dangerous to the CNS (107d ) . Shortened attention span, and emotional lability may lead to behavioral and school difficulties. Sleep disturbances, and nightmares can occur. Some patients complain of polyuria and of nocturia, the result of an increased glomerular filtration rate. All but a few children with Graves ’ disease present with some degree of thyroid enlargement, and most have symptoms and signs of excessive thyroid activity, such as tremors, inability to fall asleep, weight loss despite an increased appetite, diarrhea, proximal muscle weakness, heat intolerance and tachycardia. Acceleration in linear growth may occur, often accompanied by advancement in skeletal maturation (bone age). Adult height is not affected. In the adolescent child, puberty may be delayed. If menarche has occurred, secondary amenorrhea
