Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


may occur, often accompanied by advancement in skeletal maturation (bone age). Adult height is not affected. In the adolescent child, puberty may be delayed. If menarche has occurred, secondary amenorrhea is a common concomitant. If sleep is disturbed, the patient may complain of fatigue. Clinical findings are usually related to hyperthyroid state and disappear with restoration to the euthyroid state ( 108). Graves’ opthalmopathy in children and adolescents is reported in up to half of the children and is usually less severe than in adults. Eyelid retraction and “stare” are common and linked to hyperthyroid state (108a). Proptosis is subtle and often overlooked. Normal references for children should be used (108b). Some cases of prominent progressive proptosis requiring treatment have been reported (108c). Surgical therapy is infrequently necessary. In a series of 35 children with Graves’ opthalmopathy from Mayo Clinic 3 patients (8.6%) underwent transantral orbital decomprenssion for proptosis that caused discomfort and exposure keratitis and 1 patient (2.9%) required eyelid surgery. No compressive optic neuropathy was found (108d). Laboratory Evaluation The clinical diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is confirmed by the finding of increased concentrations of circulating thyroid hormones (T4 or, preferably, free T4 and T3 or FT3) and low- undetectable TSH. In hyperthyroidism, the circulating T3 concentration frequently is elevated out of proportion to the T4 because, like TSH, TSH receptor antibodies stimulate increased T4 to T3 conversion. Some patients may have at diagnosis high FT3 and normal FT4, a condition known as T3 thyrotoxicosis (109). Children with T3 thyrotoxicosis seem to be younger, with higher levels of TRAb and larger goiter than classical GD. The timing of T3 thyrotoxicosis onset is variable and can require higher doses of ATD to control hyperthyroidism (109a). Demonstration of a suppressed TSH excludes much rarer causes of thyrotoxicosis, such as TSH-induced hyperthyroidism and thyroid hormone resistance in which the TSH is inappropriately “normal” or slightly elevated. If the latter diseases are suspected, free α-subunit should be measured. Alternatively, an elevated T4 level in association with an inappropriately “normal” TSH may be due to an excess of thyroxine-binding globulins (either familial or acquired, for example a result of oral contraceptive use) or rarer binding protein abnormalities (for example, familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia) (109b). In the latter cases, serum TBG concentration or electrophoresis of T4 binding proteins, respectively, should be measured. If pregnancy or an hCG-secreting tumor are suspected, serum or urinary hCG concentration can be
