Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


latter cases, serum TBG concentration or electrophoresis of T4 binding proteins, respectively, should be measured. If pregnancy or an hCG-secreting tumor are suspected, serum or urinary hCG concentration can be measured. A low serum Tg can be demonstrated if thyrotoxicosis factitia is suspected (109c). The diagnosis of Graves’ disease is confirmed by the demonstration of TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) in serum. TRAb are disease specific antibodies and have a pathogenetic role in Graves’ disease. TRAb are usually determined by binding assays. Bioassays that measure Thyroid Stimulating Immunoglobulins activity based on cAMP on cultured cells can be useful if TRAb are not detectable by binding assays (88a,88b,88c). About 95% of children with GD have TRAb detectable. There is a positive correlation between severity of Graves’ disease and TR antibodies level. Higher levels of TRAb and thyroid hormones at presentation are associated with a need of prolonged ATD treatment (109d). Measurement of TSH receptor antibodies may be useful in distinguishing the toxic phase of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (TSH receptor antibody negative) from Graves’ disease. Tg and TPO antibodies are positive in 70% of children and adolescents with Graves’ disease but their measurement is not as sensitive or specific as measurement of TSH receptor antibodies. In contrast to adults, radioactive iodine uptake and scan are used to confirm the diagnosis of Graves’ disease only in atypical cases: for example, if measurement of TSH receptor antibodies is negative, or if a functioning thyroid nodule is suspected. Therapy The care of children with Graves’ disease can be complicated and requires physicians with expertise in this area. Treatment guidelines developed for adults guidelines cannot be simply applied to children. For instance, TRAb may be detectable in serum for several years, making the terms “remission” and “recidive” inapplicable in 1-2 years periods for the majority of children and adolescents. The choice of which of the three therapeutic options (medical therapy, surgery radioactive iodine, or radioactive iodine) to use, should be individualized and discussed with the patient and his/her family. Each approach has its advantages and disadvantages with respect to efficacy, both short and long term complications, the time required to control the hyperthyroidism, and the requirement for compliance. In general, medical therapy with methimazole (MMI) is the initial choice of most pediatricians although radioiodine is gaining increasing acceptance, particularly in noncompliant adolescents, in children who are developmentally delayed, and in those about to leave home (for example,
