Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


initial choice of most pediatricians although radioiodine is gaining increasing acceptance, particularly in noncompliant adolescents, in children who are developmentally delayed, and in those about to leave home (for example, to go to college). Concern about the potential long term induction of cancer by RAI given to children is the discussed later. Alternately, surgery, the oldest form of therapy, may be the initial choice in specific cases if an experienced thyroid surgeon is available. ATA guidelines for hyperthyroidism including a pediatric section have recently been released (88c). Medical therapy The thiouracil compounds PTU, MMI and carbimazole (converted to MMI) exert their antithyroid effect by inhibiting the organification of iodine and the coupling of iodotyrosine residues on the Tg molecule to T3 and T4. The aim of therapy with antithyroid drugs is to control hyperthyroidism for a period sufficient to go to spontaneous remission or until the child is old enough to afford definitive therapy as surgery or RAI. Remission is defined as a state of biochemically euthyroidism or hypothyroidism for one year or more after discontinuation of ATD and occurs in a minority of cases (see later). Some important considerations arose in the last years: MMI is the drug that should be used, unless special conditions, because of the inacceptable risk of liver failure and transplantation ( FDA Propilthyuracil warning ) in patients using PTU. PTU can cause fulminant hepatic necrosis and death. The risk was estimated to be 1:2000 in children (110,110a,110b). Propylthiouracil and methimazole have for years been considered effectively interchangeable, and liver damage was considered a very rare event. Recently a commission appointed by the FDA reevaluated this problem, and concluded that the rare but severe complications of liver failure needing transplantation, and death, were sufficient to contraindicate the use of PTU as the normal first-line drug (110c). PTU can be used only in pediatric patients who are allergic to MMI, for a short term, and in whom permanent forms of therapy are not possible. MMI should be used alone, titrating the dosage at the lowest useful to maintain euthyroidism. The “block.and replace therapy”, adding L-thyroxine to MMI should be avoided, because it requires a higher dose of MMI, and the majority of side effect of MMI are dose dependent. The initial dosage of MMI is 0.5 mg/kg/day (up to 1mg/kg/die, maximal dose 30 mg/die) given every 12 hours. The plasma half-life of methimazole in children is
