Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


are dose dependent. The initial dosage of MMI is 0.5 mg/kg/day (up to 1mg/kg/die, maximal dose 30 mg/die) given every 12 hours. The plasma half-life of methimazole in children is only 3-6 hours, but the drug is concentrated in the thyroid and maintains higher levels there for up to 24 hours after a dose (110d). The initial dosage of PTU is 5 mg/kg/day given every 8 hours. In severe cases, a beta-adrenergic blocker (atenolol, 25 to 50 mg daily or twice daily) can be added to control the cardiovascular overactivity until a euthyroid state is obtained. Before FDA warning for PTU MMI was generally preferred over PTU because for an equivalent dose it requires taking fewer tablets, it has a longer half-life (and so, requires less frequent medication) and because it has a more favorable safety profile. PTU use has also been advocated in the first trimester of pregnancy. PTU but not MMI inhibits the conversion of T4 to the more active isomer T3. Patients treated with MMI should be followed every 4 to 6 weeks until the serum concentration of T4 (or free T4 and total T3) normalizes. It should be noted that the TSH concentration may not return to normal until several months later. Therefore, measurement of TSH is useful as a guide to therapy only after it has normalized but not initially. Once the T4 and T3 have normalized, one can decrease the dosage of thioamide drug by 30% to 50%. Maintenance doses of MMI may be administered once daily. PTU may be given twice daily. Usually patients can be followed every 1-4 months once thyroid function has normalized. As suggested by the ATA guidelines (88c), before starting therapy with ATD, a baseline complete blood count, including WBC with differential, and a liver including bilirubin, transaminases and alkaline phosphatase can be useful. This is because hyperthyroidism itself can determine low WBC count, and premorbid liver disease (i.e autoimmune hepatitis reported in 1% of GD) can exist (110e). Baseline information may help in a correct interpretation of side effects of MMI. In most children and adolescents, circulating thyroid hormone levels can be normalized readily with antithyroid medication as long as compliance is not a problem. The optimal duration of therapy is controversial. There is no doubt that most children and adolescents, particularly prepubertal ones, require a longer course of therapy than adults. Therefore treatment guidelines developed for older
