Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


and cholestatic liver injury (1%) were also reported in a series of 100 children with Graves’ disease exclusively treated with MMI. Side effects usually occur in the first 6 months of therapy (111a) but can occur any time. Major side effects as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and vasculitis occur rarely (111). Vasculitis can be related with the development of anti-neutrophil-cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). ANCA positivity has been reported with MMI and PTU therapy and may develop after many years of therapy (111b). Manifestations of vasculitis typically are polyarthritis and purpuric skin lesions. Pulmonary and renal involvement are also described. In severe cases, glucocorticoids or other immunosuppressive therapy may be needed. Guma et al reported ANCA positivity in 67% of patients with Graves’ disease before medical treatment, suggesting an association with Graves’ disease, rather than a complication of antithyroid drugs (111c). Rarely, more severe sequelae such as hepatitis, a lupus like syndrome, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis may occur. Most reactions are mild and do not contraindicate continued use. The risk of agranulocytosis (<500 granulocytes/mm3) appears to be greatest within the first 3 months of therapy but it can occur at any time. There is some evidence that close monitoring of the white blood cell count during this initial time period may be useful in identifying agranulocytosis prior to the development of a fever and infection (111d), but most authors do not consider the low risk to be worth the cost of close monitoring. It is important to caution all patients to stop their medication immediately and consult their physician should they develop unexplained fever, sore throat, or gingival sores or jaundice. Unlike PTU, MMI is rarely associated with hepatocellular injury. Children treated with PTU and MMI tends to excessive weight gain during the first 6 months of therapy and nutrition consultation should be considered if needed (111e). Approximately 10% of children treated medically will develop long term hypothyroidism, a consequence of coincident cell and cytokine-mediated destruction. Patients with Graves’ disease showed a higher risk of thyroid cancer (111). The Collaborative Thyrotoxicosis Study Group found the incidence of thyroid carcinomas over 10-20 years of follow up 5 fold higher in adults with Graves’ disease treated with thionamides than in patients treated with definitive therapy (111g). Long term stimulation of TSAb can play a role. Patients treated for years with thionamides should be carefully monitored for the detection of thyroid nodules. Surgery Surgery, the second therapeutic modality,
