Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


term stimulation of TSAb can play a role. Patients treated for years with thionamides should be carefully monitored for the detection of thyroid nodules. Surgery Surgery, the second therapeutic modality, is performed less frequently now than in the past. The main argument favoring surgery is that it may correct the thyrotoxicosis with surety and speed, and result in less disruption of normal life and development that is associated with long-term administration of antithyroid drugs and the attendant constant medical supervision. The most important limiting factor is the availably of a high-volume thyroid surgeon to reduce potential complications (112,112a,112b). Near-total thyroidectomy is the procedure of choice in order to minimize the risk of recurrence. Surgery usually is reserved for patients who have failed medical management, who have a markedly enlarged thyroid, who refuse radioactive iodine therapy, and for the rare patient with significant ophthalmopathy in whom radioactive iodine therapy is contraindicated. Often adolescents are unable to maintain the careful dosage schedule needed for control of the disease .and can choice a definitive treatment. Surgical complication rates are higher in younger children (112c). The most common potential complication is transient hypocalcemia which occurs in approximately 10% of patients. Starting therapy with calcitriol 3 days before surgery (0.25 to 0.5 µg twice a day), can reduce the need for calcium infusion and the length of stay (112c). Other, less common potential complications are keloid formation (2.8%), recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis (2%), hypoparathyroidism (2%) and, rarely (0.08%) death (111). There are fewer complications with an experienced surgeon and when modern methods of anesthesia and pain control are used (112). Prior to surgery, it is important to treat with antithyroid medication in order to render the child euthyroid and prevent thyroid storm. Iodides (Lugols solution, 5 to 10 drops tid or potassium iodide, 2 to 10 drops daily or Na ipodate, 0.5-1 gm every 3 days) are added for 7 to 14 days prior to surgery in order to decrease the vascularity of the gland. L-thyroxine replacement therapy should be given within days of surgery. Following surgical thyroid ablation most patients become hypothyroid and require lifelong thyroid replacement therapy. On the other hand, if therapy is inadequate, hyperthyroidism may recur. Therefore long-term follow-up is mandatory. 131-I Therapy Definitive therapy with either radioactive iodine or surgical thyroid ablation is usually reserved for patients who have failed drug therapy, developed a toxic drug reaction, or are noncompliant.
