Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


long standing controversies in pediatric endocrinology. Most physicians remain concerned about the risks of carcinogenesis, and the experience of Chernobyl has accentuated this concern. Others believe that the risks of surgery and problems with antithyroid drug administration outweigh the potential risk of 131-I therapy. This problem was critically reviewed by Rivkees et al (113j). They point out the significant risks of reaction to antithyroid drugs, and of surgery. Surgery may have a mortality rate in hospital in children of about one per thousand operations, although this may have decreased in recent years. Among problems with radioactive iodide therapy, they note the whole body radiation, possibly worsening of eye disease, and the apparent lack of significant thyroid cancer risk so far reported among children treated with I-131 for Graves’ disease. They assumed that risk would be lower in children after age five, and especially after age ten, and if all thyroid cells were destroyed. They advise using higher doses of radioiodine to minimize residual thyroid tissue, and avoiding treatment of children under age five, but they believe that RAI is a convenient, effective, and useful therapy in children with Graves’ disease. However, as noted above in the section on risks related to use od 131-I, Rivkees own data indicate that treatment of children with conventional doses of RAI may induce a lifetime risk of any fatal cancer of over 2%, a very serious consideration (113i). Many physicians remain reluctant to use 131-I in children under age 15-18 as a first line therapy. Following thyroid ablation most patients become hypothyroid and require lifelong thyroid replacement therapy. On the other hand, if therapy is inadequate, hyperthyroidism may recur. Therefore longterm follow-up is mandatory. Other Causes of Hyperthyroidism Non autoimmune hyperthyroidism Non autoimmune hyperthyroidism is caused by constitutive activation of the TSH receptor (TSHR) ( Table 6 ). Two clinical forms including “familial non-autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism (FNAH)” and “persistent sporadic congenital non autoimmune hyperthyroidism (PSNAH)” are described. FNAH is characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance and high variable age of manifestation from neonatal period to 60 years. Variability is present also within the same family. Goiter is present in children, with nodules in older age. PSNAH includes forms with sporadic (de novo) germline mutations in the TSHR. Guidelines about this rare condition have recently been published (90e). Hyperfunctioning nodules Hyperthyroidism may be caused by a functioning thyroid adenoma, or functioning thyroid carcinoma. Hyperfunctioning nodules
