Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


in the TSHR. Guidelines about this rare condition have recently been published (90e). Hyperfunctioning nodules Hyperthyroidism may be caused by a functioning thyroid adenoma, or functioning thyroid carcinoma. Hyperfunctioning nodules are a rare cause of overt or subclinical hyperthyroidism. Somatic activating mutations within the genes encoding the TSH receptor or the Gs-alpha subunit can be detected (90f). Scintigraphy with Tc 99 or I 123 show hypercaptating nodule and absence of uptake of the surrounding thyroid parenchima. Hyperthyroidism can be controlled with methimazole. Autonomous nodules can be single or a part of multinodular goiter. A recent retrospective study on 31 pediatric cases from US indicated that 45% were overt hyperthyroid at diagnosis and 42% presented with multinodular goiter. Mean age at diagnosis was 15 years, with a range 3-18 yrs. Mean size of the autonomous nodule was 39 mm. In this series of 31 patients, only one patient developed a follicular carcinoma in the controlateral lobe seven years after lobectomy for a benign adenomatoid nodule (114). However, the risk of cancer has been reported up to one third of patients in a series of 31 patients from an iodine- deficient area (114a). ATA Guidelines for pediatric thyroid nodules and cancer indicate surgery as treatment of children with overt hyperthyroidism due to hyperfunctioning nodules, and surgery is indicated in any nodule >4 cm, because of the decreased sensitivity of FNA to detect malignancy (114b). Hyperthyroidism may be seen as part of the McCune Albright syndrome (90f) ( Table 6 ). McCune Albright syndrome is due to somatic mutations in Gsα gene that can occur in different tissues as, skin, bones thyroid, adrenal glands. TSH induced hyperthyroidism Hyperthyroidism may be due to the inappropriate secretion of TSH by a pituitary adenoma, but thyroid hormone resistance should be excluded. The syndrome of “inappropriate secretion of TSH” was described in 1975 to indicate two forms of central hyperthyroidism, characterized by high levels of FT3 and FT4 and non suppressed TSH levels(114c). TSH secreting pituitary adenomas are extremely rare in pediatric patients. Guidelines from the ETA has been recently released for these tumors (114d). It is important to consider that a pituitary tumor can be a manifestation of Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 and rarely of familial forms of isolated pituitary adenomas with AIP mutations (114e). In thyroid hormone resistance (RTH) due to mutations of the β isoform of the thyroid hormone receptor hyperthyrodism TSH driven
