Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, children, disease, receptor, patients, hormone, antibodies, therapy, hyperthyroidism, age, maternal, serum, tsh receptor


familial forms of isolated pituitary adenomas with AIP mutations (114e). In thyroid hormone resistance (RTH) due to mutations of the β isoform of the thyroid hormone receptor hyperthyrodism TSH driven can occur. (See chapter entitled Impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone. Defects of transport, metabolism and action. .Alexandra M. Dumitrescu, MD and Samuel Refetoff, MD, in this book for a detailed description of this condition). Tumors secreting chorionic gonadotropin Recently an adolescent female was described in whom hyperthyroidism resulted from an hCG-secreting hydatidiform mole (114f). Chorioncarcinoma, metastatic embryonal carcinoma of the testis can cause hyperthyroidism (114g). Transient thyrotoxicosis Thyrotoxicosis is caused by damage of thyroid cells and release of thyroid hormones stored in the gland. The duration of toxic phase (usually one to three months) depends on the amounts of the thyroid hormones released and the rate of metabolic clearance. Thyroid cell breakdown causes abrupt onset and short duration of symptoms. Principal causes of transient thyrotoxicosis include: Autoimmune thyroiditis (silent thyroiditis): no local symptoms of local inflammation are present. Subacute Viral thyroiditis (or de Quervain or granulomatous thyroiditis) it is rarely reported in children and adolescents (106b). Usually presents with sore throat, fever and firm, painful tender enlargement of the thyroid. Mild signs of hyperthyroidism can be overlooked. Acute bacterial thyroiditis is rarely a cause of transient thyrotoxicosis. Drug-induced thyroiditis (amiodarone and thyrosine kinase inhibitors) THYROID NODULES AND CANCER For exhaustive information see also chapters “Thyroid nodules” and “Thyroid cancer “ By F. Pacini and Leslie de Groot in this book. Recently, the first guidelines specifically elaborated for children with thyroid nodules and differentiated thyroid cancer have been published (114b). Hereditary syndromes (i.e. PTEN related sydromes, DICER1 syndrome, Carney complex, Familial adenomatous polyposis) associated with thyroid cancer in childhood are also been detailed (114b). Medullary thyroid carcinoma guidelines have also been revised, including genetic counseling and modified risk class for children with hereditary MTC (115a). Thyroid nodules are rare in the first 2 decades of life, but when found, they are more likely to be carcinomatous than are similar masses in adults (115b). Follicular adenomas and colloid cysts account for the majority of benign nodules. Other causes of nodular enlargement include chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and embryological defects, such as intrathyroidal thyroglossal duct cysts or unilateral thyroid agenesis. Like in adults, the most common form of thyroid cancer in childhood and adolescence is papillary thyroid carcinoma, but other histological types found in
