HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Published in final edited form as: Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2021 June ; 109(6): 1417–1423. doi:. Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) Guideline for CYP2C19 and Proton Pump Inhibitor Dosing John J. Lima1, Cameron D. Thomas2, Julia Barbarino3, Zeruesenay Desta4, Sara L. Van Driest5, Nihal El Rouby2,6, Julie A. Johnson2, Larisa H. Cavallari2, Valentina Shakhnovich7,8,9, David L. Thacker10,11, Stuart A. Scott12,13, Matthias Schwab14,15,16, Chakradhara Rao S Uppugunduri17,18, Christine M. Formea19, James P. Franciosi20,21, Katrin Sangkuhl3, Andrea Gaedigk7, Teri E. Klein3, Roseann S. Gammal22,23, Takahisa Furuta24 Jacksonville, FL, USA 2Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, and Center 8Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, MO, USA 9Center for Children’s Healthy Lifestyles & Nutrition, Kansas City, MO, USA USA 11Translational Software, Bellevue, WA, USA 12Department of Genetics and Genomic 904-697-3799, ; . Conflicts of Interest: JAJ is a consultant to United Health Group for their plans to begin implementing pharmacogenomics in clinical practice; SAS is a paid employee of Sema4, which is a for-profit genetic testing company that offers pharmacogenetic testing. DLT is a paid employee of Translational Software, which is a for-profit genetic testing company that offers pharmacogenetic testing. All other authors declared involved in the review or decision process for this paper. Publisher's Disclaimer: DISCLAIMER Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) guidelines reflect expert consensus based on clinical evidence and peer-reviewed literature available at the time they are written and are intended only to assist clinicians in decision-making, as well as to identify questions for further research. New evidence may have emerged since the time a guideline was submitted for publication. Guidelines are limited in scope and are not applicable to interventions or diseases not specifically identified. Guidelines do not account for all individual variation among patients and cannot be considered inclusive of all proper methods of care or exclusive of other treatments. It remains the responsibility of the health care provider to determine the best course of treatment for the patient. Adherence to any guideline is voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding its application to be solely made by the clinician and the patient. CPIC assumes no responsibility for any injury to persons or damage to property related to any use of CPIC’s guidelines, or for any errors or omissions. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 19Department of Pharmacy
