HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


to persons or damage to property related to any use of CPIC’s guidelines, or for any errors or omissions. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 19Department of Pharmacy Services and Intermountain Precision Genomics, Intermountain Healthcare, Salt Lake City, UT, USA 20Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Abstract Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used for acid suppression in the treatment and prevention of many conditions including gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastric and duodenal ulcers, erosive esophagitis, H. pylori infection, and pathological hypersecretory conditions. Most PPIs are metabolized primarily by CYP2C19 into inactive metabolites, and CYP2C19 genotype has been linked to PPI exposure, efficacy, and adverse effects. We summarize the evidence from the literature and provide therapeutic recommendations for PPI prescribing based on CYP2C19 genotype (updates at www.cpicpgx.org). The potential benefits of using CYP2C19 genotype data to guide PPI therapy include 1) identifying patients with genotypes predictive of lower plasma exposure and prescribing them a higher dose that will increase the likelihood of efficacy; and 2) identifying patients on chronic therapy with genotypes predictive of higher plasma exposure and prescribing them a decreased dose to minimize the risk of toxicity that is associated with long- term PPI use, particularly at higher plasma concentrations. Keywords CYP2C19; PPI; proton pump inhibitor; omeprazole; lansoprazole; pantoprazole; dexlansoprazole; esomeprazole; rabeprazole; pharmacogenetics; pharmacogenomics; CPIC; metabolism INTRODUCTION Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used for acid suppression in the treatment and prevention of a variety of conditions including gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gastric and duodenal ulcers, erosive esophagitis, eosinophilic esophagitis, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, and pathological hypersecretory conditions in adults and children. Most PPIs are extensively metabolized into inactive metabolites primarily by the hepatic cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) enzyme, and CYP2C19 genotypes have been linked to PPI exposure, with lower exposure associated with treatment failure and higher exposure associated with improved efficacy (1). Higher exposure of PPIs has also been associated with adverse effects (1), as has long-term use (2). The purpose of this guideline is Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript to provide clinicians with information that facilitates the interpretation of clinical CYP2C19 genotyping test results to guide PPI prescribing. Detailed guidelines for the use of PPIs, cost effectiveness of CYP2C19 genotyping, and whether to order a CYP2C19 genotype test prior Implementation Consortium (CPIC®) guidelines are periodically updated at www.cpicpgx.org/guidelines/. FOCUSED LITERATURE
