HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


are classified as Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript rapid metabolizers (RMs), and diplotypes characterized by two increased function alleles (i.e., CYP2C19 *17/*17) are classified as ultrarapid metabolizers (UMs). There are limited data available for decreased function alleles (e.g., CYP2C19*9); therefore, individuals who have one normal function and one decreased function allele, or one increased function and one decreased function allele, or two decreased function alleles, are currently classified as “likely IM.” Individuals with one no function and one decreased function allele are currently classified as “likely PM.” The “indeterminate” phenotype is assigned when the individual carries one or two uncertain function alleles. See the CYP2C19 Diplotype-Phenotype Table online for a complete list of possible diplotypes and the corresponding predicted phenotype assignments (3, 4). Clinical laboratories report CYP2C19 genotype results using star (*) allele nomenclature. The star (*) allele nomenclature for CYP2C19 is found at the Pharmacogene Variation (PharmVar) Consortium website ( Tables on the CPIC website contain a list of CYP2C19 alleles, the combinations of variants that define ancestral populations (3). Available Genetic Test Options See the Genetic Testing Registry (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gtr/) for more information on commercially available clinical testing options. Incidental Findings No inherited diseases or conditions have been consistently or strongly linked to germline genetic variants in CYP2C19 independent of drug metabolism and response. Other Considerations Not applicable DRUGS: PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS Background PPIs are substituted benzimidazoles that inhibit the final pathway of acid production in gastric parietal cells by covalently binding to the H+/K+ ATPase proton pump, which leads to inhibition of gastric acid secretion that lasts for 24-48 hours despite short PPI half-lives (1, 6). This irreversible inhibition is only overcome by synthesis of new H+/K+ ATPase proton pumps, which may take ~54 hours to fully regenerate (6). Six PPIs are currently used pantoprazole, and the second-generation inhibitors esomeprazole, rabeprazole, and dexlansoprazole. CYP2C19 is a major metabolic pathway for the clearance of first generation PPIs (~80%) with a lesser contribution by CYP3A4. Dexlansoprazole (R- lansoprazole) appears to share a similar metabolic pathway to lansoprazole. In contrast, the second generation PPIs esomeprazole and rabeprazole are less dependent on CYP2C19 in their metabolism, suggesting that they may be less influenced by genetic variability in CYP2C19 compared to first generation PPIs. Specifically, rabeprazole is primarily cleared Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June
