HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


they may be less influenced by genetic variability in CYP2C19 compared to first generation PPIs. Specifically, rabeprazole is primarily cleared Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript by non-enzymatic mechanisms (1). Omeprazole and esomeprazole exhibit nonlinear pharmacokinetics due to CYP2C19 autoinhibition leading to an increased area under the serum concentration versus time curve (AUC) with repeated administration. The elevation in AUC that results from autoinhibition is greater for esomeprazole (1.45-1.74 fold) than omeprazole (7). While PPIs have been among the most commonly prescribed medications due in part to the perception that they have a high safety to risk profile, a large body of evidence is emerging that links adverse events with long-term PPI use (2). PPI use has been associated with numerous adverse events, including electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hypomagnesemia), infections, kidney disease, and bone fractures (1). Linking Genetic Variability to Variability in Drug-related Phenotypes First Generation PPIs: Omeprazole, Lansoprazole, and Pantoprazole—There is a substantial body of evidence linking CYP2C19 genotype with variability in plasma concentrations and efficacy of first-generation PPIs (omeprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole). As outlined in Tables S1–S3, the evidence associating CYP2C19 genotype with omeprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole plasma concentrations was graded as high. Multiple studies have shown that the CYP2C19 IM and PM phenotypes are associated with decreased clearance and increased plasma concentrations of these PPIs leading to increased treatment success compared to CYP2C19 NMs, including for H. pylori infection and erosive esophagitis (8–10). In contrast, CYP2C19 RMs and UMs have increased PPI clearance and decreased plasma concentrations compared to CYP2C19 NMs, which may increase risk of treatment failure compared to CYP2C19 NMs, IMs, and PMs (11, 12). It is important to note that most CYP2C19 studies evaluating PPIs were conducted in Asian populations, in whom the frequency of the increased function CYP2C19*17 allele is low compared to non-Asians; therefore, few studies including CYP2C19 RMs and UMs have been published to date. Prescribing recommendations for CYP2C19 RMs and UMs in this guideline were based on pharmacokinetic differences versus NMs and differences in PPI effectiveness between NMs and IMs/PMs. This body of literature provides the basis for the prescribing recommendations presented in Table 2. Second Generation PPIs: Esomeprazole, Rabeprazole, and Dexlansoprazole— There is less evidence linking CYP2C19 genotype with variability in plasma concentrations and effectiveness of second-generation PPIs (esomeprazole, rabeprazole, and dexlansoprazole), both in terms of number
