HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


Esomeprazole, Rabeprazole, and Dexlansoprazole— There is less evidence linking CYP2C19 genotype with variability in plasma concentrations and effectiveness of second-generation PPIs (esomeprazole, rabeprazole, and dexlansoprazole), both in terms of number of studies and strength of the association. As outlined in Table S4–S6, the evidence associating CYP2C19 genotype with esomeprazole, rabeprazole, and dexlansoprazole plasma concentrations, efficacy, and toxicity was graded as moderate or weak. While less data exist on the influence of CYP2C19 genotype on dexlansoprazole compared to first generation PPIs, similar effects of CYP2C19 genotype on dexlansoprazole pharmacokinetics and effectiveness are expected given its similar metabolic pathway as lansoprazole (1, 13). Inconsistent findings regarding the effect of CYP2C19 genotype on the pharmacokinetics and therapeutic response to esomeprazole and rabeprazole preclude making recommendations for these second-generation PPIs (i.e., CPIC level C; no recommendation). Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Therapeutic Recommendations Table 2 summarizes therapeutic recommendations for PPI prescribing in adults and pediatric patients based on CYP2C19 phenotype, specifically for the first-generation PPIs (omeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole) and dexlansoprazole. These recommendations apply to both oral and intravenous PPI use. While CYP2C19 NMs are expected to have normal PPI metabolism and clearance, a large body of literature from studies in Asian populations reported an association between CYP2C19 NMs and decreased therapeutic effectiveness with these PPIs (e.g., failure to eradicate H. pylori infection and lower healing rates of erosive esophagitis) compared to CYP2C19 IMs and PMs (Tables S1–S4). Therefore, for CYP2C19 NMs, initiating these PPIs at standard daily doses (e.g., label recommended doses) is generally recommended; however, for H. pylori infection or erosive esophagitis, clinicians may consider increasing the recommended dose for these indications by 50-100% to optimize therapeutic efficacy. Following administration of standard doses of first generation PPIs, CYP2C19 IMs and PMs experience higher PPI AUC (3-14 fold) and Cmax (2-6 fold) compared to CYP2C19 NMs as a result of reduced PPI clearance via the CYP2C19 pathway (14–18). The increased PPI exposure in CYP2C19 IMs and PMs has been linked to improved acid suppression (i.e., higher intragastric pH and longer time with pH > 4.0) and improved therapeutic benefits. Thus, CYP2C19 IMs and PMs are considered to be “therapeutically advantaged” compared to NMs in terms of efficacy (19–23). However, it has been suggested that continued inhibition of acid secretion in individuals taking PPIs chronically who are genotyped as CYP2C19 IMs
