HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


compared to NMs in terms of efficacy (19–23). However, it has been suggested that continued inhibition of acid secretion in individuals taking PPIs chronically who are genotyped as CYP2C19 IMs or PMs may have a higher risk of PPI-related adverse events compared to NM, RM, or UM phenotypes (1). While the current data are insufficient to make strong dosing recommendations, potential associations of CYP2C19 phenotype and incidence of adverse events (e.g., infections) are emerging (24). Therefore, for CYP2C19 IMs and PMs, it is recommended to initiate standard daily dosing to maximize the likelihood of efficacy and, once efficacy is achieved, consider a 50% reduction in the daily dose in the setting of chronic PPI therapy (beyond 12 weeks) to minimize the risk of adverse events from prolonged acid suppression. If a dose reduction is made, monitoring for continued efficacy is recommended. Additional studies that investigate the relationship between CYP2C19 genotype and incidence of PPI-related adverse events are needed. The RM and UM phenotypes are driven by the presence of the increased function CYP2C19*17 allele. Due to the relatively recent discovery of this variant (11) and because the majority of studies describing associations between CYP2C19 genotype, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of PPIs were conducted in Asian populations in whom the CYP2C19*17 allele occurs less frequently, there are limited data on the relationship between CYP2C19*17, pharmacokinetic parameters, acid secretion indices and therapeutic outcomes in CYP2C19 RMs and UMs. Additional studies with CYP2C19 RMs and UMs are needed. Nevertheless, the low PPI exposure documented in patients who are CYP2C19 UMs compared to NMs, IMs, and PMs suggests that these individuals may benefit from higher than standard daily doses of PPIs (Tables S1–S3). Therefore, it is recommended to increase the starting daily dose by 100% in CYP2C19 UMs. For RMs, standard dosing should be initiated, but a 50-100% dose increase could be considered for the Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment of H. pylori infection and erosive esophagitis to maximize the likelihood of therapeutic plasma concentrations and therapeutic effect. These patients should be monitored for efficacy. The plasma half-life of PPIs is short (~30 minutes to 5 hours), but the biological effects they exert is much longer, as it takes ~54 hours to regenerate new acid pumps after inactivation by PPIs. Studies have documented that daily doses administered two to four
