HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


effects they exert is much longer, as it takes ~54 hours to regenerate new acid pumps after inactivation by PPIs. Studies have documented that daily doses administered two to four times daily may result in improved efficacy compared to the same total daily dose given once daily (25, 26). Although adherence to PPI dosing three to four times per day to overcome the short half-life may be challenging, it is recommended that increased PPI doses (50-100%) be administered as twice daily dosing, and more frequent dosing intervals could be considered for increased benefit, with the caveat that this dosing regimen may compromise compliance. There are fewer data available investigating the association between dexlansoprazole and CYP2C19 metabolizer status compared to the first-generation PPIs. However, reported pharmacokinetic data support the association between CYP2C19 IMs and PMs and increased dexlansoprazole exposure (13, 27). Additionally, CYP2C19 PMs were reported to have greater acid suppression compared to NMs (13). Given the similarity in metabolism between lansoprazole and dexlansoprazole, it is reasonable to extrapolate the recommendations from the first-generation PPIs (Table 2). These recommendations are considered “optional” due to the limited data with dexlansoprazole and CYP2C19. Pediatrics—The CYP2C19-guided PPI recommendations presented in Table 2 also apply to pediatric patients. PPI use in children is common and continues to increase. PPIs have U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved indications in children for the short-term treatment of symptomatic GERD, healing of erosive esophagitis, treatment of peptic ulcer disease, and eradication of H. pylori. PPIs are also considered standard of care for pediatric eosinophilic esophagitis. Off-label and potentially inappropriate use of long-term PPI therapy in children is common, particularly in infants less than one year of age for uncomplicated, physiologic, gastroesophageal reflux and colic (28). In children older than one year of age, there is emerging evidence that CYP2C19 genetic variation influences PPI pharmacokinetics and response (24, 29–31). CYP2C19 RM and UM phenotypes have been associated with decreased efficacy compared to PM and NM phenotypes when treating pediatric GERD and eosinophilic esophagitis (32–34). The CYP2C19 PM phenotype is associated with higher rates of respiratory and gastrointestinal infections than the NM, RM, or UM phenotypes (35). A recent pilot study of CYP2C19- genotype-guided dosing of PPIs in children has been promising, and additional studies are ongoing (36, 37). These reports support genotype-based optimization of PPI therapy for children. However, very low clearance in pre-term infants and infants less than 2-3 months
