HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, ppis, ppi, manuscript author, function, allele, genotype, increased, compared, exposure, efficacy, patients, available


and additional studies are ongoing (36, 37). These reports support genotype-based optimization of PPI therapy for children. However, very low clearance in pre-term infants and infants less than 2-3 months of age (29) makes recommendations in the neonatal population difficult to support. Additional pediatric considerations are discussed in the Supplemental Material. Recommendations for Incidental Findings Not applicable Clin Pharmacol Ther. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Other Considerations Drug-Drug-Gene Interactions—In addition to CYP2C19, most PPIs are metabolized to some extent by CYP3A, and the fraction of metabolism by this alternative pathway increases in CYP2C19 IMs and PMs (38). Due to drug-drug-gene interactions, concomitant administration of strong inhibitors of CYP3A may increase the risk for adverse effects during chronic dosing with PPIs in CYP2C19 IMs and PMs. In addition, strong inhibitors of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluvoxamine) can lead to phenoconversion that substantially increases systemic exposure to PPIs (except in CYP2C19 PMs), while inducers of CYP2C19 and CYP3A (e.g., rifampin) can lead to reduced exposure and treatment failure. Therefore, assessment of drug interactions may be needed when a PPI and a perpetrator drug are co- administered chronically. Implementation of this Guideline—The guideline supplement and CPIC website ( contains resources that can be used within electronic health records (EHRs) to assist clinicians in applying genetic information to patient care for the purpose of drug therapy optimization (see Resources to incorporate pharmacogenetics into an electronic health record with clinical decision support in the Supplemental Material). POTENTIAL BENEFITS AND RISKS FOR THE PATIENT The potential benefit of using CYP2C19 genotype data to guide PPI therapy is that patients with genotypes predictive of lower plasma exposure may be identified and prescribed an increased dose that will increase the likelihood of efficacy. Patients on chronic therapy with genotypes predictive of higher plasma exposure may consider a dose reduction to minimize the risk of toxicity that is associated with long-term PPI use (over exposure), particularly at higher plasma concentrations. The potential risks of genotype-guided PPI therapy include therapeutic failure in patients for whom a dose decrease was recommended and increased risk of toxicity in patients for whom a dose increase was recommended. As with any laboratory test, a possible risk to patients is an error in genotyping or phenotype prediction, which could have long-term adverse health implications for patients. CAVEATS: APPROPRIATE USE AND/OR POTENTIAL MISUSE OF GENETIC TESTS There
