Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


Conquering Malaria Joel G. Breman, Anne Mills, Robert W. Snow, Jo-Ann Mulligan, Christian Lengeler, Kamini Mendis, Brian Sharp, Chantal Morel, Paola Marchesini, Nicholas J. White, Richard W. Steketee, and Ogobara K. Doumbo Malaria is the most important of the parasitic diseases of CAUSES, EPIDEMIOLOGY, MANIFESTATIONS, humans,with 107 countries and territories having areas at risk ANDDIAGNOSIS of transmission containing close to 50 percent of the world’s population (Hay and others 2004; WHO 2005). More than Four species ofthe genus Plasmodiumcause malarial infections 3billion people live in malarious areas and the disease causes in humans: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae. between 1 million and 3 million deaths each year (Breman, Virtually all deaths are caused by falciparum malaria.Human Alilio, and Mills 2004; Snow and others 2003). Recent esti- infection begins when the malaria vector,a female anopheline mates ofthe global falciparum malaria morbidity burden have mosquito, inoculates plasmodial sporozoites from its salivary increased the number to 515 million cases,with Africa suffer- gland into humans during a blood meal. The sporozoites ing the vast majority of this toll (Snow and others 2005). In mature in the liver and are released into the bloodstream as occur in endemic areas annually,with more than 90 percent of fevers.Some forms ofthe parasites (gametocytes) are ingested this burden occurring in Africa (Breman 2001; Breman,Alilio, by anopheline mosquitoes during feeding and develop into and Mills 2004; Carter and Mendis 2002; Snow and others sporozoites,restarting the cycle. 1999,2003;Snow,Trape,and Marsh 2001). P.falciparumpredominatesinHaiti,PapuaNewGuinea,and The disease has resurged in many parts of the tropics,and Sub-SaharanAfrica,whileP.vivaxismorecommoninCentral nonmalarious countries face continual danger from importa- America and the Indian subcontinent and causes more than tion.Contributing to this resurgence are the increasing prob- 80millionclinicalepisodesofillnessyearly(Mendisandothers lems of Plasmodium falciparumresistance to drugs and of the 2001). The prevalence of these two species is approximately Anophelesvectors’resistance to insecticides.The recent findings equal in the Indian subcontinent, eastern Asia, Oceania, and that insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) are extremely cost-effective South America. P. malariae is found in most endemic areas, in preventing malaria and overall deaths and that intermittent especiallythroughoutSub-SaharanAfrica,butismuchlesscom- preventive therapy (IPT) (treatment doses given during monthantheotherspecies.P.ovaleisunusualoutsideAfrica, periods of vulnerability) is effective for protecting pregnant andwhereitisfoundaccountsforlessthan1percentofisolates. women and their fetuses,along with the discovery ofnew drugs While more than 40 anophelines can transmit malaria,the (artemisinins) and their use in combination with other most effective are those such as Anopheles gambiae,which are antimalarials and promising vaccine trials, have given great long-lived, occur
