Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


surveillance system surveys through a verbal Indirect and Comorbid Risks autopsy interview with relatives of the deceased about the symptoms and signs associated with the terminal illness.Both The DALY model of malaria does not sufficiently take it into the specificity and the sensitivity of verbal autopsy vary account as an indirect cause of broader morbid risks. Some considerably depending on the background spectrum ofother consideranemiatobecausedindirectlyunlesslinkedtoacute, common diseases, such as acute respiratory infection, gas- high-density parasitemia. Similarly, low birthweight may also features with malaria (Korenromp and others 2003). nutrition and growth retardation linked to malaria infection In malarious Africa, some 30 to 60 percent of outpatients enhances the severity of other concomitant or comorbid with fever may have parasitemia. Monthly surveillance of infectious diseases through immune suppression. Thus, households will detect a quarter ofthe medical events that are malaria infection contributes to broad causes of mortality detected through weekly surveillance,and weekly contacts with beyondthedirectfatalconsequencesof infectionandisprob- cohorts identify approximately 75 percent of events detected ably underestimated (Breman, Alilio, and Mills 2004; Snow through daily surveillance (Snow, Menon, and Greenwood andothers2003). 1989). Given the predominance of fevers, malaria case man- In Africa,pregnant women experience few malaria-specific agement in Africa and other endemic areas usually centers on fever episodes but have an increased risk of anemia and presumptive diagnosis. placental sequestration ofthe parasite.Maternal clinical mani- Estimates ofthe frequency offever among children suggest festations are more apparent in areas with less intense one episode every 40 days. If we assume that the perceived transmission, particularly in Asia. Estimates indicate that in frequency of fever in Africa is similar across all transmission Sub-Saharan Africa, malaria-associated anemia is responsible areas (and possibly all ages),African countrieswould witness for 3.7 percent of maternal mortality,or approximately 5,300 approximately 4.9 billion febrile events each year. Estimates maternal deaths annually. indicate that in areas of stable malaria risk, a minimum of Prematurity and intrauterine growth retardation resulting 2.7billion exposures to antimalarial treatment will occur each in low birthweight associated with maternal malaria account year for parasitemic persons,or 4.93 per person per year (Snow for 3 to 8 percent of infant mortality in Africa (Steketee and and others 2003).While these diagnostic,patient management, others 1996,2001).Assuming an infant mortality rate of 105 and drug delivery assumptions are debatable,they indicate the per 1,000 live births,Snow and others (2003) calculate that in magnitude ofthe challenges malaria presents. 2000, 71,000 to 190,000 infant deaths were attributable to The
