Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


the malaria program, evaluationoftrimethoprim-sulfamethoxazoleformalariapro- strengthens confidence in the health care system by families phylaxisinMalididnotshowanyincreasesinparasiteresistance and communities,and raises the esprit ofclinicians and public mutationsspecificforthesedrugs(Theraandothers2005). health workers. Malaria accounts for 13 to 15 percent ofmedical reasons for absenteeism from school,but little information is available on EarlyDiagnosisandTreatment. Earlydiagnosisandeffective the performance of parasitized schoolchildren (Holding and treatment can cure infection, prevent further morbidity Kitsao-Wekulo 2004).A randomized placebo control study of and progression to severe disease and death, and arrest chloroquine prophylaxis in Sri Lankan schoolchildren demon- transmission. This intervention requires timely and accurate strated an improvement in mathematics and language scores diagnosis; use of efficacious drugs; education of patients and by those who received chloroquine but found no difference in their families about the disease, home management, and 418 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joel G. Breman, Anne Mills, Robert W. Snow, and others Box 21.1 Roll Back Malaria Partnerships Strategy and Goals for 2005 The goal of Roll Back Malaria Partnership is to halve the burden of malaria by 2010.The following targets for specific intervention strategies were established at the Abuja Malaria Summit in April 2000. Strategy Abuja target (by 2005) • Prompt access to effective treatment • 60 percent of those suffering with malaria should have access to and be able to use correct, affordable, and appropriate treatment within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. • Provision ofITNs • 60 percent ofthose at risk for malaria,particularly chil- dren under five and pregnant women,will benefit from a suitable combination ofpersonal and community pro- tective measures,such as ITNs. • Prevention and control ofmalaria in pregnant women • 60 percent of pregnant women at risk of malaria will have access to IPTa. • Epidemic and emergency response • 60 percent ofepidemics are detected within two weeks of onset. • 60 percent of epidemics are responded to within two weeks ofdetection. Source:WHO 2003b, 2005. a. The original Abuja declaration included the recommendation for chemoprophylaxis as well, but current WHO and Roll Back Malaria policy strongly recommends IPT and not chemopro- phylaxis for preventing malaria during pregnancy. prevention; and referral to higher levels of the health system. in areas with resistance to single drugs are combination The following are critical to the effectiveness of this treatments, preferably artemisinin combination therapy intervention: (ACT) (WHO 2001a,2001b,2003a,2005).While ACT is a welcome, life-saving approach, more information on the • Timeliness. A febrile malaria attack warrants early treat-
