Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


of this treatments, preferably artemisinin combination therapy intervention: (ACT) (WHO 2001a,2001b,2003a,2005).While ACT is a welcome, life-saving approach, more information on the • Timeliness. A febrile malaria attack warrants early treat- cost-effectiveness of this new strategy is needed (Arrow, ment.Ifleft untreated,a proportion ofP.falciparummalaria Panosian, and Gellband 2004; Yeung and others 2004). infections,perhaps 1 in 250 (and to a far lesser extent infec- Baird (2005) reports that ACT costs range from US$2.00 tions with other malaria species) will progress to severe (artesunate-amodiaquine, three doses in 48 hours) to disease within a few hours to a few days (Greenwood and US$9.12 (artemether-lumefantrine, six doses in 48 hours) others 2005). The globally agreed goal is that diagnosis per adult treatment;WHO has obtained the latter drug for andeffective treatment should be provided within 24 hours US$2.40 per adult treatment for qualified purchasers,mean- ofthe onset ofsymptoms and signs. ing those from low-income malarious countries. • Diagnosis and effective drug treatment.An accurate diagno- • Location of clinical management. Effective management of sis of malaria is based on detection of the parasite and, if patients requires skilled and well-equipped personnel at all Health workers must monitor the therapeutic efficacy of antimalarials effectively are through health facilities and in drugs closely and change treatment policies when parasite or near the home when access to health facilities is limited. resistance to chloroquine (figure 21.2),SP,and other drugs Given the pervasiveness of malaria infections,more infor- emerges (Baird 2005;Laxminarayan and others2006;WHO mation on the most effective and efficient ways to promote 2002a). Concerns include unreliable and inaccurate home treatment is urgently needed. microscopy and the disadvantages of alternative tests plus the widespread distribution and use of substandard and Evidence for the effectiveness of early diagnosis and treat- counterfeitdrugs.Therecommendedtreatmentsformalaria mentisavailablefromtwodifferentepidemiologicalconditions Conquering Malaria | 419 % Failure Ethiopia Burundi Eritrea R wanda Keny T a an M za o n z i a a mbique Za mbia Ugan B d o a ts wa Z n i m a bab we C G o a n b g o o n , Rep. of Chad Co C n C A g a R o m , e D r e o m on . Rep. of Ghana Lib M er a ia uritania Niger Guinea B C e ô n te in d’Ivoire B T u o r g ki o na Faso Senegal S M ier a r l a i Le T o
