Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


B C e ô n te in d’Ivoire B T u o r g ki o na Faso Senegal S M ier a r l a i Le T o h n e e Ga mbia Nigeria Eastern, Southern, Great Lakes block Central block Western block Source: WHO 2005. Note: WHO has established 126 sentinel sites in 36 African countries that monitor the efficacy of locally used antimalarial drugs by following patients in clinics. The box indicates the 25th–75th percentile, the vertical line the lower and upper values, and where the lines cross the median. Figure 21.2 Chloroquine Treatment Failure in Africa, 1997–2002 andhealthsystems.Inareasof lowtomoderatetransmission, In primigravid and secundigravid women,the incidence of forexample,southernAfrica,theAmericas,andSoutheastAsia, severe maternal anemia,the incidence and density ofplacental wherehealthcaresystemsarerelativelyeffective,thetwomajor parasitemia, and the incidence of low birthweight were 25 to consequences of prompt and effective intervention are 95percent lower when mothers were given IPT than when they reduction of the period of infectivity of infected persons, were not (Kayentao and others 2005;Steketee and others 2001). and thus reduced transmission and incidence, and a lowered While initial studies indicate that IPT in infancy reduces ane- case-fatality rate and overall mortality. In Vietnam and the mia and febrile episodes,more research is needed.SP is becom- incidence and mortality rates fell when effective treatment a replacement . policies(artesunateandACT)replacedfailingmonotherapies (Hung and others 2002). The effective drug policies were Chemoprophylaxis. Chemoprophylaxis is advised by travel implemented in conjunction with enhanced vector control; medicine specialistsfor nonresidents ofendemic areas who are thus,effectivetreatmentalonedoesnotaccountforthefallin exposed to malaria for short periods.WHO does not recom- malariaincidenceandmortality. mend chemoprophylaxis for permanent residents of endemic In areas with stable, high transmission of P. falciparum areas because of low feasibility and compliance and high costs Africa—where access to treatment is poor,little is known about 2000b). The choice of chemoprophylaxis will depend on the the impact of early and effective treatment on malaria trans- drug-sensitivity profile, tolerance, side effects, costs, regimen, mission.With a high EIR (10 to 1,000),a reduction in trans- and compliance by patients (Baird 2005; Kain, Shanks, and mission intensity is unlikely to affect the incidence of disease Keystone 2001;White and Breman 2005).The effectiveness of until low EIRs (less than 10) are reached. chemoprophylaxis will depend mainly on patient compliance and parasite susceptibility. IPT in Pregnancy and Infancy. IPT is recommended in pregnancyinareaswithhighandstabletransmissionofP.falci- Supervision and Policy Change. In relation to drug use, all parum malaria; IPT usually consists of two curative doses of
