Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


IPT in Pregnancy and Infancy. IPT is recommended in pregnancyinareaswithhighandstabletransmissionofP.falci- Supervision and Policy Change. In relation to drug use, all parum malaria; IPT usually consists of two curative doses of control activities must be supervised and evaluated rigorously antimalarialtreatment.TherecommendeddrugisSPgivendur- to ensure high-quality care for patients and program effective- ingthesecondandthirdtrimestersofpregnancyduringprena- ness and efficiency (Bryce and others 1994;Jha,Bangoura,and talcarevisits.IPTininfancyinvolvesgivinginfantstreatment Ranson 1998).Studies in 37 countries indicate the need for a dosesduringvaccinationorwell-babyvisitstohealthclinics. treatment policy change to ACT . Several 420 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joel G. Breman, Anne Mills, Robert W. Snow, and others countries in Africa,Asia, and South America are now imple- required to inform national initiatives to scale up ITN use menting ACT as the first-line treatment for uncomplicated (Lengeler and Sharp 2003); yet, recent encouraging reports malaria . Many countries are also trying to showthatEritrea,Malawi,Togo,Zambia,andothercountries improve the time lag before treatment.More than 83 percent of inAfricaarealreadyscalingupnationallywithhighcoverage. the population in the three malarious provinces in South Africa Vector Control iswithin 10 kilometers ofa health facility (Sharp and le Sueur 1996).In Burkina Faso,Ethiopia,and Uganda,where access to The reduction of Anopheles breeding and biting of humans workers were empowered to dispense treatment,which result- tion, environmental management, and behavioral change of ed in major reductions in mortality and morbidity in children populations at risk. (Kidane and Morrow 2000; Pagnoni and others 1997; Sirima and others 2003). Indoor Residual Spraying of Dwellings with Insecticide. Indoor residual spraying (IRS) is the application oflong-lasting insecticides (up to six months) on the walls of dwellings. Insecticide-Treated Nets Insecticides repel mosquitoes from entering houses or impart The use of ITNs (bednets, curtains, and other materials) to alethal dose ofthe insecticide on the female mosquito when it provide personal protection by killing or repelling mosquitoes rests on a sprayed surface, thereby preventing subsequent is one of the major strategies of malaria control . transmission. IRS is most effective against indoor-biting Pyrethroids are recommended for the periodic treatment or re- (endophilic) mosquito vectors.Vector susceptibility and post- treatment ofthe protective materials. feeding behavior are the main criteria to be considered when The effectiveness ofITNs depends on their acceptability by choosing an insecticide: organophosphates, carbamates, and the population at risk and their affordability. It is contingent pyrethroids are the main compounds used although some on the habits, biology, and susceptibility of the mosquito countris still rely on organochlorines (dichlorodiphenyl- vector;the compliance ofthe human population;and the con- trichloroethane,or DDT). centration of
