Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


compounds used although some on the habits, biology, and susceptibility of the mosquito countris still rely on organochlorines (dichlorodiphenyl- vector;the compliance ofthe human population;and the con- trichloroethane,or DDT). centration of insecticide on or in the fiber, which has to be The effectiveness ofthis intervention depends on cost,toxi- maintained by regular re-treatment or by incorporating the city,acceptability ofthe insecticide,its residual effects,and local insecticide in the fiber for long duration. political and international partnership commitment. Malaria Over 20 studies in Africa and Asia have demonstrated more incidence decreased sharply following the use of IRS in large- than 50 percent protective efficacy for individual users ofITNs scale programs in many parts ofAfrica,the Americas,Asia,and in reducing malaria episodes, 29 percent protection against Europe (Lengeler and Sharp 2003). severe malarial disease, and substantial protection against In southern Africa,more than 13 million people in six coun- anemia . Most importantly, the use of ITNs tries are protected from malaria . Control was reduced child mortality by 18 percent in five sites in Sub- initiated through the use ofIRS and supported by engineering Saharan Africa . approaches,larviciding,prompt diagnosis,and effective treat- Lengeler’s(2004)reviewdemonstratestheefficacyof ITNs ment. Examples of successful and sustained malaria elimina- in both stable and unstable transmission areas. Widespread tion using IRS with effective drug treatment are available from use of ITNs resulted in an overall reduction in mortality of Cyprus,Greece,Portugal,Spain,and the former Yugoslavia and 19 percent, protected against anemia, and had a substantial its successor states (Curtis and Mnzava 2000).The most suc- impact on mild disease episodes. One large-scale rural study cessful malaria control efforts were linked closely to research inTanzaniafoundthatITNsanduntreatednetsreducedmor- and took place in many parts ofAsia,where the notable exam- tality of children one month to four years, with protective ple is the near eradication of malaria from Sri Lanka in the efficacies of 27 and 19 percent, respectively (Armstrong- early 1960s, and in Central and South America from the late Schellenbergandothers2001).Re-treatingITNssemiannually 1950s to early 1970s (Alilio,Bygbjerg,and Breman 2004;Carter or just before the annual peak in transmission is essential for and Mendis 2002;Gilles 2002). effective vector control and is proving a major logistical and financialchallenge.Fortunately,newtypesofnetswithalong- Larviciding and Fogging. Larviciding is the application of lasting insecticidal property are now available, and re- chemical insecticides,including those of biological origin and treatment will soon cease to be an issue.The salutary impact insect growth regulators, to breeding sites. These may be of large-scaleITNprogramshasbeendemonstratedinChina applied to all mosquito breeding sites or
