Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


origin and treatment will soon cease to be an issue.The salutary impact insect growth regulators, to breeding sites. These may be of large-scaleITNprogramshasbeendemonstratedinChina applied to all mosquito breeding sites or targeted to the breed- ,Tanzania (Abdulla and others 2001;Armstrong- ing sites of specific vectors. Recommended compounds, for- Schellenberg and others 2001; WHO 2005), and Vietnam mulations,and dosages for larviciding are available through the (Hung and others 2002). More operational experience is WHO Pesticides Evaluation Scheme.Fogging or space spraying Conquering Malaria | 421 particle size ofthe insecticide determines its suspension quali- under the direct supervision of health facility staff or non- ties in the air,the number of droplets,and the penetration of governmental organizations and in conformity with standards space. The insecticide is not effective for as long as with IRS and norms established by the national government (Gilles or ITNs, and application must occur during periods of peak 2002).Such information can help to increase the standard of target mosquito activity,generally at night. patient care and prevention programs by promoting citizen Larviciding is not generally indicated for large-scale vector and community advocacy and demand for control. control in rural endemic areas because ofthe difficulty oflocat- ing all breeding sites, their often temporary nature, and the required frequency of application.Thus,larviciding is usually ECONOMICS OF MALARIA CONTROL limited to urban areas, refugee camps, and industrial and INTERVENTIONS development projects.Despite its impact on mosquito density anditscontributiontoreducingtransmission,larvicidingisnot Goodman, Coleman, and Mills’s (2000) study represents the as effective as IRS and ITNs in reducing mosquito longevity most thorough attempt to compare the cost-effectiveness of a (Najera and Zaim 2002). wide range of malaria control interventions.They find that in a very low-income country, the cost-effectiveness range Civil Engineering. Draining and filling larval breeding sites is per DALY averted was US$19 to US$85 for ITNs (nets plus one of the oldest methods of mosquito control and must be insecticide),US$32 to US$58 for residual spraying (two rounds targeted to the breeding sites of locally important malaria per year), US$3 to US$12 for chemoprophylaxis for children vectors. Civil engineering strategies can require costly heavy (assuming an existing delivery system),US$4 to US$29 for IPT equipment and materials and are useful for eliminating perma- for pregnant women,and US$1to US$8 for case-management nent breeding sites in urban areas, which are increasing improvements.Goodman,Coleman,and Mills (2000) find that globally,and at development project sites where earth removal even though some interventions are relatively cheap,achieving has occurred. high
