Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


management, given because ofuncertainty in relation to the estimates ofeffective- the uncertainty inherent in estimating savings. ness in children under five.The model was based on one round ofspraying per year in areas ofseasonal transmission and two Insecticide-Treated Nets. We based our analysis of ITNs on rounds per year in areas ofhigh,intense (perennial) transmis- the delivery mechanism used in the WHO Special Programme sion.Effectiveness will depend on the length of the transmis- for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (WHO/TDR) sion seasons and on the insecticide.DDT lasts for six months program staff worked together to treat the nets.In relation to malathion and deltamethrin for only two to three months insecticide, we considered permethrin and deltamethrin. (Lengeler 2004;Lengeler and Sharp 2003). Deltamethrin is effective for a year; thus, re-treatment is annual.Permethrin lasts for six months;thus,we assumed two IPTduringPregnancy. We analyzed the cost-effectiveness of treatments per year if the transmission season is longer than IPTassumingthatprimigravidwomenaregiventwoorthree six months. The activities undertaken were the training of dosesofSPataprenatalclinic.Weanalyzedbenefitstothechild community about the intervention, the procurement and fromchangesintheincidenceofsevereanemia.Weestimated transport of the insecticide and nets,and the initial treatment theeffectofIPTontheneonatalmortalityrateasafunctionof and the re-treatment of the nets. We calculated cost- increased birthweight based on the Cochrane meta-analysis effectiveness for each intervention for two scenarios: one of malariapreventioninpregnancy(GülmezogluandGarner whereby nets were distributed to households and the second 1998). The model allowed for level of drug resistance, prob- estimates of the effectiveness of ITNS from a recent meta- returningforasecondvisit,probabilityofreturningforathird analysis of WHO/TDR-sponsored trials conducted in Sub- visit,andcompliancewiththedrugregimen.Weestimatedboth Saharan Africa .We adjusted the key parameter incrementalandaveragecosts. and effectiveness estimates to account for the proportion of The incremental CER for IPT in pregnancy using SP had a children sleeping and not sleeping under a recently treated net. 90 percent range from US$9 to US$21 with a mean ofUS$13. With one treatment per year using deltamethrin,the mean Average total cost-effectiveness had a mean of US$24 (90 per- cost per DALY averted was US$11 (90 percent range ofUS$5 to cent range ofUS$16 to US$35). US$21).With one treatment of permethrin per year the cost- effectiveness ratio (CER) increased slightly to a mean of ChangeinFirst-LineDrug. Weanalyzedthecost-effectiveness US$12(90 percent range ofUS$6 to US$20).Two treatments of of changing first-line therapies to SP and to ACT using a permethrinperyearincreasedthemeanCERtoUS$17(90per- patient-managementmodelwithadecision-treeframeworkin cent range ofUS$9 to US$31).Even ifnet coverage is low and whichapatientpresentswithuncomplicatedmalariaatanout- nets have to be distributed and treated, the intervention patient facility and progresses to full recovery, recovery with remains an extremely
