Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


is cost-effective (less costly, more effective) ((cid:3) $150/DALY averted) Melathion 12 8–18 switch is cost-effective current therapy is dominant DDT 9 5–13 ((cid:1) $150/DALY averted) (less costly, more effective) Deltamethrin 10 6–14 Source: Authors. Lambda-cyhalothrin 10 6–14 IRS (2 rounds) Figure 21.3 Cost-Effectiveness of Switching the First-Line Drug Malathion 24 15–34 DDT 17 11–24 a sigmoid growth curve. We assessed compliance with each Deltamethrin 18 12–27 drugbasedonthelengthandcomplexityofeachregimen.We Lambda-cyhalothrin 19 12–28 gave the widest range (20 to 70 percent) to compliance with ACT,whichusuallyrequiresathree-daytreatment,toaccount IPT forthedifferentlengthsofregimenandvarietyofformulations. Incremental costs 13 9–21 Figure 21.3 shows that a switch from chloroquine to SP is Average costs 24 16–35 cost-effective (less than $150 per DALY averted) when chloro- Source:Authors’ calculations. quine resistance is above 35 percent. Switching from chloro- quine to ACT becomes cost-effective as chloroquine resistance reaches around 37 percent.Switching from SP to ACT becomes net coverage is already high,and IPT is even more cost-effective cost-effective as SP resistance reaches 12 percent. This low if prenatal care coverage is good. However, even if levels of threshold is due to the high growth rate of resistance to SP infrastructure are poor, these interventions are still attractive when it is used as a first-line therapy. based on cost-effectiveness criteria. Curtis and Mnzava’s (2000) review comparing worldwide Results and Interpretation. Table 21.6 presents the average trials of ITNs and IRS for malaria control suggests that they CERs for the interventions reviewed.All interventions can be were ofequivalent effectiveness.Lengeler and Sharp (2003 21,) considered attractive using a cutoff of US$150 per DALY also conclude that choosing between IRS and ITNs is “large- averted. For the childhood preventive interventions, the level ly a matter of operational feasibility and availability of existing infrastructure is a key factor in influencing oflocalresources,rather than one ofmalaria epidemiology or cost-effectiveness. ITNs are an even better use of resources if cost-effectiveness.” DDT is the cheapest insecticide but is 424 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joel G. Breman, Anne Mills, Robert W. Snow, and others seldom used because of concerns about its environmental at the main high-risk groups.For example,a national voucher impact.An updated systematic review of the health effects of scheme is currently being implemented in Tanzania to provide IRS as well as a full economic comparison between spraying every pregnant woman in the country with a free ITN,and a with DDT and other insecticides and ITNs is urgently required. net is being distributed to
