Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


labor efficiency (Audibert, Mathonnat, and Henry Goodman,and Mills 2003).The costs oftreatment for malaria 2003), studies have not succeeded in identifying impacts on include out-of-pocket expenditures for consultation fees, output.One possibility is that the risk ofmalaria may discour- Sub-Saharan Africa,these costs ranged between US$0.41 and settlement and cultivation offertile land,or the development of US$3.88 per person,equivalent to between US$1.88 and US$26 tourism and industry in suitable locations,but good evidence per household per year.Household expenditure on treatment is is lacking. usually highly regressive,consuming a much larger proportion ofincome in the poorest households. Macroeconomic Impact of Malaria. Recent empirical cross- Computations of public expenditures on malaria preven- country comparisons of economic growth indicate that tion and treatment are imprecise because most fall within eliminating malaria would have a strong positive impact on general health service expenditures.About 20 to 40 percent of economic development. Gallup and Sachs (2001) use cross- outpatient visits in malarious Africa are for fever,and suspect- country regression analysis to relate the growth in gross domes- ed malaria among inpatients ranges from 0.5 to 50.0 percent of tic product per capita between 1965 and 1990 to initial income admissions. Kirigia and others (1998) found that inpatient levels,initial human capital stock,policy variables,geographi- treatment for pediatric malaria absorbed 15 percent of the cal variables,and a malaria index calculated as the product of annual recurrent costs ofinpatient care in one Kenyan hospital the fraction ofland area with endemic malaria in 1965 and the and 9 percent in another.Ettling and Shepard (1991) estimated fraction ofmalaria cases that were due to P.falciparumin 1990. that Rwanda’s Ministry ofHealth spent 19 percent ofits oper- Their results suggest that countries with a substantial amount ating budget on malaria treatment.Because of the dominance of malaria grew 1.3 percent per year less than countries with ofout-of-pocket spending by households,public expenditures little or no malaria between 1965 and 1990 (controlling for on malaria generally account for a minority of total malaria other influences on growth) and that a 10 percent reduction in expenditure. malaria was associated with 0.3 percent higher growth per year. The methods used to measure and value time lost and a McCarthy,Wolf,and Wu (2000) employ a similar approach to day’sworkvaryconsiderablybetweenstudies;theaveragetime explore the impact of malaria on average per capita growth lostperepisodeforasickadultandforanadultcaringforsick rates during three five-year periods. They find a significant children ranged from one to five days. The average indirect negative association between malaria and economic growth, cost per
