Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


growth lostperepisodeforasickadultandforanadultcaringforsick rates during three five-year periods. They find a significant children ranged from one to five days. The average indirect negative association between malaria and economic growth, cost per episode ranged from US$0.68 for children under although the estimated impact differed sharply across coun- 10 years of age in Malawi to US$23 per adult episode in tries.The impact was smaller than that found by Gallup and Ethiopia.Authors have concluded that aggregate productivity Sachs (2001),exceeding 0.25 percent per year in only a quarter losses canbe significant for households and for the economy ofthe sample countries and averaging 0.55 percent for those in asawhole.InMalawi,theindirectcostsofmalariawereequiv- Sub-Saharan Africa. 426 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joel G. Breman, Anne Mills, Robert W. Snow, and others Benefit-Cost Ratios • carry out strategic and basic research on vector-parasite- host interactions Mills and Shillcutt 2004 related the evidence on the macroeco- • assess mechanisms for addressing drug and insecticide nomic benefits of malaria control to information on the costs resistance ofreducing malaria to calculate a benefit-cost ratio (Mills and • develop and carry out field evaluations oftransgenic meth- Shillcutt 2004). Depending on the assumptions, the benefit- ods for interrupting malaria transmission. cost ratio ranged between 1.9 and 4.7 (using a 3 percent dis- count rate).In terms ofeconomic growth alone malaria control is extremely cost beneficial. Policy Research Social, economic, and policy research should focus on the RESEARCH PRIORITIES following: Currentinterventionstocombatmalariaremaininadequatefor • developing and applying a common methodology for meas- achievingtheincreasedlevelsofsuccessfulpatientmanagement uring socioeconomic status and prevention to which all malarious countries aspire and • carrying out policy and operational research on the impact, for which ambitious targets have been set (box 21.1). Greatly viability, sustainability, and optimal balance of public- increasedsupportformalariaresearchandfordevelopinginsti- private partnerships tutionalcapacitymustoccurtomakeadvancesandtobringthem • investigating ethical, legal, and social issues pertaining to topopulationsinneed.TheWHOScientificWorkingGroupon new malaria-related tools. Malariaandothershaveidentifiedfourmajorareasofresearchas follows(Remmeandothers2002;WHO1996,2003c). Capacity strengthening for research and operations (includ- ing clinical trials) is urgently needed. This strengthening will Patient Management result in the ability to better evaluate new drugs and vaccines Patient management,including treatment,should address the and existing malaria control tools (ITNs,IPT) and to tackle the following: scaling up ofmalaria strategies. A classification ofresearch priorities by time frame includes • evaluation oftreatment effectiveness and ofaccess to treat- the three-year,five-year,and ten-year targeting. ment for uncomplicated malaria in children and during pregnancy, with an emphasis on home management and Three-year completion targeting includes the following: evaluation ofalternative delivery systems •
