Chapter
KEYWORDS: malaria, percent, africa, areas, treatment, control, use, children, drug, mortality, snow, breman, effective, itns, deaths


three-year,five-year,and ten-year targeting. ment for uncomplicated malaria in children and during pregnancy, with an emphasis on home management and Three-year completion targeting includes the following: evaluation ofalternative delivery systems • investigation of the pathogenesis of malaria, in particular • apply to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) anemia and immune response mechanisms with evidence for two separate fixed-dose artemisinin com- • evaluation of new approaches, for example, rectal drug binations at a target adult treatment price of US$1.00, or administration,for managing severe illness US$0.60 or less for children; two combinations are neces- • evaluation of ACT, including delivery approaches via the sary, as one may fail in testing or have other unforeseen public and private sectors problems • development ofnew drugs with novel targets;the Medicines • evaluate the two best candidate ACT drugs for IPT in preg- for Malaria Ventura (MMV) is spearheading this activity. nant women and in infancy and early childhood (IPTi) • launch studies to reach an evidence-based conclusion on the costs and benefits of long-lasting ITNs versus IRS in Sub- Prevention Research Saharan Africa and other endemic areas Prevention research should focus on the following: • carry out operational studies to determine the best methods ofdeploying ACT through the public and private sectors so • new approaches to drug-based malaria prevention,includ- that first-level patient management can occur at the home ing IPT in children and during pregnancy and at the village levels; this involves studying packaging • strategies for scaling up the use ofITNs. and distribution networks, assessing adherence, and ad- Innovative Approaches dressing how to deploy and supervise use ofartesunate rec- tal suppositories Innovative approaches should use new technologies,including • conduct economic reviews and predictive modeling to make recent advances in sequencing the DNA of P. falciparum and an economic case for increased international investment in A.gambiae,to achieve the following: malaria control,including collecting detailed data from sev- • discover and develop drugs, diagnostics, vaccines, insecti- eral scaled-up, national, fully supported control programs cides,and antiparasite effector molecules using genomics employing the best available strategies and interventions Conquering Malaria | 427 • conduct in Africa and other endemic continents a maxi- Alonso, P. L., J. Sacarlal, J. J. Aponte, A. Leach, E. Macete, J. Milman, mum number of FDA-compliant phase I and phase II and others. 2004. “Efficacy of the RTS,S/AS02A Vaccine against Plasmodium falciparum Infection and Disease in Young African malaria vaccine trials to select
