Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


ABSTRACT Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs) impact health and disease. Scientific research conducted over the last few decades has solidified our knowledge of the health impacts of these chemicals. Intrauterine exposure of EDCs can have transgenerational effects, thus laying the foundation for disease in later life, when exposure may not be documentable. The meticulously orchestrated endocrine system is often a target for these chemicals. As the endocrine system is central to the body’s physiological and biological functions, EDCs can lead to perturbations in the functioning of an individual. Exposure to EDCs can occur right from children’s products to personal care products, food containers to pesticides and herbicides. Moreover, there are many unsuspected chemicals which may be contributing to the disease burden in the society, which have never been studied. The dose response relationship may not always be predictable for the different EDCs as even low-level exposures that may occur in everyday life can have significant effects in a susceptible individual. Although individual compounds have been studied in detail, the effects of a combination of these chemicals are yet to be studied in order to understand the real-life situation, where human beings are exposed to a cocktail of these EDCs. This chapter aims to summarize the available literature regarding these EDCs and their effects on endocrine physiology. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs) are a ubiquitous problem. This is a global issue and health hazard not well addressed due to lack of evidence and testing. Only a few EDCs are known and the others are suspected or yet to be explored ( 1 ). EDCs represent a broad class of natural or synthetic chemicals which are widely dispersed in the environment. This can be ingested or consumed or inhaled and may be found in larger quantities or trace amounts in serum, placenta, fat, umbilical cord blood etc. Exposure to EDCs can occur as early as in gestational period or childhood and can impact later stages of life. EDCs can alter normal physiological mechanisms in our body leading to a myriad of endocrinological problems both in children and adults. The Endocrine Society defined EDC as “an exogenous chemical, or mixture of chemicals, that interfere with any aspect of hormone action.” In other words, the chemical substances that can affect the endocrine system resulting in adverse effects are
