Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


chemical, or mixture of chemicals, that interfere with any aspect of hormone action.” In other words, the chemical substances that can affect the endocrine system resulting in adverse effects are called Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals (EDCs) ( 2 ). These chemicals often bind to the endogenous receptors (e.g.: estrogen receptor, steroid receptor) and interfere with the normal function of brain, reproductive organs, development, immune system, and other organs ( 3 ). The common EDCs are bisphenol A (BPA), perchlorate, dioxins, phthalates, phytoestrogens, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), triclosan, perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), pesticides like dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDT) and its metabolite dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), organophosphorus compounds, alkylphenols(surfactants), parabans, methoxychlor, diethylstilbestrol (DES), fungicide vinclozolin, and natural hormones ( 2 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ). Among these, BPA is the most commonly encountered EDC, which has both estrogenic and antiandrogenic properties. EDCs are mostly lipophilic in nature and resistant to metabolism ( 6 ). EDCs are usually present in food, beverages, pesticides, or air. People who get exposed to any of these EDCs may have hormonal imbalance. Even a small amount of EDC consumed can result in hormonal imbalance especially in children ( 2 ). Sometimes they are stored in body fats, and transferred to the developing fetus via the placenta ( 6 ). Studies on animal models and humans reveal that the mechanisms through which the EDCs act involve divergent pathways. The EDC`s can act like endogenous hormones and thereby increase or decrease the cellular response. Also, they can block the effects of hormones and stimulate or inhibit the production of hormones. They can thus interfere with synthesis, transport, action, and degradation of hormones ( 7 ). EDCs can act via nuclear receptors, nonsteroidal receptors, transcription coactivators, and certain enzymatic pathways ( 5 ). HISTORY OF EDCs The effect of EDCs was first noticed by pig farmers in USA. Farmers observed pigs fed on moldy grain did not reproduce. Later it was found that moldy grain contained mycoestrogens. Several other incidents with such EDCs were noticed by farmers in other parts of the world. In 1940, diethylstilbestestrol (DES), a synthetic estrogen, was prescribed to women in their first trimester of pregnancy to prevent threatened miscarriage. Later in 1971, a rare vaginal cancer in daughters born to mothers who had taken DES was noted. All these events inspired Rachel Carlson to write a book named ‘Silent Spring’. In this book the
