Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


vaginal cancer in daughters born to mothers who had taken DES was noted. All these events inspired Rachel Carlson to write a book named ‘Silent Spring’. In this book the author warned about long- term consequences of the use of pesticides and herbicides. In another book ‘Our Stolen Future ‘by Theo Colbron, Dianne Dumankosi, and John Peterson Meyers additional evidence on EDC was described. The hypothesis and evidence generated by this book was used for future research on EDC. This booked paved the path for the US regulators to create the United States Environment Protect Agency. ARE HORMONES AND EDCs THE SAME? EDCs are not the same as hormones but they can mimic hormones, and produce ill effects in the body. Table 1. The Difference Between Hormone and Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals. ( 4 )( 8 ) View in own window Hormones EDCs 1. These are chemical substances produced by the body and transported via bloodstream to the cells and organs which carry receptors for the hormone and on which it has a specific regulatory effect. 1. Exogenous substance that alters function(s) of the endocrine system and consequently causes adverse effects in an intact organism, or its progeny, or populations. 2. They act via specific receptors and produces class effects 2. They act via hormone and other receptors and produces abnormal functions and interactions. 3. No bio accumulation 3. Results in bioaccumulation 4. Non-linear dose response with saturable kinetics 4. Non-linear dose response with saturable kinetics E.g.; steroid hormones, thyroid hormones Eg; Perchlorate, Dioxins, Phthalates EDCs AND HUMAN HEALTH EDCs can affect several systems in our body resulting in many ill health effects. There is evidence showing various diseases are linked to EDCs as shown in Table 2 . Table 2. Examples of EDCs and Their Possible Mechanisms Resulting in Clinical Conditions. ( 4 )( 9 )( 10 ) View in own window EDCs Main Sources Possible Mechanism Clinical condition Alkylphenols Detergents Shampoos Pesticide Mimics estrogen Breast cancer Phthalates Plastic products Personal care products (perfume, moisturizer) Not yet known Testicular and ovarian toxicants Polychlorinated biphenyls (chlorinated/ halogenated/ TBBPA) Paints Plastics Lubricants Electrical applications Estrogenic and anti-androgenic activity Indirectly regulate circulating gonadal hormones. Inducers of CYP1A and CYPIIB Decreased NMDA receptor binding in striatum, frontal cortex and hippocampus, cerebellum Reduced glutamate and dopamine Acts at AhR signaling pathways resulting in cytotoxic effects Neurobehavioral defects like cognitive deficits in children Neurotoxicity Thyroid toxicity
