Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


in striatum, frontal cortex and hippocampus, cerebellum Reduced glutamate and dopamine Acts at AhR signaling pathways resulting in cytotoxic effects Neurobehavioral defects like cognitive deficits in children Neurotoxicity Thyroid toxicity Susceptibility to infections Cancers (especially Breast Cancer) Infertility TBBPA- Tetrabromobisphenol A, CYP - cytochrome P450 enzymes, NMDA- N-methyl-D-aspartate, AhR - aryl hydrocarbon receptor EFFECT OF EDCs ON ENDOCRINE SYSTEM Neuro- Hypothalamic Effects According to recent studies one in eight children 2-9 years of age suffer from neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) in India. NDDs include speech and language disorders, autism, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, vision impairment, ADHD, learning disorders, etc. EDCs are one among other risk factors associated with development of NDDs in children. NDD burden can be lessened by eliminating the causative factors or by preventing exposure to them. The major EDCs associated with NDDs are PCB and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). Other EDCs that are linked to NDDs but lack firm evidence are brominated flame retardants, perfluorinated compounds, and pesticides. Animal studies reveal that EDCs can alter or affect neuronal development, synaptic organization, neurotransmitter synthesis and release, and structural development of the brain ( 11 ). Studies of pregnant women who lived near Lake Michigan, with high levels of exposure to PCBs, revealed that children of mothers with the highest exposure levels were much more likely to have lower average IQ levels and poorer performance on reading comprehension ( 12 ). BPA and phthalates have also been shown to be associated with behavioral problems in children, including anxiety and depression ( 13 , 14 ). Prenatal pesticide exposure has been linked to increased likelihood of children having autism spectrum disorder or developmental delay ( 15 ). EDCs can cause perturbations of the neuroendocrine processes originating in the hypothalamus, and can also act on the steroid hormone receptors and other signaling pathways that occur widely throughout the brain. The critical period of exposure is important because even minor alterations in hormones can alter the neurobiological outcome during development. Our knowledge in this area is predominantly derived from animal studies as human studies (postmortem studies, accurate measurement of hypothalamic releasing hormones) are not feasible. Animal studies have shown the variable effects of BPA exposure on ER α and β protein and mRNA expression in different areas of the brain ( 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 ). Treatment of adult male and female rats for 4 days with low-dose BPA had significant
