Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


in different areas of the brain ( 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 ). Treatment of adult male and female rats for 4 days with low-dose BPA had significant effects on mRNAs for aromatase (increased in both sexes) and 5α-reductase 1 (decreased in females) in the prefrontal cortex ( 20 ). Although we know that developmental EDC exposure can alter the expression of genes and proteins for steroid hormone receptors, we cannot draw generalized conclusions from these animal models and future research should target especially this area of early EDC exposure. EDC exposure can also have neuroendocrine effects. Animal studies have reported on the stimulatory as well as inhibitory actions of BPA on GnRH and kisspeptin systems ( 21 , 22 ). Studies on PCBs and phthalates have shown mixed results. Animal studies have shed some light on the effect of EDCs on the developing hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis. BPA exposure has been found to be associated with an increase in adrenal weight and an attenuated stress response ( 23 ). Basal corticosterone, as well as CRH- or ACTH-induced corticosterone release, has been found to be significantly suppressed in PCB exposed rats ( 24 ). These effects of EDCs on the HPA axis leading to aberrant stress response needs to be evaluated further in humans. Animal studies have opened up some new and interesting possibilities of EDC exposure with changes in AVP and oxytocin levels and social behavior ( 25 , 26 ). Thyroid Function EDCs can interfere with thyroid hormone synthesis, release, transport, metabolism and clearance. Table 3. EDCs Effect on Thyroid Function ( 27 , 28 ) View in own window EDC Source Possible Outcome Perchlorate Oxidant in solid rocket propellants, fireworks, airbag deployment systems, etc. Interferes with the uptake of iodide into the thyrocyte by sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) Thiocyanates Cigarettes Interferes with the uptake of iodide Isoflavones (Phytoestrogens) Soy protein TPO inhibitors resulting in goiter in children PCB Paints Plastics They can act as TR agonist or antagonist, or reduce circulating levels of T4 resulting in relative hypothyroidism, increase in expression of glial fibrillar acidic protein leading to neurotoxicity in children. BPA Plastics Food cans Dental sealants Binds to TRβ and antagonizesT3 activation. It can block T3-induced oligodendrocyte development from precursor cells, resulting in ADHD. Halogenated BPA can act as TR agonists, TBBPA bind to TR and induces GH3 cell proliferation and GH production. PCB
