Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


block T3-induced oligodendrocyte development from precursor cells, resulting in ADHD. Halogenated BPA can act as TR agonists, TBBPA bind to TR and induces GH3 cell proliferation and GH production. PCB - Polychlorinated biphenyls, BPA - Bisphenol A, ADHD- Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, TBBPA - Tetrabromobisphenol A, T4 - tetraiodothyronine (thyroxine), T3 - triiodothyronine, TPO – Thyroperoxidase, TR – Thyroid Receptor, TH - Thyroid hormone, GH- Growth Hormone Adipose Tissue and Metabolic Disorders OBESITY Obesity can result in the metabolic syndrome, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular risk factors. “Obesogens” are defined as “xenobiotic chemicals that can disrupt the normal developmental and homeostatic controls over adipogenesis and/or energy balance” ( 29 ). The “obesogen hypothesis” suggests that prenatal or early-life exposure to certain EDCs compounded by sedentary lifestyle and improper nutrition predisposes certain individuals to become obese later in life ( 30 ). In DES exposed mice an increase in body fat, leptin, adiponectin, interleukin (IL) - 6, triglyceride (TG) was observed. EDCs cause upregulation of gene expression involved in adipocyte differentiation and lipid metabolism resulting in fat accumulation ( 31 ). PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors), a major regulator of adipogenesis, are expressed in adipocytes. It promotes adipocyte differentiation and the induction of lipogenic enzymes. During activation, PPARγ along with retinoid X receptor (RXR), forms a heterodimer complex which then binds to PPAR response elements for regulation of fatty acids and repression of lipolysis. EDCs like tributyltin (TBT) and triphenyltin acts as PPARγ and RXR agonists and increases adipose tissue mass. Phytoestrogens mimic endogenous estrogens and exert various biological actions. They can bind to estrogen receptor (ER)α and estrogen receptor (ER)β and influence lipogenesis. One of the major sources of phytoestrogens is soy protein which contains genistein, a phytoestrogen. At low doses genistein inhibits lipogenesis whereas at high doses it can promote lipogenesis ( 27 ). EDCs like BPA, phthalates, dioxins perfluorinated compounds, and some pesticides are emerging as potential obesogens warranting further research. Table 4. Potential Obesogenic Actions of EDCs View in own window Agonist at PPARᵧ and RXRα ( 32 ) Promotion of adipogenesis through ERs ( 33 ) Increase in enzymatic activity of 11-β hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11-β HSD type 1) ( 34 ) Increase in insulin stimulated lipogenesis ( 35 ) Alterations in blood levels of insulin, leptin, and adiponectin ( 36 ) Alteration of central energy regulatory pathways ( 37 ) Decreased TRH expression and type 4
