Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


( 35 ) Alterations in blood levels of insulin, leptin, and adiponectin ( 36 ) Alteration of central energy regulatory pathways ( 37 ) Decreased TRH expression and type 4 melanocortin receptors in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and stimulation of orexigenic pathways ( 38 ) Epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of adult-onset obesity ( 39 ) DIABETES AND GLUCOSE HOMEOSTASIS EDCs can disrupt glucose homeostasis in our body by affecting both insulin- and glucagon-secretory cells. Any toxic chemical that kills β cells or disrupts their function has been termed a “diabetogen”. The “diabetogen hypothesis” suggests that “every EDC circulating in plasma able to produce insulin resistance, independently of its obesogenic potential and its accumulation in adipocytes, may be considered a risk factor for metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes” ( 40 ). The obesogenic EDCs are risk factors for type 2 diabetes as well and lead to the dangerous combination of obesity and diabetes or “Diabesity”. However, certain EDCs may directly cause insulin resistance and defects in insulin production and secretion, without significantly affecting the weight of the individual. Studies have shown that acute treatment with BPA causes a temporary hyperinsulinemia, whereas longer-term exposure suppresses adiponectin release, and aggravates insulin resistance, obesity related syndromes, and development of diabetes mellitus. The hyperinsulinemia is attributed to the very rapid closure of ATP-sensitive K+ channels, potentiation of glucose-stimulated Ca2+ signals, and release of insulin via binding at extranuclear ER ( 41 ). Low doses of DES have been shown to impair the molecular signaling that regulates glucagon production through non genomic mechanism ( 27 ). POPs have been demonstrated to have direct effects on insulin signaling ( 42 ). They can lead to insulin resistance by causing adipose tissue inflammation. Heavy metals such as arsenic and mercury have also been considered as potential diabetogens. Intake of a high fat diet along with exposure to a cocktail of these EDCs (DEHP, BPA, PCB153, and TCDD) has been found to have sex specific alterations in the metabolic milieu in offspring. In males, there was alteration in the cholesterol metabolism whereas in females, there was pronounced effect on the glucose metabolism through a decrease in ER α expression and estrogen target genes ( 43 ). The causal relationship between EDCs and type 1 diabetes is an area warranting research as animal studies have shown exposure to EDCs associated with insulitis ( 44 ). Reproductive System Over
