Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


induces epigenetic changes that may contribute to chromosome congression failure ( 45 , 46 ). Studies in rats have shown that neonatal BPA exposure decreased the numbers of all follicle types and increased atretic follicles during adulthood ( 47 ). In vitro animal studies have demonstrated the toxic effect of phthalates on the follicle growth and inhibition of estradiol production ( 48 ). Similar toxic effects of pesticides and environmental pollutants on gene expression, follicle growth and oocyte quality have been confirmed in animal studies. BPA and phthalates have also been implicated in altered steroidogenesis in the gonads ( 49 ). Findings of alteration in uterine structure and function after exposure to EDCs is more concerning as it may lead to abnormalities in implantation and recurrent abortions ( 50 ). BPA exposure has been associated with increased risk of implantation failure and miscarriages ( 51 ). Animal studies have also pointed towards the transgenerational effect of prenatal BPA exposure on female fertility ( 52 ). Experimental studies have shown an association between phthalate exposure and reduced fertility ( 53 ). The findings of these studies need to be confirmed in the human ovary to fully understand the impact of these EDCs on fertility and reproductive health as well as the transgenerational impact. EDCs have also been found to have adverse effects on menstrual cyclicity in women. Fungicide exposure has been associated with a significant decrease in bleeding ( 54 ). BPA and pesticides may accelerate ovarian failure and may lead to premature menopause in women ( 55 ). In utero exposure to DES increases the lifetime risk of premature menopause ( 56 ). Propyl paraben, a preservative in personal care product, was associated with lower antral follicle counts as well as higher day-3 FSH levels indicating accelerated ovarian aging ( 57 ). It may not be exposure to just a single EDC and more often than not it may be a cocktail of these that could lead to early reproductive senescence. In animal studies, late gestational exposure to DES causes ovarian hyperandrogenism and menstrual abnormalities similar to those in women with PCOS ( 58 ). A few epidemiological studies have pointed towards an association between phthalate exposure and risk of endometriosis, possibly due to increased viability of cells ( 59 ). 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure may disrupt cannabinoid signaling in the human endometrium and lead to increased inflammation in the endometrium
