Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


endometriosis, possibly due to increased viability of cells ( 59 ). 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure may disrupt cannabinoid signaling in the human endometrium and lead to increased inflammation in the endometrium ( 60 ). TCCD exposure can cause a progesterone-resistant phenotype that may persist over multiple generations, suggesting that TCDD exposure has transgenerational effects on endometriosis ( 61 ). TCDD increases the expression of thymus-expressed chemokine and promotes the invasiveness of endometrial stromal cells by increasing the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9( 62 ). TCDD also reduces the expression of CD82 (a wide-spectrum tumor metastasis suppressor that inhibits the mobility and invasiveness of cells), and increases the expression of CCL2-CCR2, which recruits macrophages and further down-regulates CD82 ( 63 ). Pesticides like fenvalerate stimulate the growth of uterine fibroid cells by enhancing cell cycle progression and inhibiting apoptosis through an ER-independent pathway ( 64 ). DES exposure has been shown to increase the occurrence of early onset fibroids in the Sister Study and Nurses’ Health Study II ( 65 , 66 ). Given the multiplicity of effects of EDCs on the female reproductive system, there remains an urgent need for future studies to confirm the findings of experimental and animal studies and understand the underlying mechanisms. EFFECTS ON THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM EDCs, by virtue of their antiandrogenic and estrogenic effects can have a profound influence on the male reproductive physiology. Studies on the causative effect of EDCs on hypospadias have not given consistent results due to the small number of subjects studied. Levels of chlorinated pesticides have been found to be higher in breast milk of mothers with cryptorchid boys ( 77 ). Studies on the incidence of cryptorchidism with xenoestrogen exposure showed detectable levels of lindane and mirex in placenta with higher cryptorchidism risk ( 78 ). Higher dioxin levels in breast milk and dibutyltin concentrations in placenta were associated with cryptorchidism in Danish boys ( 79 ). Dioxins may have estrogenic effects through interaction of the dioxin-AhR nuclear translocator complex with estrogen receptor. High exposure to DDE and PCBs also has a higher risk of cryptorchidism ( 80 ). Environmental factors play an important role in the development of testicular cancers. Cryptorchidism and hypospadias are well-characterized risk factors of testicular germ cell cancers (TGCC). Although TGCC is probably a condition with fetal origins, it has been practically difficult to prove the association between pre and postnatal exposure
