Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


factors of testicular germ cell cancers (TGCC). Although TGCC is probably a condition with fetal origins, it has been practically difficult to prove the association between pre and postnatal exposure of EDCs and TGCC, given the long lag time between exposure and effect. A positive association of TGCC with DDE ( 81 ) and chlordane exposure (cis-nonachlor and trans-nonachlor) has been found ( 82 ). Intra uterine exposure to EDCs that affect the spermatogonial stem cells or Sertoli cells, can cause irreversible changes that result in permanently low adult sperm number. PCB exposure may affect sperm DNA integrity and motility ( 83 ). DDE exposure has been inversely associated with sperm motility and total sperm count ( 84 ), and positively correlated with defects in sperm chromatin condensation and morphology ( 85 ). Fetal and perinatal exposure via breast-feeding to dioxin in the Seveso accident was associated with reductions in sperm concentration, number of motile sperm, and total sperm number ( 86 ). PBDEs used as flame retardants have been found to negatively affect sperm concentration, testicular size and sperm motility ( 87 ). The major impediment to establishing a causal role of these effects of EDCs is the long lag time between the critical exposure and the manifestation of the adverse outcomes. EFFECTS ON PUBERTY There has been a decrease in the age of breast development but the age of menarche has not changed significantly. This finding alerted researchers about the possible interfering role of EDCs in pubertal mechanisms. Results of epidemiological studies have been equivocal on the effects of BPA and phthalates on pubertal onset ( 67 , 68 ). Studies have pointed towards higher kisspeptin levels in girls exposed to phthalates, which may promote precocious puberty ( 69 ). There have been inconsistencies between animal and human studies and hence, inconclusive data on the effects of other EDCs like pesticides and environmental contaminants on puberty. Apparently innocuous substances like lavender oil and tea tree oil present in lotions and creams can lead to prepubertal gynecomastia by their estrogenic effects ( 70 ). A very interesting hypothesis has been put forward to explain the role of EDCs in precocious puberty seen in immigrant girls from developing countries. Early and temporary exposure to weakly estrogenic dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) in developing countries, where the exposure is still high, could stimulate hypothalamic maturation while the pituitary gonadotrophins are inhibited via a negative
