Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


and temporary exposure to weakly estrogenic dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) in developing countries, where the exposure is still high, could stimulate hypothalamic maturation while the pituitary gonadotrophins are inhibited via a negative feedback that prevents manifestation of central maturation. This negative feedback disappears after withdrawal from the exposure, as happens when the child migrates to a different environment. This could precipitate precocious puberty in these migrant children ( 71 ). High exposure to endosulfan has been shown to be associated with pubertal delay, due to its antisteroidogenic properties ( 72 ). Dioxins act through aryl hydrocarbon receptors and thereby interact with other nuclear receptors. Exposure in boys has been associated with delayed puberty and in girls with delayed thelarche due to its antiestrogenic effects ( 73 , 74 ). Lead exposure has been implicated in delayed puberty in both boys and girls ( 75 , 76 ). Endocrine disrupters may alter the levels of endogenous hormones and their ratios by influencing their production, secretion, binding to carriers, metabolism and excretion. When studying these compounds, one needs to keep in mind about their active metabolites and the multiplicity of effects on the complex endocrine milieu. Hormone Responsive Cancer Most cancer occur due to genetic predisposition or exposure to environmental or occupational hazards. EDCs can alter the genes and result in uncontrolled proliferation of cells. Almost all the EDCs identified are known to cause cancer. People working in certain industries like coal, steel, rubber, textile, paper manufacturing, paint are at higher risk of developing cancers due to increased exposure to these EDCs. Studies have shown that early exposure to these EDCs BPA, PCBs, perflourinated compounds, phthalates, and some pesticides can increase cancer risk( 1 ). Several EDCs that mimic endogenous estrogens are potential carcinogens. The estrogen-responsive cancers including breast, endometrial, ovarian, and prostate cancers are caused due to several chemical xenoestrogens and phytoestrogens ( 88 ). EDC exposure during the critical periods of mammary gland development like gestation, puberty, and pregnancy may predispose to carcinogenesis. Dioxin exposure, especially TCDD has been found to increase the incidence of breast cancer ( 89 ). Inconsistent results have been obtained with regards to pesticide exposure and breast cancer risk, possibly due to individual chemicals studied whereas in real life, humans are often exposed to a mixture of them. Breast cancer patients present more frequently with a combination of aldrin, DDE, and DDD, and this mixture has not
