Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


real life, humans are often exposed to a mixture of them. Breast cancer patients present more frequently with a combination of aldrin, DDE, and DDD, and this mixture has not been found in healthy women ( 90 ). Exposure to diethyl phthalate, the parent may be associated with a 2-fold increase in breast cancer risk ( 91 ). EDCs may influence other estrogen dependent cancers as well. In women previously exposed to chlorotriazine herbicides, there was a significant 2.7-fold increased risk for ovarian neoplasms ( 92 ). Higher PFOA levels are associated with ovarian cancer ( 93 ). In males, those EDCs that can interfere with androgen and estrogen signaling pathways can increase the risk of prostate cancer. A classic example of developmental exposure and onset of latent disease is the progeny of mothers exposed to DES during pregnancy. Although prostatic structural abnormalities have been documented in this cohort ( 94 ), the exact effect on prostate cancer is yet to be ascertained as the cohort is still being followed up. Pesticide exposure and carcinogenesis has garnered much interest after the Agricultural Health Study (AHS) in the United States. Specific organophosphate insecticides like fonofos, malathion, terbufos, and aldrin) have been associated with increased risk of aggressive prostate cancer ( 95 ). Certain organophosphates like coumaphos and organochlorine (aldrin) pesticides increase prostate cancer risk in men with a family history of the disease ( 96 ). Compounds like chlorpyrifos, coumaphos, fonofos, and phorate strongly inhibit the hepatic CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 enzymes that metabolize testosterone, estradiol, and estrone ( 97 ) and thereby act as EDCs apart from causing DNA damage by oxidative stress. TCDD, the most toxin dioxin in the Agent Orange herbicide spray has been found to have a strong positive association in the incidence and aggressiveness of prostate cancer in the Vietnam veterans ( 98 ). Trace elements like arsenic and cadmium, have been classified as EDCs due to their ability to act as a ligand and/or interact with members of the steroid receptor superfamily and have been implicated in prostate cancer although more conclusive studies are needed. Effect on The Adrenals The adrenal gland is probably one of the most ignored glands in toxicology, despite it being very sensitive to toxins. By virtue of its intense vascularity, its capacity for uptake and storage of lipophilic agents and high local concentrations of enzymes of CYP family with potential for
