Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


sensitive to toxins. By virtue of its intense vascularity, its capacity for uptake and storage of lipophilic agents and high local concentrations of enzymes of CYP family with potential for bioactivation of toxins, the adrenals are very susceptible to the toxic effects of EDCs. The results of toxicological research on adrenals may not always be straightforward because of the dynamic nature of the HPA axis. Thus, even in the face of compromised adrenal steroidogenesis, it is not surprising to find relatively normal levels of circulating cortisol, albeit with an increased ACTH drive. Hence, scientists studying the toxic effect of EDCs on the adrenals, need to take into account the ACTH and cortisol levels as well as the adrenal weight. One of the earliest evidences for an adrenal disruptor was the use of the anesthetic, etomidate, which inhibits CYP11B1, leading to adrenal insufficiency. Another direct inhibitor of adrenal steroidogenic enzymes is a derivative of the pesticide DDD, mitotane (o,p’-DDD), which is used to treat Cushing’s syndrome. Polychlorinated biphenyl 126 (PCB126) causes an increase in aldosterone biosynthesis by increasing expression of CYP11B2, the enzyme which catalyzes the final step of aldosterone biosynthesis. High concentrations PCB126 has been shown to increase expression of the Angiotensin 1 (AT1) receptor, enhancing angiotensin II responsiveness of adrenal cells. Lead has also been reported to increase aldosterone synthesis by a mechanism consistent with upregulation of CYP11B2. It has also been reported that a class of herbicides (2-chloro-s-triazine herbicides) increase the expression of CYP19, which encodes aromatase, raising the possibility of increased adrenal estrogen secretion ( 99 ). The lack of a clear understanding of the adrenal toxicology can be overcome by the use of sophisticated endocrine studies, which take into account the dynamicity of the HPA axis. EFFECT OF EDCs DURING PREGNANCY Studies on animals have shown that EDCs can affect germ cell lines. In a cohort study of 47,540 women with history of exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy and ADHD diagnosis were followed up to three generations (F0, F1, F2) to know consequences of exposure to DES. This study revealed that the progeny of mothers who used DES in the 1 st trimester of pregnancy had higher risk of developing ADHD. BPA is another EDC which can lead to neuroendocrinal problems ( 100 ). This highlights the ill effects of EDCs in vertical transmission. EDCs like perfluorooctanoic acid have been implicated in pregnancy induced hypertension.
