Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


which can lead to neuroendocrinal problems ( 100 ). This highlights the ill effects of EDCs in vertical transmission. EDCs like perfluorooctanoic acid have been implicated in pregnancy induced hypertension. There have been some pointers towards an association between BPA and preterm birth but it has not been conclusively proven in experimental animal studies ( 101 ). Phthalate exposure during pregnancy may be associated with increased odds of prematurity ( 102 ). The possible mechanisms are interference with the placental function via effects on trophoblast differentiation and placental steroidogenesis which could increase the risk of preterm birth. Similar genetic effects of pesticides have also been shown to result in increased prematurity and preterm birth. This risk has been shown to be magnified in those with certain genetic mutations, highlighting the gene- environment interaction ( 103 ). Environmental contaminants like TCCD exert pro-inflammatory effects on the placenta, leading to infection-mediated preterm birth ( 104 ). EDCs have also been implicated in adverse birth outcomes. In the Generation R study in The Netherlands, prenatal BPA exposure was associated with reduced fetal weight and head circumference ( 105 ). The same study also showed that maternal phthalate exposure was associated with an increased time-to-pregnancy ( 106 ) and impaired fetal growth during pregnancy and decreased placental weight ( 107 ). In a similar Japanese study, maternal urinary MEHP levels were negatively associated with anogenital distance (AGD) in male offspring ( 108 ). Pesticide exposure during the second trimester of pregnancy have been negatively associated with birth weight, birth length, and head circumference as shown in the data from Center for Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas (CHAMACOS) ( 109 ). Increased incidence of infants being born as small for gestational age has also been reported in mothers who were exposed to pesticides ( 110 ). A sex dependent nature of these adverse birth outcomes has been demonstrated in a Chinese study with a decrease in gestational duration in girls but not boys ( 111 ). Similarly, in the Hokkaido Study on Environment and Children’s Health, an ongoing cohort study in Japan, PCDF and PCDD exposures were negatively associated with birth weight and infant development, with males being more susceptible than females ( 112 ). However, not all studies are shown these consistent adverse effects of EDCs. Hence future studies should confirm these preliminary findings and also study certain EDCs which have
