Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


( 112 ). However, not all studies are shown these consistent adverse effects of EDCs. Hence future studies should confirm these preliminary findings and also study certain EDCs which have never been studied so far in experimental and epidemiological studies. DETECTION OF EDCs EDCs may be in complex forms or in trace amounts in biological fluids or environment which makes it difficult to identify or detect them. The methods used for the detection of these compounds should be highly sensitive and specific. These include liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and capillary electrophoresis. The bioassay techniques (Receptor binding assay, Receptor gene assay, DNA binding assay) are either qualitative or quantitative and can be helpful to know the biological effects of the complex samples. Due to the complexities and trace amount of the EDC, preconcentration is required ( 5 ). However, the limitations in sensitivity, reproductivity, difficulty in separation, and affordability still remain. FUTURE TRENDS Newer methods are being explored to predict the effect of chemical disruptors using artificial intelligence (AI). Combining artificial neural network (ANN) and chemical similarity approaches, a significant role of AI in chemical endocrine receptor disruption prediction has been demonstrated. For example, isoflavone genistein, a phytoestrogen from soy was found to be active or disruptive whereas isoflavone daidzein from the soy was predicted to be inactive or non-disruptive ( 113 ). ANN can be used to predict chemical activity against estrogen and androgen receptors. Machine learning and ANN can more accurately and precisely predict EDCs in future. Biosensors are newer devices which can detect chemicals up to femtomolar limit of detection. Aptasensors, Nanotubes, Molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP)-based sensors are the emerging EDC detectors ( 114 ). Recently a device called ‘Tethys’ has been invented to detect presence of lead in water. Lead is known to affect the hormone signaling and central nervous system. This device works on the basis of nanocarbon tubes and could send water quality information via Bluetooth ( 115 ). Among several computer aided approaches, invitro and in silico predictions are now used to predict large number of chemical disruptors in the environment ( 116 ). Also the ligand-based models, like QSAR models which can predict biological activities of EDC and structure-based models can be combined with Artificial Intelligence technology for more accurate EDC predictions ( 117 ). EDCs IN THE TROPICS Pesticide use has increased over the years due to intensification of agricultural practices in
