Endocrine Disruptor Chemicals
KEYWORDS: pubmed, exposure, edcs, free, pmc free, pmc, free article, article, article pubmed, effects, health, studies, endocrine, cancer, environ


with Artificial Intelligence technology for more accurate EDC predictions ( 117 ). EDCs IN THE TROPICS Pesticide use has increased over the years due to intensification of agricultural practices in the tropical countries. While the developed countries do have a well-established legal framework for pesticide environmental risk assessments, such requirements are either not available or inadequately implemented in tropical countries. Added to these woes are the fact that cheap compounds that are environmentally persistent and highly toxic, banned from agriculture use in developed countries, still remain popular in developing countries ( 118 ). These may lead to soil and water contamination with pesticide residues. The effect of these compounds on the applicators as well as the consumers are manyfold. In a multi-centric study to assess the pesticide residues in selected food commodities (Surveillance of Food Contaminants in India, 1993), DDT residues were found in about 82% of the 2205 samples of bovine milk. Data on 186 samples of 20 commercial brands of infants’ formulae showed the presence of residues of DDT and Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) isomers in about 70 and 94% of the samples with their maximum level of 4.3 and 5.7 mg/kg respectively ( 119 ). The average daily intake of HCH and DDT by Indians was reported to be 115 and 48 mg per person respectively, which were higher than those observed in most of the developed countries ( 120 ). Over these continuous levels of exposure through food, water and soil are the occasional spillovers and accidents that lead to greater exposure. Although these exposures have been documented well in literature, there are sparse studies from the tropical areas on the long-term effects, especially in relation to the endocrine system. Although there are compelling social and economic benefits for the rampant use of EDCs, the policymakers need to be made aware of the long term and sometimes transgenerational effects of these molecules. CONCLUSION EDCs are an emerging global health problem that requires urgent attention and action. The most common EDCs that we encounter in our day-to-day life are BPA, PCBs, paraben etc. This results in endocrinological problems in all the age groups. There is an urgent need of novel biomarkers, detectors or assays using novel technologies for the early detection of EDCs. The novel technologies like Artificial Intelligence, OMICS (Genomics, Epigenomics, Mitochondriomics) and Nano technology are the new-way forward in this regard. Food and Health authorities play a
