Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


25–1 CHAPTER 25 IMPACT OF SLEEP AND CIRCADIAN DISTURBANCES ON GLUCOSE METABOLISM AND TYPE 2 DIABETES Sirimon Reutrakul, MD, CDE, Naresh M. Punjabi, MD, PhD, and Eve Van Cauter, PhD Dr. Sirimon Reutrakul is Associate Professor in the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. Dr. Naresh M. Punjabi is Professor in the Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Dr. Eve Van Cauter is the Frederick H. Rawson Professor in the Section of Adult and Pediatric Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism and the Director of the Sleep, Metabolism and Health Center, Department of Medicine, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL. Received in final form March 31, 2016. SUMMARY The term “sleep disturbance” is widely used to refer to a variety of conditions, including sleep insufficiency, sleep fragmentation, sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea, and misaligned sleep, as occurs in shift workers. Insufficient sleep and sleep fragmentation are linked to abnormal glucose metabolism, insulin sensitivity reduction of 20%–30%, and increased diabetes risk. Well-controlled laboratory studies have provided insights regarding the underlying mechanisms. Multiple large prospective studies have found that that these sleep disturbances increase the risk of incident diabetes by as much as 30%–50%. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which combines sleep fragmentation and hypoxemia, has been identified as a risk factor for insulin resistance and diabetes. OSA is highly prevalent in patients with type 2 diabetes, affecting roughly two out of three patients, and its severity correlates with glycemic control. Whether glycemic control can be improved by treating OSA remains controversial. Sleep disturbances during pregnancy are linked to gestational diabetes and hyperglycemia, and there is evidence for potential adverse effects on maternal and fetal health. Evidence from animal models has identified disruption of the circadian system as a putative risk factor for adverse metabolic outcomes. Shift work, a condition of chronic circadian disruption, is linked to weight gain and incident obesity and diabetes. As sleep disturbances are increasingly common in modern society and may play a role in the epidemic of type 2 diabetes, strategies to prevent diabetes or reduce its severity should consider optimizing sleep health in at-risk populations. Intervention studies demonstrating that treating sleep disturbances may help prevent diabetes or improve glycemic control are lacking but have become an area of intense research. INTRODUCTION Humans spend approximately one-third of their lifetime sleeping. Sleep is viewed as a state of energy conservation
