Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


glycemic control are lacking but have become an area of intense research. INTRODUCTION Humans spend approximately one-third of their lifetime sleeping. Sleep is viewed as a state of energy conservation and replen­ ishment of energy stores. Normal human sleep is composed of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep and stages N1, N2, and N3 of non-REM (NREM) sleep. N3 is the deepest stage of NREM sleep and is also known as slow wave sleep (SWS). Oscillations between REM and NREM stages occur roughly every 90 minutes and repeat four to six times throughout the night. This important physiologic process is controlled in part by an internal circadian clock and in part by a homeostatic mechanism where the pressure for sleep increases in proportion to the duration of prior wakefulness. Human behavior may override these physiologic control mechanisms, resulting in alterations of sleep duration, quality, or timing. Increasing prevalence of sleep disorders, such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), parallels the increase in obesity rates. According to the definition proposed by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, “sleep deficiency” occurs when an individual has insufficient sleep, poor sleep, a diagnosed sleep disorder, or abnormal timing of sleep (1). Multiple reviews (2,3,4) have elected to use the term “sleep disturbances” to designate insufficient or excessive sleep duration, poor self-reported sleep quality, or a diagnosed sleep disorder, such as OSA. Experimental and epidemiologic data have linked insufficient sleep duration, abnormal sleep timing, and poor sleep quality to insulin resistance, increased risk of obesity, and diabetes. In patients with type 2 diabetes, sleep disturbances may adversely affect glycemic control. OSA is well recognized as a risk factor for insulin resistance, independent of the degree of obesity, and is highly prevalent in patients with type 2 diabetes. OSA is a complex disorder involving intermittent hypoxia, sleep fragmentation, low amounts of SWS, and reduced total sleep 25–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition time. Well-documented studies in animal models indicate that intermittent hypoxia is one of the mechanisms linking OSA to abnormal glucose metabolism. Whether treatment of OSA with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) may improve glucose metabolism remains controversial. Pregnant women are a special population that may be particularly vulnerable to adverse effects of abnormal sleep. Sleep disturbances in pregnancy are associ­ ated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes, including gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, and premature delivery. Because of these potential complications, the body of literature on this topic has
