Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


pregnancy are associ­ ated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes, including gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, and premature delivery. Because of these potential complications, the body of literature on this topic has grown rapidly. Besides sleep duration, sleep quality, and OSA, emerging evidence from well-controlled clinical research studies has revealed that conditions where the behavioral sleep/wake cycle is not in synchrony with the biological circadian timing system, so-called “circadian misalignment,” may result in impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). In cross-sec­ tional analyses, circadian misalignment is associated with increased diabetes risk in nondiabetic individuals and with poor glycemic control in patients with estab­ lished type 2 diabetes. This chapter summarizes the evidence linking different types of sleep disturbances to abnormal glucose metabolism, including insufficient sleep, sleep fragmentation, OSA, and circadian misalignment. Potential underlying mechanisms are discussed, as well as findings from prospective and cross- sectional epidemiologic studies and from intervention studies. INSUFFICIENT SLEEP While it is important to note that the amount of sleep that optimizes physical and mental health is an individual characteristic that tends to decrease with age, it is generally considered that 7–8 hours of sleep nightly is adequate for most adults (5). Partly due to changes in work and social demands, sleep duration in the United States has been declining (6). In data from 110,441 adults participating in the National Health Interview Surveys 2004–2007, the prevalences of self- reported short sleep duration were 7.8% for sleeping ≤5 hours and 20.5% for sleeping 6 hours per day (7). In 2009, >30% of U.S. men and women age 30–65 years reported sleeping <6 hours per night on workdays (6). Insufficient sleep has been linked to reduced insulin sensitivity and increased risk of type 2 diabetes, both in laboratory studies in healthy humans and in epidemiologic studies. A causative role of partial sleep restriction in promoting alterations in glucose metabolism was first established in 1999 (8). Intravenous glucose tolerance testing (IVGTT) following sleep restriction to 4 hours per night for five nights resulted in a 24% decrease in insulin sensitivity (Figure 25.1), as well as a 30% decrease in the acute insulin response to intravenous glucose (8,9). Moreover, an increase in the HOMA (homeostatic model assessment, an index of insulin resistance) response to breakfast was observed on the following day and occurred despite similar insulin secretory responses. These findings indicated that a state of sleep debt caused a decrease in insulin sensitivity that
