Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


breakfast was observed on the following day and occurred despite similar insulin secretory responses. These findings indicated that a state of sleep debt caused a decrease in insulin sensitivity that was not compensated by increased insulin release, leading to a more than 40% decrease in glucose tolerance compared to the fully rested condition. Several subsequent, well-controlled experimental studies in healthy human subjects involving sleep restriction to 4–5.5 hours per night for 5–14 nights and assessments of glucose metabolism by IVGTT or euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp have confirmed a reduction of insulin sensitivity ranging from 16% to 32% in response to sleep restriction without simultaneous increases in insulin levels, resulting in reduced glucose tolerance and an increased risk of diabetes (Figure 25.1) (10,11,12,13). A few studies that included assessments after sleep recovery found that the metabolic disturbances induced by sleep restriction were at least partially reversible (improved glucose tolerance as assessed by IVGTT (8) and a reduc­ tion in the insulin-to-glucose ratio (14)). FIGURE 25.1. Reduction in Insulin Sensitivity as Assessed by Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test From Laboratory Studies Involving Sleep Restriction, Sleep Fragmentation, and Intermittent Hypoxia h, hour; SWS, slow wave sleep. SOURCE: References are listed within the figure. Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–3 Further, 2 weeks of sleep extension in habitual short sleepers resulted in changes in indices of fasting insulin sensitivity that were correlated with the amount of sleep extension, with those obtaining more sleep having the largest increases in insulin sensitivity (15). Lastly, a small study indicated that three nights of in-laboratory “catch-up” sleep in men with chronic, repetitive, lifestyle-driven sleep restriction led to improved insulin sensi­ tivity as assessed by a 2-hour frequently sampled glucose tolerance test (16). Multiple cross-sectional epidemiologic studies have indicated that self-re­ ported short sleep duration (usually <6 hours per night) is associated with increased odds of prediabetes and diabetes. Relevant population-based studies examining associations between these conditions of abnormal glucose tolerance and self- reported short sleep duration in the United States and Canada are listed in Tables 25.1 and 25.2. Importantly, 12 of 16 large prospective studies with a follow-up TABLE 25.1. duration of 2–32 years have observed that short sleep duration is associated with an increased risk of incident diabetes (Table 25.3) (17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25, 26,27,28,29,30,31,32). All five studies conducted in the United States, including the Nurses’ Health Study (17), National Health and Nutrition Examination
