Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


sleep insufficiency and glucose metabolism, not a single interventional study to date has explored the role of sleep extension in diabetes prevention or treatment. SLEEP FRAGMENTATION, SHALLOW SLEEP, AND INSOMNIA Sleep fragmentation is a hallmark of poor sleep quality that can be objectively assessed by low sleep efficiency (a ratio of time spent asleep versus time in bed) or by a long cumulated “wake time after sleep onset [WASO]” by polysomnography (PSG), the “gold standard” diagnostic test used to study sleep patterns and circadian rhythms in the medical setting. (PSG is described in more detail in the section Obstructive Sleep Apnea: Disease Definition and Diagnosis.) Actigraphy recordings, from a device that is worn on the wrist for a week or more and is less cumbersome, also provide good estimations of sleep efficiency. Even in the absence of sleep fragmentation, shallow sleep, as reflected polygraphically from PSG by a low amount of deep NREM sleep (also known as SWS), has also been shown to be associated with adverse meta­ bolic consequences. A laboratory study of healthy volunteers demonstrated that SWS suppression without changes in total sleep duration results in abnormal glucose metabolism. Suppression of SWS using acoustic stimuli for three nights resulted in a 25% decrease in insulin sensitivity as assessed by minimal model analysis of a frequently sampled IVGTT (40) without a compensatory increase in insulin secretion as assessed by the acute insulin response to intravenous glucose (Figure 25.1) (41). The acoustic stimuli were calibrated as to not induce full arousals and thus not affect sleep efficiency. In a similar study, sleep fragmentation by acoustic stimuli and mechanical vibrations for two full nights was associated with a 25% decrease in insulin sensitivity (Figure 25.1) (42). The experimental manipulation resulted in a marked decrease of SWS and also of other sleep stages. Insomnia is one of the manifestations of subjective poor sleep quality. According to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-V criteria, insomnia symptoms include one or more of the following: a report of difficulty initiating sleep, difficulty maintaining sleep, early- morning awakening with inability to return to sleep, or a report of unrefreshing sleep (43). Multiple cross-sectional studies in the United States have found a significant association between poor sleep quality or insomnia symptoms and prediabetes or diabetes (Table 25.4) (44,45,46,47,48). To date, 11 of 12 prospective studies have linked poor sleep quality to incident diabetes (Table 25.5) (19,26,27,28,29,49,
