Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–9 TABLE 25.5. (continued) STUDY/LOCATION, YEARS (REF.) POPULATION SAMPLE SIZE FOLLOW-UP (YEARS) SLEEP ASSESSMENT OUTCOME AND ASSESSMENT RESULTS Sweden, 1968– 2001 (19) Cohort study of women, mean age 46.8 years 1,462 32 Sleep problems, defined as having reported sleep problems and/or having consulted a doctor for sleep problems and/or hospital admission for this reason, use of sleep medication Self-reported of diabetes diagnosed by physician or use of diabetes therapy or FPG ≥126 mg/dL on two occasions or more Sleep complaints or use of sleep medications were not associated with diabetes. Conversions for A1c and glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin; CI, confidence interval; DSM-IV, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV; FBG, fasting blood glucose; FPG, fasting plasma glucose; GAD Ab, glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody; HR, hazard ratio; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test; OR, odds ratio; RR, relative risk. * Three or more of the following: I take a tablet to help me sleep; I lie awake most of the night; I sleep badly at night; It takes me a long time to fall asleep; or I wake up in the early hours of the morning. † Two or more of the following: problems with sleep induction, awakening during the night, final awakening earlier than desired, insufficient sleep, or overall poor sleep quality. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. 1.03–1.42) (28). Meta-analyses, pooling five of these studies, revealed that self- reported difficulty in maintaining sleep predicted the development of diabetes with a relative risk of 1.84 (total 24,192 participants), while self-reported difficulty in initiating sleep was associated with an increased relative risk of 1.57 (total 18,213 participants) (33). By comparison, estimates of the relative risk of developing diabetes associated with a family history of type 2 diabetes have ranged from 1.7 to 2.3 (56,57,58,59,60), with only one study in South African blacks estimating the relative risk at a substantially higher value of 4.1 (61). Thus, the relative risk of incident diabetes in individuals reporting insufficient sleep or difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep is of the same order of magnitude as the relative risk imparted by having a family history of type 2 diabetes, usually considered as one of the strongest predictors of diabetes risk. Interestingly, one study also found an association of poor sleep quality and an increased risk of
