Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


type 2 diabetes, usually considered as one of the strongest predictors of diabetes risk. Interestingly, one study also found an association of poor sleep quality and an increased risk of autoimmune diabetes (53). Only a few cross-sectional studies have examined the relationship between sleep quality and glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. The largest study in the United States included 161 African American patients and found that in those with at least one diabetic complication (i.e., retinopathy, neuropathy, nephropathy, cardiovascular, or cerebrovascular diseases), there was a graded relationship between glycemic control as assessed by A1c and the score on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) (34). Specifically, a 5-point increase in PSQI score predicted an elevation of A1c level of 1.9% above the median. Another cross-sectional study of 46 Taiwanese patients found an association between poor glycemic control (defined as A1c ≥7% [≥53 mmol/mol]) and poor sleep quality (PSQI ≥8), as well as poor sleep efficiency (62). Similarly, poor sleep quality as assessed by questionnaire in 551 Chinese type 2 diabetes patients found an association between lower sleep quality and higher insulin resistance as measured by HOMA-IR (63). A few studies have utilized objective measurement of sleep quality. Knutson et al. reported a cross-sectional association between an objective estimation of sleep quality and markers of glucose metabolism in participants of the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study (38). The sleep parameters were derived from actigraphy recordings, which have been shown to be well correlated with those obtained by PSG (64). While there were no correlations between sleep and metabolic variables in nondiabetic participants, sleep fragmentation and insomnia were associated with significantly higher fasting glucose, insulin, and HOMA levels in diabetic participants (38). Another study conducted in Italy, involving 47 patients with type 2 diabetes, reported that A1c correlates inversely with sleep efficiency as measured by actigraphy (39). Interestingly, in the NHANES 2005–2006, a study of 958 adults with prediabetes (fasting glucose 100–125 mg/dL [5.55–6.94 mmol/L], 2-hour oral glucose tolerance values of 140–199 mg/dL [7.77–11.04 mmol/L], or A1c 5.7%–6.4% [39–46 mmol/mol]) did not find a relationship between insomnia symptoms and A1c levels (65). However, those with insomnia symptoms were less active as measured by steps walked during the 2-day recordings. The findings suggest that insomnia in adults with prediabetes may be a barrier to adopting an active lifestyle. Despite the link between poor sleep quality and
