Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


during the 2-day recordings. The findings suggest that insomnia in adults with prediabetes may be a barrier to adopting an active lifestyle. Despite the link between poor sleep quality and diabetes risk or poor glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes, there has not been a single study so far exploring whether improving sleep quality may be a viable strategy to prevent diabetes or reduce its severity. 25–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition PATHWAYS INVOLVED IN THE ADVERSE METABOLIC IMPACT OF INSUFFICIENT SLEEP AND POOR SLEEP QUALITY Laboratory studies in healthy humans have provided evidence for the implication of multiple pathways in the link between reduced sleep duration and/or quality, insulin resistance, and hyperglycemia (Figure 25.2) (2). Decreased Brain Glucose Utilization During Waking Hours The brain utilizes glucose in an insulin- independent manner and is responsible for at least 50% of total glucose utilization in the fasting state. The rate of cerebral glucose metabolism as measured by positron emission tomography and 18Fluorine-2-deoxyglucose following a 24-hour period of total sleep deprivation has been found to be significantly decreased, especially in several cortical and subcortical areas (66). This is in agreement with the findings of a sleep debt study that revealed a 30% reduction in glucose effectiveness, an index of insulin-independent glucose disposal (8). Increased Sympathetic Nervous System Activity Sleep deprivation and sleep fragmentation lead to a shift in sympathovagal balance toward an increase in sympathetic nervous system activity as reflected by lower heart rate variability (8,41,42). Increased sympathetic nervous system activity has inhibitory effects on insulin secretion and promotes insulin resistance and the development of the metabolic syndrome (67,68). In addition, some studies have documented increased serum and urine norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations following sleep deprivation (11,12,69). These hormones promote gluconeogenesis. Alterations in the Hypothalamic- Pituitary-Adrenal Axis and Growth Hormone Several studies observed an increase in salivary and serum cortisol levels following sleep deprivation, particularly in the evening and early part of the night, at the time when the levels are normally very low following the normal circadian pattern (8,12,70,71). In one study, there was no change in corticotropin (ACTH) level, suggesting an enhanced adrenal reactivity (70). Evening elevations of cortisol may promote morning insulin resistance (72). An increase in morning serum cortisol levels was also reported after sleep fragmentation (73). In a sleep debt study, growth hormone secretion was found to increase prior to sleep onset and to limit
