Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


morning serum cortisol levels was also reported after sleep fragmentation (73). In a sleep debt study, growth hormone secretion was found to increase prior to sleep onset and to limit the amplitude of post-sleep onset growth hormone release (9). Prolonged night­ time exposure to growth hormone may promote hyperglycemia. Increase in Systemic Inflammatory Response Inflammatory responses to sleep depri­ vation have been reviewed in detail (74). Multiple studies have demonstrated increases in leukocyte and monocyte counts (75,76,77), as well as elevations in the levels of proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) (13,78,79,80,81). Increased proinflamma­ tory cytokines have been linked to insulin resistance (82). Some studies, however, did not observe an association between alterations in the circulating levels of some of these cytokines and sleep disturbances, possibly partly due to variability of base­ line levels within the population, as well as timing of specimen collection relative to the circadian cycle (74). Alterations in Appetite-Regulating Hormones and Increased Obesity Risk Appetite-regulating hormones, including leptin, which is one of the satiety hormones, and ghrelin, which is a hunger hormone, have been studied in the context of sleep restriction experiments. The first study that assessed these changes involved two nights of 4 hours in bed versus two nights of 10 hours in bed in healthy, normal-weight young men (83). During sleep restriction, leptin decreased by 18% and ghrelin increased by 28%. These changes were associated with a 23% increase in hunger ratings and a 33% increase in appetite for carbohydrate- rich foods. More than 10 subsequent studies have explored these hormonal changes in response to sleep restriction with some variations in participants’ characteristics (i.e., adiposity and sex distribution), severity of sleep restriction, blood sampling methodology, and dietary protocols (ad libitum food access or controlled caloric consumption) (84,85). Not surprisingly, since leptin levels are highly sensitive to energy balance and modulated by sex and adiposity, FIGURE 25.2. Pathways Linking Sleep Insufficiency and Fragmentation to Abnormal Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes SOURCE: Reference 2, copyright © 2014 New York Academy of Sciences, reprinted with permission Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–11 the findings have been inconsistent, with decreased (83,86,87,88), unchanged (89,90), or increased (14,91,92,93) concentrations. However, most of the studies that utilized multiple blood samplings in normal-weight men under conditions of controlled food intake consistently
