Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


inconsistent, with decreased (83,86,87,88), unchanged (89,90), or increased (14,91,92,93) concentrations. However, most of the studies that utilized multiple blood samplings in normal-weight men under conditions of controlled food intake consistently revealed a reduction in leptin amplitude or mean levels, suggesting that the discrepancies may, at least in part, be due to modulation of leptin secretion by obesity, sex, and food intake. Whether the results obtained in short-term laboratory studies may be extrapolated to real-life conditions is debatable. In a field study of 80 obese adults, no associations were found between leptin levels and sleep duration or quality (94). In contrast, the Wisconsin Sleep Cohort Study (1,024 participants) found an association between reduced leptin levels, along with elevated ghrelin levels and increased body mass index (BMI), in those reporting sleeping 5 hours compared to 8 hours (95). Multiple studies documented increased ghrelin levels along with increased hunger in response to partial sleep restriction (83,91,93), as well as increased caloric intake, mostly from snacks. Several studies have observed that the excessive caloric consumption was mostly from carbohydrate-rich foods, although increased intake of fat or of all macronutrients has also been reported (96,97,98,99,100). However, similar to the findings regarding leptin levels, not all studies observed increased ghrelin levels (11,97,101). Two studies utilizing functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased neuronal activity in certain brain areas involved in the reward system in response to presentation of food stimuli after total and partial sleep restriction (102,103). These imaging findings are consistent with a report showing an increase in the levels of circulating endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) after three days of sleep restriction compared to normal sleep (89). Since sleep restriction provides more wake time, it has been suggested that the caloric need of extended wakefulness may counterbalance the increase in hunger and food intake. Several studies have addressed changes in energy expenditure following sleep restriction. Surprisingly, three independent studies failed to detect an increase in energy expenditure assessed by the doubly labeled water method in individuals who underwent experimental partial sleep restriction (96,97,98). However, when the subjects were confined to a calorimetry room in order to monitor minute-to-minute energy expenditure during normal sleep and total sleep deprivation (104), the caloric cost per hour of wakefulness under sedentary conditions compared to sleep averaged only 17 Kcal, suggesting that the stimulation of hunger and food intake far exceeds the caloric need of extended wakefulness. A study involving 5 days
