Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


conditions compared to sleep averaged only 17 Kcal, suggesting that the stimulation of hunger and food intake far exceeds the caloric need of extended wakefulness. A study involving 5 days of partial sleep restriction, similar to a work week, under controlled laboratory conditions indeed observed that the approximate 5% increase in daily energy expenditure was overcompensated by energy intake, particularly at night, resulting in significant weight gain (99). Additionally, there is evidence that the sleepiness and fatigue associated with insufficient sleep may result in a reduction in voluntary physical activity (105,106). Collectively, these changes in appetite regulation in favor of increased hunger and food intake without commensurate increase in energy expenditure place individuals at risk for obesity. These results are supported by multiple prospective studies that found a significant association between short sleep and greater weight gain in both adults and children (107,108,109,110). Abnormal Adipocyte Function Adipocytes play a pivotal role in the regulation of energy balance and appear to play an important role in the changes in energy balance in response to sleep restriction (111). Leptin is released primarily from subcutaneous fat depot in direct proportion to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and total subcutaneous fat mass (112). Increased sympathetic nervous activity leads to stimulation of lipolysis and increased free fatty acids which could lead to insulin resistance (113). A randomized crossover trial of 4 days of sleep restriction (4.5 hours per night) versus 4 days of normal sleep (8.5 hours per night) in healthy, young, lean men studied under controlled conditions of caloric intake and physical activity showed an increase in nocturnal free fatty acid levels that was correlated with the reduction in insulin sensitivity (114). In addition, elevated levels of glucocorticoids facilitate visceral fat accumulation, increased lipolysis, and insulin resistance. Molecular mechanisms involved in insulin signaling in adipocytes collected from individuals who were sleep restricted were examined by Broussard et al. (10) in a subset of the participants in the randomized crossover study of 4 days with 4.5 hours in bed versus 8.5 hours in bed. Subcutaneous fat biopsy under restricted sleep conditions revealed a 30% reduction in the ability of insulin to increase levels of phosphorylated Akt (also known as protein kinase B), a crucial early step in the insulin signaling pathway, compared to during normal sleep conditions. This impaired cellular insulin sensitivity paralleled the decrease in total body insulin sensitivity as assessed by IVGTT. In summary, a
