Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


the insulin signaling pathway, compared to during normal sleep conditions. This impaired cellular insulin sensitivity paralleled the decrease in total body insulin sensitivity as assessed by IVGTT. In summary, a large body of evidence supports a causal relationship between sleep insufficiency and sleep fragmentation and alterations in multiple physiologic pathways, resulting in abnormal glucose metabolism, increased diabetes risk, and possibly contributing to poor glycemic control in individuals who have prediabetes or diabetes. Further research studies should explore whether optimizing sleep duration and quality will, in the long term, result in decreased diabetes risk or improved glycemic control in patients with established type 2 diabetes. 25–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition PATHWAYS INVOLVED IN THE ADVERSE METABOLIC IMPACT OF LONG SLEEP DURATION In contrast to short sleep duration, the mechanisms linking long sleep duration and abnormal glucose metabolism are poorly understood. One of the limitations is that most, if not all, studies documenting an adverse metabolic impact of long sleep (typically >8–9 hours per night) have been based on self-reported sleep duration. Additionally, it has been speculated that long sleepers are actually poor sleepers who extend their time in bed to try to compensate for poor sleep quality (115). Another possibility is that long sleepers suffer from fatigue resulting from an undiagnosed preclinical condition. In a study of type 2 diabetes patients, long sleepers (≥8.5 hours per night) were more likely to have depressive symptoms and to be more physically inactive compared to those who reported sleeping 6.5–7.4 hours per night (35). Increased sedentarity, a correlate of long sleep, could also have adverse cardiometabolic effects. A prerequisite to the identification of putative mechanisms that could mediate adverse effects of long sleep is the demonstration that these effects are still present when sleep duration is assessed objectively, rather than by self-report. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA DISEASE DEFINITION AND DIAGNOSIS OSA is a common sleep disorder that is characterized by recurrent episodes of complete or partial collapse of the upper airway during sleep. The cessation or reduction in airflow is often associated with decreased oxygen saturation and/or arousal from sleep. Patients with OSA present with a constellation of nocturnal symptoms that include loud disruptive snoring, bed partner-reported breathing pauses (apneas), choking and gasping episodes during sleep, and frequent awak­ enings. Common daytime consequences include excessive daytime sleepiness, fatigue, irritability, and deficits in attention and memory. Epidemiologic data from several community- and population-based studies from
