Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


breathing patterns (obstructive, central, and mixed apneas) during sleep (121). PSG yields a quantification of episodes of apnea and hypopnea per hour of sleep, an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI). A diagnosis of OSA is made when the AHI is ≥5. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA AND METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION In addition to reductions in sleep duration and quality, intermittent hypoxia is the hallmark of OSA. Only one experimental study in humans has examined the impact of intermittent hypoxemia on glucose metabolism. In this study, 13 healthy volunteers were subjected to 5 hours of intermittent hypoxia while awake, resulting in an average of 24.3 desaturation events per hour (122), equivalent to hypoxia in OSA of moderate severity (AHI ≥15–30). Insulin sensitivity and glucose FIGURE 25.3. Types of Disordered Breathing Events Three-minute recordings characteristic of obstructive, central, and mixed apneas during sleep. Traces shown repre­ sent oxyhemoglobin saturation, airflow, and thoracic and abdominal movement. SOURCE: Reference 121, copyright © 2013 Elsevier, reprinted with permission 25–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition effectiveness, as assessed by IVGTT, were reduced by 17% and 31%, respectively, without simultaneous increase in insulin secretion. These results suggest that hypoxic stress may have an intrinsic adverse impact on glucose metabolism and diabetes risk. Over the last two decades, a number of observational studies have demonstrated that OSA is associated with insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, type 2 diabetes, and the metabolic syndrome, independent of such factors as age, sex, race, BMI, and measures of visceral adiposity (Tables 25.8 and 25.9). Epidemiologic data from community- and population-based cohorts, including the Sleep Heart Health Study (123) and the Wisconsin Sleep Cohort Study (124), have shown that the severity of OSA, as assessed by the AHI, is directly associated with fasting hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance, and the prevalence of physician-diagnosed type 2 diabetes. Irrespective of the method used for assessing insulin sensitivity, a majority of published reports indicate that the severity of OSA (i.e., AHI) is inversely related to the degree of insulin sensitivity. Moreover, metrics of nocturnal hypoxemia (e.g., oxyhemoglobin desaturation and average oxygen saturation during sleep) strongly correlate with the degree of whole body insulin resistance (Table 25.8). TABLE 25.8. Studies on the Association Between Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Measures of Insulin Resistance YEARS (REF.) STUDY SAMPLE SAMPLE SIZE SLEEP ASSESSMENT INDEPENDENT VARIABLE DEPENDENT VARIABLE CONFOUNDERS ASSESSED ASSOCIATION NR (388) OSA 18 Oximetry ODI Insulin resistance index from OGTT BMI, age + 1991–1993 (389) OSA 261
