Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


(70 mmol/mol) in those without OSA, 9.4% (79 mmol/mol) in mild OSA, 10.6% (92 mmol/mol) in moderate OSA, and 9.9% (85 mmol/mol) in severe OSA. However, not all of the studies supported a link between OSA severity and glycemic control. The Sleep AHEAD study, involving obese type 2 diabetes patients, analyzed the relationship between sleep and metabolic parameters in 305 subjects (141). The only significant association was an inverse correlation between fasting glucose levels and sleep efficiency, but not AHI or other sleep variables. A limitation of this study is that PSG was performed in the homes of the participants and, thus, was often of lower quality and shorter duration than in the laboratory. Altogether, evidence supports an adverse impact of OSA on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. As differ­ ences in A1c levels among patients with different degrees of severity of OSA are comparable to the effect size of the most powerful combinations of available diabetes medications, multiple studies have attempted to determine whether OSA treatment with CPAP in patients with diabetes improves glycemic control, as discussed later in this chapter. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA AND DIABETES COMPLICATIONS The development of microvascular complications of diabetes is associated with poor long-term glycemic control and increased health care costs. Because OSA is associated with activation of the sympathetic nervous system and of inflammatory processes, as well as oxidative stress, it is likely that OSA contributes to the development and/or progression of these complications irrespective of strategies to optimize diabetes control. Although the details are beyond the scope of this chapter, there is evidence that type 2 diabetes patients with OSA may suffer more complications, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, and nephropathy (142,143,144), than those without OSA, with the degree of oxygen desaturation being an independent predictor in some studies (142,143). This field is a subject of ongoing research to establish whether OSA is an independent predictor of diabetes complications and whether OSA treatment delays the development or decreases the severity of microvascular complications. REM-RELATED OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA The reduction in pharyngeal muscle activity that normally occurs during REM sleep is associated with more prolonged obstructive events and more severe oxygen desaturation in OSA patients (145). In some patients, the respiratory events occur predominantly during REM sleep. This phenomenon has been termed “REM-related OSA” and is prevalent in 10%–36% of OSA patients (146). Compared to NREM sleep, apneas and hypopneas during
