Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


between including only studies with inactive control or sham CPAP, including both observational studies and RCTs, or including only the studies that utilized A1c as a part of the outcome measures. Therefore, these five meta-analyses included different studies with some overlap. Hecht et al. reported no effect of CPAP treatment on insulin, HOMA, or A1c levels from six studies utilizing inactive control or sham CPAP (total 296 participants) (164). Iftikhar et al. reported no effects on A1c from nine studies (both observational and RCTs) involving 151 participants (162). This conclusion is in agreement with the study by Chen et al. that found no improvement in A1c levels, although the index of insulin resistance improved significantly (165). In nondiabetic subjects, there seems to be an improvement of insulin resistance after CPAP therapy. Yang et al. found an improvement in HOMA-IR with a mean difference of -0.55 (95% CI -0.91 to -0.20) in nondiabetic subjects with moderate to severe OSA (from nine studies, both observational and RCTs, totaling 248 subjects) but no differences in fasting glucose levels in 39 diabetic participants from two studies (163). Similar results were found in the analysis by Iftikhar et al. (166). The inconsistency of results in the published literature is most likely due to a number of methodologic limitations, such as small sample sizes, inadequate consideration for the confounding effects of obesity, lack of data on CPAP compliance, or suboptimal CPAP compliance. As mentioned earlier, there is evidence that the adverse impact of untreated OSA on glycemic control in diabetes may be primarily caused by obstructive events occurring during REM, rather than NREM, sleep (148). CPAP use of 3–5 hours per night only treats a small portion of REM-related events and could be the reason why several RCTs of CPAP in diabetic patients have failed to observe a beneficial effect on glycemic control. Alternatively, it is plausible that the metabolic effects of OSA are irreversible, particularly if recurrent exposure to intermittent hypoxemia and sleep fragmentation causes irreparable changes in insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, or both. In light of the limited data, it is indeed premature to infer whether CPAP therapy in OSA does or does not improve glucose metabolism. Ongoing research efforts in the form of randomized clinical trials will hopefully help determine whether CPAP therapy has favorable effects on glucose metabolism among patients with OSA. Of note, a RCT examining the impact of 8 hours
