Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


randomized clinical trials will hopefully help determine whether CPAP therapy has favorable effects on glucose metabolism among patients with OSA. Of note, a RCT examining the impact of 8 hours of nightly CPAP in the laboratory on glucose tolerance in individuals with prediabetes reported positive findings (167). MECHANISTIC LINKS BETWEEN OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA AND METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION If the link between OSA and abnormalities in glucose metabolism is eventually proven to be causal, what are the potential mechanisms that underlie the association? Most likely, alterations in glucose homeostasis induced by OSA are mediated by a complex set of interactive mechanisms that are triggered by the cyclical hypoxemia and recurrent arousals from sleep (Figure 25.5) (168). In the sections that follow, physiological systems FIGURE 25.5. Putative Mechanisms Linking Sleep Apnea to Type 2 Diabetes SOURCE: Reference 168, copyright © 2015 Elsevier, reprinted with permission Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–19 that may play an important role in mediating the effects of OSA on glucose metabolism are highlighted. Particular focus is given to the sympathetic nervous system, the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis, formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and low-grade systemic inflammation. It is important to recognize that for each physiological system influenced by OSA, intermittent hypoxemia and sleep fragmentation may perturb the system independently or synergistically. Role for the Sympathetic Nervous System Compared to normal subjects, patients with OSA exhibit higher levels of sympathetic nervous system activity not just during sleep, but also during wakefulness (169). The decrease in oxyhemoglobin saturation and the concurrent increase in carbon dioxide with each disordered breathing event elicit a chemoreflex-mediated surge in sympathetic activity (170,171). Observational and experimental studies have demonstrated that even brief arousals from sleep can lead to a surge in sympathetic activity (172,173). Thus, intermittent hypoxemia and recurrent arousals from sleep can shift autonomic balance in patients with OSA. Although the exact mechanisms through which sympathetic activation affects insulin sensitivity are not well defined, there is little doubt that it has a central role in the regulation of glucose and fat metabolism (174). Catecholamines reduce insulin sensitivity and insulin-mediated glucose uptake (175). Administration of epinephrine in normal subjects can decrease insulin-mediated glycogenesis, increase glycolysis, and dampen the ability of glucose to stimulate its own disposal (176,177). Higher levels of sympathetic activity have lipolytic effects through signaling pathways that activate hormone-sensitive lipase, which can mobilize nonesterified
