Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


dampen the ability of glucose to stimulate its own disposal (176,177). Higher levels of sympathetic activity have lipolytic effects through signaling pathways that activate hormone-sensitive lipase, which can mobilize nonesterified fatty acids (178). An abrupt increase in circulating free fatty acids can worsen insulin sensitivity, while a decrease can improve insulin sensitivity, hyperinsulinemia, and glucose tolerance (179,180). In addition to the above effects, activation of the sympathetic nervous system can lead to systemic vasoconstriction, which can also affect glucose metabolism. A decrease in vascular lumen size in skeletal muscle from vasoconstriction shunts glucose and insulin to less metabolically active areas of skeletal muscle (181) and, thus, decreases overall glucose uptake (182). Sympathetic activation can also alter skeletal muscle morphology to a more insulin resistant type (183), inhibit insulin signaling, and decrease insulin-mediated glucose uptake by adipocytes (184). Thus, there is sufficient basis to speculate that an increase in sympathetic nervous system activity due to recurrent intermittent hypoxemia and sleep fragmentation plays a central role in altering glucose metabolism in sleep apnea. Role of the Hypothalamic- Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Recurrent intermittent hypoxemia and arousals in OSA could alter glucose metabolism by modulating the function of the HPA axis. Specifically, a stress-related increase in HPA activity and cortisol secretion could lead to insulin resistance and hyperglycemia. Observational data from studies of high altitude or of hypobaric conditions indicate that hypoxia modifies the diurnal pattern of the HPA axis and increases circulating cortisol (185,186,187,188,189,190,191). Moreover, brief arousals or sustained awakenings from sleep can activate the HPA axis and can further augment corticotropic function (192,193). However, experimentally induced micro-arousals designed to selectively suppress SWS for three consecutive nights in healthy young adults had no significant impact on the 24-hour profile of cortisol levels, despite an overall sleep fragmentation in the range of that associated with moderate to severe OSA (41). A notable limitation in many of the available studies on HPA axis activity in OSA is that corticotropic function was assessed with a single measurement of serum cortisol. While convenient, isolated cortisol measurements cannot reveal diurnal changes or the temporal variability in cortisol secretion. Characterizing HPA dysfunction in OSA has scientific and clinical relevance, as it would help clarify its putative role in mediating insulin resistance and glucose intolerance. It is well established that cortisol and other glucocorticoids interfere with glucose metabolism at several different levels (194,195). Cortisol increases hepatic gluconeogenesis and causes protein degradation.
