Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


resistance and glucose intolerance. It is well established that cortisol and other glucocorticoids interfere with glucose metabolism at several different levels (194,195). Cortisol increases hepatic gluconeogenesis and causes protein degradation. It also activates lipoprotein lipase, which mobilizes nonesterified fatty acids and can greatly diminish insulin sensitivity. Moreover, cortisol inhibits beta cell secretion of insulin and sequentially modifies multiple aspects of the insulin- mediated glucose transport system. In a small study of CPAP treatment of OSA in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome, there was a trend for reduced evening cortisol concentrations following CPAP (196). Given the myriad of adverse metabolic effects of HPA dysfunction, further research is needed to determine whether OSA affects HPA activity and, thus, alters glucose metabolism function. Reactive Oxygen Species as a Causal Intermediate Repetitive cycles of hypoxemia followed by re-oxygenation in OSA could increase ROS production similar to what has been observed with ischemia-reperfusion injury (197,198). Data indeed suggest that OSA is associated with higher concentrations of ROS that may, in turn, negatively influence glucose metabolism. Using study samples of modest size along with assessments before and after initiation of CPAP therapy, a number of studies have shown abnormalities in lipid peroxidation, higher isoprostane levels, and elevated markers of DNA oxidation in patients with OSA compared to normal subjects and a decline in these markers after treatment with CPAP (199,200,201,202,203). Moreover, antioxidant defenses may also be diminished in OSA (204,205). Finally, a number of in vitro studies have shown that apneic patients have increased adhesion molecule expression and production of ROS in leukocytes (206), an augmented release of neutrophil superoxide (207), and increased oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) autoantibodies (208). 25–20 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Excessive concentrations of ROS can be harmful particularly to the pancreatic beta cell given that this cell population is relatively low in antioxidant enzyme mechanisms, such as catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase (209). ROS formation is also accompa­ nied by an inhibition of insulin-stimulated substrate uptake in insulin-sensitive tissues, such as muscle and adipose tissue (210,211,212). Moreover, several studies also suggest that pharmacolog­ ical doses of the antioxidants vitamin E, vitamin C, and lipoic acid in healthy volun­ teers and diabetic patients may improve insulin sensitivity and metabolic control (213,214,215,216). While mechanisms underlying the effects of an altered redox state on insulin sensitivity require further elucidation, several converging lines of evidence, including clinical and experi­ mental data, indicate
