Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


endogenous insulin-sensitizing prop­ erties. Adiponectin is lower in patients with sleep apnea than in normal subjects, and circulating levels appear to correlate with the nadir in oxygen saturation (251,252,253,254,255,256,257). Resistin is another adipocytokine that inhibits insulin action and may have a role in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes (258,259). At present, there are limited data on whether resistin levels differ between patients with OSA and control subjects (251,260,261). Clearly, additional work is needed to determine whether adiponectin and resistin are affected by intermittent hypoxemia and recurrent arousals and whether these adipocytokines could be involved in causing metabolic dysfunc­ tion in OSA. IMPACT OF TYPE 2 DIABETES ON BREATHING DISORDERS DURING SLEEP While much of the discussion has been focused on the consideration that OSA contributes to metabolic dysfunction, there is also the possibility of reverse causation. That is, once hyperglycemia and type 2 diabetes develop, can these then contribute to the incidence or worsening of OSA? Cross-sectional studies demonstrating a high prevalence of OSA in type 2 diabetes do not provide evidence for a direction of causality. Data on the occurrence and temporal progression of OSA in diabetic individuals are lacking, as are studies exploring the possibility that type 2 diabetes could worsen OSA severity (262,263,264,265,266). Experimental data from animal models show that insulin resistance is associated with reduced ventilatory response that can be enhanced with insulin treatment (267). Whether such abnormalities in ventilatory control have downstream consequences and increase human predisposition to apneas and hypopneas during sleep is not known. Ongoing research efforts based on longitudinal studies will hopefully clarify whether progression of OSA differs between diabetic and nondiabetic subjects and is affected by glycemic control or the type of pharmacological treatment of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes may also promote the expression of central sleep apnea. Using data from the community-based Sleep Heart Health Study, Resnick et al. (135) showed that participants with type 2 diabetes had a higher prevalence of Cheyne-Stokes or periodic breathing and central respiratory events during sleep than those without type 2 diabetes. In this cross-sectional analysis, the higher prevalence of periodic breathing in diabetic versus nondiabetic individuals (OR 1.74) persisted even after accounting for multiple covariates, including age, sex, BMI, and prevalent cardiovascular disease. It is possible that diabetes- associated autonomic dysfunction may lead to instability of the respiratory Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–21
