Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


disease. It is possible that diabetes- associated autonomic dysfunction may lead to instability of the respiratory Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–21 control system via enhanced central chemoreceptor-mediated gain, as well as cardiac impairments with prolonged circulatory time. Evidence supporting the notion that diabetic individuals with autonomic neuropathy may have a heightened response to hypercapnia has been previously described (268). Coupled with numerous clinical case series (269,270,271), the available research suggests that central sleep- disordered breathing is prevalent in type 2 diabetes, particularly if there is concurrent evidence of autonomic dysfunction. SLEEP DISTURBANCES DURING PREGNANCY: RELATIONSHIP WITH GLUCOSE METABOLISM AND GESTATIONAL DIABETES Sleep alterations are common during pregnancy due to hormonal and physical changes. Progesterone has sedative effects and can stimulate respiratory drive, while estrogen increases hyperemia, mucosal edema, and upper airway resistance, resulting in nasal stuffiness and snoring (272). Upward displacement of the diaphragm may cause a reduction in functional residual volume of the lungs and, therefore, oxygen reserve. Nausea, vomiting, frequent urination, and backache can decrease sleep efficiency and increase nocturnal awakenings. During the first trimester, sleepiness is common, and women report an increase in sleep duration of approximately 0.7 hours (273). However, sleep efficiency and percentage of SWS decrease significantly (274). Sleep duration decreases in the late second trimester (274), although there is an observed increase in percentage of SWS (275). During the third trimester, a majority of women report sleep distur­ bances. There is a decrease in percentage of SWS and REM sleep (272) with an increase in time spent in light NREM sleep (stage N1) (276). Wake time after sleep onset increases, but total sleep time approximates the prepregnancy state (274). At this stage of pregnancy, a majority of women report taking daytime naps (277). Snoring is quite common, as two large studies, including in total more than 2,700 pregnant women, revealed that about one-third of participants reported snoring, with 25% reporting preg­ nancy-onset snoring (278,279). Symptoms of OSA increased during pregnancy in a prospective study, especially in women whose BMI exceeded 25 kg/m2 (280). Gestational diabetes mellitus affects 2%–25% of pregnant women and is associated with adverse maternal-fetal outcomes, as discussed in Chapter 4 Gestational Diabetes. An increased risk for gestational diabetes or hyperglycemia is associated with sleep disturbances, including OSA and snoring, short sleep duration, and increased daytime sleepiness. A review of the literature found
