Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


BMI-adjusted OR 1.90 (95% CI 0.52–6.88). No significant differences in AHI (control vs. gestational diabetes; mean 4.2 vs. 3.8), oxygen desaturation index, snoring, and flow limitation, self-reported sleep duration between the two groups. Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. AHI, apnea-hypopnea index; BMI, body mass index; CI, confidence interval; GDM, gestational diabetes mellitus; h, hour; NGT, normal glucose tolerance; NR, not reported; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test; OR, odds ratio; OSA, obstructive sleep apnea; PSG, polysomnogram; RR, relative risk; SDB, sleep-disordered breathing. * Many studies had other outcomes of interest, but only outcomes related to glucose metabolism are summarized in this table. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. 25–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition THE CIRCADIAN SYSTEM AND GLUCOSE METABOLISM The circadian system, controlled by the master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypo­ thalamus, plays a major role in regulating daily rhythms of sleep/wake cycle, feeding behavior, central and peripheral tissue metabolism, and hormonal secretions (301). The clock in the SCN is synchro­ nized to the 24-hour day primarily by light signal via the retinohypothalamic tract. It then relays the information via hormonal and neuronal pathways to the rest of the brain and to peripheral organs, such as the heart, liver, adipose tissue, muscle, adrenals, and pancreas, which all possess “peripheral clocks,” leading to coordinated rhythms and behaviors (Figure 25.6) (2,302). The central clock mechanism consists of a transcription-translation negative feedback loop involving several core clock genes including Clock (circadian locomotor output cycles kaput), Bmal1 (brain and muscle Arnt-like protein-1), Per 1-3 (Period 1-3), and Cry1-2 (Cryptochrome 1-2), as well as feedback signals from nutrient intake (303). There is evidence that circadian disrup­ tion has detrimental effects on energy metabolism. It was first shown that Clock mutant mice shift their feeding and activity behavior to their normally inactive phase and develop obesity and the meta­ bolic syndrome (hyperlipidemia, hepatic steatosis, hyperglycemia, and hypoinsu­ linemia) (304). Habitual sleep duration in this mutant animal is about 1 hour shorter than in the wild type animal, thus resulting in a condition of lifelong insufficient sleep (304). In another study, wild type mice exposed to dim light during their usual biological night were shown to shift their food intake into the inactive phase. This was associated with reduced glucose tolerance and a greater gain in body mass, suggesting that eating at
