Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


RR, relative risk. * Criteria for being listed in the National Diabetes Registry: 1. receive a diagnosis of diabetes; 2. receive diabetes-related chiropody care; 3. have blood glucose measured five times in a calendar year; 4. have at least two annual blood glucose measurements over a period of 5 consecutive years; 5. purchase prescribed oral antidiabetic medication; 6. purchase prescribed insulin. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. among shift workers. Compared to day workers, shift workers have higher rates of obesity and more unfavorable lifestyle factors, including physical inac­ tivity, alcohol consumption, and habitual smoking (313,315,319). In addition, there is evidence for excessive total energy intake (319), although it is not consistent (320,321). Adjusting for adiposity and lifestyle factors attenuated the relation­ ship between shift work and diabetes in some studies, but significant residual effects remained (312,313,314,315). One meta-analysis of cohort studies revealed that shift work was associated with incident diabetes with an odds ratio of 1.12 (95% CI 1.06–1.19) (322), while another found a pooled adjusted relative risk for rotating shift work of 1.15 (95% CI 1.06–1.25) (323). Although the magni­ tude of the increased risk associated with shift work was relatively modest when other risk factors were controlled, the findings suggest that shift work may compound the risk imparted by tradi­ tional risk factors. Human experiments in controlled labo­ ratory settings have provided insights into metabolic alterations under experi­ mentally induced circadian misalignment. Ten healthy adults underwent a 10-day laboratory protocol that involved sleeping and eating on a 28-hour “day.” Circadian misalignment, when the participants ate and slept 12 hours out of phase from their habitual times, was associated with a 6% increase in glucose levels despite a 22% increase in insulin concentration. Further, leptin levels decreased. Three subjects had postprandial glucose responses in a prediabetic range (324). Another carefully conducted experiment combined sleep restriction with circadian disruption and involved 24 participants studied for more than 5 weeks in a controlled laboratory setting (325). After 3 weeks of sleep restriction to 5.6 hours per day sleep and recurring 28-hour “days,” fasting and post­ prandial glucose levels were increased by 8% and 14%, respectively. These changes were apparently caused by decreased beta cell function, as plasma insulin decreased by 12% during fasting and 27% after meals. The metabolic derangements returned to baseline levels after 9 days of sleep recovery. There is also evidence that adverse effects of circadian
