Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


by 12% during fasting and 27% after meals. The metabolic derangements returned to baseline levels after 9 days of sleep recovery. There is also evidence that adverse effects of circadian misalign­ ment on glucose metabolism can occur independently of sleep loss. Experimental circadian misalignment with sleep restric­ tion (5 hours) in healthy volunteers led to a reduction in insulin sensitivity and an increase in inflammatory markers, compared to sleep-restricted partici­ pants who maintained regular nocturnal bedtimes, despite nearly identical sleep duration between the two groups (13). In addition, a 6-day simulated shift work Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes 25–27 experiment in 14 healthy adults found reduced total daily energy expenditure during nightshift schedules, as well as in response to dinner consumed late at night (326). Lastly, an experimental study designed to distinguish the effects of the behavioral cycles (sleep/wake, fasting/feeding, and activity schedules), the endogenous circadian system, and circadian disruption on glucose and lipid metabolisms was conducted in 14 volun­ teers (327). The protocol involved two 8-day crossover studies when the behav­ ioral cycles were aligned or misaligned (12-hour shift) with endogenous circadian rhythms. Glucose tolerance was assessed at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. in response to an identical mixed meal. Postprandial glucose levels were 17% higher in the biological evening than in the morning, and the early phase postprandial insulin response was 27% lower in the biological evening, indicative of insufficient beta cell response. This endogenous circadian effect was much larger than that of the behavioral cycle effect. In addition, circa­ dian misalignment (12-hour behavioral cycle inversion) increased postprandial glucose levels by 6% despite a 14% higher late phase postprandial insulin response, suggesting reduced insulin sensitivity during misalignment. This study reveals potential mechanisms by which shift workers who are awake and eating during their biological night may increase the risk of weight gain, obesity, and diabetes (326). In patients with established diabetes, shift work may be associated with poor glycemic control, but the data are scarce. In a small study of 32 patients with diabetes, there were no differences in glycemic control between those working day and shift schedules (328). However, after being moved to a rotating shift pattern, insulin-treated patients had significant deterioration in their glycemic control after 6 months. In another study of 120 day and 120 shift workers in Thailand, fasting glucose levels were significantly lower in day
