Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


had significant deterioration in their glycemic control after 6 months. In another study of 120 day and 120 shift workers in Thailand, fasting glucose levels were significantly lower in day compared to shift workers (329). A larger study was conducted in 296 type 1 diabetes patients in the United Kingdom, 23% of whom performed shift work (330). A1c levels were significantly higher in shift compared to day workers with a mean 9.02% (75 mmol/mol) versus 8.35% (68 mmol/mol) (p<0.01). As the world now requires a 24-hour workforce, while the number of diabetes patients and the cost of care are increasing, attention should be paid to the metabolic health of shift workers. Pharmacotherapy improves alertness and sleep quality in those with shift work disorders, including melatonin (to improve daytime sleep) and modafinil or armodafinil (wake-promoting agents) (331). It is unknown whether these agents also help improve glucose metabolism in shift workers, but a placebo-controlled study of the metabolic impact of 1 week of sleep restriction found no beneficial effect of modafinil (12). Interestingly, a study in 43 workers on different shift schedules found that those with fast clockwise direction of shift work had lower fasting glucose levels and HOMA index than those with slow counterclockwise rotation and day workers (332). The study is limited by the small sample size, and the results need to be confirmed in a larger study. Many individuals in modern society experience a form of mild circadian misalignment, especially during the work or school week, as they follow social rhythms imposed by professional obli­ gations, school schedules, family, and other commitments rather than their own biological rhythms (333). The degree of misalignment is dependent on the indi­ vidual’s “chronotype” (333). Chronotype is a construct that captures an individ­ ual’s preference for being a “morning” or “evening” person. Late chronotype is typically associated with a greater degree of misalignment between social rhythms and the circadian clock (333). Chronotype can be evaluated in several ways. In 1976, Horne and Ostberg developed the Morningness-Eveningness questionnaire to categorize respondents into five types (definitely morning, moderately morning, neither morning nor evening, moderately evening, and definitely evening) (334). These chronotypes correlate with the participants’ circadian timing of core body temperature. The core body tempera­ ture minimum is a classic phase marker and usually occurs during the second half of the habitual sleep period (334). Subsequently, Roenneberg et al. proposed the mid-sleep time on
