Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


tempera­ ture minimum is a classic phase marker and usually occurs during the second half of the habitual sleep period (334). Subsequently, Roenneberg et al. proposed the mid-sleep time on free days (MSF) as a metric of chronotype. MSF is derived from mid-sleep time (midpoint between sleep start and wake time) on weekend nights with further correction for calculated sleep debt, with the assumption that sleep timing on days when unconstrained by the social clock would more accurately reflect the underlying phase of the circadian system (335,336). A large cross-sectional study in Finland involving 4,589 partici­ pants found that those who were evening types had an odds ratio of 2.5 (95% CI 1.5–4.4) for type 2 diabetes compared to morning types. This association was independent of sleep duration and sleep sufficiency (337). Two separate cohorts (1,244 and 483 participants, respectively) provided similar findings, where evening­ ness was associated with increased risk of the metabolic syndrome (OR 1.4 and OR 2.2, respectively) (338,339) and diabetes (OR 2.0) (339). In addition, several genetic studies have shown that individuals carrying specific variants of the canonical circadian genes Clock and Bmal-1 had evening preference, resistance to weight loss, the metabolic syndrome, and suscep­ tibility to type 2 diabetes (340,341,342). Furthermore, evening chronotype in nondiabetic individuals was found to be associated with unfavorable cardiometabolic profiles (343). A study involving 119 obese short sleepers (≤6.5 hours per night) revealed that eveningness was associated with eating later and larger food portion size, an increase in BMI, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level. Evening types were also found to have more sleep apnea and higher stress hormones. These results are suggestive of a higher risk of cardiovascular disease in this population. The first study to address the contribution of chronotype on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes involved comprehensive questionnaires to assess sleep and eating habits in 194 non-shift worker participants who all had an established diagnosis of diabetes (344). 25–28 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition After adjusting for age, sex, race, BMI, insulin use, depressed mood, diabetic complications, and perceived sleep debt, chronotype, as assessed by MSF, was significantly associated with glycemic control (Figure 25.7). The difference in median A1c between participants in the 4th quartile of MSF compared to the 1st quartile was approximately 1.3%, a remarkably strong effect size. Besides having significant later bedtime/wake time and poorer glycemic control, participants with later
