Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


4th quartile of MSF compared to the 1st quartile was approximately 1.3%, a remarkably strong effect size. Besides having significant later bedtime/wake time and poorer glycemic control, participants with later chronotype were more depressed, had a higher BMI, and were significantly more likely to require insulin. This finding suggested that patients with type 2 diabetes who have a late chronotype may be more hypoinsulinemic, consistent with the findings in the Clock mutant mice. Subsequently, two studies in Japanese type 2 diabetes patients (total 826 participants) found that more evening preference as assessed by questionnaire was associated with higher A1c and lower HDL cholesterol levels, as well as poorer sleep quality (345,346). Another neurohormone that plays an important role in circadian regulation is melatonin, secreted by the pineal gland. Its secretion is modulated by the light-dark cycle via the retinohypothalamic tract and the SCN and by the sympathetic nervous system (347). Melatonin is released during the biological night and inhibited by light exposure. Melatonin secretion follows a diurnal pattern with low levels during the day, an abrupt increase 1–2 hours before habitual bedtime, high levels throughout the night, and a progressive decrease initiated prior to habitual wake-up time (348,349). Melatonin exerts its effects through membrane receptors belonging to the class of G-protein coupled receptors (350). In mammals, there are two receptor isoforms: MT1 and MT2 (found in the brain, SCN, retina, and peripheral tissues) (351). Melatonin can entrain circadian rhythms due to the presence of MT1 and MT2 receptors in the SCN (352). In addition, both isoforms of melatonin receptors are found in the pancreatic beta cells and alpha cells (350), and melatonin has been shown to modulate insulin secretion through rather complex cascades involving several secondary messengers and possibly through alpha cell stimulation (350,353). Therefore, melatonin may act as a mediator between the central circadian regulation and peripheral metabolism, as well as an internal signal synchronizing the central circadian clock and clocks in peripheral tissues. A review has suggested that the increased duration of exposure to light that is common in modern society may inhibit melatonin release and disrupt seasonal cycles. The authors further suggest that these factors could be involved in causing metabolic disturbances (354). Genetic studies have linked the gene encoding MT2, MTNR1B, to abnormal glucose metabolism and diabetes risk (355,356,357,358). In a study involving 19,605 Europeans, the MTNR1B intronic variant, rs10830963, was associated with a significantly increased
