Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


melatonin, had an increased risk of subsequent diabetes development with an odds ratio of 2.17 (95% CI 1.18–3.98) compared to those with the highest levels, after adjusting for demographic factors, lifestyle habits, sleep duration, snoring, and biomarkers of inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. The authors postulated several mechanisms by which low melatonin may be associated with diabetes, including reduced sleep duration and sleep apnea, which are known to be associated with low melatonin levels (361,362) but could not be accurately captured by the study questionnaires. Increasing melatonin level by exogenous supplementation in patients with diabetes was tested in a randomized, double blinded, cross-over study involving 36 type 2 diabetes patients with insomnia (363). Prolonged-release melatonin administration significantly improved sleep efficiency and reduced wake time after sleep onset as assessed by actigraphy at 3 weeks, but without changes in glucose levels. A1c improved significantly at 5 months during the open-labeled phase (-0.6% compared to baseline) without changes in C-peptide levels, but the magnitude of this improvement was not predicted by sleep improvements as assessed by actigraphy. The study was limited by the lack of assessment of the circadian system. Interestingly, an experimental study in 21 healthy women revealed that acute melatonin administration, both in the morning and evening, resulted in IGT as assessed by OGTT (364). Therefore, the role of melatonin in human glucose metabolism remains controversial. Taken together, these human experimental studies, results from cross-sectional studies, and genetic data support the contribution of the circadian system and sleep timing in metabolic regulation. Prospective and interventional studies are required to evaluate the role of the circadian system in the development and severity of type 2 diabetes. COMBINED EFFECTS OF MULTIPLE DISTURBANCES OF SLEEP AND/OR CIRCADIAN FUNCTION ON GLUCOSE METABOLISM While there has been little systematic study of the combined effects of the presence of several subtypes of sleep disturbances in the same individual, this situation may be very common. For example, since population studies have associated shift work with higher BMI, it is possible that a substantial proportion of shift workers in the United States have OSA, while suffering at the same time from insufficient sleep and circadian misalignment. Another example is that of insomnia with short sleep duration. Lastly, individuals with poor sleep quality, particularly shallow sleep that may be easily fragmented, often have shorter sleep duration. Despite the fact that coexistence of multiple sleep disturbances may be a common condition,
