Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


poor sleep quality, particularly shallow sleep that may be easily fragmented, often have shorter sleep duration. Despite the fact that coexistence of multiple sleep disturbances may be a common condition, there have been few studies addressing the potential metabolic consequences. In a cross-sectional study of insomnia evaluating glucose regulation by an OGTT, 14 nondiabetic participants with insomnia and short sleep (PSG confirmed sleep efficiency ≤80% and overnight sleeping ≤6 hours) were compared to 14 partici­ pants with insomnia and >6 hours of sleep (365). While A1c and glucose values were similar between the two groups, those with insomnia with short-sleep had lower fasting insulin and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, but increased insulin sensitivity. The authors speculated that these alterations in glucose metabolism could represent an adaptive mechanism in response to increased fuel needs related to the physiologic hyperarousal thought to be a hallmark of insomnia. Furthermore, analyses of the Penn State Cohort, a large prospective study of 1,741 participants who had one night of laboratory PSG and were followed for 14 years, found that men with a complaint of insomnia for ≥1 year who also had a sleep duration of <6 hours on PSG had significantly higher mortality compared to men with “normal sleep duration and no insomnia” (OR 4.00, 95% CI 1.14–13.99) after adjusting for confounders (366). This analysis suggested that “insomnia with short sleep” may be a more biologically severe phenotype than insomnia with normal sleep duration, at least in men. Insomnia with short sleep in women was not asso­ ciated with increased mortality. In the same cohort, the risk of type 2 diabetes was nearly threefold higher in individuals with insomnia with PSG-defined sleep duration <5 hours, irrespective of sex, while those with insomnia with longer sleep duration did not have an increased risk (48). The fact that sleep duration was assessed via a single night of PSG is a limitation of these Penn State Cohort studies. In another cross-sectional study of 15,227 U.S. Hispanics/Latinos, those with short sleep (self-reported <6 hours) and insomnia were more likely to have diabetes (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.02– 2.11) than average sleepers (>6–9 hours) with insomnia (OR 1.28, 95% CI 1.02– 1.61) (367). These associations, however, were attenuated after adjusting for BMI. A combination between OSA and short sleep duration has been explored in a few studies. In participants of the Korean Genome and Epidemiology Study, the combination of self-reported short
