Chapter 25: Impact of Sleep and Circadian Disturbances on Glucose Metabolism and Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: sleep, diabetes, glucose, osa, associated, study, risk, age, type, studies, insulin, years, type diabetes, duration, sleep duration


in a few studies, although none addressed metabolic aspects. Two studies of shift workers with OSA (total 52 participants) found that the AHI assessed by PSG was significantly higher if the PSG was performed after a night shift compared to after a day shift (372,373). Whether the repeated exposure to a higher severity of OSA during daytime sleep after a night of work may affect the metabolic health of shift workers is not known. Lastly, an experimental study has compared the metabolic impact of 8 days of sleep restriction (5 hours per night) with or without circadian misalignment. The reduction in insulin sensitivity (derived from intravenous glucose tolerance testing) was nearly twofold higher when the subjects were exposed to both insuf­ ficient sleep and circadian misalignment than when they were exposed to sleep restriction alone (13). The existing evidence thus suggests that some combinations of sleep disturbances may be more detrimental to metabolic health than each component alone, but more research in this area is needed. CONCLUSIONS Disturbances of different aspects of sleep, including sleep duration, quality, respira­ tory function during sleep, and circadian timing have all been linked to abnormal glucose metabolism. Epidemiologic studies controlled for age and adiposity in the analyses. Many studies also included some measure of self-perceived stress or of socioeconomic status (e.g., using income and/or education as surro­ gate measures) in their analyses. The epidemiologic evidence linking sleep and adverse metabolic outcomes has come from a very large number of studies conducted in a wide variety of social and geographic environments, as well as in populations with very different demo­ graphic characteristics. Nonetheless, the findings have been remarkably consistent. Well-controlled in-laboratory experiments have provided causative evidence and suggested mechanistic pathways. As the prevalence and costs of care for the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes show no signs of decline, the efficacy and effectiveness of interventions that optimize sleep and circadian function to prevent the devel­ opment or reduce the severity of these metabolic disorders need to be urgently evaluated. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . glycosylated hemoglobin AHI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . apnea-hypopnea index BMI . . . . . . . . . . . . . body mass index CI . . . . . . . .
