International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267
KEYWORDS: protocols, management, urinary, urinary tract, tract, cmps, pharmacy, clinical, community, pharmacists, uti, united, patient, infections, uncomplicated


REVIEW ARTICLE Clinical management protocols for community pharmacist‑led management of urinary tract infections: a review of the grey literature and quality appraisal Mitchell Budden1 · Daniel Gilbertson2 · Sean Chung2 · Shalom I. Benrimoj3 · Francisco Mardones1 · Sarah Dineen‑Griffin1 Received: 9 January 2024 / Accepted: 10 June 2024 / Published online: 15 July 2024 © The Author(s) 2024 Abstract Background Pharmacist-led management of urinary tract infections has been introduced as a service in the United King- dom, Canada, United States of America, New Zealand, and Australia. The management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections by community pharmacists has gained increasing attention as a potential avenue to alleviate the burden on primary healthcare services. Aim The objectives of the review were to: (1) identify protocols for community pharmacist management of acute uncom- plicated urinary tract infections in women aged 16–65 years; (2) outline their key components; and (3) appraise the quality of protocols. Method A grey literature search was undertaken for protocols intended for use by community pharmacists for the manage- protocol and written in English. Their quality was appraised using the Appraisal Guidelines for Research and Evaluation version II instrument. Results Forty of the 274 records screened were included. Content analysis identified ten key components: common signs/ symptoms, differential diagnosis, red flags/referral, choice of empirical antibiotic therapy, nonprescription medications, nonpharmacological/self-care advice, patient eligibility criteria, patient follow-up, dipstick testing recommendations, and recommendations on antimicrobial resistance. The lowest scoring domains in the quality assessment were ‘Editorial Inde- pendence’ and ‘Rigour of Development’. Only four protocols were deemed high-quality. Conclusion The review demonstrates that clinical management protocols for pharmacist-led management of urinary tract infections consist of similar recommendations, despite variation in international practice. However, the findings highlight a deficiency in the quality of most clinical management protocols governing pharmacist-led urinary tract infection management. Keywords Clinical management protocol · Community pharmacist · Community pharmacy services · Evidence-based pharmacy practice · Urinary tract infections Impact statements • Pharmacist-led management of urinary tract infections in * women aged 16–65 years has become usual practice for Mitchell Budden community pharmacists in several countries. • Implementing a standardised clinical management proto- of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections could Australia potentially reduce variability in care delivery, ensuring 2 Deloitte Consulting, Melbourne, VIC, Australia that patients receive consistent and evidence-based treat- ment regardless of location or health provider. 3 Pharmaceutical Care Research Group, Faculty of Pharmacy, Vol:.(1234567890) International Journal
