International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267
KEYWORDS: protocols, management, urinary, urinary tract, tract, cmps, pharmacy, clinical, community, pharmacists, uti, united, patient, infections, uncomplicated


Deloitte Consulting, Melbourne, VIC, Australia that patients receive consistent and evidence-based treat- ment regardless of location or health provider. 3 Pharmaceutical Care Research Group, Faculty of Pharmacy, Vol:.(1234567890) International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267 1257 • The adoption of clinical management protocols stream- the assessment and management of acute uncomplicated lines decision-making processes for community pharma- UTIs in certain cohorts within the community pharmacy more effective use of resources. of the UK [6, 18–36], most provinces in Canada [15, 16, • Developers should use the Appraisal Guidelines for 37–40], some states in the USA [41–44], New Zealand Research and Evaluation version II instrument as a (NZ) [45–47], and in some states across Australia [5, 7, framework to ensure comprehensiveness of their proto- 8, 48–53]. Pharmacist competencies and accessibility cols. though opening times, convenient locations and usually no requirement for an appointment means that community pharmacists are well placed to support patients . Introduction To support the implementation of expanded scope ser- vices in community pharmacy, it is vital that community Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs) are experienced by 10–15% pharmacists are provided with appropriate tools and edu- women than men, with one in three women and one in 20 The development and agreement on the content of CMPs men developing a UTI at some point in their lifetime . for the management and referral of acute uncomplicated turally and functionally normal urinary tract), or complex cal guidance, and a standardised approach to managing (occur in an abnormal urinary tract or in the presence of patients. The definition of a CMP can be challenging, as it other complicating factors) . encompasses various aspects that can be difficult to encap- A meta-analysis by Bent et al. found that women who sulate in a single definition [55–57]. The definition used presented with at least two symptoms of a UTI (i.e., dysuria, in this paper acknowledges the multifaceted nature of such vaginal discharge, had an approximately 90% probability of “a systematically developed algorithm or care pathway having an acute uncomplicated UTI [4–8]. In most females that incorporates evidence-based guidelines into a prac- aged less than 65 years without complicating factors, a tical framework for decision making, thereby providing lower UTI can be reliably diagnosed according to the clini- health practitioners with assistance in managing specific A randomised controlled trial by Little et al. compar- in the standardisation of care, aiming at improving clini- ing
