International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267
KEYWORDS: protocols, management, urinary, urinary tract, tract, cmps, pharmacy, clinical, community, pharmacists, uti, united, patient, infections, uncomplicated


of the included The grey literature search plan incorporated 3 search strat- protocols were searched for any other potential protocols of egies: (1) customised Google search engines, (2) targeted interest [7, 22–27, 31–33]. Protocols pertaining to the man- internationally. These strategies were adapted from those than community pharmacists were excluded, consistent with used by Godin et al. for applying systematic review search the primary objectives of the review. methods to grey literature . Data extraction and synthesis Initially, CMPs were identified by searching Google with a range of phrases. From this initial process, a single key search strategy was devised to locate all or most of the man- Following review of each publication, data pertaining to the agement protocols of interest (Table 1). source organisation, year published, by whom they were The second search strategy involved browsing targeted developed, intended audience, and country/region where websites of relevant health organisations and agencies. A the protocol is used was extracted. The content for CMPs Google search was conducted to identify the relevant organi- underwent analysis for key components, with the component sations and websites. Each of the relevant website home- marked as present (✓), absent (✖) or partially mentioned pages were ‘hand-searched’ for potentially relevant docu- (✓/✖). ments (e.g. web pages, reports). Phase 2: quality assessmet The third search technique involved contacting profes- sional organisations in the UK, NZ and Canada for addi- tional protocols that may have been excluded from the search Each CMP in the review was appraised by one reviewer (MB) due to them being hidden behind the front website pages of using the AGREE II instrument. Any doubts were resolved professional organisations. with two other reviewers (SDG, SB). The AGREE II instru- ment is an appraisal tool designed to assess the quality of pro- Eligibility assessment and study selection tocols and is considered the gold standard for appraisal in the international literature . It comprises six domains and 23 The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews items . The AGREE II consortium has not set minimum and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) process was applied to the domain scores or patterns of scores across domains to differ- grey literature search methods (Fig. 1). The title and source entiate between high-quality and poor-quality protocols . organisation of the identified documents were entered into CMPs were deemed high-quality if the ‘Rigour of Develop- an Excel sheet, and duplicates were removed. The titles of
