International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267
KEYWORDS: protocols, management, urinary, urinary tract, tract, cmps, pharmacy, clinical, community, pharmacists, uti, united, patient, infections, uncomplicated


CMPs their CMPs. This approach ensures adherence to CMPs by exhibited insufficient reporting on stakeholder involvement guiding pharmacists through each step and prompting the (including consumers), not outlining rigor of development, pharmacist when management or referral, or a combination, insufficient provision of implementation information, and is required. The management approach may include the phar- failure to declare editorial independence. The results macist prescribing empirical antibiotics. Additionally, most coincide with previous findings from Alonso-Coello et al. CMPs encourage pharmacists to provide non-pharmacological which assessed a total of 626 clinical protocols using the and self-care advice, including education about prevention for AGREE II instrument . Their study found that most patients who may be at greater risk of developing recurrent protocols reported ‘Scope and Purpose’ (64%) and ‘Clar- UTIs. ity of Presentation’ (60%) which is consistent with the results of this review . It is evident that efforts should Strengths and weaknesses be made for protocol developers to undertake a methodo- logical approach to searching the literature and document- Grey literature was the central source of information used ing this information when developing protocols. Moreover, for the identification of CMPs. Godin et al. acknowledge the developers are advised to utilise the AGREE II tool as a challenges with applying systematic search methods to the framework, ensuring that their protocols comprehensively grey literature, due to the lack of standards and resources cover as many domains as possible. This approach has the for how to complete these searches . The methodology potential to increase the likelihood of developing a high- utilised by Godin et al. has been employed in numerous quality protocol. previous studies [62–64]. This methodology enabled us to identify CMPs that could have been omitted if we had solely Further research relied on academic sources of literature, such as protocols obtained from professional organisations that are not pub- lished in peer-reviewed databases [5, 6, 19, 39, 40, 46, 47, The scarcity of peer-reviewed studies in this area under- 50, 52]. A limitation of this review is the ability to access scores the need for ongoing research. Future reviews could all available protocols for pharmacist-led UTI management. potentially focus on the clinical outcomes of using CMPs Despite contact with pharmacists practicing in Canada, we in the delivery of standardised UTI management in com- were only able to obtain protocols for specific provinces in munity pharmacy. Additional research could focus on the Canada: New
