International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267
KEYWORDS: protocols, management, urinary, urinary tract, tract, cmps, pharmacy, clinical, community, pharmacists, uti, united, patient, infections, uncomplicated


we in the delivery of standardised UTI management in com- were only able to obtain protocols for specific provinces in munity pharmacy. Additional research could focus on the Canada: New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario and Prince link between protocols and local resistance patterns and the Edward Island. Another factor is the link between protocols legal status of available antibiotics. and local resistance patterns and the legal status of available antibiotics. Although this is an important consideration, the primary focus of this review was identifying clinical man- Conclusion agement protocols for pharmacist-led UTI management. The AGREE II guideline suggests employing two to four reviewers to mitigate bias in evaluating the quality of CMPs. A standardised CMP for community pharmacist-led man- In this review, primarily one reviewer (MB) conducted the agement of UTIs, based on an assessment of existing litera- appraisal, with reference to two other reviewers (SDG, SB) ture and conceptualised with stakeholders, could be used in instances of uncertainty, and consultations were con- to optimise practice. The preliminary findings and current ducted until a consensus was achieved. evidence indicate that there are a large number of CMPs available for pharmacist-led UTI management. How- Interpretation ever, the content and quality of these protocols vary. To reduce fragmentation of primary care and enhance patient identified components were found to be present within most prioritised. of the CMPs. Despite this, slight variation exists in relation Supplementary Information The online version contains supplemen- to patient eligibility criteria, dipstick testing requirements tary material available at oi.o rg/1 0.1 007/s 11096-0 24-0 1768-0. and choice of empirical antibiotics. The practice implica- tions that arise as a result of this variability could potentially Funding Open Access funding enabled and organized by CAUL and compromise patient care and safety. its Member Institutions. No specific funding was received. While there are similarities among CMPs despite vari- ations in international practices, the findings underscore International Journal of Clinical Pharmacy (2024) 46:1256–1267 1265 Conflicts of interest The authors have no conflicts of interest to de- aihw.g ov.a u/g etmed ia/4 33cae a4-0 3ff-4 569-9 6ac-0 42f28 44f29 c/ clare. Emerge ncy-d epart ment-c are-2 019-2 0.x lsx.a spx. Accessed 10 Oct 2023. Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- 14. Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care. bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta- Fourth Australian Atlas of Healthcare Variation. 2021. https:// tion,
