Veterinary Research Communications (2024) 48:3381–3385
KEYWORDS: luteola, ferrets, pseudomonas, infection, disease, pseudomonas luteola, agar, treatment, pododermatitis, ferret, cases, case, spain, infections, bacterial


(HE). Cytological evaluation of a sample taken by FNA and stained with Diff-Quick revealed purulent lymphadenitis Results with the presence of a high number of markedly degenera- tive neutrophils, a few macrophages and the presence of low Clinicopathological findings number of intracellular bacteria. Complete blood count, serum biochemistry, and serum Histopathological examination protein electrophoresis revealed neutrophilia (7.56 (0.62– 3.30 K/µL)), monocytosis (1,08 (0.18–0.90 K/µL)) and Histopathological evaluation of the skin biopsy revealed hyperglobulinemia (3.30 (1.80–3.10 g/dL)). While await- an acute diffuse suppurative pododermatitis with ulceration ing the results from cytology, bacterial culture and the and intralesional bacteria including coccobacilli and serpen- biopsy, an empirical treatment was administered consist- tine bacilli surrounded by a clear halo (Fig. 3). ing of a combined antibiotic therapy of enrofloxacin (5 mg/ kg/12 h) and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (15 mg/kg/12 h), Bacterial culture and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and meloxicam (0,1 mg/kg/24 h). With this treatment, the pododermatitis was partially resolved (Fig. 1b). A single type of colony was isolated and identified as P. luteola using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The anti- biogram revealed that the P. luteola isolate was suscep- tible to ampicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, imipenem, 1 3 3384 Veterinary Research Communications (2024) 48:3381–3385 meropenem, ciprofloxacin, enrofloxacin, marbofloxacin, colonies involving gram-negative rods are the common pradofloxacin, gentamicin, tobramycin, doxycycline, cotri- findings in Blood and Mac-Conkey agars (Martínez et al. moxazole, amikacin and tetracycline. P. luteola was resistant 2012). In the present report, P. luteola was isolated in Blood to cefalexin, cefuroxime, chloramphenicol and cefpodox- Agar, Agar MacConkey and also in Chocolate Agar, and it ime. Finally, intermediate susceptibility was detected to was identified by mass spectrophotometry MALDI-TOF. trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and cefotaxime. Since the Pseudomonas spp. are one of the major pathogens caus- antibiogram revealed sensitivity to the antibiotics previ- ing healthcare-associated infections. Its capacity of adapta- ously administered to the patient, a different antibiotic treat- tion, dissemination, intrinsic resistance to antimicrobials ment was unnecessary. During the follow-up, the antibiotic and ability to gain new mechanisms through mobile genetic therapy was continued for one month resulting in a com- elements, make the treatment of infections by this micro- plete resolution of pododermatitis and lymph node enlarge- organism a challenge for the clinician. For example, P. ment (Fig. 1c). aeruginosa, presents a reduced permeability in the external membrane, due to the expression of efflux pumps, and an inducible AmpC-type cephalosporinase or benzyl-penicil- Discussion linase . In addition, P. aeruginosa is
