Veterinary Research Communications (2024) 48:3381–3385
KEYWORDS: luteola, ferrets, pseudomonas, infection, disease, pseudomonas luteola, agar, treatment, pododermatitis, ferret, cases, case, spain, infections, bacterial


presents a reduced permeability in the external membrane, due to the expression of efflux pumps, and an inducible AmpC-type cephalosporinase or benzyl-penicil- Discussion linase . In addition, P. aeruginosa is able to acquire new resistance determinants by horizontal trans- P. luteola is considered an emerging zoonotic disease in fer- fer in the form of cassettes located in integrons, and in turn rets causing respiratory signs, abscesses or pyogranuloma- located in transposons or plasmids. P. aeruginosa produces tous panniculitis . Although there has been an beta-lactamases, but presents resistance to beta-lactam anti- increase of case descriptions, involving P. luteola, in ferrets biotics (including extended spectrum) and carbapenem anti- in recent years, there are no publications to date describing biotics . Resistance of P. luteola to first and infection in ferrets were reported in Spain (Martínez et al. and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole has been documented in Australia , France , Fin- in ferrets, treatment was based on antibiogram results and land and Austria , and the United States included amoxicillin, with clavulanic acid, amikacin or presentations of this infection in ferrets include thoracic or to cephalexin and cefuroxime (first and second-generation tis, followed by the presence of abscesses in different tissue sporin) and chloramphenicol was found and P. luteola was locations . There was no description of podo- sensitive to fluoroquinolones and other beta-lactam antibiot- dermatitis caused by this pathogen in ferrets. ics, as previously described . Probably, The route of infection and mode of transmission of P. P. luteola possesses different mechanisms of responses and luteola in ferrets have not been determined. In previous resistance compared to P. aeruginosa. cutaneous edema, there has been no evidence of nosoco- by P. luteola in a ferret. Complete resolution with medical mial infections or wound contamination. In the ferret of this treatment alone was possible. This success may be related report, infection might have been associated to a field trip to the promptness of the detection, identification and treat- with the owners 6 days before presentation. Since this bac- ment. Consequently, P. luteola should be included in the terium is ubiquitous in damp environments, found in both dermatological differential diagnosis of pododermatitis in soil and water , an abrasion or penetrat- ferrets. In the majority of cases described in the literature, ing trauma to the footpad with secondary bacterial inocula- the diagnosis was made “post mortem” and in the few cases tion from an environmental source
