Veterinary Research Communications (2024) 48:3381–3385
KEYWORDS: luteola, ferrets, pseudomonas, infection, disease, pseudomonas luteola, agar, treatment, pododermatitis, ferret, cases, case, spain, infections, bacterial


cases described in the literature, ing trauma to the footpad with secondary bacterial inocula- the diagnosis was made “post mortem” and in the few cases tion from an environmental source is possible but cannot be in which satisfactory treatment could be established, it was confirmed. based on combined medical and surgical treatments. In Cytology and histopathology are necessary to focus the the patient described in this case report, complete resolu- diagnosis of this bacterial disease. Microscopic findings tion was obtained with medical treatment alone, possibly such a purulent or pyogranulomatous inflammation with due to the rapid detection, identification, and treatment of intralesional pleomorphic bacteria including serpentine the infection. This case reinforces that P. luteola is more bacilli surrounded by a clear halo should suggest P. luteola frequently sensitive to non-cephalosporin beta-lactams, and infection as an aetiology. However, to confirm the diag- amoxicillin with clavulanic acid should be recommended as nosis of P.luteola, bacterial isolation and identification are a first option in cases without an antibiogram. required. In these cases, pure cultures of yellow-pigmented 1 3 Veterinary Research Communications (2024) 48:3381–3385 3385 Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank (Janine E. Guija de Arespacochaga A, Hewicker-Trautwein M (2015) Pyo- Davies) for constructive criticism of the English revision. granulomatous panniculitis in ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) with intralesional demonstration of Pseudomonas luteola. J Comp Author’s contributions Jacobo Giner and Sergio Villanueva-Saz con- Pathol 152:114–118 ceived and designed the study; Jacobo Giner and Diego López-Sa- Bayhan GI, Senel S, Tanir G, Ozkan S (2015) Bacteremia caused huquillo performed the sample collection, María Eugenia Lebrero, Te- by Pseudomonas luteola in pediatric patients. Jpn J Infect Dis resa Navarro and Carles Juan-Sallés wrote the manuscript. All authors 68:50–54 reviewed the manuscript, Sergio Villanueva-Saz and Diana Marteles Cantas L, Sørby JR, Aleström P, Sørum H (2012) Culturable gut did the project management. Jacobo Giner, Álex Gómez and Carles microbiota diversity in zebrafish. Zebrafish 9:26–37 Juan-Sallés corrected the manuscript. All authors approved the manu- Casalta JP, Fournier PE, Habib G, Riberi A, Raoult D (2005) Prosthetic script. valve endocarditis caused by Pseudomonas luteola. BMC Infect Dis 5:82 Chihab W, Alaoui AS, Amar M (2004) Chryseomonas luteola identi- Funding Open Access funding provided thanks to the CRUE-CSIC fied as the source of serious infections in a Moroccan University agreement with Springer Nature. The authors declare that no funds, Hospital. J Clin Microbiol 42:1837–1839 grants, or other support were received
