Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


Guidelines Endoscopy in patients on antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy: British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) and European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) guideline update Andrew M Veitch ,1 Franco Radaelli ,2 Raza Alikhan,3 Jean Marc Dumonceau,4 Diane Eaton,5 Jo Jerrome,6 Will Lester,7 David Nylander,8 Mo Thoufeeq,9 Geoffroy Vanbiervliet,10 James R Wilkinson,11 Jeanin E Van Hooft12 ► Additional supplemental AbsTrACT If considering aspirin discontinuation, this should material is published online This is a collaboration between the British Society of be on an individual patient basis depending on only. To view, please visit the Gastroenterology (BSG) and the European Society of the risks of thrombosis versus haemorrhage (weak journal online (http:// dx. doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2021- 325184). Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE), and is a scheduled recommendation, low quality evidence). update of their 2016 guideline on endoscopy in patients For numbered affiliations see on antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy. The guideline end of article. Low-risk endoscopic procedures development committee included representatives For low-r isk endoscopic procedures we recommend from the British Society of Haematology, the British Correspondence to continuing P2Y12 receptor antagonists as single or Dr Andrew M Veitch, Cardiovascular Intervention Society, and two patient dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) (strong recom- Gastroenterology, Royal representatives from the charities Anticoagulation UK mendation, low quality evidence). Wolverhampton Hospitals NHS and Thrombosis UK, as well as gastroenterologists. Trust, Wolverhampton, UK; For low- risk endoscopic procedures we suggest The process conformed to AGREE II principles and the Andrew. veitch@ nhs. net that warfarin therapy should be continued (weak quality of evidence and strength of recommendations recommendation, low quality evidence). It should This article is published were derived using GRADE methodology. Prior to be ensured that the international normalised ratio simultaneously in the journals submission for publication, consultation was made with Endoscopy and Gut. Copyright (INR) does not exceed the therapeutic range in the all member societies of ESGE, including BSG. Evidence- 2021 © European Society of week prior to the procedure (strong recommenda- based revisions have been made to the risk categories Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, tion, low quality evidence). For low- risk endoscopic procedures we suggest BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. This risks of thrombosis. In particular a more detailed risk omitting the morning dose of direct oral anticoag- article is published by Thieme analysis for atrial fibrillation has been employed, and Georg Verlag KG, Rüdiger Straße ulants (DOACs) on the day of the procedure (weak the recommendations for direct oral
