Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


published by Thieme analysis for atrial fibrillation has been employed, and Georg Verlag KG, Rüdiger Straße ulants (DOACs) on the day of the procedure (weak the recommendations for direct oral anticoagulants 14, 70469 Stuttgart, Germany. recommendation, low quality evidence). have been strengthened in light of trial data published Received 16 May 2021 since the previous version. A section has been added Accepted 20 June 2021 on the management of patients presenting with acute High-risk endoscopic procedures GI haemorrhage. Important patient considerations are For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at highlighted. Recommendations are based on the risk low thrombotic risk, we recommend discontinuing balance between thrombosis and haemorrhage in given P2Y12 receptor antagonists 7 days before the proce- situations. dure (strong recommendation, moderate quality evidence). In patients on DAPT, we recommend continuing aspirin (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). summAry of reCommendATions For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients Recommendations for the management of at low thrombotic risk, we recommend discon- patients on antiplatelet therapy or anticoagulants tinuing warfarin for 5 days before the procedure undergoing elective endoscopic procedures are (strong recommendation, high quality evidence). summarised in figures 1 and 2. Risk stratification Check INR prior to the procedure to ensure <1.5 for endoscopic procedures are detailed in table 1, (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). for antiplatelet agents in table 2, and for heparin For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients bridging in patients on warfarin table 3. at high thrombotic risk, we recommend continuing We recommend that all patients are advised of aspirin and liaising with a consultant interventional the thrombotic risks of discontinuing antiplatelets cardiologist about the risk/benefit of discontinuing © 2021 European Society of Gastrointestinal or anticoagulants, as well as the haemorrhagic risks P2Y12 receptor antagonists (strong recommenda- Endoscopy, British Society of of continuing therapy (strong recommendation, tion, high quality evidence). Gastroenterology, the Author(s) low quality evidence). For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at or their employer(s) For all endoscopic procedures we recommend high thrombotic risk, we recommend that warfarin To cite: Veitch AM, continuing aspirin (strong recommendation, low should be temporarily discontinued and substi- Radaelli F, Alikhan R, et al. quality evidence), with the exception of ampullec- tuted with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. tomy (weak recommendation, low quality evidence). (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: 1611 Guidelines figure 1 Guidelines for the management of patients on P2Y12
