Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


risk of thrombosis High risk of thrombosis Low risk of thrombosis Drug eluting coronary artery stents within 12 months of placement Ischaemic heart disease without coronary stents Bare metal coronary artery stents within 1 month of placement Cerebrovascular disease Peripheral vascular disease patients at low thrombotic risk, we suggest restarting anticoagu- and revision by the BSG and the ESGE and sent to all individual lation as soon as possible after 7 days of anticoagulant interrup- ESGE members and member societies prior to publication. tion (weak recommendation, low quality evidence). In those at Conflict of interest statements were submitted by all authors and high- thrombotic risk, an earlier resumption of anticoagulation are listed at the end of this manuscript. This guideline was issued with heparin bridging, preferably within 3 days, is recommended in 2021 and will be considered for review in 2026, or sooner if (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). new evidence becomes available. This guideline has been co- pub- lished with permission in both Gut and Endoscopy. inTroduCTion And meTHods The British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) and the European PATienT ConsiderATions Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) jointly published We recommend that all patients are advised of the thrombotic guidelines on endoscopy in patients on antiplatelet or anticoag- risks of discontinuing antiplatelets or anticoagulants, as well as ulant therapy, including DOACs in 2016.1 2 This is a scheduled the haemorrhagic risks of continuing therapy (strong recommen- 5- year update on the previous guidelines. dation, low quality evidence). These guidelines were drafted by a working party comprising For all patients on antiplatelets or anticoagulants we recom- members of the BSG and ESGE, two haematologists repre- mend advising that there is an increased risk of post-p rocedure senting the Thrombosis and Haemostasis Task Force of the haemorrhage compared with patients not on these drugs (strong British Society of Haematology, an interventional cardiologist recommendation, low quality evidence). representing the British Cardiovascular Intervention Society As discussed, management of antithrombotic drugs is a (BCIS), and two patient representatives from the charities Anti- balance of the risks of haemorrhage from the procedure versus coagulation UK and Thrombosis UK. Guidelines were prepared the risks of thrombosis if antithrombotic medication is discon- according to AGREE II principles3 and comply with the require- tinued or modified. Haemorrhage secondary to high-r isk endo- ments of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence scopic procedures can often be controlled by further
