Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


with the require- tinued or modified. Haemorrhage secondary to high-r isk endo- ments of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence scopic procedures can often be controlled by further endoscopic Interventions, Controls, Outcomes system. Search strategies were may result in lifelong disability, and a major cardiac event may delegated to authors with responsibilities for specific sections. result in death. Not only do the risks of thrombosis versus haem- Literature searches were conducted using PubMed and OVID orrhage need to be assessed on an individual patient basis, but Medline, Embase and Cochrane Library. Additional searches patients should be fully informed, and involved in this decision- were conducted using Google. Literature searches were run up making process. The risk of a potentially catastrophic throm- to November 2020, and this time- point should be the starting botic event such as a stroke may not be acceptable to a patient point in the search for new evidence for future updates to these even if that risk is very low. guidelines. Quality of evidence and strength of recommenda- Once the decision to modify antithrombotic medication is tions were determined by the authors, and consensus achieved made, then a personal plan for that patient should be made. This according to the GRADE system.4 After agreement on a final should include written as well as verbal information regarding version, the manuscript was subjected to internal peer review the precise timing of any changes. This should include the time Table 3 Risk stratification for discontinuation of warfarin therapy with respect to the requirement for heparin bridging High risk of thromboembolism Low risk of thromboembolism Prosthetic metal heart valve in mitral or aortic* position Xenograft heart valve Prosthetic heart valve and atrial fibrillation Atrial fibrillation and mitral stenosis Atrial fibrillation with previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack+3 or more of: Atrial fibrillation without high- risk factors Congestive cardiac failure (CHADS<4) Hypertension† Age>75 years Diabetes mellitus Atrial fibrillation and previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack within 3 months <3 months after venous thromboembolism‡ >3 months after venous thromboembolism Previous venous thromboembolism on warfarin, and target INR now 3.5 *Heparin bridging for a metal aortic valve is recommended by European Society of Cardiology and the European Association for Cardio-T horacic Surgery guidelines 2017,33 but this varies between international guidelines31 32 and local guidance should be established in conjunction with cardiology or cardiothoracic services. †Blood pressure>140/90 mm Hg or on antihypertensive
