Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


Surgery guidelines 2017,33 but this varies between international guidelines31 32 and local guidance should be established in conjunction with cardiology or cardiothoracic services. †Blood pressure>140/90 mm Hg or on antihypertensive medication. ‡The majority of patients are now on direct oral anticoagulants for venous thromboembolism and bridging is not appropriate. Consider deferring a high-r isk procedure beyond 3 months therapy in this high- risk group for thromboembolism. INR, international normalised ratio. 1614 Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: Guidelines a threefold increased risk of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events, and 70% of these events occurred within 7–10 days after interruption.6 7 In a randomised controlled trial (RCT) of 220 patients on low- dose aspirin for secondary prevention under- going non- cardiac surgery, patients were randomised to contin- uation or temporary replacement of aspirin by placebo.8 Major cardiac events occurred within 30 days in 1.8% of the aspirin group compared with 9% in the placebo group (p=0.02). No difference in haemorrhagic complications was seen between the figure 3 Perioperative direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) management two groups. The risks related to continuation or discontinuation protocol. Reproduced with permission from Douketis et al.5 Copyright of aspirin for endoscopy are discussed in the sections on endo- (2019) American Medical Association. All rights reserved. No DOAC was scopic procedures, and recommendations made accordingly. taken on certain days (shaded) and on the day of the elective surgery With regard to patients on a DOAC and a single antiplatelet or procedure (including endoscopy). The light blue arrows refer to an agent, such as aspirin, the AFIRE trial randomised patients with exception to the basic management, a subgroup of patients taking atrial fibrillation (AF) and stable coronary artery disease to dabigatran with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 50 ng/mL. The rivaroxaban alone versus rivaroxaban and a single antiplatelet. orange arrows refer to patients having a high- bleed- risk procedure. They demonstrated that rivaroxaban alone was non- inferior for Dark blue arrows refer to patients having a low- bleed- risk procedure. the primary efficacy endpoint (a composite of thromboembolic The thickened orange arrows refer to flexibility in timing of DOAC events or death from any cause) and superior for the primary resumption after a procedure. safety endpoint of major bleeding. However, this trial was not sufficiently powered to address the risk of stent thrombosis.9 For patients with documented coronary artery disease and an of last dose of a drug,
