Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


bleeding. However, this trial was not sufficiently powered to address the risk of stent thrombosis.9 For patients with documented coronary artery disease and an of last dose of a drug, and first dose when restarting. If multiple indication for formal anticoagulation, for example, AF, then a drugs are involved, or substitutions including bridging with life- long single antiplatelet such as aspirin is no longer recom- heparin, then timing respective to each drug should be clearly mended, beyond the antiplatelet duration required postcoro- communicated. Simple algorithms such as those illustrated in the nary stent insertion, in the latest ESC guidelines.10 However, PAUSE trial for DOACs5 may be useful (figure 3). Late haemor- late stent thrombosis (1–12 months poststent implantation) and rhagic complications may occur one to 2 weeks after endoscopic very late stent thrombosis (beyond 12 months poststent implan- therapy, and antithrombotic therapy will have often been reinsti- tation) occur with a reported incidence of 0.5%–1.0% and tuted prior to this. Patients on antithrombotics should be advised 0.2%–0.4%, respectively, and stent thrombosis is associated with that there is a possible increase in postprocedure haemorrhage, a 4%–45% mortality.11 Furthermore, technical aspects of the and also advised how to seek urgent medical advice at any time procedure, for example, left main stents, may have an essential of the day or night. We have produced a patient information bearing on the subsequent risk of stent thrombosis. The trials sheet based on this guideline to assist with patient engagement addressing whether a long- term antiplatelet agent is needed in (online supplemental file). patients that have stents and require a DOAC, which suggest a DOAC alone may be safe, are not sufficiently powered to look at AnTiPLATeLeT AGenTs the important endpoint of stent thrombosis.9 12 Many consultant For all endoscopic procedures we recommend continuing aspirin interventional cardiologists in the UK recommend their patients (strong recommendation, low quality evidence), with the excep- remain on a single antiplatelet agent if they have stents and need tion of ampullectomy (weak recommendation, low quality a long term DOAC, although this will very much vary on an evidence). If considering aspirin discontinuation, this should be individual case-b y-c ase basis. Therefore, in patients with coro- on an individual patient basis depending on the risks of throm- nary stents who are taking a DOAC the cessation of the single bosis versus haemorrhage (weak recommendation, low quality antiplatelet agent should always be discussed
