Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


on the risks of throm- nary stents who are taking a DOAC the cessation of the single bosis versus haemorrhage (weak recommendation, low quality antiplatelet agent should always be discussed in advance with evidence). the consultant interventional cardiologist responsible for the For low-r isk endoscopic procedures we recommend continuing patient’s care. P2Y12 receptor antagonists as single or DAPT (strong recom- Following the publication of three RCTs in 2018 the use of mendation, low quality evidence). aspirin in primary prevention in cardiovascular disease is no For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at low throm- longer routinely recommended and should only be considered, botic risk, we recommend discontinuing P2Y12 receptor antag- on a case-b y-c ase basis, in those with a very high individual risk onists 7 days before the procedure (strong recommendation, of cardiovascular events.13 moderate quality evidence). In patients on DAPT, we recom- mend continuing aspirin (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). P2y12 receptor antagonists For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at high throm- Antiplatelet drugs have a rapid onset of action, and irreversibly botic risk, we recommend continuing aspirin and liaising with a inhibit platelet activity. Clopidogrel, prasugrel and ticagrelor consultant interventional cardiologist about the risk/benefit of are antagonists of the P2Y12 receptor on platelets. Clopidogrel discontinuing P2Y12 receptor antagonists (strong recommenda- plus aspirin is more potent than aspirin alone.14 For clopidogrel, tion, high quality evidence). platelet function returns to normal 5–7 days after withdrawal of the drug.15 Prasugrel and ticagrelor are more rapidly acting Aspirin and more potent platelet receptor antagonists than clopidogrel. When given as long- term secondary prevention aspirin reduces Clopidogrel monotherapy may be used following a thromboem- vascular events by approximately one-t hird and vascular deaths bolic cerebrovascular accident, or for peripheral vascular disease. by about one-s ixth. In patients on long-t erm low- dose aspirin for P2Y12 receptor antagonists are frequently used as DAPT with secondary prevention, aspirin interruption was associated with aspirin in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and after placement Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: 1615 Guidelines of coronary stents. High- risk and low-r isk indications for P2Y12 in patients with coronary stents, we recommend that the endos- receptor antagonists are listed in table 2. copist discusses the plan, with respect to potential DAPT cessa- Patients on DAPT, with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antago- tion, with a consultant interventional cardiologist. Ideally this nist, particularly in the context of coronary
