Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


respect to potential DAPT cessa- Patients on DAPT, with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antago- tion, with a consultant interventional cardiologist. Ideally this nist, particularly in the context of coronary artery stents, are at should be the consultant interventional cardiologist responsible high risk of thrombosis if drug therapy is discontinued. Without for the patient’s care, who did the stent procedure. antiplatelet therapy coronary stents are at high risk of occlusion due to thrombosis, and this confers an approximate 40% risk AnTiCoAGuLAnTs of acute myocardial infarction or death. In one study, discon- Warfarin and heparin tinuation of DAPT was associated with an HR of 161 for these For low- risk endoscopic procedures we suggest that warfarin events.16 DAPT is generally prescribed for 12 months after drug therapy should be continued (low quality evidence, moderate eluting stents (DES) implantation, though there have been occa- recommendation). It should be ensured that the INR does not sional reported instances of thrombosis after this duration. Pras- exceed the therapeutic range in the week prior to the procedure ugrel and ticagrelor are now the main drugs of choice used for (low quality evidence, strong recommendation). ACS in the UK. Prasugrel has been shown in a large UK obser- vational series to be associated with a lower mortality.17 This ► Tell the patient to continue warfarin and check the INR during the week before the endoscopy. has been confirmed in a large randomised open- label trial.18 The ► If the INR result is within the therapeutic range then latest NICE guidelines for ACS now recommend prasugrel is continue with the usual daily dose. used as the first line agent in ACS, unless the patient is on anti- ► If the INR result is above the therapeutic range, but less than coagulant therapy, in which case clopidogrel is recommended. 5, then reduce the daily warfarin dose until the INR returns Clopidogrel is generally the first choice of P2Y12 inhibitor in to within the therapeutic range. patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention ► If the INR is greater than 5 then defer the endoscopy and (PCI) and the current guidelines recommend a 6 month course of DAPT postelective PCI.10 Where temporary cessation of P2Y12 for advice. inhibitors in patients with stents has been agreed, after discussion For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at low throm- with the responsible consultant interventional cardiologist, then botic risk, we recommend discontinuing warfarin
