Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


with stents has been agreed, after discussion For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at low throm- with the responsible consultant interventional cardiologist, then botic risk, we recommend discontinuing warfarin for 5 days stopping the P2Y12 inhibitors 7 days preprocedure will minimise before the procedure (strong recommendation, high quality the bleeding risk. However, it should be noted that, depending evidence). Check INR prior to the procedure to ensure <1.5 on the P2Y12 agent, this time can be shortened dependent on (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). the P2Y12 agent in use. In patients with a very high risk of stent ► Stop warfarin for 5 days before the endoscopy. thrombosis there may also be a role for bridging either with ► Check the INR prior to the procedure to ensure its value is intravenous cangrelor and/or GIIbIIIa agents. However, the role <1.5. of such bridging agents is beyond the remit of this paper and this ► On the day of the procedure restart warfarin with the usual decision should be made along with the responsible consultant daily dose that night. interventional cardiologist on a case-b y-c ase basis.19 ► Check INR 1 week later to ensure adequate anticoagulation. Bare metal stents (BMS), which only require 1 month of For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients at high throm- DAPT, are now much less frequently used and the national BCIS botic risk, we recommend that warfarin should be temporarily audit shows they are used in less than 15% of cases in the UK, discontinued and substituted with LMWH (moderate quality and many units no longer even stock them. Their main indica- evidence, strong recommendation). tion is for use in patients with a high bleeding risk or requiring ► Warfarin should be stopped for 5 days before the procedure. urgent major surgery. Many UK units now use BioFreedom DES, ► Two days after stopping warfarin commence daily thera- these are polymer- free drug coated stents, which have a license peutic dose of LMWH. of 1 month of DAPT and are superior to BMS with respect to major safety endpoints including bleeding and restenosis rates.20 ► Administer the last dose of LMWH at least 24 hours prior to the procedure. Finally, there is increasing evidence that with a number of third ► Check the INR prior to the procedure to ensure its value is generation DESs 1 month of DAPT can safely be used
