Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


evidence that with a number of third ► Check the INR prior to the procedure to ensure its value is generation DESs 1 month of DAPT can safely be used in patients <1.5. at high bleeding risk without an increase in ischaemic events.21–23 ► Warfarin can be resumed on the day of the procedure with A single antiplatelet agent is continued in all cases after discon- the usual dose that night. tinuation of DAPT, this tends to be aspirin. In some cases, for ► Restart the daily therapeutic dose of LMWH on the day example, patients who had a previous stroke, the patients may after the procedure. have aspirin stopped at the end of the DAPT course and clopido- ► Continue LMWH until a satisfactory INR is achieved. grel continued long- term. The important issue of a single anti- Updated literature searches were conducted on the use of platelet agent in patients on long-t erm DOACs is discussed in the warfarin and heparin in patients undergoing endoscopy. There previous section. were no new data to indicate a change to the existing proto- Finally, in patients on a DOAC for AF and stroke prophylaxis cols above. Any new data relevant to interventional therapy are who need DAPT after stent implantation, evidence from trials discussed in the sections on specific endoscopic procedures. such as the RE- DUAL trial indicate that much shorter courses of triple therapy followed by a course of DOAC and clopidogrel alone are safer than previous practice of triple therapy up to a direct oral anticoagulants year.24 The European Society of Cardiology and NICE guide- For low- risk endoscopic procedures we suggest omitting the lines, for both ACS and elective stenting, now support shorter morning dose of DOACs on the day of the procedure (weak durations of triple therapy followed by a DOAC and clopidogrel recommendation, low quality evidence). as the current standard of care.10 25 26 For high- risk endoscopic procedures in patients on DOACs, The duration of DAPT post- PCI may also depend on a number we recommend that the last dose of DOACs be taken 3 days of other factors, beyond the scope of this guideline. Therefore, before the procedure (strong recommendation. low quality 1616 Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: Guidelines evidence). For patients on dabigatran with a CrCl (or eGFR) of small multicentre registry study found no difference in adverse 30–50 mL/min we
