Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: Guidelines evidence). For patients on dabigatran with a CrCl (or eGFR) of small multicentre registry study found no difference in adverse 30–50 mL/min we recommend that the last dose be taken 5 days events between patients bridged with UFH or LMWH in this prior to the procedure (strong recommendation, low quality context,29 and bridging with LMWH is now commonplace. evidence). In any patient with rapidly deteriorating renal func- Guidelines from the American Heart Association and American tion a haematologist should be consulted (strong recommenda- College of Cardiology do not recommend one strategy over the tion, low quality evidence). other.30 Prosthetic metal heart valves in the mitral position are DOACs have been a major advance in anticoagulant therapy. at particularly high risk of thrombosis if warfarin is temporarily Dabigatran is an inhibitor of thrombin, and rivaroxaban, apix- discontinued for 5–7 days. Heparin bridging for patients with aban and edoxaban inhibit FXa. They do not need routine a bileaflet mechanical aortic valve replacement in the absence monitoring, and INR and activated partial thromboplastin time of AF is considered unnecessary in guidelines from the British (aPTT) are unreliable indicators of anticoagulant activity. Unlike Society of Haematology31 and from the American College of warfarin they have a rapid onset of action and full anticoagu- Cardiology/American Heart Association,32 but it is recommended lant activity is established within 3 hours of the first dose. They in guidelines from the ESC and the European Association for have relatively short half-l ives, but these may be prolonged in Cardio- Thoracic Surgery.33 There are no high quality studies to renal failure, particularly for dabigatran. In patients undergoing inform us, and consequently levels of evidence are low quality in a high- risk procedure with a low thrombotic risk we recommend all three guidelines. We have now placed mechanical aortic valve that the last dose of rivaroxaban, apixaban or edoxaban is taken replacement in the high- risk category requiring bridging, in line 3 days before the procedure. Dabigatran may have to be stopped with European guidelines, but this should be decided in conjunc- for longer than this, however, when renal function is signifi- tion with local cardiology or cardiothoracic surgery services cantly reduced.27 given the uncertainty. This should always be discussed with the For patients on dabigatran with CrCl of 30–50 mL/min we consultant cardiologist responsible for the patient’s care. recommend that the last dose
