Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


uncertainty. This should always be discussed with the For patients on dabigatran with CrCl of 30–50 mL/min we consultant cardiologist responsible for the patient’s care. recommend that the last dose of the drug is 5 days before the The risk of thromboembolism with AF increases with addi- procedure. Dabigatran therapy is contraindicated in patients tional cardiovascular factors such as hypertension, heart failure with CrCl<30 mL/min. eGFR is a suitable alternative measure- and diabetes and this risk has been quantified by the CHADS ment of renal function, and the same numerical values apply for score (annual risk of stroke increasing from 1.9% with a score the purposes of these guidelines. If a patient on any DOAC is of 1 to 18.2% with a score of 6). This has been updated with clinically deteriorating, his/her renal function should be checked the CHADSVASc scoring system in which the annual risk of 2 2 before the procedure. These recommendations are supported stroke increases from 1.3% with a score of 1 to 15.2% with by the findings of the PAUSE trial.5 Three thousand and seven score of 9. A randomised, prospective, double- blind placebo- patients on apixaban, dabigatran or rivaroxaban due for elec- controlled trial was conducted in 1884 patients with AF under- tive interventional procedures had a standardised interruption going a variety of operative procedures including approximately of therapy (figure 3): last dose of drug 2 days before low-r isk 50% GI endoscopy.34 Patients were randomised to LMWH or procedures (including diagnostic GI endoscopy) and 3 days placebo, and risk factors were well matched. Thirty- eight per before high- risk procedures (including high-r isk therapeutic GI cent of the patients had CHADS scores>3, <2% had mitral endoscopy; eg, polypectomy). This was extended to last dose stenosis and ≤3.4% had CHADS scores of 5 or 6. There was 5 days before a high- risk procedure for dabigatran patients no significant difference in rates of thromboembolism between with CrCL<50 mL/min. Resumption of therapy occurred at the LMWH and placebo groups, but there was a significant 1 day after low bleeding risk procedures and 2–3 days after high increase in major haemorrhagic events in the LMWH group bleeding risk procedures. Low rates of major bleeding or arterial versus placebo (3.2% vs 1.3%). Caution should be exercised thromboembolism were observed. Low rates of venous throm- when interpreting the results in the high- risk thromboembolic boembolism were also observed
