Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


versus placebo (3.2% vs 1.3%). Caution should be exercised thromboembolism were observed. Low rates of venous throm- when interpreting the results in the high- risk thromboembolic boembolism were also observed although this was not a primary groups as the study was not designed or statistically powered study outcome. We have maintained the recommendation to to examine these categories. The previous BSG/ESGE guide- procedures, although the PAUSE trial demonstrates the safety guidelines35 recommend bridging with LMWH for CHADS- of omitting the DOAC for 1 day before a low- risk endoscopic VASc>2 and the APAGE/APSDE guidelines36 recommend this procedure if desired. for CHADSVASc>5. CHADS scores are unfortunately not 2 2 2 directly equivalent to CHADSVASc scores. Further research 2 2 on the benefits of heparin bridging is required in high- risk bridging of anticoagulant therapy patients with non- valvular AF on warfarin in order to determine Unfractionated heparin (UFH) and LMWH (LMWH) have short the optimum approach, but it would be reasonable to consider half lives compared with warfarin and can be employed as an bridging patients with CHADS scores >5 as recommended by anticoagulation ‘bridge’ while warfarin is temporarily discon- the British Society of Haematology.31 This applies to patients tinued for endoscopic procedures considered to have a signifi- with AF and a previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack cant risk of haemorrhage. UFH is administered by continuous (TIA), and three of the following factors: congestive cardiac intravenous infusion and LMWH by subcutaneous injection failure, hypertension (>140/90 mm Hg or on antihyperten- once or two times a day. The former requires an inpatient stay in sive medication), age>75 years or diabetes mellitus. Heparin and also requires frequent monitoring of aPTT; the latter can had a stroke or TIA within 3 months.31 often be managed in an outpatient setting without monitoring Bridging with LMWH has also been studied in patients on of anticoagulation levels. Some cardiologists have a preference DOACs. In a German registry, heparin bridging versus no for UFH for bridging warfarin in patients with metal heart bridging led to a higher rate of major haemorrhage (2.7% vs valves. A meta- analysis demonstrated higher rates of bleeding 0.5%, p=0.01) with no reduction in thromboembolism.37 In in patients with mechanical heart valves bridged with LMWH the RE- LY trial bridging of dabigatran with LMWH resulted versus UFH, but numbers were small in the LMWH studies.28 A in higher major haemorrhage rates compared with
