Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


significance. 3 months of commencing anticoagulant therapy are at high risk The pharmacokinetic profile, and hence pharmacodynamic of recurrent thrombosis if anticoagulation is interrupted. Most effect, of DOACs varies such that some individuals will have of these patients are now commenced on a DOAC rather than higher peak levels 2–6 hours after oral administration.54 Conse- warfarin, and bridging would not be recommended. Ideally we quently, at the time of an endoscopic biopsy the anticoagulant should not interrupt anticoagulation in this high-r isk group due effect due to a DOAC is not accurately predictable. Due to this to the risk of thrombosis; an elective low- risk procedure could uncertainty regarding the level of anticoagulation on DOACs at be performed without interrupting anticoagulation if necessary, the time of endoscopy, and the absence of reliable test of anti- but it may be preferable to defer a high- risk procedure beyond coagulation on these drugs, we continue to suggest omitting the 3 months anticoagulation if safe to do so. dose of DOAC on the morning of the procedure to allow an Patients with thrombophilia syndromes should be discussed adequate safety margin. This applies to both once a day and two with a haematologist. Factor V Leiden and the common times a day regimens. prothrombin mutation F2G20210A are low- risk thrombophilias and bridging is not required. Patients with deficiencies of anti- thrombin, protein C or protein S are at higher risk of throm- resection of Gi polyps bosis, but in most of these patients bridging therapy will not be Polypectomy including endoscopic mucosal resection required. Studies of colonoscopic polypectomy have identified a risk of postpolypectomy bleeding (PPB) of 0.07%–1.7%.47 55–58 It is important to differentiate between immediate and delayed PPB, endosCoPiC ProCedures and also to identify the severity of bleeding; these factors are Minor haemorrhage is not uncommon during therapeutic endo- not always clear in the literature. Delayed PPB is of particular scopic procedures, but we have considered it to be clinically importance in patients in whom antithrombotic therapy has significant when haemoglobin value falls by more than 20 g/L, been interrupted, as bleeding will often occur once antithrom- botics have been restarted. In a BSG audit of 20 085 colonos- admission. Haemorrhage may be apparent at the time of endos- copies in the UK, 52 (0.26%) haemorrhages were reported, but copy, or delayed up to 2 weeks following the procedure. For only 3 (0.01%)
