Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


multicentre study87 The risk of polypectomy on continued antiplatelet therapy for colonic ESD, and six retrospective studies of gastric ESD,88–93 has also been studied. Aspirin monotherapy has been found to comparing continuation with interruption of aspirin, found no be safe in colonoscopic polypectomy.72–74 A double blind RCT significant differences in delayed bleeding the two groups. This included patients on clopidogrel therapy who required colo- was confirmed by two meta- analyses which also reported that noscopy.75 They were randomised at 7 days before procedure continuation of low dose aspirin does not increase the postpro- into either continuing with clopidogrel 75 mg a day or placebo cedure bleeding after ESD.94 95 This was also observed in the until the morning of colonoscopy. If discontinued, clopidogrel group of patients under DAPT in which aspirin was continued was restarted after colonoscopy when oral intake was allowed. alone.88 Furthermore, inappropriate discontinuation of anti- More than 90% of patients had polyps les than 1 cm. There platelet agents was significantly associated with increased risk of was no significant difference in immediate or delayed PPB, or thrombosis.90 A meta- analysis found a thrombosis rate of 2.1% in cardiothrombotic events, between the two groups. These in the aspirin- interrupted versus none in the aspirin- continued conclusions, however, need to be treated with some caution. group of patients.95 Although the study aim was to examine the effect of clopido- Continued thienopyridine (clopidogrel or prasugrel) or aspirin grel, a high proportion of patients were on DAPT. The groups use did not increase delayed haemorrhage for gastric ESD in one were well matched but numbers were relatively small to examine retrospective study.92 A non- randomised retrospective compara- differences in an infrequent event, and the rate of PPB in the tive study found, however, that continuation of any antithrom- placebo group was higher than expected when compared with botic, or heparin bridging, increased the risk of haemorrage with other studies of patients undergoing polypectomy not previ- gastric ESD.93 The risk of haemorrhage following gastric ESD is ously on antiplatelet agents. A meta-a nalysis76 assessing the risks increased with the number of antiplatelet agents taken or when of immediate and PPB associated with continued clopidogrel antiplatelet drugs are combined with anticoagulation.96 For use at time of polypectomy included the above trial. A total of colorectal ESD, antiplatelet agents except for aspirin alone were five studies were identified which included 655 patients in the
