Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


suggested malignant colonic strictures. 1620 Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: Guidelines A study of the complications arising from 504 balloon dila- vein (massive retroperitoneal bleeding), or rectus sheath haema- tions in 237 patients with achalasia revealed 4 (1.7%) asymptom- toma.176–178 Rarely, laparotomy may be required as a result of atic haematomas, but no clinically significant haemorrhage.148 puncturing of the gastric artery at the time of insertion.177 There were, however, 7 (3%) perforations. In an RCT of pneu- The overall risk of haemorrhage for PEG placement was matic dilatation versus laparoscopic myotomy for achalasia there 1.5% in a case series of 950 patients.179 There are few data were no reported haemorrhages but 8/108 (9.5%) patients expe- on continued administration of antithrombotics at the time of rienced perforation during the treatment course.149 PEG insertion. A meta-a nalysis showed continuing antiplatelet Dilatation of GI strictures in the upper or lower GI tract therapy such as clopidogrel may be safe.180 A German retro- appears to be a low- risk procedure, with the exception of Crohn’s spective study of PEG insertion with patients on UFH, phenpro- disease- related ileal strictures, and balloon dilatation for acha- coumon, LMWH, aspirin, clopidogrel and combinations showed lasia. There are no data, however, on dilatation of strictures on no evidence of increased haemorrhage.181 A further study antiplatelets or anticoagulants. This, together with the inaccessi- concluded that giving aspirin or clopidogrel either 72 hours bility of the site of haemorrhage for endoscopic haemostasis, has before or 48 hours after the procedure did not increase bleeding led us to continue to consider endoscopic dilatation as a high- risk.182 The above studies are, however, of inadequate quality risk procedure on P2Y12 receptor antagonists or anticoagulants. to definitively demonstrate an effect due to the drugs studied. A large retrospective study of patients undergoing endoscopic procedures on anticoagulants included 2322 PEG performed on endoscopic stenting warfarin and 1484 on DOACs, with a risk of post-e ndoscopy There are no studies on endoscopic stenting at any site in the GI bleeding of 2.0% and 1.2%, respectively.39 tract in patients taking antiplatelets or anticoagulants. Available data regarding haemorrhage risk, from RCTs, prospective and mostly retrospective studies, are heterogeneous regarding details device-assisted enteroscopy of the time interval from stent placement until clinically relevant Single- balloon, double-b alloon and spiral enteroscopy devices haemorrhage occurred, In deciding whether stent insertion is a are available. The risk of haemorrhage
