Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


continued (table 1). Tables 2 antral vascular ectasia, but we have only small case studies to and 3 stratify risk for discontinuation of P2Y12 receptor antag- series of 21 patients there was a 10% ulceration rate necessi- and the risks of thromboembolic sequelae on discontinuation of tating discontinuation of RFA therapy. We have therefore classi- therapy. fied oesophageal and gastric RFA as high risk for haemorrhage Diagnostic endoscopic procedures, with or without biopsy, with respect to P2Y12 receptor antagonists and anticoagulants. are classified as low-r isk for haemorrhage, though there is There are no data on aspirin, but we advise continuation in other concern regarding biopsy on DOACs. The likelihood of having procedures with similar rates of haemorrhage. to undertake therapy with a risk of haemorrhage should also be Argon plasma coagulation is used as an ablative therapy for considered, for example, colonoscopy when polyps have been a wide variety of indications throughout the GI tract, including found in 22.5%–34.2% of patients in large studies.47 55 Endos- ablation of vascular abnormalities including angiodysplasia and copists may therefore choose to manage colonoscopies as high- radiation proctitis, ablation of tumours and margins of resected risk procedures with respect to P2Y12 receptor antagonists and polyps, ablation of dysplastic Barretts oesophagus, and occasion- anticoagulants. Similar considerations apply to ERCP if there is ally as a haemostatic measure. With different indications there uncertainty as to whether sphincterotomy will be required. is variation in size of the ablated mucosal field, energy deliv- ered, and consequences including rarely perforation. There are no data on continued use of antithrombotics with respect to the ACuTe Gi HAemorrHAGe on AnTiPLATeLeTs And risk of haemorrhage from APC, and we are therefore unable to AnTiCoAGuLAnTs provide specific guidance in this regard. Antiplatelets We suggest that permanent discontinuation of aspirin for primary prophylaxis should be considered (weak recommendation, low restarting antithrombotic therapy for elective procedures quality evidence). There are few data to inform us on the optimal time to restart We suggest that aspirin for secondary prevention should antithrombotic therapy, if discontinued, after elective endo- not be routinely stopped. If it is stopped, it should be recom- scopic therapy. Decisions in all cases will be based on the menced as soon as haemostasis is achieved, or there is no further perceived risk of haemorrhage following the procedure versus evidence of bleeding (strong recommendation, moderate quality the risk of thrombosis to an individual patient.
