Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


is achieved, or there is no further perceived risk of haemorrhage following the procedure versus evidence of bleeding (strong recommendation, moderate quality the risk of thrombosis to an individual patient. It should be evidence). remembered that DOACs exert an anticoagulant effect within We recommend that DAPT is continued if possible in patients hours, compared with days for warfarin. Data from the PAUSE with coronary stents in situ and management should be in liaison study indicates that restarting a DOAC 2–3 days after a high- risk with a consultant interventional cardiologist (strong recommen- procedure has a low risk of thromboembolic events.5 Data on dation, moderate quality evidence). In the case of major haem- restarting therapy after acute GI haemorrhage are discussed in orrhage we recommend continuing aspirin if the P2Y12 receptor that section. A prospective cohort study in Italy53 evaluated the antagonist is interrupted (strong recommendation, moderate risks of haemorrhage and thrombosis in relation to compliance quality evidence). P2Y12 receptor antagonist therapy should be with the previous version of this BSG/ESGE guideline. For cases re- instated within 5 days, if still indicated (strong recommenda- who underwent polypectomy there was a trend to more intrap- tion, moderate quality evidence). rocedural bleeding if DOAC was not stopped as per the guideline Antiplatelets confer an increased risk of spontaneous haem- for high- risk procedures. Stopping longer than the guidelines did orrhage, but also present an increased risk to the patient when not reduce the intraprocedural bleeding risk. Also, restarting the this occurs. In the case of life-t hreatening haemorrhage, this is of DOAC immediately after polypectomy, rather than a delay of urgent concern, but withdrawal of antiplatelet therapy confers 24–48 hours (as suggested by the guidelines) in high-r isk patients a risk of thrombosis. A meta-a nalysis of studies of patients on led to an almost doubling of the delayed bleeding risk without a aspirin for secondary prophylaxis found that discontinuation of reduction in thrombosis, although these measures did not reach aspirin was associated with a threefold increased risk of major statistical significance. adverse cardiac events, increasing to an OR of 89 for major For procedures with a very high risk of haemorrhage such cardiac events in patients with coronary stents.6 If GI haemor- as ESD, it may be desirable to delay restarting antithrom- rhage occurs in a patient with a recently placed coronary stent on botics beyond the intervals recommended in these guidelines.
