Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


as ESD, it may be desirable to delay restarting antithrom- rhage occurs in a patient with a recently placed coronary stent on botics beyond the intervals recommended in these guidelines. DAPT, then life-t hreatening thrombosis could occur if therapy In a meta-a nalysis, post- ESD bleeding risk was not significantly is interrupted. The imperative, after adequate resuscitation, is increased if antithrombotic therapy was resumed at least 1 week to achieve haemostasis within the GI tract and urgent facili- after ESD whereas resumption of antithrombotic therapy imme- ties should be available to provide this. Liaison with a consul- diately or within 1 week after ESD was significantly associated tant interventional cardiologist should occur in the emergency with post- ESD bleeding.94 The incidence of thrombosis was not setting. If it is deemed necessary to temporarily discontinue anti- analysed, however, and this needs to be considered on an indi- platelet therapy, this should be limited to the P2Y12 receptor vidual patient basis. antagonist, and aspirin continued.195 The timing of restarting antithrombotic therapy after acute GI haemorrhage will be deter- risk stratification for elective endoscopic procedures mined by the risk of re-b leeding and the risk of acute thrombosis Endoscopic procedures carry a higher risk of haemorrhage, and without antithrombotic therapy.196 P2Y12 receptor antagonists certain clinical situations will result in a high risk of thrombo- in patients with coronary stents should be restarted within a embolic complications should antiplatelets or anticoagulants maximum of 5 days due to the high risk of stent thrombosis after be withdrawn. Procedures have been classified as high- risk or this time. This timeframe represents an optimal balance between low- risk for haemorrhage primarily based on the risks of haem- haemorrhage and thrombosis,195 though it has not been tested orrhage in patients not taking antiplatelets or anticoagulants, prospectively. 1622 Veitch AM, et al. Gut 2021;70:1611–1628. doi: Guidelines For patients on aspirin monotherapy for secondary prophy- Vitamin K takes several hours to correct anticoagulation, so the laxis, there is a benefit to continued therapy. A prospective use of 4- factor PCC may be necessary to rapidly reverse anti- placebo- controlled RCT of 156 patients following endoscopi- coagulation in patients with active bleeding and haemodynamic cally controlled upper GI haemorrhage, demonstrated a reduc- instability. PCC is preferred over FFP, for a lower volume load, tion in all-c ause mortality in the group receiving low- dose faster onset of action, and no need
