Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


reduc- instability. PCC is preferred over FFP, for a lower volume load, tion in all-c ause mortality in the group receiving low- dose faster onset of action, and no need to check the patient’s blood aspirin (1.3% vs 12.9%).197 There was an excess of bleeds in the group. Concomitant low- dose vitamin K is recommended in this aspirin group (10.3% vs 5.4%) but none were fatal. Five patients situation to prevent an ‘INR rebound’. in the placebo arm died of thromboembolic events. If aspirin is Unlike VKAs, DOACs are characterised by a relatively short stopped then it should be reintroduced as soon as haemostasis half-l ives, so that their anticoagulant activity usually rapidly has been achieved. wanes- off over 12–24 hours. Consequently, most cases of major A retrospective study of 118 patients on antiplatelets or anti- GI haemorrhage can be managed by withholding the drug and coagulants presenting with acute GI haemorrhage compared waiting for the anticoagulant effects to resolve. In haemodynam- outcomes in those who had antithrombotic therapy permanently ically unstable patients, acute reversal of anticoagulation may be discontinued compared with those in whom it was restarted.198 required.209 210 Vitamin K, FFP, and protamine administration In those in whom antithrombotic therapy was discontinued the are ineffective. Idarucizumab, a humanised antibody fragment HR for thrombotic events was 5.77 (95% CI 1.26 to 26.35) and that neutralises the effect of dabigatran, is now currently avail- for mortality 3.32 (1.07–10.31) compared with those in whom it able as first- line reversal agent in dabigatran patients presenting was restarted. It is therefore important to have a plan for consid- with life-t hreatening/uncontrolled bleeding.211 212 Idarucizumab eration of restarting antithrombotic therapy in all such patients reverses dabigatran- related coagulopathy rapidly (within a few presenting with GI haemorrhage. minutes) and persistently (for about 24 hours) in more than 98% of the patients, with a low thrombotic complication rate (6% at 90 days). Andexanet alfa, an inactive form of FXa that neutra- Anticoagulants lises circulating FXa inhibitors, has recently been approved as We recommend withholding oral anticoagulant and correcting an antidote to apixaban and rivaroxaban in patients with life the patient’s thrombotic risk in coordination with a consultant limited availability, the prohibitive cost and safety concern about cardiologist/haematologist. The correction of coagulopathy possible procoagulant effect.213 Four- factor PCC at fixed dose should not delay endoscopy or radiological intervention (strong (2000 IU) may represent an alternative to
