Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


about cardiologist/haematologist. The correction of coagulopathy possible procoagulant effect.213 Four- factor PCC at fixed dose should not delay endoscopy or radiological intervention (strong (2000 IU) may represent an alternative to andexanet alpha, with recommendation, low quality evidence). lower thromboembolic risk, but uncertain efficacy.214–216 In patients with haemodynamic instability who take VKAs, Correction of coagulopathy, when required, should not delay we recommend administering intravenous vitamin K and four- urgent endoscopic or radiological interventions when indicated, factor PCC (strong recommendation, low quality evidence), or as these procedures can be safely and effectively performed at fresh frozen plasma if PCC is not available (weak recommenda- therapeutic levels of anticoagulation in the context of acute tion, very low quality evidence) haemorrhage.217 218 In patients with haemodynamic instability who take DOACs, After bleeding cessation, observational studies219–222 and we suggest considering the use of reversal agents: idarucizumab two meta- analyses223 224 consistently indicate there is a net patients (weak recommendation, low quality evidence), or risk of thromboembolism and death, despite an increased risk intravenous four-f actor PCC if andexanet is not available (weak of rebleeding. However, evidence on the optimal timing for recommendation, very low quality evidence). restarting anticoagulation is limited. A single retrospective We recommend restarting anticoagulation following acute GI study indicates an excess risk of GI bleeding and of thrombo- haemorrhage in patients with an indication for long- term anti- embolism for an interval of warfarin interruption shorter than coagulation (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). In 7 days and longer than 30 days, respectively.219 Since there is patients at low thrombotic risk, we suggest restarting anticoagu- a trend toward a reduced incidence of thromboembolic events lation as soon as possible after 7 days of anticoagulant interrup- the earlier warfarin is introduced, it is reasonable to restart tion (weak recommendation, low quality evidence). In those at warfarin as soon as possible by day seven following its inter- high- thrombotic risk, an earlier resumption of anticoagulation ruption. Data on the optimal timing of DOAC resumption are with heparin bridging, preferably within 3 days, is recommended lacking. In analogy with warfarin, restarting DOACs as soon as (strong recommendation, low quality evidence). possible by day seven after their interruption seems reasonable in Anticoagulant use is reported in up to 15% and 25% of most cases. The DOAC rapid onset of action, resulting in a full patients presenting with acute upper and lower GI bleeding, anticoagulation within 2–4 hours,
