Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, endoscopic, bleeding, therapy, haemorrhage, low, evidence, aspirin, study, high, quality, procedures, endoscopy, guidelines


15 Korte W, Cattaneo M, Chassot P-G , et al. Peri- Operative management of antiplatelet appear. Clinical consideration may justify a course of action at variance to these therapy in patients with coronary artery disease: joint position paper by members of recommendations, but we suggest that reasons for this are documented in the the Working group on perioperative haemostasis of the Society on thrombosis and medical record. BSG and ESGE guidelines are intended to be an educational device haemostasis research (GTH), the Working group on perioperative coagulation of the to provide information that may assist endoscopists in providing care to patients. Austrian Society for anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive care (ÖGARI) and They are not rules and should not be construed as establishing a legal standard the Working group thrombosis of the European Society for cardiology (ESC). Thromb of care or as encouraging, advocating, requiring or discouraging any particular Haemost 2011;105:743–9. treatment. 16 Iakovou I, Schmidt T, Bonizzoni E. Incidence, predictors, and outcome of thrombosis after successful implantation of drug- eluting stents. JAMA 2005;293:2126–30. Competing interests FR has received speaker fees from Bristol- Meyers Squibb, 17 Olier I, Sirker A, Hildick-S mith DJR, et al. Association of different antiplatelet Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim. Dr Alikhan has received fees from Alexion, Bayer, therapies with mortality after primary percutaneous coronary intervention. Heart Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol- Meyers Squibb, Daiichi, Pfizer and Portola. WL has 2018;104:1683–90. received speaker fees from Sanofi Aventis and Leo Pharma, speaker fees and 18 Schüpke S, Neumann F- J, Menichelli M, et al. Ticagrelor or prasugrel in patients with advisory board fees from Bayer, Daichii Sankyo, Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim, and acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1524–34. support to attend a scientific meeting from Boehringer Ingelheim. JEV- H has received 19 Valgimigli M, Bueno H, Byrne RA, et al. 2017 ESC focused update on dual departmental research grant support from Cook Medical and Abbott, lecture fees antiplatelet therapy in coronary artery disease developed in collaboration with from Medtronics and Cook Medical, and consultancy fees from Boston Scientific and EACTS: the task force for dual antiplatelet therapy in coronary artery disease of the Olympus. European Society of cardiology (ESC) and of the European association for Cardio- Patient consent for publication Not required. Thoracic surgery (EACTS). Eur Heart J 2018;39:213–60. Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. 20 Urban P, Meredith IT, Abizaid A, et al. Polymer- Free
