pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


pISSN 2287-2728 eISSN 2287-285X Guideline Clinical and Molecular Hepatology 2020;26:83-127 KASL clinical practice guidelines for liver cirrhosis: Varices, hepatic encephalopathy, and related complications The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Keywords: Cirrhosis; Varices; Hepatic encephalopathy; Guideline PREAMBLE for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. In 2005, the Korean As- sociation for the Study of the Liver (KASL) enacted a clinical prac- Background and aims tice guideline (CPG) for the treatment of cirrhosis complications including ascites, hepatorenal syndrome, varices, and HE. In 2011, Patients with decompensated cirrhosis with complications have the guidelines for the treatment of cirrhosis were revised to inte- a very poor prognosis and require careful management. Varices grate antifibrotic treatment and update the diagnosis and treat- are common complications in patients with cirrhosis. Although ment advice for variceal bleeding, cirrhotic ascites, and HE. In the prognosis of variceal bleeding has improved with recent ad- 2017, the CPG for liver cirrhosis was revised for ascites and related vances in diagnosis and treatment, the mortality rate remains 12– complications. At this time, KASL is revising the CPG for liver cir- 22%. Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is known to occur in 10–14% rhosis to address varices and HE following ascites and related of patients with cirrhosis and 16–21% of patients with decom- complications. To date, many studies have addressed the preven- pensated cirrhosis. More than 20% of cirrhotic patients who visit tion and treatment of gastroesophageal variceal bleeding and HE, emergency rooms in Korea present with HE. Therefore, cirrhosis is and many guidelines have been based on those studies, but most a serious disease in Korea and requires specific Korean guidelines of them contain foreign data that are difficult to apply to Korean Abbreviations: Abbreviations (continued) occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration; cACLD, compensated beta-blockers; OHE, overt hepatic encephalopathy; OR, odds ratio; PARTO, advanced chronic liver disease; CFF, critical flicker frequency; CHE, covert vascular plug-assisted retrograde transvenous obliteration; PCS, physical hepatic encephalopathy; CI, confidence interval; CLDQ, Chronic Liver Disease component summary; PEG, polyethylene glycol; PHES, psychometric hepatic DST, digit span test; EEG, electroencephalography; EIS, endoscopic injection RCTs, randomized controlled trials; RR, relative risk; SDMT, symbol digit modality sclerotherapy; EVL, endoscopic variceal ligation; EVO, endoscopic variceal test; SF-36, Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36; SF-LDQOL, Short Form obturation; EVs, esophageal varices; GOV, gastroesophageal varices; GRADE, Liver Disease Quality of Life; SIP, Sickness Impact Profile; SVR, sustained virologic Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation; HE,
