pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


undesirable effects may not be modified or altered without permission. of an intervention, generalizability, and socioeconomic aspects (including cost and availability). Each recommendation is labeled Target population with the level of relevant evidence (A–C) and corresponding rec- ommendation grade (1, 2) as follows: A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2. This guideline discusses patients with varices, HE, and related complications (esophageal varices [EVs] and bleeding, gastric vari- List of key questions ces and bleeding, portal hypertensive gastropathy, covert and overt HE) caused by liver cirrhosis. It is intended for clinicians and The Committee selected the following key questions about vari- other medical personnel who are in charge of diagnosing and ces, HE, and related complications to cover in this guideline. treating patients with liver cirrhosis. This guideline is also intend- ed to provide practical clinical and educational information and Key varix-related questions ners, and their trainers and supervisors. 2) Who needs monitoring for varices? 3) How can the development and progression of EVs be pre- Development, funding, and revision process vented? 4) Who needs treatment to prevent initial esophageal variceal Committee for Liver Cirrhosis: Varices, HE, and related complica- 5) What is the proper management for preventing initial esoph- tions (the Committee) was organized by the KASL Board of Execu- ageal variceal bleeding? tives. Funding for the revisions was provided by KASL. Each com- 6) How can acute esophageal variceal bleeding be diagnosed? mittee member collected and analyzed source data in his or her 7) What is the appropriate pharmacological treatment for acute own field, and the members then wrote the manuscript together. esophageal variceal bleeding? 8) What is the proper endoscopic treatment for acute esopha- Literature review geal variceal bleeding? 9) What are the options for rescue treatment when endoscopic The Committee selected keywords and questions using PICO treatment of acute variceal bleeding fails? (Patient/Problem, Intervention, Comparison, Outcome) assess- 10) What is the primary treatment to prevent EVs from rebleed- ments and systematically collected and reviewed international ing? and domestic literature available in PubMed, MEDLINE, Kore- 11) What are the options for rescue treatment when primary aMed, the Korean Medical Database, and other databases. In ad- treatment to prevent EVs from rebleeding fails? dition to published articles, abstracts of important meetings pub- 12) Who needs treatment to prevent gastric variceal bleeding? lished before January 2019 were evaluated. 13) What is the proper treatment to prevent gastric variceal bleeding? 14) What
