pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


meetings pub- 12) Who needs treatment to prevent gastric variceal bleeding? lished before January 2019 were evaluated. 13) What is the proper treatment to prevent gastric variceal bleeding? 14) What is the proper treatment of acute gastric variceal bleed- ing? The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy Table 1. Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) Criteria Quality of evidence High (A) Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. Moderate (B) Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and could change the estimate. Low (C) Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Any change in estimate is uncertain. Strength of recommendation Strong (1) Factors influencing the strength of the recommendation include the quality of the evidence, presumed patient-important outcomes, and cost. Weak (2) Variability in preference and values or relatively high uncertainty. Recommendation is made with less certainty or higher cost or resource consumption. Of the quality levels of evidence, we excluded “very low quality (D),” which was originally included in the GRADE system, for convenience. (Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Alonso-Coello P, et al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:924-926.) 15) What is the primary treatment to prevent gastric varices Does treating HE improve patient quality of life? from rebleeding? 16) How should portal hypertensive gastropathy be classified? Review of the manuscript and approval process 17) How should portal hypertensive gastropathy be managed? Each manuscript written by members was reviewed and ap- Key HE-related questions proved through meetings of the Committee. An updated manu- 1) How should HE be diagnosed and classified? script was reviewed at a meeting of the advisory board and 2) How should overt HE be defined and diagnosed? opened to a public hearing attended by KASL members, members 3) What are the precipitating factors of overt HE? of related organizations, and representatives from patient associa- 4) What differential diagnoses should be considered in diagnos- tions. The final manuscript was approved by the KASL Board of ing overt HE? Executives. 5) Is the measurement of serum ammonia helpful in diagnosing overt HE? Release of the guidelines and
