pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


final manuscript was approved by the KASL Board of ing overt HE? Executives. 5) Is the measurement of serum ammonia helpful in diagnosing overt HE? Release of the guidelines and plan for updates 6) Is radiologic image evaluation of the central nervous system helpful in diagnosing overt HE? The revised guideline (The KASL Clinical Practice Guidelines for 7) What neurophysiological or neuropsychological tests are clin- Liver Cirrhosis: Varices, Hepatic Encephalopathy and Related ically necessary to diagnose overt HE? Complications) was released at a KASL meeting on 22 June 2019. 8) How should the acute phase of overt HE be treated, and how The Korean version of the guideline is available on the KASL web- should recurrence be prevented? site ( 9) Are branched chain amino acids helpful in treating and pre- venting overt HE? 10) Is L-ornithine-L-aspartate (LOLA) helpful in treating and pre- VARiCEs venting overt HE? 11) Is proper education helpful in preventing the recurrence of Varices are a frequent complication of liver cirrhosis and a lead- and readmission for HE? ing cause of mortality in patients with liver cirrhosis. Varices were 12) How should covert HE be defined and diagnosed? present in 52.2% of patients who received endoscopy for variceal 14) How should covert HE be treated? patients with Child-Pugh class B/C than in those with Child-Pugh 15) How should the quality of life of HE patients be assessed? class A (35–43% vs. 48–72%).1,2 Portal hypertension, which is Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 terminant in the development of varices. Increased intrahepatic or signs. However, liver biopsy is an invasive procedure with a risk vascular resistance to portal flow leads to the development of of serious complications.16 Furthermore, doubt has been cast on portal hypertension, which is aggravated by splanchnic vasodila- the accuracy of liver biopsy because of the risk of sampling er- tation and an increase in portal blood flow caused by hyperdy- rors17,18 and intra- and interobserver variability.18,19 namic circulation.3-5 When the portal pressure increases above a Liver cirrhosis can disappear with appropriate treatment of the threshold, collaterals develop at the site of communication be- underlying liver disease,20,21 though portal hypertension can ac- tween the portal and systemic circulation, of which varices are the company the severe stage of fibrosis (F3).22,23 Various practice most important. With the aggravation of portal hypertension, the guidelines recommend surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma collaterals grow and eventually rupture. Bleeding from
