pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


at 1–2- Because the development of GEVs is a direct consequence of year intervals in those with decompensated liver cirrhosis.30,31 portal hypertension, reducing the portal pressure through the use EVs can be classified as large or small according to their size, of nonselective beta-blockers (NSBBs) from the early stage of liver with a breakpoint at 5 mm in diameter,32 or they can be classified cirrhosis could theoretically ameliorate the formation of GEVs. as F1 (linearly dilated, small and straight varices), F2 (beady vari- However, a placebo-controlled study to determine whether NSBBs ces, tortuous and occupying less than one third of the esophageal could prevent the formation of varices in 213 patients with cirrho- lumen), or F3 (nodular varices, large and occupying more than sis and portal hypertension without GEVs, the incidence of varices one third of the esophageal lumen).33 However, because the F2 or bleeding from varices did not differ between timolol group and and F3 classifications are fairly subjective and prophylactic treat- the placebo group (39% vs. 40%, P=0.89), and serious adverse ment is recommended both for F2 and F3, F1 is usually classified events developed more frequently in the timolol group than the as small, and F2 and F3 are classified together as large. placebo group (18% vs. 6%, P=0.006).6 Therefore, the use of NS- BBs to prevent the formation of varices is not recommended. Several studies have evaluated whether NSBBs can prevent or [Recommendations] delay the growth of small varices, and the results conflict. One 1. In patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis, screening endoscopy study found a significant reduction in the rate of progression to is recommended to determine the presence of varices and large EVs in the nadolol group compared with the placebo group assess the risk of bleeding. (A1) in patients with cirrhosis and small EVs (7% vs. 31% at 2 years, 2. In endoscopy, EVs are classified as small (F1) and large (F2 or 20% vs. 51% at 5 years; P<0.001),40 but another study showed F3), and the presence of redness should be evaluated. (B1) that propranolol offered no benefit for the prevention of progres- 3. To identify the development and progression of EVs, sion to large varices (23% in the propranolol group vs. 19% in the endoscopic surveillance should be performed at 2–3-year placebo group, P=0.786), even though the reduction in portal intervals in patients with compensated liver cirrhosis and pressure was significantly
