pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


groups.51 Another me- 1. Appropriate treatment for the underlying liver disease is ta-analysis found that EVL significantly reduced the rate of first recommended to prevent the formation of EVs. (A1) variceal bleeding and severe adverse events than NSBBs in pa- 2. NSBBs (propranolol and nadolol) are not recommended to tients with large EVs.52 Thus, in most studies, the efficacy of EVL prevent the formation of EVs in cirrhotic patients without EVs. in preventing first variceal bleeding was similar to that of NSBBs, (A1) and in some studies, the efficacy of EVL was superior to NSBBs. 3. In patients with small EVs that are not red, NSBBs (propranolol Therefore, either NSBBs or EVL is recommended for the preven- and nadolol) or carvedilol could be considered to prevent the tion of first variceal bleeding in patients with large EVs. The progression of EVs. (B2) choice of treatment should be based on clinician expertise and patient preference, characteristics, contraindications, and adverse Prevention of first variceal bleeding in patients with events.26,47 EVs Carvedilol In patients with liver cirrhosis and EVs, variceal bleeding occurs Carvedilol is known to be more effective in reducing portal at a yearly rate of 5–15% of cases. Active prevention of the first pressure than propranolol.53-55 In a multicenter RCT comparing the variceal bleeding is indicated in patients at a high risk of bleeding, efficacy of carvedilol and EVL in preventing first variceal bleeding such as patients with large varices (F2, F3), decompensated cir- in cirrhotic patients with large EVs, carvedilol had lower rates of rhosis, or varices with red color signs on endoscopy.8,45 first variceal bleeding (10% vs. 23%, P=0.04), but there was no significant difference in overall mortality or bleeding-related mor- Prevention of first variceal bleeding in patients with small tality during follow up.56 In another RCT comparing the efficacy of EVs carvedilol and EVL for primary prophylaxis of EV bleeding, the In cirrhotic patients with small EVs, the risk of bleeding is low carvedilol and EVL groups had comparable variceal bleeding rates (3% at 2 years and 8% at 4 years) and remains low in patients (8.5% vs. 6.9%, P=0.61).57 In a study assessing the efficacy of whose varices remain small at the follow-up endoscopy, though it carvedilol, propranolol, and EVL for the primary prevention of var- increases significantly when the varices become large. An increase iceal bleeding in patients with large varices, no significant differ- in Child-Pugh
