pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


propranolol, and EVL for the primary prevention of var- increases significantly when the varices become large. An increase iceal bleeding in patients with large varices, no significant differ- in Child-Pugh score during follow-up appears to be a significant ences among the groups were found in the risk of bleeding predictor of enlarged varices and thus an increase in bleeding (15.4% vs. 10.8% vs. 10.2%, P=0.071), but the incidence of ad- risk.46 The prevention of first bleeding in patients with small EVs verse events was the highest in the propranolol group.58 In studies depends on their risk of bleeding. Patients with small varices with comparing the efficacy of carvedilol, NSBBs, and EVL for the pri- red color signs on endoscopy or decompensated cirrhosis have an mary prevention of EV bleeding, carvedilol was similar to NSBBs increased risk of bleeding and should consider using NSBBs.26,47 and EVL or superior to EVL. Therefore, carvedilol can also be used to prevent first variceal bleeding in patients with high-risk EVs. Prevention of first variceal bleeding in patients with large EVs Combination therapy of EVL and NSBBs The combination of EVL and NSBBs for the primary prophylaxis NSBBs and EVL of variceal bleeding could have a synergistic effect from the direct Meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have eradication of varices by EVL and the reduction of portal pressure shown that the use of NSBBs can prevent first variceal bleeding in by NSBBs. Several studies have compared the efficacy of combi- cirrhotic patients with large EVs.48,49 A study comparing NSBBs nation therapy with that of monotherapy based on that hypothe- and EVL as primary prophylaxis in patients with high-risk EVs sis. In RCTs comparing EVL plus propranolol with EVL alone for found no significant difference between them in bleeding rates preventing first variceal bleeding in patients with high-risk EVs, (relative risk [RR], 0.86; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.55– the combination therapy did not show any difference from EVL 1.35).50 A meta-analysis of RCTs evaluating the efficacy of EVL alone in first bleed occurrence or mortality during follow up. How- and pharmacological therapy in preventing first EV bleeding in ever, the recurrence of varices was lower in the combination The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy group than in the EVL alone group.59,60 No difference in the rate til the treatment goal is achieved. The maximum dose is
