pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy group than in the EVL alone group.59,60 No difference in the rate til the treatment goal is achieved. The maximum dose is 160 mg of first variceal bleeding was also found between EVL plus nado- daily in patients without ascites and 80 mg daily in patients with lol combination therapy and nadolol alone (14% vs. 13%, ascites. Systolic blood pressure should not decrease <90 mmHg.47 P=0.90).61 However, another study reported that EVL and pro- The disadvantages of NSBBs are that about 15% of patients pranolol combination therapy lowered the rate of first variceal have contraindications to therapy, and another 15% or so require bleeding compared with propranolol alone (6% vs. 31%, dose reduction or discontinuation because of side effects.47 Con- P=0.03).62 Because most studies have shown that EVL and NSBBs traindications to NSBBs include sinus bradycardia, insulin-depen- combination therapy for the primary prophylaxis of EV bleeding dent diabetes mellitus, obstructive pulmonary disease, heart fail- therapy, combination therapy is generally not recommended. heart block, and peripheral arterial insufficiency.67 Side effects of However, some studies have reported that EVL and NSBBs combi- NSBBs include dizziness, fatigue, general weakness, dyspnea, nation therapy reduced the rate of first variceal bleeding and vari- headache, hypotension, bradycardia, and erectile dysfunc- ceal recurrence compared with monotherapy. Therefore, combina- tion.47,58,66,67 Discontinuing NSBBs can increase the risk of variceal tion therapy can be considered in selected patients. A recent bleeding and mortality. Thus, treatment with NSBBs should be meta-analysis of RCTs showed that combination therapy with EVL continued indefinitely.68,69 In patients with contraindications or and NSBBs reduced the rate of first variceal bleeding compared discontinuation due to severe side effects or poor compliance with placebo and isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN).63 with NSBBs, EVL is recommended.68 In patients with end-stage liver disease, such as refractory asci- ISMN tes or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, the administration of NS- In an RCT of cirrhotic patients with EVs, the ISMN group and BBs has not yet been established. In cirrhotic patients with refrac- propranolol group had no significant difference in bleeding rate, tory ascites, the use of NSBBs can lower arterial pressure, but the mortality rate during follow up was higher in the ISMN decrease survival time,70 and increase the risk of paracentesis-in- group (72.3% vs. 47.8% at 6 years, P=0.006).64 In a multicenter duced circulatory dysfunction.71 In addition, among patients with RCT comparing EVL, propranolol, and ISMN,
