pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


increase the risk of paracentesis-in- group (72.3% vs. 47.8% at 6 years, P=0.006).64 In a multicenter duced circulatory dysfunction.71 In addition, among patients with RCT comparing EVL, propranolol, and ISMN, the EVL and pro- cirrhosis and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, NSBBs increase pranolol groups did not differ significantly, but the EVL group had the risk of hepatorenal syndrome and acute kidney injury and re- a significantly lower rate of first variceal bleeding than the ISMN duce survival time.72 However, other studies have reported that group (7.5% vs. 33% at 2 years, P=0.03).65 A multicenter RCT the use of NSBBs increased or did not affect survival time in cir- compared propranolol plus placebo with propranolol plus ISMN rhotic patients with refractory ascites.73,74 Another study found for the prevention of EV bleeding. The rate of first variceal bleed- that treatment with low-dose propranolol (80 mg/day) increased ing did not differ significantly between the groups (10.6% vs. survival time in patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.75 12.5% at 2 years, P>0.05).66 Therefore, ISMN alone or in combi- The role of NSBBs in patients with refractory ascites or spontane- nation with NSBBs is not recommended for the prevention of first ous bacterial peritonitis thus remains uncertain, and clinicians variceal bleeding. must carefully consider the risks and benefits when deciding whether to administer them. If NSBBs are administered, thorough Treatment practices for the prevention of first esophageal monitoring of blood pressure and renal function is necessary, and variceal bleeding dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in pa- tients who develop low blood pressure or impaired renal function. NSBBs Discontinuation of NSBBs can increase the risk of EV bleeding; The advantages of NSBBs include low cost, ease of administra- thus, if NSBBs are stopped, EVL should be considered.26 tion, and not requiring follow-up endoscopies. Propranolol is started at 20–40 mg twice a day and adjusted every 2–3 days until Carvedilol the treatment goal (resting heart rate of 55–60 beats per minute) Adjusting the dose of carvedilol is easier than adjusting the is achieved. The maximum dose is 320 mg daily in patients with- dose of NSBBs because it is not guided by heart rate. Carvedilol is out ascites and 160 mg daily in patients with ascites. Nadolol is started at 6.25 mg once a day (or 3.125 mg twice a day), and af- started at 20–40 mg once a day and adjusted every 2–3 days un- ter
