pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


is started at 6.25 mg once a day (or 3.125 mg twice a day), and af- started at 20–40 mg once a day and adjusted every 2–3 days un- ter 3 days increased to 6.25 mg twice a day. The maximum dose Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 is 12.5 mg daily. Systolic blood pressure should not be decreased show jaundice, ascites, HE, splenomegaly, collateral circulation of <90 mmHg.47 the abdominal vessels, lower extremity edema, or spider angio- mas. A definite diagnosis can be established by endoscopic exam- EVL ination. If blood clots or white nipples appear on the surface of The advantages of EVL are that it can be performed in the same the varices, or if blood is found in the stomach without a potential session as screening endoscopy, and it has few contraindications. bleeding focus other than EVs, acute EV bleeding can be diag- The disadvantages of EVL are the side effects associated with se- nosed.45 dation and the risk of causing dysphagia, esophageal ulcerations, strictures, and bleeding. Although the incidence of side effects is General management of acute esophageal variceal bleed- higher with NSBBs, severe side effects, such as ulcer bleeding at ing the ligation site, are more likely to be associated with EVL.47 Some Acute EV bleeding is a medical emergency requiring intensive studies have reported that proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) signifi- care. It is essential to protect the circulatory and respiratory status cantly reduce the size of post-EVL ulcers or the rate of post-EVL of the patient regardless of the cause of bleeding. Volume resus- ulcer bleeding.76-78 In cirrhotic patients, the long-term use of PPIs citation via adequate fluid therapy and a packed red blood cell can increase the risk of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and HE, (PRBC) transfusion should be initiated to restore and maintain he- so PPIs should be used with caution.79-81 Meanwhile, because EVL modynamic stability. A recent RCT showed that bleeding-related is a local therapy that does not act on the pathophysiology of mortality (5% vs. 9%, P=0.02) and the incidence of serious ad- portal hypertension, not only is it unable to prevent complications verse events (12% vs. 18%, P=0.01) were significantly decreased other than variceal bleeding, but it also requires follow-up endos- in the “restrictive” PRBC transfusion group (initiating PRBC trans- copies to assess variceal recurrence, even after variceal eradica- fusion at a hemoglobin threshold of 7 g/dL and
