pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


requires follow-up endos- in the “restrictive” PRBC transfusion group (initiating PRBC trans- copies to assess variceal recurrence, even after variceal eradica- fusion at a hemoglobin threshold of 7 g/dL and maintaining it at tion,47 defined as a case in which varices are not seen or become 7–9 g/dL) compared with the “liberal” PRBC transfusion group.83 too small to be ligated. Repeat EVL can be performed at intervals Improved survival in the restrictive transfusion group might be as- of 2–8 weeks until variceal eradication is achieved. Follow-up en- sociated with lower rates of hemostasis failure and serious ad- doscopies should be performed 1–6 months after variceal eradi- verse events. In patients with acute EV bleeding, adequate fluid cation and every 6–12 months thereafter.47,59,82 therapy/PRBC transfusion should be performed while considering age, cardiovascular disease, presence or absence of ongoing bleeding, and hemodynamic status. Excessive fluid therapy/PRBC [Recommendations] transfusion may increase the portal pressure and aggravate bleed- 1. In cirrhotic patients with small EVs that have a high risk of ing from the varices, so that should be taken into account.84 Re- bleeding (decompensated cirrhosis or red color signs on endoscopy), the use of a NSBBs (propranolol or nadolol) nant factor VIIa have not shown a clear benefit, and therefore the should be considered to prevent first variceal bleeding. (B1) routine use of fresh frozen plasma or recombinant factor VIIa is NSBBs are adjusted every 2–3 days until the resting heart rate not recommended.85,86 Although the efficacy of platelet transfu- reaches 55–60 beats per minute. sion in patients with acute EV bleeding has not been proven be- 2. In cirrhotic patients with large EVs, the use of a NSBBs (propranolol or nadolol), carvedilol, or EVL is recommended with severe thrombocytopenia. to prevent first variceal bleeding. (A1) A combination of NSBBs and EVL can also be considered. (B2) Pharmacological treatment of acute esophageal variceal bleeding Diagnosis and management of acute esophageal Cirrhotic patients presenting with acute gastrointestinal bleed- variceal bleeding ing have a high risk of developing bacterial infections, therefore initiation of prophylactic antibiotic treatment at the time of admis- Diagnosis of acute esophageal variceal bleeding sion is necessary. Meta-analyses of RCTs have shown that the use In patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, variceal bleed- of antibiotic prophylaxis reduces the risk of infections, recurrent ing caused by portal hypertension can be suspected if the patients bleeding, and bleeding-related death.87,88 A recent meta-analysis The Korean
