pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


gastric variceal bleeding are location ous side effects that effectively prevented gastric variceal bleed- (IGV1>GOV2>GOV1), variceal size, redness, and severe liver dys- ing (Fig. 2).143,144 function.26,47,93,137-139 To prevent bleeding from GOV1s, follow the guidelines for the [Recommendations] prevention of EV bleeding. In a Korean study of 85 patients with 1. Primary prevention of bleeding for GOV1s follows the GOV1s, the GOV1s also disappeared when EVs were eliminated by EVL (64.7%).140 For GOV2s and IGV1s, EVO, balloon-occluded recommendations for EVs. (B1) 2. The group at high risk for bleeding (redness or severe liver retrograde transvenous obliteration (BRTO), and vascular plug-as- dysfunction) from GOV2s or IGV1s can be treated with BRTO, sisted retrograde transvenous obliteration (PARTO) can be consid- ered to prevent bleeding.141,142 NSBBs are non-invasive and can be PARTO, or EVO. (B2) used because they can reduce other side effects in patients with cirrhosis. Management of bleeding from gastric varices One randomized study reported the prevention of first gastric variceal bleeding. It enrolled 89 patients with GOV2s or IGV1s Bleeding from gastric varices is less common than from EVs; larger than 10 mm.141 The effects of EVO (cyanoacrylate), an however, the risks of rebleeding or varix-related death are much Diagnosis of cirrhosis UGI endoscopy evaluation Small EV (F1) Large EV (F2, F3), GV (GOV1) GV (GOV2, IGV1) High risk of bleeding High risk of bleeding (decompensated cirrhosis, (decompensated cirrhosis, red color sign in endoscopy) red color sign in endoscopy) No Yes No Yes NSBB Follow up & Carvedilol Follow up & RTO NSBB observation EVL observation EVO NSBB+EVL Figure 2. The prevention of initial variceal bleeding. UGI, upper gastrointestinal; EV, esophageal varix; GV, gastric varix; GOV, gastroesophageal varix; IGV, isolated gastric varix; NSBB, non-selective beta blocker; EVL, endoscopic variceal ligation; RTO, retrograde transvenous obliteration; EVO, endo- scopic variceal obturation. Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 higher in patients bleeding from gastric varices. The gastric vari- increased to 2 mL at a time. As soon as the injection is finished, 1 ces that bleed are generally large and have high blood flow in the mL of distilled water or saline should be pushed into the catheter channel, which makes massive bleeding common in patients with to ensure that the mixture remaining in the catheter is injected large gastric varices.134,145,146 Gastric varices exhibit unique charac- into the varix. Then, the needle should be retracted quickly to teristics and have a greater variety
