pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


in the catheter is injected large gastric varices.134,145,146 Gastric varices exhibit unique charac- into the varix. Then, the needle should be retracted quickly to teristics and have a greater variety of sizes, forms, locations, and prevent intravariceal impaction of the needle. The success rate of collateral vessels than EVs. An individualized approach might be EVO for hemostasis was 91–97%, and the rebleeding rate was needed because few well-controlled clinical trials have tested 17–49% in patients with active gastric variceal bleeding.149-153 The treatments for gastric variceal bleeding. Until sufficient evidence common complications following EVO are systemic embolism, in- accumulates, clinicians should seek the best option for each pa- fection, fever, gastric perforation, gastric ulcer, and peritonitis.154 tient based on the patient’s general condition and bleeding pat- terns and the clinician’s medical resources and expertise.145 EVL As with EVs, EVL is frequently performed for GOV1 bleeding. Management of bleeding from gastric varices EVL for gastric varices showed an initial hemostasis rate of 80–90% and a rebleeding rate of 14–56% in patients with Endoscopic therapy GOV1s.140,155-158 However, it should be noted that the depth and Urgent endoscopic examination, within 12 to 24 hours, is nec- size of gastric varices differ from those of EVs. Ligation might not essary when a patient is suspected to have active bleeding from be adequate due to the thick gastric mucosa. Gastric ulcers, gastric varices. Endoscopic examination can visualize the bleeding where the bands fall off, will expose submucosal varices directly sites and directly enable proper hemostatic treatments.47,147 to gastric acid and food materials. This situation could increase the risk of massive bleeding from the ulcers.154,155,158,159 In patients EVO with fundal variceal bleeding, the effect or safety of EVL has not EVO achieves hemostasis and induces variceal eradication by an been fully explored. In a small randomized trial, EVL showed a intravariceal injection of tissue adhesive agents (cyanoacrylates). significantly higher rebleeding rate than EVO in patients with Active or recent bleeding from fundic varices (GOV2s, IGV1s) or IGV1 bleeding (83.3% vs. 7.7%, P=0.003).155 GOV1s can be managed with EVO. Special care is needed to pre- vent complications from the adhesive agents, such as ocular inju- Radiologic intervention ry, damage to endoscopic devices, or the impaction of an injection Radiologic intervention is one useful hemostatic therapy for the needle into a varix.148 Medical personnel are advised to wear gog- management of bleeding from gastric varices. Sufficient consulta- gles during
