pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


Radiologic intervention is one useful hemostatic therapy for the needle into a varix.148 Medical personnel are advised to wear gog- management of bleeding from gastric varices. Sufficient consulta- gles during the procedure. The working channel of a scope can be tion with interventional radiologists is needed in advance. Imag- occluded by adhesive agent that spills during the procedure, so it ing tests, such as computed tomography (CT), should be per- can be helpful to flush the channel with olive oil in advance. To formed before the procedure to confirm that the collateral veins inject the sticky mixture quickly, a large needle is generally used are accessible and that no contraindications to the procedure are (21 G or 22 G). The injection site is determined based on the di- present. rection of blood flow inside the varix. Because the intravariceal pressure is usually concentrated in the most protruding part of the TIPS varix, avoid that site if possible. The injection needle should be TIPS placement is a procedure that robustly decompresses por- long enough to pass through the thick gastric wall (5 mm or lon- tal hypertension by making a bypass between the hepatic vein ger). 2-N-butyl cyanoacrylate, which is the most commonly used and the portal vein. In small non-randomized trials, both TIPS and agent in Korea, is used as a 1:1 mixture with lipiodol to delay the EVO achieved a hemostasis rate of more than 90%. Complica- polymerization reaction. About 1 mL of mixture is used in each tions, such as HE and stent occlusion, and medical costs were session, and the injection can be repeated until hemostasis is higher with the TIPS than with EVO.160,161 However, TIPS place- achieved. The initial volume and ratio of the mixture can be ad- ment is a useful rescue therapy when initial hemostasis fails.162-164 justed to accommodate the variceal size, intravariceal blood flow, The success rate of TIPS in controlling bleeding as a rescue thera- and bleeding pattern (active or stabilized). If the bleeding is se- py is 90–100%, with a rebleeding rate of 16–40%.162-166 More- vere or the variceal size is large, the volume of the mixture can be over, since non-covered stents have been replaced by covered The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy stents, the occlusion and stenosis rates have decreased to Treatment of gastric variceal bleeding 8%.167,168 HE can
