pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


variceal bleeding. (B1) than 90%).184-186 However, BRTO showed a significantly lower re- 2. Gastric varices extending from EVs along the lesser curvature (GOV1s) can be treated with either EVO or EVL, depending on bleeding risk (OR, 0.27; 95% CI, 0.09–0.81) and a lower risk of HE (OR, 0.05; 95% CI, 0.02–0.13) than TIPS.186 Improvement in the size and location of the bleeding varix. (B1) liver function was also demonstrated following BRTO.187 However, 3. In patients with bleeding from fundic varices (GOV2s, IGV1s), EVO should be considered first. (A1) Retrograde transvenous all those results are based on mostly small retrospective studies. obliteration (BRTO or PARTO) or TIPS can be used depending In a small prospective study, BRTO and EVO had similar hemo- on the bleeding status (active or stabilized) and the presence stasis and technical success rates. However, the rebleeding rate of an accessible shunt. (B1) was significantly lower in the BRTO group than the EVO group (15.4% vs. 71.4%, P<0.01).188 These results should be interpreted 4. A PPI can be used following endoscopic treatments to prevent post-procedure ulcer bleeding. (B2) carefully, however, because BRTO was performed only in patients 5. Retrograde transvenous obliteration (BRTO or PARTO) or TIPS without active bleeding; all the patients with active bleeding were should be considered as a rescue therapy when endoscopic treated with EVO. treatments fail. (B1) In summary, current data suggest that EVO, TIPS, BRTO, or 6. Until a rescue therapy is ready, a balloon tamponade can be (theoretically) PARTO can be used as the initial treatment for pa- applied as a bridging therapy. (B2) tients bleeding from fundic varices. Because of a lack of evidence, treatments should be chosen based on individual situations in consideration of patients’ safety and the applicability of each Prevention of rebleeding therapy in the relevant medical facility. GOV1s can be managed in the same way as EVs to prevent re- Use of PPIs bleeding. The eradication of concurrent EVs with EVL and an Currently, PPIs are used in many patients to prevent ulcer bleed- NSBB can be used if the EVs are medium to large in diameter. ing following endoscopic treatments. However, their effectiveness Gastric varices subsequently disappeared in 65% of patients when and duration of treatment have not been fully explored. Long- EVs were controlled.140 The rebleeding rate from GOV1s following term use of PPI can increase risk of infection and subsequently eradication of EVs was
