pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


therapy: rebleeding: therapy: rebleeding: therapy: NSBB+EVL TIPS EVO TIPS EVO TIPS Operation EVL RTO RTO RTO TIPS TIPS Recurrent bleeding Figure 3. The treatment of acute variceal bleeding and prevention of variceal rebleeding. UGI, upper gastrointestinal; EV, esophageal varix; GOV, gas- troesophageal varix; IGV, isolated gastric varix; EVL, endoscopic variceal ligation; EVO, endoscopic variceal obturation; RTO, retrograde transvenous obliteration; TIPS, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt; NSBB, non-selective beta blocker. Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 scarce. In a small randomized study of patients with GOV2 bleed- and esophagus is very rare, and there are no established treat- ing, there was no significant difference in the rebleeding rate be- ment guidelines. The most common locations are the rectum, du- tween EVO repeated every 4 weeks and TIPS placement (16% vs. odenum, and postoperative stomach. A multi-disciplinary ap- 0%, P>0.05).190 However, TIPS placement was associated with a proach involving an endoscopist, interventional radiologists, and higher incidence of complications than EVO.161 In a meta-analysis, surgeons should be used to account for the vascular supply. EVO, BRTO (7.4%) showed a much lower rebleeding rate than TIPS BRTO, PARTO, TIPS, the coil inserting method, and the like can all (22.8%) (OR, 0.27; 95% CI, 0.09–0.81).186 For GOV2s, treatment be used.195 of the accompanying EVs can be performed with or after the treatment of fundic varices, according to the guidelines for treat- Portal hypertensive gastropathy ing EVs (Fig. 3). Definition and diagnosis Although the incidence of portal hypertensive gastropathy [Recommendations] bleeding in cirrhosis is not high, some patients experience poor 1. In patients with remnant or recurrent GOV1s following quality of life due to chronic bleeding and the associated iron-de- initial treatments, repeated EVO or EVL can be performed to ficiency anemia and repeated transfusions.196,197 Portal hyperten- prevent rebleeding. (B2) sive gastropathy is diagnosed when gastric mucosal changes 2. In patients with remnant or recurrent fundic varices (GOV2s, cause a snake-skin appearance or mosaic pattern on endoscopy IGV1s), EVO or RTO (BRTO or PARTO) can be performed. in patients with portal hypertension.198-200 When gastric mucosal (B2) If there is no accessible shunt or if complications related changes alone are found, it is diagnosed as a mild form. When to severe portal hypertension (recurrent bleeding from EVs, red or dark brown viscous changes are found along with changes refractory ascites, or hydrothorax) are not controlled, a TIPS in the gastric mucosa, it is considered to be severe
