pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


red or dark brown viscous changes are found along with changes refractory ascites, or hydrothorax) are not controlled, a TIPS in the gastric mucosa, it is considered to be severe (Fig. 4).30 Se- can be placed. (B2) vere portal hypertensive gastropathy causes more chronic bleed- ing than the mild form.201 Other variceal bleeding Portal hypertensive gastropathy is associated with portal hyper- tension and causes gastric mucosal changes in the stomach and In cirrhosis, variceal bleeding at sites other than the stomach body, and 30% of patients with gastric antral vascular ectasia Mild Severe Figure 4. Classification of portal hypertensive gastropathy. The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy (watermelon stomach) also have portal hypertension. It is unclear Korea. In particular, quality-of-life assessments and diet and exer- whether portal hypertension is involved in the development of cise education for patients with HE are clinically important and gastric antral vascular ectasia. Gastric antral vascular ectasia need to be actively developed. causes dilated vessels with fibrin thrombi and fibromuscular hy- perplasia of the lamina propria.202 Definition of HE Treatment of portal hypertensive gastropathy HE is a neuropsychiatric syndrome caused by hepatic dysfunc- In chronic bleeding caused by portal hypertensive gastropathy, tion that manifests as various neurologic and psychiatric abnor- the goal of treatment is lowering the portal pressure with NSBBs, malities.207-209 Clinically, it is classified into overt and covert en- vasoconstrictors, or a TIPS.203,204 In cases with active bleeding, cephalopathy. Overt HE (OHE) is defined as the occurrence of endoscopic treatment with argon plasma coagulation can be disorientation, flapping tremor, or asterixis (Table 3). Covert HE used. In addition, iron supplementation is recommended.205 (CHE) includes minimal encephalopathy in which cognitive impair- ment cannot be identified without a cognitive function test and West-Haven criteria grade 1 HE, which means mild cognitive or [Recommendations] behavioral change without disorientation.210 The prevalence of HE 1. If chronic bleeding is caused by portal hypertensive gastropathy, is reported to be 10–14% of cirrhotic patients and 16–21% of pa- nonselective beta-blockers can be used. (B1) tients with decompensated liver cirrhosis.206,211 In Korea, HE was found in 16–21% of hepatitis B virus–related decompensated liver cirrhosis patients.212 Moreover, 20% of cirrhotic patients admitted HEPATiC ENCEPHALOPATHY to the emergency department were reported to have HE.213 HE occurs in more than 10% of all cases of cirrhosis and is a course, precipitating factors, and severity of
