pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


ENCEPHALOPATHY to the emergency department were reported to have HE.213 HE occurs in more than 10% of all cases of cirrhosis and is a course, precipitating factors, and severity of neurologic symp- critical complication that seriously reduces the quality of life.206 toms.209 By underlying liver disease, HE is subdivided into three Because HE can cause serious losses not just for individuals, but groups: from acute liver failure, from portosystemic bypass or also socioeconomically, preventive therapy is of paramount impor- shunting, and from portal hypertension caused by chronic liver tance. However, because the pathophysiological factors in the de- disease. HE caused by portal hypertension is classified as episodic, velopment of HE and biomarkers to predict the occurrence of HE recurrent (more than two times per year), and persistent HE (no have not been sufficiently identified, there are no standardized fully recovery from behavioral change). When classified by the criteria for diagnosing, classifying, or evaluating the treatment re- precipitating factors, HE is divided into precipitated and sponta- sponse to HE. It is imperative that those criteria be established in neous types. Precipitating factors include gastrointestinal bleed- Table 3. Definition and classification of hepatic encephalopathy Classification Grade Manifestation Comments Covert Minimal No clinical cognitive impairment. Only psychometric or neurological Psychometric or neuropsychological alterations can be found in tests tests can detect the abnormalities exploring psychomotor speed/executive functions or neurophysiological alterations without clinical evidence of mental change some cognitive/behavioral decay with respect to his or her standard on reproducible clinical examination or to the caregivers Overt 2 Disoriented in time (at least three of the following are wrong: day of Disorientation and flapping tremor mentioned symptoms are variable, but reproducible 3 Disoriented also in space (at least three of the following are wrongly Myoclonus, hyperreflexia reported: country, state [or region], city, or place) 4 Does not respond even to painful stimuli Coma Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 ing, uremia, sedatives, diuretics, protein overload, infection, con- memory lapses.220 Delirium caused by withdrawal from alcohol stipation, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalance. The severity of also needs to be differentiated from HE. Delirium that results from HE is classified using the West-Haven criteria (Table 3). alcohol withdrawal is characterized by an increased heart rate, cold sweats, loud shouting, and a harsh and repetitive tremor.221 Diagnosis of HE A differential diagnosis is required for acute hyponatremia, hypo- glycemia, and metabolic alkalosis because each can present with Clinical
