pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


latency) from the rule out other diseases that can cause cognitive impairment. auditory nerve to the midbrain and conduction time delays (III–V (B2) latency) from the pontine to the midbrain on the brain auditory- 4. Venous blood ammonia levels are not proportional to the evoked-potential test. It is also known that the risk of developing degree of HE and are not associated with its prognosis. OHE is increased when abnormal findings are observed on the (A1) However, if patients with suspected HE show normal brain auditory-evoked-potentials test.227 However, in a study us- ammonia concentrations, differentiation from other diseases ing the cortical auditory-evoked-potential test, the N200 latency is required. (B1) was increased in patients with HE.233 Therefore, the diagnosis of HE cannot be made using EEG alone; further research is required to determine the usefulness of evoked-potential EEG in the diag- Management of overt HE nosis and prognosis of HE. The goals of treatment Serum ammonia The goals of treatment are as follows: 1) prevention of second- The venous blood ammonia level is not proportional to the de- ary damage caused by decreased consciousness and normaliza- gree of HE and has no association with its prognosis.234 The me- tion of the patient’s state of consciousness, 2) elimination of so- tabolism of ammonia is greatly influenced by various organs, such cial and economic restrictions by preventing recurrence, and as the kidneys, muscles, brain, and bowel, as well as the liver.235 3) improvement of patient prognosis and quality of life. Therefore, However, repeated measurements of ammonia concentrations can appropriate supportive care should be provided to prevent sec- help to determine a treatment’s effects.235,236 If patients with sus- ondary damage (e.g., fall-related injuries or aspiration pneumonia) pected OHE have normal ammonia concentrations, attention from an altered consciousness. Furthermore, the precipitating fac- should be paid to the differential diagnosis to look for other dis- tors should be identified and managed appropriately as soon as eases.234 There are various methods of measuring ammonia con- possible, and treatments should be initiated using medications centrations, such as those involving the venous or arterial blood that can decrease or eliminate the production of ammonia, the or plasma. Because the normal range varies depending on the major pathogenic material. specific measurement method, a suitable reference value should be used. Although the partial pressure of ammonia gas in arterial Identification of precipitating factors and management blood is thought to be closely
