pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


be titrated to achieve two to three soft stools per treated with lactulose alone.255 The maximum dose is 1,200 day. If patients are unable to take medications orally, administra- mg/day, which might limit its use in cases of severe HE (West-Ha- tion via nasogastric tube might be tried. If patients have severe ven criteria of grade 3 or more) because of the need for oral ad- The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy Table 5. Pharmacological options for managing overt hepatic encephalopathy Non-absorbable disaccharides Lactulose (20–30 g) should be administered orally 3–4 times per day (an equivalent daily dose of lactitol is 67–100 g). Goals: it should be administered orally until the patient is having at least 2 bowel movements a day. Thereafter, the dose should be titrated to achieve two to three soft stools per day. If patients cannot take medications orally, administration via nasogastric tube might be tried. Enema with lactulose 200 g and 700 mL water might be performed 3–4 times per day in severe cases. Rifaximin 400 mg three times/day or 550 mg twice/day Oral BCAA 0.25 g/kg/day Intravenous LOLA 30 g/day Polyethylene glycol A substitute for non-absorbable disaccharides 4 liters orally BCAA, branched-chain amino acid; LOLA, L-ornithine-L-aspartate. ministration.93 leucine, and isoleucine, are absorbed in the peripheral tissue, pa- Neomycin and metronidazole are also poorly absorbed by the tients with cirrhosis have a lower concentration of the BCAAs and intestine, affect urea-producing bacteria, and reduce the genera- a higher concentration of the aromatic amino acids in the blood tion of ammonia, which improves HE.93 However, they are not rec- compared with healthy people. Thus, BCAA supplementation in- ommended for the management of HE because of their side ef- hibits proteolysis and decreases the influx of toxic materials via fects, such as intestinal malabsorption, nephrotoxicity, and the blood-brain barrier. Furthermore, it plays an important role in ototoxicity for neomycin and peripheral neuropathy for metronida- muscle metabolism, leading to glutamine production that is useful zole.209,240,256 for detoxifying ammonia.262,263 According to recent meta-analy- ses,264-266 oral BCAAs might be beneficial in managing OHE and LOLA should be used as an ancillary pharmacological option. However, Because ornithine and aspartate are important substrates used intravenous BCAAs have no effect on episodic HE.209,240,267 to metabolize ammonia to urea and glutamine, the administration of LOLA can lower plasma ammonia concentrations, with produc- Others es improvements
