pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


muscle loss,301 enhance effective ammonia metabo- medication (lactulose, rifaximin, and so on), 2) the importance of lism, and prevent OHE recurrence. However, exercise can tempo- adherence, 3) early symptoms and signs of recurring OHE, and rarily increase the portal pressure in OHE patients,297,298 and it 4) actions to be taken if a recurrence begins.209 could increase the risk of a fall or fracture in malnourished pa- tients. Therefore, adequate nutritional support should precede ex- Nutritional management and exercise ercise therapy (Fig. 5). Nutritional deficits and subsequent sarcopenia are known to in- crease complications, including HE,290,291 and lower the overall [Recommendations] survival times of cirrhotic patients.292-294 Therefore, adequate as- 1. A nonabsorbable disaccharide (lactulose, lactitol) or rifaximin, sessment and intervention for nutritional status are recommend- as single or combined therapy, is recommended for the ed. Because most decompensated cirrhotic patients are malnour- prevention of overt HE recurrence. (A1) ished, daily energy intake should be 35–40 kcal/kg, and protein 2. Oral branched-chain amino acid or oral LOLA supplementation intake should be 1.2–1.5 g/kg. Long-term protein restriction can prevent the recurrence of overt HE. (B1) should be avoided because it can induce protein catabolism, he- patic dysfunction, and sarcopenia.295 3. Adequate education of patients and caregivers at the time of discharge is needed to reduce the recurrence of overt HE. (B1) To take in enough energy, small frequent meals (4–6 times per 4. Nutritional assessment and management are needed for day including a night snack) improve the long-term prognosis for liver cirrhosis patients while preventing sarcopenia,296 but the di- decompensated liver cirrhosis patients who experienced overt HE. (B1) Long-term protein restriction should be avoided, and rect effect that small meals and a night snack has on OHE preven- adequate energy and protein intakes are necessary. (B1) tion has not been fully established. Exercise can improve the long-term outcomes of cirrhotic pa- Hepatic encephalopathy Overt Covert Acute stage treatment • Lactulose/lactitol • Rifaximin • Correction of precipitation factor • Lactulose/lactitol, or add rifaximin • Lactulose enema • Optional) P.O. BCAA, IV LOVA, albumin Success Fail Prevention of recurrence Consider liver transplantation • Education, nutrition • Lactulose/lactitol, refaximin, or lactulose/lactitol+rifaximin • P.O. BCAA, P.O. LOLA Figure 5. The treatment and prevention of recurrence of hepatic encephalopathy. P.O., per oral; BCAA, branched-chain amino acid; IV LOLA, intravenous L-ornithine-L-aspartate. Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 Covert HE Paper and pencil testing One of the paper and
