pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


physiologic functioning. evaluates response inhibition. The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy The computer-based Stroop test shows a sensitivity of 89.1% 80% sensitivity. However, that test needs to be validated further. and a specificity of 82.1% when using the paper and pencil test Some studies reported that serum cytokines, such as interleukin as a standard test.329 A recent prospective multicenter study in the (IL)-6, IL-17a, interferon-γ337-339 and 3-nitrotyrosin,340,341 are asso- US showed that Stroop test had high sensitivity and acceptable ciated with CHE. However, further studies are needed on the inter-center agreement.330 In addition, the Stroop test has good pathophysiology of CHE and the role of the markers in CHE. test–retest reliability, and it has the advantage that it can be easi- ly administered using a smartphone. A Korean Stroop test was Diagnosis and screening is valid for diagnosing MHE (area under the curve, 0.74; 95% CI, cognitive functions in various fields, but each field is not reduced 0.66–0.83, P<0.001).331 The Korean Stroop test is available at to the same extent. In addition, because one test cannot judge the abnormality in all fields and agreement is poor between tests,342,343 a combination of least two tests is recommended for a Neurophysiological testing diagnosis of CHE.210 For multicenter studies, a paper and pencil test and one computerized or neurophysiologic test are recom- EEG mended for a CHE diagnosis. A single institution can use one test EEG is a test that reflects cerebral cortical neuronal activity. In that has been validated locally.209 patients with CHE, a quantitative EEG analysis shows an increase Because CHE decreases patient quality of life, increases socio- in the relative power of the θ band and a decrease in the mean economic burden, and hastens mortality, it might be necessary to dominant frequency.332 However, EEG can be affected by various test and diagnose all patients at risk. However, that would in- conditions that can affect cortical function. In addition, it requires crease costs. Therefore, it is advisable to perform a diagnostic test a technician and a neurologist and is associated with both in- in patients with a history recent of falls or traffic accidents and terobserver and intraobserver variability. patients who report a low quality of life or complaints about daily living, such as those who complain of sleep disturbance or a loss Critical flicker frequency (CFF) of concentration or
