pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


OHE.346-348 However, studies on highly related to CHE identified patients with CHE with more than the effects of probiotics in patients with CHE have low evidence Clin Mol Hepatol Volume_26 Number_2 April 2020 levels.349 Additional studies are needed to determine the benefi- Measuring of health-related quality of life in patients with cial probiotic species and optimal doses. Rifaximin and nonab- HE sorbable antibiotics also improved cognitive function and quality HRQoL is measured using self-administered, standardized ques- to establish non-inferiority over lactulose in non-inferiority stud- tionnaires are classified as generic and disease-specific.363 Be- ies,351 and lactulose treatment is more cost-effective than rifaxi- cause generic questionnaires provide an overview of HRQoL, min therapy.350 Therefore, further studies on the role of rifaximin usually taking into account the physical, mental, and social as- BCAA,353 acetyl L-carnitine,354,355 and nutrition therapy308 have advantage of depicting the relative impacts of different diseases. been reported to improve cognitive function, there is still a lack of However, generic questionnaires have the disadvantage of insen- evidence for those treatments. sitivity to clinically important changes. Thus, generic question- naires are often combined with disease-specific questionnaires. The most widely used generic questionnaires for measuring [Recommendations] 1. In patients with liver cirrhosis, the KPPT or the Korean Stroop Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (SF-36).364 The SIP consists of 136 test can be used to diagnose CHE. (B2) items that measure 12 domains. It requires several minutes to 2. Treatment with lactulose (B1) or rifaximin (B2) can be used complete, and patients with cognitive dysfunctions sometimes fail to improve cognitive function and quality of life in patients with to complete it.365 The NHP measures distress and is useful in pa- CHE. tients with moderate or severe disability, but it is not very sensi- tive to mild disability.366 The SF-36 is applicable to a wide range population. The SF-36 is easy to complete and has high sensitivity, HRQoL in patients with cirrhosis is lower than that of patients which makes it the best and most widely used scale in clinical with chronic liver disease without cirrhosis. The HRQoL of cirrhotic practice. It contains 36 questions that are split into eight domains patients with HE is particularly low.356 Patients with HE suffer and provides a physical component summary (PCS) and a mental from various degrees of altered consciousness, personality chang- component summary (MCS) (Supplementary Table 1).367 es, impaired intellectual functioning, and neuromuscular dysfunc- Disease-specific questionnaires have been
