pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: patients, bleeding, variceal, varices, liver, gastric, cirrhosis, treatment, variceal bleeding, study, hepatic, portal, evl, rebleeding, encephalopathy


summary (PCS) and a mental from various degrees of altered consciousness, personality chang- component summary (MCS) (Supplementary Table 1).367 es, impaired intellectual functioning, and neuromuscular dysfunc- Disease-specific questionnaires have been developed for a vari- tion. Although HE is not immediately life-threatening, it can ety of chronic diseases, such as renal failure, heart failure, liver greatly interfere with a patient’s functioning, social interactions, cirrhosis, diabetes, and osteoarticular diseases, that greatly affect and sense of well-being.357 The occurrence of HE is associated the HRQoL of patients. Liver-disease-specific questionnaires in- with various complications that can also adversely affect HRQoL. clude the Chronic Liver Disease Questionnaire (CLDQ), Liver Dis- Therefore, the independent effect of HE on HRQoL is not easily ease Quality of Life (LDQOL), Short Form Liver Disease Quality of measured. Because patients with OHE are unaware of their dis- Life (SF-LDQOL), and Liver Disease Symptom Index 2.0 (LDSI). The ease (anosognosia),358 alterations in their behavior and abilities CLDQ comprises 29 questions split into six domains, with domain are more easily recognized by the people living with them than by scores and an overall score presented as 1–7 scales. Higher scores the patients themselves. The presence of OHE negatively affects on the CLDQ represent better HRQoL. The CLDQ is short, easily both mental and physical functioning, whereas MHE mainly has applicable, and correlates with the severity of liver disease.368 The negative effects on mental health. Several studies have shown LDQOL uses the SF-36 and adds 12 liver-specific scales compris- that the HRQoL of patients with MHE is lower than that of pa- ing 75 questions. All scales are scored from 0–100, with higher tients without HE.312,359-362 Therefore, we suggest that patients scores representing better HRQoL.369 The SF-LDQOL uses the SF- with cirrhosis should be screened for the early detection and 36 and adds 36 Likert questionnaires; it is also scored from treatment of HE to improve their HRQoL. 1–100.370 The LDSI uses 18 items to measure the impact and se- verity of a patient’s liver disease on daily activities in nine areas (Supplementary Table 2).371 The Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) Guideline for varices and hepatic encephalopathy Influence of HE on health-related quality of life few studies have aimed at a significant improvement in the Although there is a large consensus about the direct and pro- HRQoL of patients with HE.383 Prasad et al.304 first investigated found effect that
