Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


the gland that is exceedingly rare. The process extends to adjacent structures, making any surgical intervention very difficult and potentially harmful. The exact cause of Riedel’s thyroiditis remains unknown, and no specific treatment is available beyond limited resection of the thyroid gland to relieve the symptoms of tracheal or esophageal compression. The use of anti-inflammatory medical treatments has been demonstrated to have significant benefits to outcome. Sarcoidosis may involve the thyroid, and amyloid may be deposited in the gland in quantities sufficient to cause goiter. In all of these diseases, it may be necessary to give the patient levothyroxine replacement therapy if the function of the gland has been impaired. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLASSIFICATION The diagnostic term thyroiditis includes a group of inflammatory or inflammatory-like conditions. The terminology that has been employed is confusing, and no classification is ideal. We prefer the following nomenclature, which takes into account the cause when known. 1, Infectious thyroiditis, also referred to as either acute or chronic, and which in fact may be either, along with the qualifying term suppurative (AST), nonsuppurative, or septic thyroiditis. It includes all forms of infection, other than viral, and is caused by invasion of the thyroid by bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, protozoa, or flatworms. The disorder is rare. 2. De Quervain's thyroiditis, commonly known as (painful) subacute thyroiditis (SAT) but also termed subacute nonsuppurative thyroiditis, granulomatous, pseudotuberculous, pseudo-giant cell or giant cell thyroiditis, migratory or creeping thyroiditis, and struma granulomatosa. This condition, most likely of post viral origin, lasts for a week to a few months, with a tendency to recur. 3. Autoimmune thyroiditis, commonly referred to as chronic, Hashimoto's, or lymphocytic thyroiditis and also known as lymphadenoid goiter and struma lymphomatosa. This indolent disease usually persists for years and in the Western world is the principal cause of non-iatrogenic primary hypothyroidism. Nonspecific focal thyroiditis, characterized by local lymphoid cell infiltration without parenchymal changes, may be a variant of the autoimmune disease. The condition is covered in detail in the Endotext chapter on Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis. Another form of thyroiditis, also believed to be of autoimmune cause, has been described. It has been variably referred to as painless, silent, occult, subacute, subacute nonsuppurative, and atypical (silent) subacute thyroiditis, as well as “hyperthyroiditis”, transient thyrotoxicosis with low thyroidal RAIU and lymphocytic thyroiditis with spontaneously resolving hyperthyroidism. There
