Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


as painless, silent, occult, subacute, subacute nonsuppurative, and atypical (silent) subacute thyroiditis, as well as “hyperthyroiditis”, transient thyrotoxicosis with low thyroidal RAIU and lymphocytic thyroiditis with spontaneously resolving hyperthyroidism. There is no agreement on an inclusive name. The features of this disease entity overlap with de Quervain's thyroiditis and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The clinical course, with the exception of a very high erythrocyte sedimentation rate and pain in the thyroid are indistinguishable from de Quervain's thyroiditis. Yet, histologically, the condition cannot be differentiated from a milder form of Hashimoto's disease. This condition often occurs in the postpartum period and is also termed postpartum thyroiditis. All forms of autoimmune thyroiditis are considered in other Endotext chapters. 4. Riedel's thyroiditis, another disorder of unknown etiology. Synonyms include Riedel's struma, ligneous thyroiditis and invasive fibrous or chronic sclerosing thyroiditis. This condition is characterized by overgrowth of connective tissue that often extends into neighboring structures. 5. Miscellaneous varieties of thyroid inflammation or infiltration including local manifestations of a generalized disease processes. Among these are sarcoid and amyloid involvement of the thyroid. Radiation and direct trauma to the thyroid gland may also cause thyroiditis. Rarely, acute thyroiditis has been reported after parathyroid surgery ( 1 ). INFECTIOUS THYROIDITIS The thyroid gland is remarkably resistant to infection. This has been attributed to its high vascularity, lymphatic drainage, the presence of large amounts of iodine in the tissue, the fact that hydrogen peroxide is generated within the gland as a requirement for the synthesis of thyroid hormone, and its normal encapsulated position away from external structures. Acute suppurative thyroiditis (AST) is a rare condition, reported to account for 0.1-0.7% of thyroid disease ( 2 , 3 ) which may result in up to 12% or higher mortality if left untreated ( 2 , 4 , 5 ). In the pre-antimicrobial era, the case fatality rate of AST was as high as 22% ( 6 ) which makes early recognition of AST crucial in order to prevent life-threatening complications. Predisposing Factors Acute thyroiditis may involve a normal gland, arise in a multinodular goiter ( 7 ) or even Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. Presence of certain predisposing factors ( Table 1 ) makes the gland susceptible to infections. A persistent fistula from the pyriform sinus may make the left lobe of the thyroid particularly susceptible to abscess formation, particularly in children ( 8-18 ). In one study, 7 out of 48 (15%)
