Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


the pyriform sinus may make the left lobe of the thyroid particularly susceptible to abscess formation, particularly in children ( 8-18 ). In one study, 7 out of 48 (15%) of children undergoing piriform sinus fistula surgery presented with a thyroid abscess ( 19 ). The possibility of a persistent thyroglossal duct should be considered for patients with midline infections ( 20 ). The infection of the thyroid gland is a result of direct extension from an internal fistula from the pyriform sinus ( 11 , 13 , 14 , 21-24 ). This tract is thought to represent the course of migration of the ultimobranchial body from the site of its embryonic origin in the fifth pharyngeal pouch ( 15 ). Careful histopathological studies of these fistulae have demonstrated that they are lined by squamous columnar or ciliated epithelium and occasionally form branches in the thyroid lobe ( 11 , 14 ). In addition, occasional cells positive for calcitonin have been found in the fistulae and increased numbers of C-cells were noted in the thyroid lobe at the point of termination of the tract. The predominance of acute thyroiditis in the left lobe of the thyroid gland, particularly in infants and children, is explained by the fact that the right ultimobranchial body is often atrophic and does not develop in the human (as well as in other species such as reptiles). Ninety-two percent of cases involve the left thyroid lobe, 6% the right lobe, and 2% are bilateral ( 25 ). The left-sided predominance may be due to embryological asymmetry of the transformation of the fourth branchial arch to form the aortic and innominate arteries ( 26 ) or to poor development of the ultimobrachial body on the right side of the embryo ( 27 ). Recurrent left-sided thyroid abscess has also been reported due to a fourth branchial arch sinus fistula ( 28 ). A review of 526 cases of congenital fourth branchial arch anomalies ( 29 ) noted that they presented with acute suppurative thyroiditis in 45% of cases. Acute thyroiditis from a periapical abscess of an inferior molar has been reported ( 30 ). Acute suppurative thyroiditis associated with thyroid metastasis from esophageal cancer has also been reported ( 31 ). Acute thyroiditis can occur in an immuno-compromised state, predisposing them to unusual bacteria such as nocardia ( 32 , 33 ), salmonella( 34 ) and fungi
