Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


33 , 34 , 77 , 78 ). Rarely acute suppurative thyroiditis is due to thyroid abscess with deep neck infection ( 79 ) and fistulous connection ( 80 ). Coccidioides immitis from infected donor tissue in an immunocompromised host has also been reported ( 39 ). Thyroid abscess due to clostridium perfringens has been reported ( 81 ) and clostridium septicum is almost always associated with carcinoma of the colon ( 82 ). Metastatic breast cancer has been described as presenting clinically with acute thyroiditis ( 83 ). Hashimoto’s disease ( 84 , 85 ), large goiters ( 86 ), or thyroid cancer could predispose individuals ( 87 ), but AST could also arise by hematogenous or lymphatic spread or by iatrogenic infections after fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA). Recently, the role of diagnostic fine needle thyroid aspiration has been emphasized as a factor in the cause of acute suppurative thyroiditis ( 81 , 88-92 ). Care should be taken when performing FNA in patients who may be susceptible to tracking of infection into the thyroid. Table 2. Microbiology of Acute Suppurative Thyroiditis View in own window Usual Organisms Aerobic: Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Escherichia coli ( 111 ) Anaerobic: Clostridium septicum ( 82 ), gram-negative bacilli, Peptostreptococcus spp. Rare Organisms Bacterial: Atypical mycobacteria, Clostridium perfringens ( 81 ), Eikenella corrodens, Enterobacteriaceae, Haemophilus influenza, Klebsiella spp., Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Porphyromonas ( 55 ), Salmonella spp., Streptococcus viridans, Treponema pallidum, Brucella. ( 112 ), Lactococcus ( 113 ), Citrobacter freundii ( 114 ), Nocardia Fungal: Aspergillus spp., Blastomyces, Candida spp., Coccidioides immitis, Pneumocystis jiroveci Parasitic: Trypanosoma ( 21 ), Echinococcus spp., Pathology Pathological examination reveals characteristic changes of acute inflammation. With bacterial infections, heavy polymorphonuclear and lymphocytic cellular infiltrate is found in the initial phase, often with necrosis and abscess formation. Fibrosis is prominent as healing occurs. In material obtained by fine needle aspiration, the infectious agent may be seen on a gram, acid fast or appropriate fungal stain ( 13 ), and grown out in culture for antibiotic sensitivity assessment. Clinical Manifestations Although acute thyroiditis is quite rare (about two patients per year in a large tertiary care hospital), cases of suppurative thyroiditis are increasing due to the higher incidence of immune-compromised patients. A recent meta-analysis of about 200 cases of AST published in 148 articles between 2000-2020 noted that the median duration of symptoms prior
