Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


the fall and winter following upper respiratory tract infections. White cell counts are elevated in 80% of bacterial AST but in only 40% and 26% of fungal and tuberculous AST respectively. Previous reviews have found that thyrotoxicosis was not common in AST ( 5 ). The recent meta-analysis by Lafontaine et al. found that 42% of bacterial and 40% of fungal AST cases were thyrotoxic at presentation and at least 36% of bacterial AST cases had significant thyrotoxicosis with fT4 more than twice the upper limit of normal ( 76 ). Tuberculous AST was least likely to be associated with hyperthyroidism (12%). Thyrotoxicosis due to AST is plausible, given the pathogenesis of AST and the release of pre-formed thyroid hormone secondary to the destruction of thyroid follicles. It is therefore important to consider AST in patients with apparent hyperthyroidism and a painful neck, making the differentiation with SAT difficult ( 76 ). In general, there are no signs or symptoms of hyper- or hypothyroidism. However, exceptions to both have been reported particularly if the thyroiditis is generalized, such as occurs with fungal processes ( 74 ) or mycobacterial infections. At times, even in patients with bacterial thyroiditis, destruction of the thyroid gland is extensive enough to release thyroid hormone in amounts sufficient to cause symptomatic thyrotoxicosis ( 54 , 59 ). Associated thyrotoxicosis has also been reported in children and adults ( 17 , 54 , 88 , 107 ); in one series, 12% presented with thyrotoxicosis, and 17% were said to be hypothyroid ( 5 ). This variety of thyroid function findings clearly increases the difficulty of differentiating AST from SAT as both present with thyroidal pain. Unique presentations of AST have been reported where initial thyrotoxicosis has been followed by hypothyroidism and spontaneous normalization of thyroid function after treatment of the AST ( 55 , 108 ). Complications described in various cases included internal jugular vein thrombophlebitis, mediastinitis and pericarditis, esophageal perforation, fistula and obstruction, laryngeal edema requiring tracheostomy, obstructive symptoms, Horner’s syndrome and multisystem organ failure ( 76 ). Diagnosis Pain in the anterior neck will usually lead to a consideration of thyroiditis. The meta-analysis by Lafontaine et al. showed that the most common symptoms in bacterial AST were neck pain (89%) and fever (82%), followed by dysphagia (46%). Neck pain and fever were the most common symptoms in all cases, occurring in 78% and 63% of
