Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


AST were neck pain (89%) and fever (82%), followed by dysphagia (46%). Neck pain and fever were the most common symptoms in all cases, occurring in 78% and 63% of fungal AST, and 40% and 48% of tuberculous AST cases respectively ( 76 ). Since the differential diagnosis will lie between acute suppurative thyroiditis and subacute thyroiditis, it is critical to compare the history, physical, and particularly laboratory data in these two conditions (see Table 4 ). In general, the patient with acute thyroiditis appears septic, has greater and more localized pain in the thyroid gland, may have an associated upper respiratory infection, has lymphadenopathy and may be immuno-compromised. Localization of tenderness to the left lobe should suggest the possibility of an infection as should any erythema or apparent abscess formation. The presence of an elevated white blood count with a shift to the left would argue for infection, however, elevations in sedimentation rate are common in both acute and subacute thyroiditis. As mentioned above, patients with bacterial thyroiditis are usually euthyroid but a thyrotoxic presentation has been noted in 8-12% ( 5 , 109 ) and hypothyroidism was noted in 17% of one series ( 109 ). Thyrotoxicosis is clearly more common with longer duration, 52% at 7 days and 65% by 30 days of neck pain in patients with subacute thyroiditis ( 110 ). The thyrotoxic presentation therefore poses a difficult differential diagnostic problem to separate AST from SAT, which may have significant impact in the selection of initial therapy. Depending on the patient’s age and clinical circumstances, one may wish to proceed with invasive or non-invasive studies. Discriminating tests differentiating AST from SAT have been considered a radio-nuclide uptake (RAIU) and/or scanning usually showing a very low uptake value in subacute thyroiditis with a normal value found in the patient with localized mild bacterial thyroiditis ( 21 ). More frequently however both conditions are associated with a low 123-I uptake at initial presentation ( 33 , 108 , 115 , 116 ) limiting the power of iodine based nuclear studies to effectively differentiated these two conditions. In the early inflammatory phase of AST, when obvious abscess formation is not evident, an ultrasound may show a localized hypoechoic process with an obscure border and effacement between the thyroid and surrounding perithyroidal tissues( 117 ). During the acute inflammatory stage of AST, clear cut abscess formation is noted in
