Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


process with an obscure border and effacement between the thyroid and surrounding perithyroidal tissues( 117 ). During the acute inflammatory stage of AST, clear cut abscess formation is noted in the affected thyroidal tissue ( 117 ). Perithyroidal unifocal hypoechoic space and effacement of the plane between the thyroid and perithyroidal tissues have been noted to be specific signs of AST ( 117 ). Alternatively, the application of sonoelastography may reveal very stiff lesions corresponding to the areas of the thyroid which are especially painful ( 118 ) during acute phases of the AST episode which soften significantly as the patient responds to treatment ( 118 ). As AST resolves with appropriate treatment, ultrasound images may demonstrate deformity of the gland characterized by atrophy of the affected lobe, air/fluid levels in the thyroidal tissue and scarring of the perithyroidal tissues ( 117 ). A CT scan may be useful in identifying the location of the abscess, but is required only in unusual situations ( 119 ). The CT findings also vary with the stage of AST. In the early inflammatory stage, nonspecific low density areas in the swollen thyroid along with potential tracheal displacement may be seen ( 117 ). In the acute inflammatory stage, a CT can also demonstrate edema of the ipsilateral hypopharynx, and abscess formation. In the late inflammatory stage, deformity of the thyroid, atrophy of the affected lobe and scarring of the perithyroidal tissues may be observed ( 117 ). Recent reviews indicate a significant role for CT in the initial evaluation of those with AST ( 2 , 117 ). As outlined above, during the earliest stages of AST both CT and ultrasound findings may fail to effectively differentiate between AST and SAT. In this circumstance, the use of a fine needle aspiration (FNA) has been demonstrated to be very useful as outlined below. Localization of gallium to the thyroid gland in the course of an evaluation for a fever of unknown origin is very useful finding confirming thyroid inflammation as the source of the problem but the differential of gallium positive thyroid tissue will also include the presence of Riedel’s thyroiditis ( 120 ). If an infectious process is identified, particularly of the left lobe of a younger individual, then a barium swallow should be performed with attention to the possibility of a fistulous tract located on the left side between the pyriform sinus
