Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


lobe of a younger individual, then a barium swallow should be performed with attention to the possibility of a fistulous tract located on the left side between the pyriform sinus and the thyroid gland. The barium swallow has very good sensitivity in detecting the presence of the fistula tracts as 89-97% of those examined in early and acute stages of AST have been confirmed with this technique ( 117 ). Other methods of documenting the presence of a fistula are also utilized. On follow up ultrasound an ‘emerging echogenic tract sign’ suggests an associated pyriform sinus thyroid fistula ( 121 ). During a CT scan procedure the patient can be asked to blow into a syringe, the so called “trumpet maneuver”, which may help to identify a piriform sinus fistula ( 122 ), a reported series suggests that timing may influence the ability of this maneuver to demonstrate the presence of a fistula as only 20% of those examined in the acute inflammatory phase revealed a fistula while 54% of those evaluated in the late inflammatory phase had a fistula documented ( 117 ) with the “trumpet maneuver”. A ‘light guided procedure’ to visualize the tract may also help ( 123 ). Transnasal flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy has become increasingly utilized to identify the presence of fistular tracts ( 2 ). This approach has been estimated to have similar sensitivity of documenting the tracts as barium swallow and CT methods ( 124-126 ) and can also be utilized for the instillation of chemo-cauterizing agents at an appropriate time after the resolution of the acute infection ( 109 , 124 , 126 , 127 ). Occasionally, pain from an infectious process elsewhere in the neck will present as anterior neck tenderness. For example, a retropharyngeal abscess may present with typical symptoms of acute thyroiditis. The thyroid gland, however, will have a normal ultrasound appearance, be normal on scanning, and only on CT scan will the retropharyngeal abscess be recognized. The tendency for the pain of thyroid inflammation to be referred to the throat or ears should be kept in mind, although recognition of the anatomic source of the problem is usually not difficult in patients with acute thyroiditis due to their localized symptoms. While patients with tuberculosis or parasitic infections tend to have a more indolent course, these infections can present with acute symptoms and this possibility should be considered if the
