Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


symptoms. While patients with tuberculosis or parasitic infections tend to have a more indolent course, these infections can present with acute symptoms and this possibility should be considered if the epidemiology is consistent. For example, thyroidal echinococcosis occurs in countries in which this parasite is endemic ( 128 ). Trypanosomiasis of the thyroid has also been reported ( 21 ). A fine needle aspiration (FNA) performed in the acute phase of AST is important as an aspirate has a superior ability to differentiate the patient with AST from those with subacute thyroiditis not only by cytological criteria and also provides appropriate bacteriologic specificity allowing smears and cultures providing a more accurate antibiotic selection ( 2 ) for the patient documented to have AST. In addition, transcutaneous drainage of the infectious material can be performed to relieve pressure on a displaced trachea in patients with a compromised airway ( 2 ). Finally FNA may be seen as the most accurate means of differential diagnosis ( 129 ) when a thyrotoxic presentation is encountered. Establishing a firm diagnosis of AST allows timely antibiotic therapy to be prescribed when a trial of glucocorticoids for empirically assumed SAT might result in both delay in diagnosis as well as initiation of a potentially wrong therapy ( 55 ). Prompt treatment is necessary as the infection may cause destruction of the thyroid and the parathyroid glands, spread to other organs, or cause abscess rupture, vocal cord palsy and fistulae to the trachea or esophagus ( 130 , 131 ). Treatment There has been a trend toward less invasive management during active inflammation and infection ( 2 ). A recent study observed that 32% of the cases with bacterial AST were managed with antibiotics and a single needle aspiration, 3% required multiple needle aspirations, and 13% had a needle aspiration and antibiotics but subsequently required surgery. In both the immediate surgery group and those with needle aspiration and antibiotics, incision and drainage was the most common procedure (57% and 53% respectively), followed by partial thyroidectomy (30% and 40%) with or without excision of a fistula tract, and total thyroidectomy (13% and 7%). The median duration of antibiotics was 17 days (IQR 14- 30) ( 76 ). In contrast, only 22% of cases of fungal AST went directly to surgery (11% for incision and drainage, 11% underwent a partial thyroidectomy), 56% had a single needle aspiration and antifungals,
