Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


contrast, only 22% of cases of fungal AST went directly to surgery (11% for incision and drainage, 11% underwent a partial thyroidectomy), 56% had a single needle aspiration and antifungals, and 22% failed needle aspiration and antifungals and subsequently required surgery. The mean duration of antifungal therapy was 42 days. Of the patients with tuberculous AST, 41% had needle aspiration and antibiotics; only 3% failed needle aspiration and antibiotics and subsequently required partial thyroidectomy ( 76 ). Despite a lack of randomized controlled trials, algorithms for acute and long-term management have been suggested by several authors. Miyauchi ( 115 ), who has extensive experience with the condition, has cautioned that consideration of the basic anomaly predisposing the patient to thyroid gland infection must be duly considered. Microscopic examination and appropriate staining of a fine needle aspirate often aid the diagnosis and choice of antibiotic therapy. The procedure is best done under ultrasound guidance so that the source of the specimen is identified. It may also serve as a mechanism for decompression of an abscess and can be repeated to facilitate healing. Some abscesses will require surgical exploration and drainage. The choice of therapy will also depend on the immune status of the patient. Systemic antibiotics are required for severe infections. Candida albicans thyroiditis may be treated with appropriate doses of amphotericin B and fluconazole. Successful antifungal combination therapy and a surgical approach for Aspergillus spp associated AST has been reported ( 132 ). The proper treatment of an acute thyroiditis in children generally requires the surgical removal of the fistula ( 11 , 13 , 14 ), although surgical treatment should be delayed until the inflammatory process is resolved ( 133 , 134 ). Combining this with partial thyroidectomy may further decrease the recurrence rate ( 12 , 29 ). In addition, a lobectomy may be the safer option as it provides an adequate identification of the recurrent laryngeal nerve in the re-operative field ( 135 ). Alternatively, fistula tract ablation can be achieved either by surgical resection which has been associated with recurrence free survival ( 117 ), or less invasively obliterated with the instillation of a chemo-cauterizing agent which has also been demonstrated to result is satisfactory outcomes ( 117 , 124 , 126 , 127 ). Newer, minimally invasive transoral video-laryngoscopic surgery (TOVS) ( 136 ) and endoscopy assisted surgery ( 137 ) have been reported to
