Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


( 117 , 124 , 126 , 127 ). Newer, minimally invasive transoral video-laryngoscopic surgery (TOVS) ( 136 ) and endoscopy assisted surgery ( 137 ) have been reported to be safe and reliable methods of pyriform sinus fistula treatment. Ultrasound-guided aspiration with or without lavage had a good treatment effect and without adverse events for the management of AST secondary to pyriform sinus fistula ( 138 ). Prognosis The disease may occasionally prove fatal ( 106 ). In some patients with thyroiditis, the destruction may be sufficiently severe that permanent hypothyroidism results ( 7 ). Thus, patients with a particularly diffuse thyroiditis should have follow-up thyroid function studies performed to determine the need for thyroid hormone replacement. Surgical removal of a fistula or branchial pouch sinus ( 133 , 134 ) is required to prevent recurrence. SUBACUTE THYROIDITIS Case Illustration J.G., a 56-year-old woman, presented to her primary care physician in January, with 4 weeks of low anterior neck pain and 2 days of fatigue, chills and shivers. She was prescribed a course of antibiotics with no relief. A non-contrast CT scan of the neck was done which showed mild diffuse thyroid enlargement, multiple nodules and area of hypo-attenuation in the right lobe with no evidence of abscess formation. She was referred to Endocrinology for further evaluation. Upon further questioning, she reported having intermittent fever, nervousness, and slight difficulty during swallowing, nearly 5-pound weight loss but no changes in her appetite or bowel habits. A family history of thyroid disease was not elicited. She has been taking Naproxen 200 mg four times a day and a full dose aspirin with minimal relief. On physical examination she appeared to be in pain, BP was 144/88, and pulse 108/min and regular. Clinically, she appeared euthyroid. The thyroid gland was estimated to be 40 grams in weight and was tender, firm, and slightly irregular. The remainder of the examination was non-contributory. Laboratory data included an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 58 mm/min, FT4 of 2.7 ng/dl (reference range 0.76 to 1.46 ng/dl), FT3 5.8 pg/ml (2.3 to 4.2 pg/mL) and a negative thyroid stimulating immunoglobulin. CRP was 31.3 mg/L (reference range 0.0-8.0 mg/L). RAI uptake was 1%. Subacute thyroiditis (SAT) sometimes referred to as granulomatous or De Quervain's thyroiditis is a spontaneously remitting inflammatory condition of the thyroid gland that may last for weeks to several months ( 21 , 139 , 140
