Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


as granulomatous or De Quervain's thyroiditis is a spontaneously remitting inflammatory condition of the thyroid gland that may last for weeks to several months ( 21 , 139 , 140 ). It has a tendency to recur. The gland is typically involved as a whole, and thyroidal RAIU is much depressed. Transient hyperthyroxinemia, elevation of the serum thyroglobulin concentration and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and sometimes the WBC, during the early acute phase are characteristic if not pathognomonic. Etiology An infections cause can rarely be established. A tendency for the disease to follow upper respiratory tract infections or sore throats has suggested initiation by a viral infection. Earlier suggestions that the disease may represent a bacterial infection have been disproven. An autoimmune reaction is also unlikely. The development during the illness of cell-mediated immunity against various thyroid cell particulate fractions or crude antigens appears to be related to the release of these materials during tissue destruction ( 141 , 142 ). Although the search for a viral cause has usually been unrewarding, a few cases have been associated with the virus that causes mumps ( 139 , 143 ). The disease has occurred in epidemic form. High titers of mumps antibodies have been found in some patients with subacute thyroiditis, and occasionally parotitis or orchitis are associated with the thyroiditis. The mumps virus has been cultured directly from thyroid tissue involved by subacute thyroiditis. Although the mumps virus may be one discrete etiologic factor, the disease has also been reported in association with other viral conditions including measles, influenza, H1N1 influenza ( 144 ) adenovirus infection, infectious mononucleosis ( 145 ), myocarditis, HIV ( 146 ), cat scratch fever, and coxsackie virus ( 147 ). SAT has been reported following hand-foot-mouth disease due to coxsackie B4 ( 148 ), cytomegalovirus ( 149 ), hepatitis E virus ( 150 , 151 ) and scrub typhus infection ( 116 ). Case reports suggesting SAT as a rare facet of Dengue expanded syndrome have been published ( 152-154 ). Most recently, SAT has been associated with SARS-COV-2/COVID 19 infection ( 155 ). Two comprehensive studies ( 156 , 157 ) failed to find evidence of enteroviruses in 27 patients and Epstein-Barr (EB) virus or cytomegalovirus in 10 patients, respectively, but a single case report has implicated EB virus in a case of subacute thyroiditis with typical clinical features ( 158 ) and cytomegalovirus
