Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


or cytomegalovirus in 10 patients, respectively, but a single case report has implicated EB virus in a case of subacute thyroiditis with typical clinical features ( 158 ) and cytomegalovirus has been reported in an infant ( 159 ). Numerous attempts to culture viruses from cases not associated with mumps have failed. Virus-like particles have been demonstrated in the follicular epithelium of a single patient suffering from subacute thyroiditis ( 147 ). However, viral antibody titers to common respiratory tract viruses are often elevated in these patients. Since the titers fall promptly, and multiple viral antibodies may appear in the same patient, the titer elevation may represent an anamnestic response to the inflammatory condition. It is likely that the thyroid gland could respond with thyroiditis after invasion by a variety of different viruses but no single agent is likely to be causative ( 160 ). Histocompatibility studies show that 72% of patients with subacute thyroiditis manifest HLA-BW35 ( 161 ). Familial occurrence of subacute thyroiditis associated with HLA-B35 has been reported ( 162-165 ). The correlation between the SAT occurrence and the presence of HLA-B*18:01 and DRB1*01, as well as HLA-C*04:01 has been demonstrated, with the latter one being in linkage disequilibrium with a well-known SAT risk haplotype HLA-B*35 ( 166 ). These new three antigens, together with the known HLA-B*35, allow confirmation of a genetic predisposition in almost all patients with SAT. The haplotypes HLA-B*18:01, -DRB1*01 and HLA-B*35 are all independent SAT risk factors. Recent studies demonstrated for the first time that the risk of SAT recurrence is indeed HLA-dependent, and the high-risk group includes patients with co-occurrence of HLA-B*18:01 and -B*35 ( 166 ). It seems that the presence of HLA B18:01 significantly changes the course of SAT. The risk of recurrence was significantly influenced by the presence of HLA-B*18:01, but only with the concurrent presence of HLA-B*35. Although demonstration that the co-occurrence of HLA-B*18:01 and -B*35 carries the risk of SAT recurrence should be confirmed in further studies. Thus, a susceptibility to subacute thyroiditis seems genetically influenced and it has been suggested that subacute thyroiditis might occur by transmission of viral infection in genetically predisposed individuals ( 159 ). A reported association between subacute thyroiditis and acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet's syndrome) ( 167 , 168 ), may imply a common role for cytokines in both these conditions. New treatments, particularly those in which there is manipulation
