Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet's syndrome) ( 167 , 168 ), may imply a common role for cytokines in both these conditions. New treatments, particularly those in which there is manipulation of the immune system, have led to the development of a subacute thyroiditis like clinical course ( 169 ). Infusion of interleukin 2 caused hyperthyroxinemia with a low radioiodine uptake in six patients who received this in combination with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α or γ interferon ( 170 ). The patients proceeded through the pattern of hyperthyroidism followed by transient hypothyroidism, with a re-establishment of normal thyroid function typical of patients with autoimmune painless thyroiditis. However, none of the patients had detectable antithyroid antibodies. This condition is thus intermediate between subacute lymphocytic (painless) thyroiditis and subacute thyroiditis, which is typically painful. The advent of immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer therapy. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) are a group of monoclonal antibodies that target the receptors cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) or its associated ligand (PD-L-1). The thyroid gland is the endocrine gland most frequently affected in association with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). With the increase in use of immunotherapy for various malignancies, thyroid immune related adverse events (irAE) are on the rise ( 171 ). Thyroid dysfunction has been more frequently associated with PD-1 inhibitors rather than CTLA-4 inhibitors ( 172 ). About 20% of the patients receiving PD-1 inhibitors present with thyroid dysfunction, occurring early in the course of treatment (median onset 6 weeks after first infusion) ( 173 , 174 ) The exact underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms for thyroid irAEs are still unclear. It has been thought to be secondary to destructive, immune mediated thyroiditis and may include T cell, NK cell, and/or monocyte-mediated pathways ( 175 ). However, the onset and clinical manifestations are highly variable and not all patients develop the classic thyroiditis like presentation( 176 ). Based on the limited data available, the PD-1 inhibitor induced thyroiditis may histologically present as a granulomatous inflammation with active destruction of thyroid follicles( 177 ). In one of the studies, in which thyroid function was prospectively monitored in patients with melanoma receiving PD-1 inhibitor therapy, most patients presenting with thyrotoxicosis developed hypothyroidism within 1-3 months ( 173 ). A recent study that looked at thyroid dysfunction in patients with melanoma undergoing CTLA-4 or PD-1 based treatment reported many distinct phenotypes ( 178 ).
