Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


1-3 months ( 173 ). A recent study that looked at thyroid dysfunction in patients with melanoma undergoing CTLA-4 or PD-1 based treatment reported many distinct phenotypes ( 178 ). Of the 1246 patients studied, 42% developed thyroid irAEs. The most common presentation was subclinical hyperthyroidism followed by overt hyperthyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism, and overt hypothyroidism. The most common thyroid dysfunction is thyrotoxicosis followed by hypothyroidism. Incidences of hypothyroidism were lower with the anti-CTLA-4 antibody (2.5%-5.2%) than with anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 (3.9%-8.5%), while combination therapy was associated with the highest estimated incidence (10.2%-16.4%). Similarly, for thyrotoxicosis differences according to the class of ICIs had been reported, with ipilimumab having low frequencies (0.2%–1.7%), anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 drugs having higher frequencies (0.6%–3.7%), and combination therapy having the highest frequency (8.0%–11.1%) ( 179 ). Moreover the risk of thyrotoxicosis was significantly greater with anti-PD-1 antibodies than with anti-PD-L1 antibodies and differences among anti-PD-1 drugs were also observed, with nivolumab having lower risk for hyperthyroidism than pembrolizumab ( 179 ). In the majority of the patients who develop thyroid dysfunction, ICI therapy can be continued, unless they experience symptoms of severe thyrotoxicosis or there is concern for thyroid storm ( 180 ). Current guidelines recommend initiation of beta-blockers for symptomatic relief and if there is persistence of hypothyroidism, levothyroxine should be initiated after ruling out adrenal insufficiency, which can also occur with ICI therapy. Patients have developed subacute thyroiditis after influenza vaccination ( 181-183 ) suggesting immune alteration as a contributory factor. In patients with chronic hepatitis C, studies following interferon therapy (IFN) have shown that a minority (15%) developed a destructive thyroiditis while others had a mild elevation of TSH ( 170 , 184 ). IFN can exacerbate previous thyroid autoimmunity and cause destructive thyroidal changes de novo . Subacute thyroiditis has also been noted in patients treated with combination therapy of IFN plus ribavirin for this disease ( 185 , 186 ) as well as during treatment of hepatitis B with interferon-a ( 187 ). Peginterferon alpha-2a has been reported to cause subacute thyroiditis ( 188 ) and the condition has been seen in Takayasu's arteritis suggesting an immune abnormality ( 189 ). On the other hand, SAT has also been reported in patients receiving long-term immunosuppressive therapy suggesting a minimal role for activating autoimmunity in the condition ( 190 , 191 ). A phase 2 trial conducted with alemtuzumab, a monoclonal anti-CD52 antibody for relapsing and
