Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


therapy suggesting a minimal role for activating autoimmunity in the condition ( 190 , 191 ). A phase 2 trial conducted with alemtuzumab, a monoclonal anti-CD52 antibody for relapsing and remitting type of multiple sclerosis found that 34% of the subjects developed thyroid dysfunction and 4% had subacute thyroiditis ( 192 ). Use of TNF inhibitor therapy has been associated with thyroid dysfunction that closely resembles subacute thyroditis ( 193 , 194 ). A recent report of SAT associated with the use of the kinase inihibitor, dasatinib has been published ( 195 ). Other reports of the occurrence of a SAT-like picture with renal cell carcinoma ( 196 ), following the administration of cardiac catheterization dye ( 197 ), after gastric bypass( 198 ), or after ginger ingestion ( 199 ) do not clearly contribute to an enhanced understanding of its etiology. SARS-COV-2 Infection and Subacute Thyroiditis Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARSCoV-2) has infected more than 190 million people worldwide and the pandemic is still spreading. The first case of SAT after a SARS-CoV-2 infection was published from Italy in 2020 ( 155 ). Although additional cases were soon reported, this entity is likely underrecognized ( 200-202 ). A case series of 4 patients with SAT after SARS-COV2 infection was published ( 155 ). In this case series, all 4 patients were female (age, 29-46 years). SAT developed 16 to 36 days after the resolution of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Neck pain radiated to the jaw and palpitations were the main presenting symptoms and were associated with fever and asthenia. One patient was hospitalized because of atrial fibrillation. Laboratory exams during the acute phase of SAT, available for 3 patients, were typical of destructive thyroiditis: thyroid hormones, and particularly free thyroxine, were increased, TSH was low to undetectable, serum thyroglobulin was high, and TSH receptor antibodies were undetectable. At neck ultrasound (performed in all patients) the thyroid was enlarged, with diffuse and bilateral hypoechoic areas. At color Doppler ultrasonography (performed in 3 patients) thyroid vascularization was absent. One patient had a thyroid scintiscan with 99mtechnetium, which showed absent uptake, as typical of the destructive phase of SAT. Symptoms subsided in all patients a few days after they commenced treatment (prednisone 25 mg/day in 3 patients and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug in 1 patient). Six weeks after the onset of SAT symptoms, inflammatory markers had returned to normal range in
