Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


treatment (prednisone 25 mg/day in 3 patients and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug in 1 patient). Six weeks after the onset of SAT symptoms, inflammatory markers had returned to normal range in all patients. Two patients were euthyroid and 2 were diagnosed with subclinical hypothyroidism. No patient experienced a relapse of COVID-19. Expression of the mRNA encoding for the ACE-2 receptor has been documented in thyroid follicular cells, making them a potential target for SARS-COV-2 entry ( 203 ). The expression of ACE-2 mRNA in follicular cells was confirmed by analyzing primary cultures of thyroid cells, which expressed the ACE-2 mRNA at levels similar to thyroid tissues. It is important to note that, as recently demonstrated, SARS-CoV-2 infection requires the ACE-2 receptor to coexist with type II serine protease trans-membranes (TMPRSS2) ( 204 ). More recently, three cases of SAT were reported from Turkey after inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccination (CoronaVac®) was administered. Three female healthcare workers presented with anterior neck pain and fatigue 4 to 7 days after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination and were diagnosed to have SAT, as a part of an autoimmune/inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants (ASIA syndrome). This can be seen as a postvaccination phenomenon that occurs after exposure to adjuvants in vaccines that increase the immune responses. However, two of these patients were in the postpartum period, which may have facilitated the development of ASIA syndrome after the SARS-CoV-2 vaccination ( 205 ). Pathology The thyroid gland may be adherent to its capsule or to the strap muscles, but it can usually be dissected free, a feature distinguishing subacute thyroiditis from Riedel's thyroiditis. The involved tissue appears yellowish or white and is firmer than normal. The gland is enlarged, usually bilaterally and uniform, but may be asymmetrical, with predominant involvement of one lobe. Although the lesion may extend to the capsular surface, it can also be confined to the thyroid parenchyma or merely be palpable as a suspiciously hard area. Macroscopically, yellow-white, solidified foci of different sizes are visible, which occur focally, asymmetrically or less often, bilaterally. Clinically and macroscopically, malignancy can be suspected due to the ill-defined delimitation of these foci. There is a characteristic picture of a granulomatous inflammatory reaction with focal destruction of the follicular epithelial cells histologically. Due to the destruction of the follicles in the early stages of the disease, colloid emerges; neutrophils dominate, which can form granulomas with central micro-abscesses ( 206 ). In the
