Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


Due to the destruction of the follicles in the early stages of the disease, colloid emerges; neutrophils dominate, which can form granulomas with central micro-abscesses ( 206 ). In the florid phase , lymphocytes, histiocytes and plasma cells predominate in the inflammatory infiltrate. The typical granulomas of this phase consist of cell necrosis, macrophages, multinucleated colloid phagocytic giant cells and lymphocytes ( 207 ). The regeneration phase is characterized by focal fibrosis of the affected thyroid area with regenerative cell and nuclear changes in the immediately adjacent unaffected thyroid tissue. The characteristic juxtaposition of the different histological stages of inflammation indicates that the disease is evolving in parallel zones ( 206 ). The macroscopic pathologic picture of subacute thyroiditis frequently bears a striking resemblance to a thyroid malignancy. The lesion is firm to dense in consistency, pale white in color, and has poorly defined margins that encroach irregularly on the adjacent normal thyroid. Microscopically, one sees a mixture of subacute, chronic, and granulomatous inflammatory changes associated with zones of parenchymal destruction and scar tissue. Early infiltration with polymorphonuclear leukocytes is replaced by lymphocytes and macrophages. The normal follicles may be largely replaced by an inflammatory reaction, but a few small follicles containing colloid remain ( Fig. 1 , below). Three dimensional cytomorphological analysis of fine needle aspiration biopsy samples from patients with subacute thyroiditis examined with scanning and transmission electron microscopy has shown a loss of a uniform, honeycomb cellular arrangement; variation in size and a decrease or shortening of microvilli in follicular cells together with the appearance of round or ovoid giant cells ( 208 ). The most distinctive feature is the granuloma, consisting of giant cells clustered about foci of degenerating thyroid follicles ( Fig. 1 ). Mast cells play an important part in the repair process of thyroid tissue affected by the disease via production of growth factors and biomolecules which modulate thyroid folliculogenesis and angiogenesis ( 209 ).The early literature contains accounts of tuberculous thyroiditis, a diagnosis largely based on the granulomatous tissue reaction, from which the descriptive but unfortunate term pseudotuberculous thyroiditis arose ( 210 ). Data on the mechanism of inflammation and the pathogenesis of subacute thyroiditis at the cellular level are sparse. However, a study of apoptosis and expression of Bcl 1-2 family proteins in 11 patients with SAT suggests that apoptotic mechanisms may be involved in the development of SAT ( 211
