Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


preponderance of cases in the third to fifth decades ( 67 , 139 , 210 , 219 , 220 ) and it has been noted as a rare cause of hyperthyroidism in pregnancy ( 221 , 222 ). Clinical Manifestations Characteristically, the patient has severe pain and extreme tenderness in the thyroid region. A small number of patients have been noted to present with painless or minimally painful subacute thyroiditis following viral symptomatology ( 223 ). These may be regarded as atypical subacute thyroiditis patients but the natural history of their disease is not known. Subacute thyroiditis has been reported to occur during the first trimester of pregnancy ( 221 ). When the symptom is difficulty in swallowing, the disorder may be initially mistaken for pharyngitis. Transient vocal cord paresis may occur ( 224 ). At times, the pain begins in one pole and then spreads rapidly to involve the rest of the gland ("creeping thyroiditis"). Pain may radiate to the jaw or the ears. Malaise, fatigue, myalgia and arthralgia are common. A mild to moderate fever is expected, and at times is high, swinging fever with temperatures above 104°F (40.0°C). The disease may reach its peak within 3 to 4 days, subside, and disappear within a week, but more typically, a gradual onset extends over 1 to 2 weeks and continues with fluctuating intensity for 3 to 6 weeks. Several recurrences of diminishing intensity extending over many months have also been reported. The thyroid gland is typically enlarged two or three times the normal size or larger and is tender to palpation, sometimes exquisitely so. It is smooth and firm. Occasionally the condition may be confined to one lobe ( 225 , 226 ). Approximately one-half of the patients present during the first weeks of the illness, with symptoms of thyrotoxicosis, including nervousness, heat intolerance, palpitations - including ventricular tachycardia ( 227 ), tremulousness, and increased sweating. These symptoms are caused by excessive release of preformed thyroid hormone from the thyroid gland during the acute phase of the inflammatory process. At least 3 cases of thyroid storm due to subacute thyroiditis have been described ( 228 , 229 ) and adverse cardiac outcomes have been reported even in individuals without preexisting cardiac history or lesions ( 230 ). As the disease process subsides, transient hypothyroidism occurs in about one-quarter of the patients. Ultimately thyroid function returns to normal and
