Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


assay, measured in thyrotoxic patients, indicated that patients with SAT may demonstrate suppressed but detectable levels of TSH while those with Graves’ disease or silent thyroiditis typically have undetectable TSH values ( 267 ). It has been postulated that those with SAT are evaluated sooner in the course of thyrotoxicosis due to the pain of the condition, and thus the duration of the thyrotoxicosis is less, leading to proportionally less TSH suppression. This finding has been proposed to be useful in the differential diagnosis of these thyrotoxic states ( 267 ). The TSH response to TRH stimulation is also typically suppressed ( 238 ) due to the high levels of circulating thyroid hormone. Iodide that is collected and metabolized by the gland is rapidly secreted because of the decreased ability to store colloid ( 240 ). At this time, the involved tissue shows decreased but not necessarily depleted stores of iodine, as determined by x-ray fluorescence ( 237 , 240 ), a study which is not readily available in most clinical settings in the USA. Administration of TSH will fail to produce a normal increase in RAIU. Evidently, thyroid cell damage reduces the ability of the gland to respond to TSH. As the process subsides, the serum T4, T3, and TG levels decline, but the serum TSH level remains suppressed. The normal concentrations of SHBG sometimes observed in the thyrotoxic phase probably reflects the short duration of exposure to increased thyroid hormone ( 268 ). Later, during the recovery phase, the RAIU becomes elevated with the resumption of the ability of the thyroid gland to take up and concentrate iodide in response to TSH. The serum T4 concentration may fall below normal; the TSH level may become elevated. Usually after several weeks or months, all the parameters of thyroid function return to normal ( Fig. 2 ). Restoration of iodine stores appears to be much slower and may take more than a year after the complete clinical remission ( 237 , 240 ). In about 2% of patients subacute thyroiditis may trigger auto-reactive B cells to produce TSH receptor antibodies, resulting in TSH antibody associated thyroid dysfunction in some patients ( 246 ).This finding may be a potential explanation of the apparent occurrence of Graves’ disease following an episode of SAT ( 249 , 269 , 270 ). Figure 2. Thyroid function in a patient during the course of de
