Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


the apparent occurrence of Graves’ disease following an episode of SAT ( 249 , 269 , 270 ). Figure 2. Thyroid function in a patient during the course of de Quervain’s (subacute) thyroiditis. During the thyrotoxic phase (days 10 to 20), the serum TG concentration was greatly elevated, the FTI was high, TSH was suppressed; the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 86 mm/hr, and the thyroidal RAIU was 2 percent. The thyroglobulin level and FTI declined in parallel. During the phase of hypothyroidism (days 30 to 63), when the FTI was below normal, a modest transient increase in the serum thyroglobulin level occurred in parallel with the increase in serum TSH. All parameters of thyroid function were normal by day 150, 5 months after the onset of symptoms. Differential Diagnosis The patient presenting with painful neck symptoms is frequently empirically treated with antibiotics with minimal evaluation in general practice only later to be found to have thyroid related disease ( 253 ). With an acutely enlarged, tender thyroid, an RAIU near zero, and elevated serum T4, T3, (T3:T4 <20), thyroglobulin concentrations, and ESR, the diagnosis is almost certain. Circulating thyroid autoantibodies are absent or the titer is low. Among the diagnostic alternatives, the uncommon presentation of thyrotoxicosis in infectious thyroiditis must be considered ( 55 ) and the possibility of invading bacteria excluded (see Table 2 and 4 ). Rarely a fever of unknown origin may suggest temporal arteritis but is actually due to subacute thyroiditis ( 234 ). Additionally, because of the radiation of painful thyroid into the jaw area the presence of dental pain may be confused with SAT ( 271 ). The thyroid in Hashimoto's thyroiditis may be slightly tender and painful, but this event is rare, and the typical disturbances in iodine metabolism and erythrocyte sedimentation rate are rarely found. Markers of inflammation such as CRP as measured in the saliva are normal in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis when compared to controls but are grossly elevated in the patient with SAT ( 244 ). Standard thyroid ultrasonography may appear similar with hypoechoic tissue in both Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and SAT. Doppler measured blood flow is usually robust in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease but minimal in SAT while assessment by sono-elastography reveals that the SAT gland is profoundly stiffer than Hashimoto’s thyroiditis tissue which is itself somewhat stiffer than normal controls ( 118 ). The radio nuclide thyroid uptake and
