Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


sono-elastography reveals that the SAT gland is profoundly stiffer than Hashimoto’s thyroiditis tissue which is itself somewhat stiffer than normal controls ( 118 ). The radio nuclide thyroid uptake and scanning in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is variable with elevated, depressed or normal results reported. 18 F-FDG-PET in Hashimoto’s on the other hand is similar to that seen in SAT with usually very positive uptake reported ( 254 , 272 , 273 ). Magnetic resonance imaging does not differentiate between Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and SAT ( 261 ) and is therefore, like 131/123-I and PET scanning, of little value in separating the patient with painful Hashimoto’s from the SAT patient. Hemorrhage into a cyst in a nodular thyroid gland may be acutely painful and therefore confused with subacute thyroiditis although the condition may be associated with an initially autonomously functioning nodule ( 274 ). The clinical presentation of a nodule hemorrhage is usually sudden and transient, a fluctuant mass may be found in the involved region, which may be confirmed as fluid filled and avascular ultrasonographically, and further differentiated as the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is normal. Occasionally, subacute thyroiditis mimics endogenous hyperthyroidism (Graves’ or toxic nodular goiter) in a patient whose RAIU is suppressed by the administration of exogenous iodine. This event occurs particularly in thyrotoxicosis induced by iodine (Jod-Basedow phenomenon) ( 241 ). The sudden onset of subacute thyroiditis, the presence of toxic symptoms without the typical signs of long-term hyperthyroidism, the tender gland, the constitutional symptoms, and the high erythrocyte sedimentation rate are helpful in making the differentiation. In some instances, measurement of antibodies and thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins, and observation of the course of the illness may be required to confirm the diagnosis. The single disease entity that is probably most difficult to differentiate from SAT is a variant of lymphocytic thyroiditis ( 242 ). This condition is unrelated to iodine ingestion and most likely is a variant of autoimmune thyroiditis. The patient presents with goiter, thyrotoxicosis, and a low RAIU. The biochemical course of the disease is indistinguishable from that of subacute thyroiditis and proceeds from a thyrotoxic phase through a hypothyroid phase to spontaneous remission with normalization of thyroid function. The goiter is however, typically painless and there are no associated systemic symptoms. This condition has been formerly confused with subacute (de Quervain's) thyroiditis, which likely has led to the descriptive terms of silent, painless, or atypical subacute thyroiditis to
