Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


associated systemic symptoms. This condition has been formerly confused with subacute (de Quervain's) thyroiditis, which likely has led to the descriptive terms of silent, painless, or atypical subacute thyroiditis to refer to this entity. The most helpful distinguishing features, short of histologic examination of biopsy material, are the absence of pain, the positivity of anti-thyroid antibodies and a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Localized subacute thyroiditis, with induration, mild tenderness, and depressed iodine uptake visualized on scan, can clearly be very suggestive of acute suppurative thyroiditis or even thyroid cancer. One series indicated a surprisingly high frequency of focal involvement observed among those with SAT ( 256 ). Indeed, this differential is quite difficult when incidentally discovered lesions are evaluated. Focal thyroid lesions incidentally identified by 18F-FDG-PET/CT are said to have malignant potential in up to 14-63% of cases ( 275 , 276 ). Among the other diagnostic findings reported to account for such FDG-PET incidentalomas is focal SAT ( 262 ). Usually, the degree of pain and tenderness, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, leukocytosis, and remission or spread to other parts of the gland make clinical differentiation possible. Traditional ultrasonography may reveal localized hypoechoic area in the thyroid and gray-scale and Doppler sonography may be helpful in this situation ( 255 , 277 ). Sonoelastography of these nodular lesions yields abnormally inelastic results in both SAT as well as thyroid cancer ( 278 ). Occasionally, magnetic resonance imaging ( 261 ), where the image of SAT is characterized by low intensity, may assist the clinician in differential of these nodular lesions. The hypoechoic area on ultrasound can reflect the degree of inflammation and thyroid hormone levels ( 257 ). However, a fine needle aspiration may be necessary for a definitive differentiation between these two processes ( 274 ), as well as the other entities noted above ( 129 ). Therapy In some patients with SAT, no treatment is required. However, for many, some form of analgesic therapy is warranted to treat the symptoms of the disease until it resolves. At times, this relief of symptoms can be achieved with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents or aspirin. However, if this fails, as it often does when the symptoms are severe, and after acute suppurative thyroiditis had been definitively ruled out as outlined above, prednisone administration should be employed ( 67 , 139 ).Compared to the use of NSAIDs, use of steroids has been shown
