Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


thyroiditis had been definitively ruled out as outlined above, prednisone administration should be employed ( 67 , 139 ).Compared to the use of NSAIDs, use of steroids has been shown to reduce time to resolution of symptoms ( 279 ). Large doses promptly relieve the symptoms through non-specific anti-inflammatory effects. Treatment is generally begun with a single daily dose of 40 mg prednisone. After one week of this treatment, the dosage is tapered over a period of 6 weeks or so. The relief of the tenderness in the neck is so dramatic as to be virtually diagnostic of subacute thyroiditis. As the dose is tapered, most patients have no recrudescence of symptoms, but occasionally this does occur, and the dose must be increased again. A dose as low as 15 mg of prednisolone has been shown to be as effective ( 280 ) and further studies should be conducted to determine the lowest effective doses. A newer therapeutic approach with local injection of lidocaine and dexamethasone through an insulin syringe has been reported to alleviate symptoms earlier than standard treatment with systemically administered prednisone and needs further evaluation in larger studies ( 281 ). The recurrence rate of subacute thyroiditis after cessation of prednisolone therapy is about 20% but no predictive factors have been found in routine laboratory data between recurrent and non-recurrent groups of patients ( 282 ). A recent study that evaluated the results of the steroid and NSAID treatments in SAT in relation to persistent hypothyroidism and recurrence, concluded that NSAIDs fail to provide clinical remission in more than half of SAT patients, and symptomatic response to NSAIDs is lower in patients with higher ESR and CRP levels. Despite the high recurrence rate observed in steroid-treated SAT patients, steroid treatment appears to be protective against permanent hypothyroidism. Steroid therapy should therefore be considered, especially in anti-TPO positive SAT patients and patients with high-level ESR and CRP ( 283 ). In this study, initial laboratory data, treatment response, and long-term results of 295 SAT patients treated with ibuprofen or methylprednisolone were evaluated. After the exclusion of 78 patients, evaluation was made of 126 patients treated with 1800 mg ibuprofen and 91 patients treated with 48 mg methylprednisolone. In 59.5% of 126 patients treated with ibuprofen, there was no adequate clinical response at the first control visit. In 54% of patients, the treatment was changed to steroids after a
