Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


59.5% of 126 patients treated with ibuprofen, there was no adequate clinical response at the first control visit. In 54% of patients, the treatment was changed to steroids after a mean of 9.5 days. Symptomatic remission was achieved within two weeks in all patients treated with methylprednisolone. The total recurrence rate was 19.8%, and recurrences were observed more frequently in patients receiving only steroid therapy than in patients treated with NSAID only (23% vs. 10.5% p:0.04). Persistent hypothyroidism developed in 22.8% of patients treated only with ibuprofen and in 6.6% of patients treated with methylprednisolone only. Treatment with only ibuprofen (p:0.039) and positive thyroid peroxidase antibody (anti-TPO) (p:0.029) were determined as the main risk factors for permanent hypothyroidism. During the recovery process, there may be a marked but transient increase in the 24-hour radioactive iodine uptake which can reach levels typically seen in Graves' disease but of course thyrotoxicosis is not simultaneously present. This elevation of iodine uptake occurs prior to re-establishment of normal thyroid function and should not be confused (taken out of context) with hyperthyroidism due to Graves ‘disease. Surgical intervention is not the primary treatment for subacute thyroiditis but rarely this has been performed due to presence of indeterminate cytology on FNA ( 284-286 ) or pain ( 287 ). Experience from the Mayo clinic ( 284 ) has shown, however, that if surgery is performed for a clinically indeterminate thyroid nodule, resection is safe and with low morbidity. Because of the possibility of associated papillary cancer further cytological examination should be performed in patients presenting with a persistent hypoechoic area larger than 1 cm by ultrasonography ( 260 ). Prognosis In most patients, there is a complete and spontaneous recovery and a return to normal thyroid function. However, the thyroid glands of patients with SAT may exhibit irregular scarring between islands of residual functioning parenchyma, although the patient has no symptoms. A recent study that followed 61 patients for 2 years following diagnosis of SAT explored the early indicators of hypothyroidism and the final changes in thyroid volume in SAT patients ( 288 ). They noted that the thyroid gland volumes of SAT patients, especially those with hypothyroidism, were smaller than those of healthy controls after the acute stage of the disease. They also suggested that the higher early maximum TSH value within 3 months after SAT onset may be the risk factor for the incidence
