Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


the acute stage of the disease. They also suggested that the higher early maximum TSH value within 3 months after SAT onset may be the risk factor for the incidence of hypothyroidism 2 years later. SAT may recur in up to 2.8 to 4% of patients ( 219 , 289 ). Up to 10% of the patients may become hypothyroid and require permanent replacement with levothyroxine. The choice of treatment, use of steroid, NSAID or both may not predict the development of permanent hypothyroidism.( 290 ) In a retrospective study of 252 patients with SAT, permanent hypothyroidism occurred in 5.9%. All of these had bilateral hypoechoic areas on thyroid ultrasound at initial presentation suggesting that this may be a useful prognostic marker for the potential development of thyroid dysfunction after SAT ( 291 ). However, permanent hypothyroidism was significantly less common in SAT compared to the outcome noted in amiodarone induced thyrotoxicosis type 2 (destructive thyroiditis) ( 292 ). It is of interest that elevated levels of serum thyroglobulin may persist well over a year after the initial diagnosis, indicating that disordered follicular architecture and/or low grade inflammation can persist for a relatively long period ( 293 ). A minority (< 1%) of those presenting with clinical SAT in Japan have been reported to return (n= 7) a mean 4.7 months later with findings consistent with Graves’ disease (GD) ( 269 ). Review of the other 26 cases summarized in the report of Nakano et al. indicates a similar interval between the diagnosis of SAT and subsequent GD presentation, a clearly elevated RAIU in the GD phase of all the reports where an uptake is reported (14/26 [54%]) and a change in thyroid antibody positivity in 50% of those evaluated in both (6/26 [23%]) the SAT and GD presentation( 269 ). Combining the case series by Nakano et al. with their review of the literature, 21/31 [68%] of cases labeled as SAT were diagnosed clinically without a radioactive iodine uptake assessment, and a further 4/12 [33%] of those diagnosed as SAT with a RAIU available had an uptakes greater than 10% at the time of diagnosis( 269 ). This brings into question the true incidence of this reported transition from presumably non-autoimmune SAT to clearly immune mediated GD. RIEDEL'S THYROIDITIS Riedel’s thyroiditis is a chronic sclerosing thyroiditis, occurring especially in women, that tends to progress inexorably to complete destruction of
