Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


305 , 306 ). A potentially difficult differential diagnostic decision may be encountered with diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary thyroid cancer and the nodular sclerosing variant of Hodgkin’s disease ( 302 ), rare sarcomas of the thyroid region ( 311 ), or with the pauci-cellular variant of anaplastic thyroid cancer, both of which, although similar in gross appearance, will have distinctive histopathologic immunohistochemical findings ( 312 ). Etiology Although the etiology remains unclear, Riedel’s thyroiditis has been characterized in various ways including as the cervical manifestation of a systemic fibrosing disorder with identical histopathological appearance ( 313 ). Further, Riedel’s thyroiditis has been called a variant of Hashimoto’s, a primary infiltrative disease of the thyroid and even a manifestation of end stage de Quervain’s thyroiditis ( 295 , 308 , 314 , 315 ). Riedel’s thyroiditis has been reported following subacute thyroiditis ( 315 ) and a case of concurrent Riedel’s, Hashimoto’s and acute thyroiditis has also been reported ( 316 ). The report of a case of Graves’ disease following Riedel’s thyroiditis ( 317 ) and the observation that the B cell proliferation observed in the course of these diseases has been shown to be polyclonal ( 318 ) supports the notion of autoimmune mechanisms in the etiology of the Riedel’s condition. The occurrence of marked tissue eosinophilia and the extracellular deposition of eosinophil granule major basic protein suggests a role for eosinophils and their products in the development of fibrosis in Riedel's thyroiditis ( 307 ). Fibrosis may also be related to the action of TGF beta 1, as seen in murine thyroiditis ( 319 ). Most recently links between Hashimoto’s, IgG4-related systemic disease (IgG4-RSD) and Riedel’s thyroiditis have been reported ( 320-322 ). Supporting evidence showing the presence of IgG4-bearing plasma cells in thyroidectomy specimens and other affected organs ( 302 , 322 , 323 ). A comprehensive review of potential etiology has been published ( 304 ). IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD) was first described in 1961 as a distinctive presentation of pancreatitis which was observed to be associated with hypergammaglobulinemia ( 324 ). A specific association with IgG4 was published in 2001 ( 325 ) and eventually an international consensus was established to define the criteria for recognizing IgG4-RD ( 326 , 327 ). Through this understanding of pathophysiology, the term IgG4-RD has been adopted to describe a common underlying pathology found in a variety of fibrosing
