Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


recognizing IgG4-RD ( 326 , 327 ). Through this understanding of pathophysiology, the term IgG4-RD has been adopted to describe a common underlying pathology found in a variety of fibrosing disorders that over the years have been designated in various ways primarily based on the organ of involvement and the names of the initial authors of reports describing their occurrence. Under the umbrella of IgG4-RD, newer nomenclature captures entities such as Mikulicz syndrome as IgG4 related dacryoadentis and sialadenitis, and Riedel’s thyroiditis as IgG4 related thyroid disease (IgG4RTD) ( 328 , 329 ). More recently, IgG4 related thyroid disease has included Riedel’s thyroiditis, fibrosing variant of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and few patients of Graves’ orbitopathy to represent IgG4-related thyroid disease ( 330 ). One or several organs may be involved at the time of diagnosis or subsequent to the identification of IgG4-RD in a particular organ. The most frequently involved organs include the pancreas, bile ducts, salivary glands, lachrymal glands and kidneys ( 328 ). The majority of cases are identified by the presence of characteristic fibrosing pathology and it is expected that serum IgG4 levels be elevated in most cases. The diagnosis if IgG4-RD is based on the identification of a ( 1 ) mass in one or more organs associated with an ( 2 ) elevated serum IgG4 level (greater than 1.35 g/L) and ( 3 ) histopathology demonstrating marked lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltration, more than 10 IgG4 positive plasma cells per high powered field (greater than a 40% IgG4/IgG ratio) and storiform fibrosis( 326 , 331 ). Definitive diagnosis is assured when all 3 criteria are present, the diagnosis is probable when the first and 3 rd criteria are met and possible when only the 1 st and second criteria are present ( 328 ). Based on these criteria, the position of Riedel’s thyroiditis among the IgG4-RDs would be considered probable as the vast majority of cases reported thus far are not associated with elevated serum IgG4 levels although the typical histopathologic criteria are met when applied. A recent review of 10 cases studied in Japan confirmed the IgG4-RD connection in histopathological data and note a paucity of serum IgG4 levels in their summary of the published literature ( 332 ). Most recent cases specifically noting this association and including the association with IgG4-RD in their titles document the first and third diagnostic criteria ( 322 ,
