Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


An exception to the utility of radionuclide scanning is found in the thyrotoxic patient presenting with a thyroid mass. In those with Graves’ disease or a toxic thyroid nodule, the hyperfunctioning portion of the thyroid is indeed well visualized while the portion involved with Riedel’s thyroiditis typically demonstrates no uptake ( 317 ). Finally, it has been documented that gallium scanning may, as expected, also demonstrate significant uptake in the Riedel’s lesion ( 120 ). Establishing the diagnosis of Riedel’s thyroiditis requires histopathologic confirmation at the present time. Biopsy material may be obtained by Tru-cut needle biopsy ( 378 ), open biopsy ( 67 ), or at the time of decompressive thyroidectomy. Histopathologic findings required to establish this diagnosis include: 1) the presence of an inflammatory process in the thyroid with extension into surrounding tissue; 2) the inflammatory infiltrate should contain no giant cells, lymphoid follicles, oncocytes or granulomas; 3) there should be evidence of occlusive phlebitis; and 4) there should be no evidence of thyroid malignancy ( 379 ). More recent work has suggested that the IgG4+ plasma cells per high powered field (HPF) and an IgG4+/IgG+ > 40% criteria for IgG4-Related Disease is seldom met in the thyroid and more modest finding of 10 IgG4+ plasma cells/HPF and a IgG4+/IgG ratio of 20% would be a more appropriate diagnostic threshold ( 380 ). In light of recent work defining Riedel’s thyroiditis as a potential manifestation of the IgG4-related systemic sclerosing disease, the role of incorporating immunohistochemical assessment of tissue lymphocytes and the measurement of serum IgG4 levels into working diagnostic criteria is very supportive but remains to be defined. Management of Riedel's Thyroiditis Although there is no specific therapy for Riedel's thyroiditis, several management strategies are available dependent on the clinical features of the disease in the individual patient. Patients commonly undergo surgery for relief of obstructive symptoms. Histopathology then allows for the definitive establishment of the diagnosis. Most are then treated medically for associated hormone deficiencies with levothyroxine and /or calcium along with calcitriol, but with exception of one case where reduction of the size of the inflammatory mass was observed ( 345 ), this supplementation is not thought to influence the course of the disease. Finally, anti-inflammatory treatment aimed at diminishing the inflammatory tissue mass is applied and may even result in resolution of limited biochemical findings such as primary hypoparathyroidism ( 351 ). Surgical therapy
