Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


therapy, or relapse after withdrawal, tamoxifen therapy is the next most common therapy reported to have been tried. Twenty eight reports have described an encouraging response with this agent when administered in doses of 20 mg daily for an average of 8 months, admittedly in only a small number of patients ( 302 , 349 , 351 , 388 , 390-395 ). It is possible that tamoxifen acts in Riedel's by inhibition of fibroblast proliferation through the stimulation of TGF beta ( 396-398 ). Tamoxifen in combination with prednisone or tamoxifen as monotherapy have both been reported to be effective ( 349 , 388 , 393 , 395 ). There appears to be a persistent benefit of tamoxifen therapy during continued application in most but not all cases ( 303 , 389 ). Limited data on effective therapy with other immunosuppressive agents indicates that responses to azathioprine in doses ranging from 40 to 150 mg daily have been reported in 4 patients ( 302 ). Also a combination of mycophenolate mofetil and prednisone has been observed to have successfully treated an individual who failed a prednisone and tamoxifen combination ( 389 ) and 3 cases of rituximab use have also been reported to be useful ( 334 , 399 , 400 ). The potential usefulness and relative effectiveness of these interventions awaits confirmation. Summary of Riedel’s Thyroiditis Riedel’s thyroiditis should be suspected in patients presenting with a thyroid mass and unique clinical features. Findings increasing the likelihood of Riedel’s thyroiditis include local restrictive or infiltrative symptoms out of proportion to the size or extent of the mass or simultaneous hypocalcemia. Surgical intervention should be limited to rule out the presence of malignancy and obtain the histopathologic confirmation. Once the diagnosis of Riedel’s thyroiditis is established, a search for related fibrotic conditions and medical treatment should be pursued. Replacement with levothyroxine and, when appropriate, calcium and active vitamin D metabolites should be begun when indicated along with anti-inflammatory medications. RARE INFLAMMATORY OR INFILTRATIVE DISEASES In addition to the varieties of thyroiditis already mentioned, which are diseases specifically of the thyroid gland, generalized or systemic diseases may also involve the thyroid gland ( 67 ). The lesions of sarcoid may appear in the thyroid gland of 1-4% of patients with systemic sarcoidosis ( 401 ). Thyroid dysfunction has been reported very infrequently (1-3%)( 402 ) in systemic sarcoidosis but a recent series
