Acute and Subacute, and Riedel’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, pubmed, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, patients, acute, riedel, disease, suppurative, riedel thyroiditis, suppurative thyroiditis, sat, free, free article


418 ), several cases of papillary thyroid cancer have been reported in association of amyloid goiter ( 404 , 419-421 ). Amyloid goiter may be readily diagnosed by fine needle aspiration biopsy ( 422 ) and has been reported in conjunction with infiltration of other endocrine organs such as the pituitary ( 406 ). It has been suggested that the thyroid FNA is relatively safe and sensitive to confirm the presence of systemic amyloidosis( 404 , 423 ). Some may require surgery to relieve the compressive symptoms or for a confirmatory diagnosis. Using a calcitonin immunostaining technique may help delineate between amyloidosis and medullary thyroid cancer ( 424 ). Once the diagnosis of amyloid goiter is established, the patient should be screened for predisposing causes and the extent of the disease. Painless thyroiditis has been noted in a woman with rheumatoid arthritis and secondary amyloidosis infiltrating the thyroid gland ( 425 ). Radiotherapy for tonsillar carcinoma has been reported to result in thyroiditis ( 426 ). Irradiation to the thyroid during therapy for breast cancer or lymphoma can also induce hypothyroidism. Following 131-I therapy for Graves’ disease or toxic multinodular goiter, thyroiditis, which is occasionally symptomatic, may develop. This situation is discussed in other Endotext chapters. Therapy should be directed toward the primary disease rather than the thyroid, but administration of thyroid hormone may be necessary if destruction of thyroid tissue is sufficient to produce hypothyroidism. Finally, surgery to the neck, associated with mechanical manipulation of the thyroid during laryngectomy or parathyroid surgery can result in a painless subacute thyroiditis like picture ( 427-429 ). ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The authors are grateful to the extensive groundwork performed by Dr. John Lazarus, the founding author of this chapter. Additionally, we are privileged to update this summary with the most recent developments in the field while maintaining the historical perspective of those who have preceded us. REFERENCES 1. Chan GC, Lee PC, Kwan LP, Yip TP, Tang SC. Acute thyroiditis: An under-recognized complication of parathyroidectomy in end-stage renal failure patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism. Nephrology (Carlton). 2017; 22 (7):572. [ PubMed : 28621009 ] 2. Paes JE, Burman KD, Cohen J, Franklyn J, McHenry CR, Shoham S, Kloos RT. Acute bacterial suppurative thyroiditis: a clinical review and expert opinion. Thyroid. 2010; 20 (3):247–255. [ PubMed : 20144025 ] 3. Al-Dajani N, Wootton SH. Cervical lymphadenitis, suppurative parotitis, thyroiditis, and infected cysts. Infect Dis Clin North
