Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


1–1 CHAPTER 1 CLASSIFICATION AND DIAGNOSIS OF DIABETES Saul M. Genuth, MD, Jerry P. Palmer, MD, and David M. Nathan, MD Received in final form December 15, 2015. Dr. Saul M. Genuth is a Professor of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism at Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH. Dr. Jerry P. Palmer is a Professor of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Nutrition, and Associate Director of the Diabetes Endocrinology Research Center at the University of Washington/Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA. Dr. David M. Nathan is Director of the Diabetes Center and Clinical Research Center at Massachusetts General Hospital and a Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. SUMMARY The classification of diabetes was originally limited to only two categories called juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus, now known as type 1 diabetes mellitus, and adult-onset diabetes mellitus, now known as type 2 diabetes mellitus. This has grown to a recognition of more than 50 subcategories caused by various pathogenic mechanisms or accompanying other diseases and syndromes. The diagnosis of diabetes has evolved from physician recognition of typical symptoms to detection of ambient hyperglycemia and, thence, to the defi­ nition of excessive plasma glucose levels after an overnight fast and/or following challenge with a glucose load (oral glucose tolerance test or OGTT), and more recently, by measurement of glycated hemoglobin (A1c). Screening has uncovered a much higher prevalence of diabetes in the United States and elsewhere, as well as its enormous public health impact. Modern testing has defined individuals at high risk for the development of diabetes and pregnant women whose fetuses are at increased risk for mortality and morbidity. Type 1 diabetes results from an autoimmune attack on the pancreatic islet beta cells, manifest by autoantibodies and T cells reactive with islet cell antigens prior to and after the development of hyperglycemia. When approximately 80% of beta cells have been damaged or destroyed, insulin deficiency produces hyperglycemia and risk of ketosis. Hyperglycemia, in turn, causes osmotic diuresis resulting in frequent urination, thirst, and weight loss. Type 2 diabetes is caused by a combination of insulin resistance and relative insulin insufficiency. Insulin resistance accompanies obesity, a sedentary lifestyle, and advanced age. The pathogenetic factors of type 1 and type 2 diabetes overlap in many patients, with obesity now prevalent in children and adults. Gestational diabetes is specific for pregnancy and is a harbinger of future type
