Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


high-risk characteristics, e.g., obesity and older age, can be cost-effective. The lower cutpoints for prediabetes should be used if the screening is also aimed at those at high 1–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition risk for developing diabetes. Indiscriminate public screening for diabetes is not yet supported by sufficient long-term benefit gained from early detection of asymptomatic diabetes, nor has its cost-effectiveness been demonstrated. However, if undertaken, a capillary blood glucose ≥120 mg/dL is an efficient screening cutpoint with relatively low cost per case detected. The major public health implication of diagnosing asymptomatic diabetes is that diabetes is a major cause of cardiovascular disease, renal failure requiring dialysis and kidney transplant, and blindness or vision-threatening retinal disease necessitating surgery or intraoc­ ular injection therapy. With appropriate targeted therapy of hyperglycemia, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, these complications can be prevented or ameliorated. INTRODUCTION Diabetes is a complex metabolic disorder consisting of two main types: type 1, comprising approximately 5% of diabetes, and type 2, comprising 90%–95% (1). The prevalence of diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes, is rising in the United States, associated with increased prevalence of obesity, vulnerable minorities, and aging, in the setting of polygenic risk. While the annual incidence in the United States may have plateaued in recent years, the epidemic of diabetes and its risk factors occur worldwide (2,3,4). Although carbohydrate metabolism is most obviously deranged and is the basis for biochemical tests of the diagnosis, fat metabolism is also adversely affected, and abnormalities in protein metabolism, though more subtle, also exist. For example, fasting free fatty acid and triglyceride levels are elevated, and tissue uptake of amino acids, especially branch chain amino acids, in response to insulin is impaired. The derangements in carbohydrate metabolism that characterize diabetes are clinically recognizable by patients when plasma glucose elevations reach levels that cause glycosuria and polyuria with resultant polydipsia. These symptoms may not occur early in type 2 diabetes owing to the slow, progressive rise in glycemia over time, and when present, they generally are relieved by nutritional and pharma­ cological therapy. By contrast, the onset of type 1 diabetes is clinically abrupt and usually requires immediate initiation of insulin therapy. In both types, hypergly­ cemia causes the later development of “diabetic complications,” the morbidity and mortality of which dominate the clin­ ical picture and fate of diabetic individuals, as well as the economic costs of diabetes in the United States,
