Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


“diabetic complications,” the morbidity and mortality of which dominate the clin­ ical picture and fate of diabetic individuals, as well as the economic costs of diabetes in the United States, which amounted to $245 billion in 2012 (5). While the clinical recognition of diabetes has existed for many centuries, its linkage to high levels of glucose in the blood and urine is more recent and has permitted development of increasingly sophisticated tests for the disease. Excessive levels of glucose now reliably identify individuals at risk for the serious and lethal complications of diabetes. This has placed a premium on glucose-based diagnostic tests with cutpoints that predict an increased risk of retinopathy, the most specific of the diabetic complications. This chapter is composed of two main sections. The first section presents an updated classification of diabetes with numerous subtypes that are characterized by their clinical contexts, phenotypes, variable clinical courses, and pathophysiologies. A category of “prediabetes” or “high risk for diabetes,” better defined for type 2 diabetes than for type 1 diabetes, has been added to the classification as well. The second major section deals with the diagnosis of and screening for diabetes. The most recent test, measurement of glycated hemoglobin (A1c), is popular for its practicality, reflection of glycemia for months rather than hours, and analytical precision. An A1c level ≥6.5% (≥48 mmol/mol) is recognized by the American Diabetes Association (ADA), an International Expert Committee (IEC), and the World Health Organization as diagnostic for diabetes. Criteria for diagnosis using plasma glucose measured in the fasting state (≥126 mg/dL [6.99 mmol/L]) and 2 hours after an oral glucose load (≥200 mg/dL [≥11.10 mmol/L]) are also presented and compared with the A1c criterion with regard to sensitivity and specificity for detecting diabetes. The criteria defining the category “high risk for diabetes” vary somewhat among the promulgating groups. Screening for previously unknown diabetes in both health care venues and public venues is presented using the various tests. The potential benefits and risks of screening are discussed. CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETES Diabetes is not a single disease but rather a syndrome characterized by hypergly­ cemia, and over time, by increased risk of damage to eyes, kidneys, and nerves and, less specifically, to heart and medium and large caliber blood vessels. Diabetes can be divided into four major types: type 1, type 2, gestational, and secondary or other specific types of diabetes (6). The vast majority
