Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


and large caliber blood vessels. Diabetes can be divided into four major types: type 1, type 2, gestational, and secondary or other specific types of diabetes (6). The vast majority of patients comprise the first two types, and over the years, many other names have been used, including juvenile-onset/adult-onset, ketosis-prone/ non-ketosis-prone, and insulin-dependent/ non-insulin-dependent. All of these names imply phenotypic features that are problematic for categorizing the type of diabetes in individual patients, and conse­ quently, the preferred nomenclature is now type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes applies to diabetes Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–3 diagnosed during pregnancy. Secondary or other specific types of diabetes encom­ pass a large spectrum of specific causes, including monogenic defects of beta cell function, genetic defects in insulin action or structure, pancreatic diseases such as pancreatitis and hemochromatosis, endo­ crinopathies, drug/chemical and surgically induced, infections, and uncommon immune-mediated and other genetic syndromes sometimes associated with diabetes. Detailed discussions of each type of diabetes are provided in Section I Spectrum of Diabetes, Chapters 2–7. TYPE 1 DIABETES Type 1 diabetes represents approximately 5% of all diabetes (1). Central to the pathophysiology of most cases of type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune attack on the pancreatic beta cells resulting in severe insulin deficiency. Although the beta cell damage and death are primarily T cell- mediated, B cell-formed autoantibodies to islet antigens are used as markers of the disease and may play a pathogenic role. Research studies frequently require positivity for one or more of these autoantibodies for the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. There also may be nonimmune- mediated causes of beta cell damage and destruction and, especially in Asians, a disease called fulminant diabetes has been described (7). At the time of diagnosis, type 1 diabetes patients are typically of peripubertal age, Caucasian, lean, and with a short duration of symptoms, such as polyuria, polydipsia, and weight loss. A family history of type 1 diabetes is often absent, although a family history of other autoimmune disease, such as Grave’s disease or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, may be present. No single clinical characteristic, such as age at diagnosis, body mass, or even ketoacidosis, is sufficiently sensitive and specific for type 1 diabetes to be very useful in distinguishing one form of diabetes from another. For example, with the increasing epidemic of childhood and adolescent obesity, children with type 1 diabetes reflect the usual distribution
