Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


very useful in distinguishing one form of diabetes from another. For example, with the increasing epidemic of childhood and adolescent obesity, children with type 1 diabetes reflect the usual distribution of weight in their age group. In type 1 diabetes prevention and natural history studies in which subjects at high risk for type 1 diabetes are followed very closely, over 50% of cases are diagnosed with hyperglycemia that is asymptomatic since the glucose levels are not high enough to cause symptoms, such as polyuria and weight loss (8,9). This is very different than the seemingly abrupt onset of symptoms when people are diagnosed in the clinical setting. Although severe insulin deficiency is a central element of type 1 diabetes, it may not discriminate between type 1 diabetes, especially early in its course, and type 2 diabetes, especially late in its course. Insulin and C-peptide levels may not be severely low early in the type 1 disease process and during the “honeymoon period,” a time shortly after diabetes diagnosis when diabetes appears to go away for a period of a few months to a year. Conversely, some patients with type 2 diabetes may have severe insulin deficiency with very low insulin and C-peptide levels later in its course that overlap the levels in type 1 diabetes. The best laboratory tests to differentiate type 1 from type 2 diabetes are autoantibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), insulin, insulinoma-associated protein 2 (IA-2), and zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8), especially when patients are positive for more than one and have relatively high titers. Type 1 diabetes is heterogeneous in a number of respects. Although several genes predisposing to and protecting from type 1 diabetes are well described, genotypes of individual patients span a large spectrum. Many environmental factors may trigger and/or influence the severity of the autoimmune attack on the beta cells, and the specific immune mechanisms operative in individual patients appear to be variable. At diagnosis, patients span the spectrum from severe insulin deficiency with marked hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis to asymptomatic, mild postprandial hyperglycemia. The rate of decline in beta cell function prior to and after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes is also extremely variable. In Caucasians with type 1 diabetes, endogenous beta cell function declines over months to years with the decline being slower in patients who develop diabetes at an older age (10). More sensitive assays for C-peptide have detected measureable levels
