Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


function declines over months to years with the decline being slower in patients who develop diabetes at an older age (10). More sensitive assays for C-peptide have detected measureable levels after many years of type 1 diabetes (11,12,13). Circulating C-peptide has even been described in Joslin Medalists who have had type 1 diabetes for more than 50 years (14). Over their lifetimes with type 1 diabetes, the frequency of end-organ complications, although definitely affected by glycemic control, is still extremely variable among patients. The ADA recognizes two forms of type 1 diabetes, type 1a and type 1b diabetes (6). If antibodies are present along with insulinopenia and ketosis, a diagnosis of autoimmune type 1 diabetes or type 1a diabetes may be given. If individuals have a clinical picture consistent with type 1 diabetes, but no antibodies are present, the ADA recognizes a category labeled type 1b diabetes (or idiopathic type 1 diabetes). These latter patients may have a different underlying pathology of disease, or they may have autoantibodies that are not measured by common assays. The use of the term “type 1 diabetes” in Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, refers to the autoimmune form (type 1a) unless otherwise specified. TYPE 2 DIABETES Type 2 diabetes is the other major type of diabetes and comprises 90%–95% of the total cases of diabetes in the United States and worldwide (1). It is caused by the combination of insulin resistance, largely due to obesity, and deficient insulin secretion, which appears to be the rate-limiting step in type 2 diabetes pathogenesis. Insulin secretion is insuffi­ cient given the degree of insulin resistance and is termed relative insulin deficiency. The cause of the insulin secretory defect is probably multifactorial but is usually considered to be metabolic and not auto­ immune. Studies of the development of type 2 diabetes in Native American Pima Indians show marked, progressive loss of insulin secretion with progression from normal to impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) to diabetes (Figure 1.1) (15). 1–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition A diagnosis of type 2 diabetes assumes the patient does not have any of the causes of diabetes included under secondary or other specific types of diabetes. Classic clinical characteristics of type 2 diabetes are obesity, onset in middle to late age, positive family history for type 2 diabetes in first degree relatives, and slowly progressive hyperglycemia that is often only minimally symptomatic. Unlike type
