Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


obesity, onset in middle to late age, positive family history for type 2 diabetes in first degree relatives, and slowly progressive hyperglycemia that is often only minimally symptomatic. Unlike type 1 diabetes, which is most common in Caucasians of northern European origin, type 2 diabetes is more common in minorities, such as African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and Native Americans, compared to Caucasians. However, as in type 1 diabetes, no clinical characteris­ tics are sensitive and specific for type 2 diabetes. No nonglycemic laboratory tests are specific for type 2 diabetes, except potentially the absence of the autoimmune markers characteristic of type 1 diabetes (see previous section, Type 1 Diabetes). Similar to type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes is extremely heterogeneous. It can occur in children and adolescents, as well as in adults, and in lean and obese people; patients span the spectrum from being asymptomatic to presenting with ketoacidosis or nonketotic hyperosmolar coma; and over patients’ lifetimes, the frequency of diabetic complications is extremely variable. Diabetic microvascular complications (retinopathy, nephropathy) and neuropathy are qualitatively similar in type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes, with diabetes duration and levels of glycemia playing major roles in their development. Both types of diabetes increase the risk of atherosclerotic macrovascular complications, with the greater age of most patients with type 2 diabetes contributing to absolute risk. GESTATIONAL DIABETES Gestational diabetes, as the name implies, refers to diabetes diagnosed during pregnancy. It affects between 3% and 9% of all pregnancies, but can affect more depending on the study and criteria used, as described in detail in Chapter 4 Gestational Diabetes. Because perinatal complications can be minimized by aggressive treatment of gestational diabetes, screening during pregnancy is highly recommended. In most cases, the onset of diabetes during pregnancy is caused by insufficient insulin secretion to compensate for the marked increase in insulin resistance that occurs with preg­ nancy, especially during the second and third trimesters. Consequently, gestational diabetes commonly resolves or markedly improves after delivery. The development of gestational diabetes identifies these women as having an underlying beta cell lesion, and with time, they have a very high risk (>50%) of developing permanent type 2 diabetes (16). Occasionally, type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes will be diagnosed during pregnancy but not due to the metabolic changes of pregnancy, and in these cases, the diabetes remains after delivery. By custom, the diagnosis in these patients is
