Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


be diagnosed during pregnancy but not due to the metabolic changes of pregnancy, and in these cases, the diabetes remains after delivery. By custom, the diagnosis in these patients is termed type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes, rather than gestational diabetes. The high prevalence and younger age of onset of type 2 diabetes, concurrent with the epidemic of obesity, has made type 2 diabetes more common in women of childbearing age. SECONDARY OR OTHER SPECIFIC TYPES OF DIABETES The fourth category of diabetes is secondary or other specific types of diabetes. The main categories are monogenic defects of beta cell function, genetic defects of insulin action, exocrine pancreatic disease, endocrinopathies, drug/chemical induced, infectious, and uncommon immune-mediated and genetic syndromes associated with diabetes (Table 1.1) (6). Previously, the monogenic defects of beta cell func­ tion were referred to as maturity-onset diabetes of youth (MODY). More recently, many of the specific gene defects have been identified and are described as such. For example, MODY1 involves the gene for hepatocyte nuclear factor 4-alpha (HNF4α) on chromosome 20, and MODY2 involves the glucokinase gene on chro­ mosome 7. This list will likely continue to expand as more specific genetic causes for diabetes are identified. More information about these other types of diabetes is provided in Chapter 6 Other Specific Types of Diabetes and Chapter 7 Monogenic Forms of Diabetes. COMBINED TYPE 1 AND 2 DIABETES Although type 1 and type 2 diabetes are thought to represent distinct and separate disease processes with hyperglycemia as a common denominator, there is no reason why both diseases—or at least some components of each disease—cannot occur together in individual patients. For example, type 1 diabetes does not protect against development of obesity and associated insulin resistance; therefore, in the setting of epidemic obesity, an increasing number of patients with type 1 diabetes may also have features of type 2 diabetes. Conversely, when FIGURE 1.1. Development of Type 2 Diabetes in Native American Pima Indians Changes in AIR (insulin secretion) relative to changes in M-low (insulin sensitivity) in 11 Pima Indian subjects in whom glucose tolerance deteriorated from normal (NGT) to impaired (IGT) to diabetic (DIA) (progressors) and in 23 subjects who retained NGT (nonprogressors). The lines represent the prediction line and the lower and upper limits of the 95% confidence interval of the regression between AIR and M-low as derived from a reference population of 277 Native
