Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


the prediction line and the lower and upper limits of the 95% confidence interval of the regression between AIR and M-low as derived from a reference population of 277 Native American Pima Indians with NGT. EMBS, estimated metabolic body size. SOURCE: Reference 15, republished with permission of the American Society for Clinical Investigation, copyright © 1999; permission conveyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–5 islet cell antibodies were discovered as a marker of the autoimmune process underlying type 1 diabetes, a much higher prevalence of autoantibodies (5%–10%) was found in patients with phenotypic type 2 diabetes than in nondiabetic controls (1%). Widespread testing for GAD autoantibodies identified patients with phenotypic type 2 diabetes as having Latent Autoimmune Diabetes of Adults (LADA). Other names designed to indicate the combination of type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes in individual patients, such as double diabetes and type 1.5 diabetes, were introduced. In fact, a large number of names have been used for autoantibody-positive patients with phenotypic type 2 diabetes (Table 1.2). The most consistent characteristic of these patients is that beta cell function declines more rapidly than in autoantibody-negative type 2 diabetes patients, and consequently, autoantibody-positive phenotypic type 2 diabetes patients need insulin treatment earlier (17). Although the beta cell damage in type 1 diabetes is primarily autoimmune- mediated, it is likely that some of the metabolic causes of beta cell dysfunction operative in type 2 diabetes may also be operative in type 1 diabetes patients. When intensively treated to near-normal A1c levels, some patients with type 1 diabetes develop obesity and the insulin resistance commonly associated with excess body weight. Such patients commonly also develop other components of the metabolic syndrome, which may result in increased risks for macrovascular disease, compared with nonobese type 1 diabetic patients (18). PREDIABETES Prediabetes is a term used to define subjects with a high risk of future type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes, with the understanding that not all subjects who meet the definition for prediabetes will develop diabetes. Prediabetes for type 2 diabetes includes people with elevated, but subdiabetic, fasting glucose levels (called “impaired fasting glucose” or IFG), postprandial glucose intolerance (“impaired glucose tolerance” or IGT), TABLE 1.1. Other Specific Types of Diabetes A. Genetic defects of beta cell function 1. MODY3 (Chromosome 12, HNF-1α) 2. MODY1 (Chromosome 20, HNF-4α) 3. MODY2 (Chromosome 7, glucokinase) 4. Other very
