Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


assess risk of future type 1 diabetes (19). The use of such information to estimate risk of future type 1 diabetes has been validated and successfully used in type 1 diabetes prevention trials (9,20,21). PROBLEMS WITH CURRENT CLASSIFICATIONS There are several problems or limitations with the current classifications of diabetes. The diagnosis of type 1 diabetes versus type 2 diabetes usually depends on phenotypic characteristics that are not specific for either type of diabetes. Ideally, the classification of diabetes should be based on pathoetiology, rather than being descriptive. In type 1 diabetes, the pres­ ence of autoantibodies to GAD, insulin, IA-2, and ZnT8 supports an underlying autoimmune etiology. With this in mind, it might be appropriate to divide diabetes into autoimmune versus nonautoimmune diabetes. On the other hand, absolute insulin deficiency has specific clinical implications and may be a useful way of categorizing the disease, as was done in the past with the terms “insulin-de­ pendent” versus “non-insulin-dependent” diabetes. Unfortunately, no markers are specific for type 2 diabetes; using the absence of the markers for autoimmune diabetes as a diagnostic criterion for type 2 diabetes is a major problem. Type 1 and type 2 diabetes are not mutu­ ally exclusive. Many patients may have both diseases or at least some compo­ nents of both disease processes. For example, the frequency of autoantibodies to islet antigens is much higher than expected in obese children with pheno­ typic type 2 diabetes (22). Furthermore, the characteristics of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in individual patients may vary over time. For example, obesity can develop in lean patients initially classified with type 1 diabetes, or islet autoanti­ bodies may occur in phenotypic type 2 diabetes patients who were previously autoantibody negative (23). Finally, the role of autoimmunity, detected by autoantibodies, may not be the same for type 1 versus type 2 diabetes. Autoimmunity is likely the primary cause of the beta cell lesion of type 1 diabetes; whereas in type 2 diabetes, other mechanisms, such as oxidative stress, islet amyloid polypeptide toxicity, and glucotoxicity, may initiate the beta cell lesion. This damage may then secondarily lead to beta cell autoimmunity, which accelerates the beta cell damage. The field may be approaching the time when the classification of most cases of diabetes as either type 1 or type 2 needs to be re-evaluated. The epidemic of obesity has hastened the need to rethink the
