Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


when the classification of most cases of diabetes as either type 1 or type 2 needs to be re-evaluated. The epidemic of obesity has hastened the need to rethink the definition of diabetes as type 1 versus type 2. DIAGNOSIS OF AND SCREENING FOR DIABETES Diabetes is a complex metabolic disorder, the prevalence of which is rising in the United States (24,25), associated with increased prevalence of obesity (26), vulnerable minorities, and aging (27) in the setting of polygenic risk (28). While the annual incidence in the United States appears to have peaked and has fallen in recent years (2), the epidemic and its risk factors have occurred worldwide (3,4). Carbohydrate metabolism is most obviously deranged and is the basis for biochemical tests of the diagnosis; however, fat metabolism is also adversely affected, and abnormalities in protein metabolism, though more subtle, also exist. For example, fasting free fatty acid and triglyceride levels are elevated, and tissue uptake of amino acids, especially branch chain amino acids, in response to insulin is impaired. As a “dis-ease,” the derangements in carbohydrate metabolism are clinically recognizable by patients when plasma glucose elevations reach levels that cause glycosuria and polyuria with resultant polydipsia. These symptoms may not occur in type 2 diabetes owing to the slow, progressive rise in glycemia over time; when symptoms are present, they generally are relieved readily by nutritional and pharmacologic therapy. However, the degree of residual hyper­ glycemia, if chronic, causes the later development of “diabetic complications,” the morbidity and mortality of which dominate the clinical picture and fate of diabetic individuals. These complications also account for a large portion of the economic costs of diabetes in the United States, which amounted to $245 billion in 2012 (5). The recognition that hyperglycemia is associated with these complications (29,30,31,32) has placed a premium on glucose-based diagnostic tests with cutpoints that predict an increased risk of retinopathy, the most specific of the diabetic complications (Figure 1.2) (33), although the risks of nephropathy, neuropathy, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are also closely associated with and caused, at least in part, by hypergly­ cemia. While evidence of early specific diabetic tissue damage resulting from microvascular changes might be more definitive than glycemic levels that statis­ tically predict the presence or future appearance of such tissue damage, these tests (e.g., fundus photography) are more cumbersome, more expensive, and/or time-consuming for widespread use. A search for reliable,
