Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


tically predict the presence or future appearance of such tissue damage, these tests (e.g., fundus photography) are more cumbersome, more expensive, and/or time-consuming for widespread use. A search for reliable, sensitive, specific, and practical diabetic biomarkers remains a priority. The diagnostic cutpoints for three glycemia tests recommended by the ADA and an IEC are presented in Table 1.3. The World Health Organization cutpoints differ in that the high risk for diabetes category is defined as fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 110–125 mg/dL (6.11–6.94 mmol/L) and that a random plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL does not require symptoms for a diagnosis of diabetes. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–7 GLYCATED HEMOGLOBIN Glycated hemoglobin (A1c) was first considered as a candidate for diagnosis of diabetes by an ADA-constituted committee in 1997, largely based on observational data (33), though it had been previously suggested (34). (The term “glycosylated” hemoglobin has been used interchangeably with “glycated,” but glycated is considered more correct biochemically based on how glucose attaches to hemoglobin. Both terms are used in Diabetes in America.) An A1c standard for diagnosis was not adopted for two principal reasons. First and most important, numerous A1c assays using various methods were in wide use with no universally agreed upon relationship among them or standards for reliability and precision. Second, while data were available from which a diagnostic cutpoint could potentially be selected (Figure 1.2), they were relatively sparse and originated from only three small populations. By 2009, an IEC constituted by the ADA and European Association for the Study of Diabetes judged that the above two impediments had been removed (35). The National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program (NGSP) (36) had evaluated and standardized the most common A1c assays against the assay employed by the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study (DCCT/EDIC) (Table 1.4) (37,38). This assay had proven stable for ≥20 years with a coefficient of variation (CV) <2% and a coefficient of reliability >98% (39). Moreover, A1c measured by the DCCT assay correlated well with the development of retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy in type 1 diabetes (30). Using a DCCT-aligned A1c assay, a similar correlation with microvascular complications was demonstrated by the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) in type 2 diabetes (32). Most importantly, the major clinical trials of intensive therapy demonstrated that lowering A1c (using the DCCT-aligned assay) resulted in major salutary effects on microvascular and macrovascular complications (29,30,31,32).
