Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


or worse diabetic retinopathy lesions. Conversions for glucose and HbA1c values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. DESIR, Data from an Epidemiological Study on the Insulin Resistance Syndrome study; FPG, fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin. SOURCE: Reference 46, copyright © 2011 American Medical Association, reproduced with permission. All rights reserved. TABLE 1.5. Factors That Influence A1c and Its Measurement FACTORS INCREASED A1c DECREASED A1c VARIABLE A1c Erythropoiesis Iron, vitamin B12 deficiency, decreased erythropoiesis Administration of erythropoietin, iron, vitamin B12, reticulocytosis, chronic liver disease Altered hemoglobin Genetic or chemical alterations in hemoglobin: hemoglobinopathies, HbF, methemoglobin may increase or decrease A1c Glycation Alcoholism, chronic renal failure, decreased intra-erythrocyte pH Aspirin, vitamins C and E, certain hemoglobinopathies, increased intra-erythrocyte pH Genetic determinants Erythrocyte destruction Increased erythrocyte lifespan: splenectomy Decreased erythrocyte lifespan: hemoglobinopathies, splenomegaly, rheumatoid arthritis or drugs, such as antiretrovirals, ribavirin, and dapsone Assays Hyperbilirubinemia, carbamylated hemoglobin, alcoholism, large doses of aspirin, chronic opiate use Hypertriglyceridemia Hemoglobinopathies A1c, glycated hemoglobin. SOURCE: Reference 37; and Reference 38, copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, reprinted with permission Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–11 Impact of Nonglycemic Factors on A1c Certain caveats regarding A1c must be highlighted, as it can be influenced by factors other than glycemia (Table 1.5) (37,38). In nondiabetic persons, A1c has been shown to increase with age in multiple cross-sectional studies including: the Framingham Offspring Study, in which an increase of 0.10%–0.14% per decade was observed even after excluding persons with abnormal glucose tolerance based on OGTT (60); the NHANES 2001–2004 (60); a French population of persons age 6–79 years (61); and in the Data from an Epidemiological Study of the Insulin Resistance Syndrome (DESIR) population-based study in western France of persons age 30–65 years at baseline (Figure 1.6) (62). There was a trend toward slightly higher A1c levels in men than women. A similar effect of age and sex on both A1c and FPG was seen; adjustments of A1c for FPG reduced but did not abolish the increase in A1c with age (43). Genetic influences on A1c have been shown in studies of nondiabetic and diabetic identical twins (63) and in genome-wide association studies (64). Effects of race/ethnicity, as well as age, on A1c levels are also evident (Figure 1.7), with important differences in the apparent prevalence of diabetes and of the high risk for diabetes (i.e., prediabetes) category (65,66) compared to when these preva­ lences
