Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


cell turnover; pregnant women routinely have lower blood glucose and A1c levels than during their nonpregnant state. Patients with renal failure may also have A1c values that are misleading, especially in the setting of anemia and erythropoietin replacement therapy, rendering A1c assays problematic in patients on chronic dialysis (82). Thus, it is important for prac­ titioners to know which, if any, of these conditions affect A1c results from the laboratory they customarily use. Although A1c is conventionally thought to express mean plasma glucose (MPG) over the preceding 3 months, a number of reports suggest that within populations, there may be a variable relationship between MPG and A1c (83,84,85,86,87,88,89,90). In these studies, those defined as “high glycators” have higher A1c levels than would be predicted based on the glucose levels, and those defined as “low glycators” have lower A1c levels then would have been predicted from their glucose levels. The boundaries of these abnormal glycator categories are arbitrary. The majority of these analyses have not had frequent enough glucose measurements to know whether MPG has been captured accu­ rately. Fructosamine, a circulating glycated molecule reflecting glycemic levels in the previous 2–3 weeks, can be substituted for MPG in such ratios (87). Persistence of low and high glycator states in partic­ ular individuals has also been shown and suggested by its proponents to support its biological significance (86,90). However, a Hemoglobin Glycation Index, one version of propensity to glycate more or less at a given MPG, does not appear to predict the risk of complications (91,92). The prevalence of diabetes in the popula­ tion-based NHANES 2003–2006 (93,94) is shown in Table 1.6. In this study, of the population age ≥20 years, 12.9% had diabetes, and 39.8% were unaware of it (93). The prevalence of diabetes in those unaware was lowest by the A1c test (1.8%) (94) and highest by the 2-hour PG level from the OGTT (4.9%) (93). Part of this difference in the NHANES report may reflect the fact that A1c and glucose data were not collected in the same years. However, similar differences have been shown in other U.S. studies. The preva­ lence of diabetes was greatest in those age ≥65 years and greater in non-Hispanic blacks and Mexican Americans than in non-Hispanic whites by A1c, as well as FPG and 2-hour PG (93,94). Drawbacks of A1c As a test for diabetes, A1c has been considered unsatisfactory by some inves­
