Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


than in non-Hispanic whites by A1c, as well as FPG and 2-hour PG (93,94). Drawbacks of A1c As a test for diabetes, A1c has been considered unsatisfactory by some inves­ tigators, mainly because of low sensitivity, as seen in Table 1.6, when compared with plasma glucose measurements. For example, in one report, the data were combined from NHANES III, NHANES 2005–2006, and a hospital employee and community population in the Atlanta, Georgia, area (95). All 4,706 subjects had OGTT and A1c measured. With IEC cutpoints of ≥6.5% for diabetes and <6.0% for normal glucose, A1c was 97% specific but only 30% sensitive compared to the OGTT result. These types of analyses assume that one measure of glycemia represents the gold standard, which is far from clear. In particular, whether a single OGTT with its relatively low reproducibility should be considered a gold standard for the presence of the disease, against which to compare A1c, is debatable. In fact, as noted above, A1c, perhaps because it represents chronic ambient glycemia, rather than the result of an acute and poorly reproducible stress test, appears to capture risk for long-term complications similar to or better than plasma glucose- based measures. DETECT-2 data (Figures 1.3 and 1.4) do not support the superiority Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–13 of 2-hour PG over A1c or FPG. A long- term longitudinal follow-up of a NHANES cohort with fundus photographs taken at suitable time points is needed to compare the accuracy of the three glycemic tests for diagnosing diabetes in the United States. Although A1c as a test for diabetes has been endorsed by the ADA and World Health Organization, its acceptance has not been universal (96,97,98,99). The reasons for caution that are cited usually include the drawbacks discussed above, as well as lack of high-quality, affordable assays in some parts of the world. PLASMA GLUCOSE MEASUREMENTS In 1979, the National Diabetes Data Group (NDDG) constituted and convened an international committee for the purpose of clarifying the classification of diabetes and systematizing criteria for its diagnosis (100). Prior to this, a variety of glucose cutpoints were used by investigators and employed in physicians’ offices. With the exception of two unique small inbred populations with extraordinarily high prevalence and incidence of diabetes, the Pima Indian and Nauruan populations, in whom plasma glucose concentra­ tions were bimodal, the distribution of plasma glucose concentrations were, in general, unimodal. That is,
