Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


and incidence of diabetes, the Pima Indian and Nauruan populations, in whom plasma glucose concentra­ tions were bimodal, the distribution of plasma glucose concentrations were, in general, unimodal. That is, in the general population, there were not two distinct distributions of glucose measurements separating the diabetic from the nondia­ betic persons. This observation required cutpoints for diabetes to be chosen, based on the examples of the two small bimodal populations, as well as statis­ tical considerations, and on agreement by consensus. These originally chosen blood glucose cutpoints were those that predicted progression to “symptomatic diabetes,” and in the case of the Pima Indians, to retinopathy and/or nephrop­ athy. The NDDG cutpoints for diabetes were FPG ≥140 mg/dL (≥7.77 mmol/L) and 2-hour PG ≥200 mg/dL after an oral glucose load of 75 g administered in the fasting state (100). This committee also defined a prediabetic high-risk range for diabetes, which they named IGT (Table 1.3), defined as 2-hour PG 140–199 mg/dL after a 75 g OGTT. The ADA and the World Health Organization accepted these recommendations. In 1997, the ADA constituted another expert committee, composed of American and British diabetologists, which revised the classification and changed the FPG cutpoint for diabetes from 140 mg/dL to 126 mg/dL (33). Importantly, this committee based their recommendations in part on a strengthened concept from further retinopathy data that the microvascular complications, especially retinopathy, are the disease and elevated glucose levels are biomarkers and likely casual factors. This was based on three studies in different populations (Pima Indian, Egyptian, and a NHANES sample) comparing retinopathy detected by stereo fundus photography with simultaneously measured FPG, 2-hour PG levels after a standard 75 g oral glucose load, and A1c levels. For all three glycemic measures, a sharp inflection in the prevalence of reti­ nopathy was observed at similar deciles in each population with a graded increase in risk at higher glycemic levels (Figure 1.2). The 2-hour PG level of 200 mg/dL was confirmed; however, FPG 126 mg/dL appeared superior to FPG 140 mg/dL for diagnosis of diabetes, in part because it lay partway between a low “background” prevalence of retinopathy and the first sharp rise in these data sets. In addi­ tion, certain epidemiologic studies (101) suggested that the lower FPG cutpoint of 126 mg/dL would yield a similar prevalence of diabetes in the population as the 2-hour PG 200 mg/dL cutpoint did. As seen in Table
