Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


2-hour PG—was used to define diabetes (124). Whether methodologic differences underlie the discrepancies between A1c and plasma glucose definitions (or those between FPG and 2-hour PG) (121) or the discordance reflects ethnic differences (123) is uncertain. The discordance among the three glyce­ mia-based tests in identifying individuals with diabetes is not reflected as much in their associations with retinopathy, as shown in Figures 1.2 and 1.4. These observations leave clinical practitioners in a quandary as to which test to use in their own settings. This situation is equally problematic for public health authorities interested in conducting screening programs in various locales. Even though the IEC firmly recom­ mended A1c as the preferred test for the reasons given above, in medical commu­ nities where minimizing “false negatives” has a high priority and FPG or 2-hour PG are deemed practical, the greater sensitivity of these tests may make them more attractive. OTHER INDICATORS OF DIABETES Glycated Albumin Glycated albumin (GA), an index of the preceding 2–3 week period of glycemia, has been proposed as a diagnostic test for diabetes in Chinese (125) and Japanese (126) studies. In the former, GA correlated strongly with FPG (r=0.81) and A1c (r=0.90), and a GA cutpoint of 15.7% gave similar results to FPG and A1c on ROC analysis with an AUC of 0.86. (An “r” is a measure of correlation of the strength and direction of the relationship between two variables. An r of 1.0 indicates perfect correlation between two variables.) In the latter study, a GA level ≥15.5% had a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 83% for newly diagnosed diabetes by A1c ≥6.5% and/or FPG ≥126 mg/dL, while the AUC was 0.91. Although these results appear satisfactory, similar correlation with retinopathy in other populations, availability, and cost will determine whether GA should be considered for the diagnosis of diabetes. Skin Autofluorescence Glycation is a universal process in which glucose attaches nonenzymatically to available amino groups on proteins. The A1c level measures glycation of hemo­ globin. Other structural and circulating proteins are glycated proportional to the level of glycemia over the lifespan of the particular protein. Subsequent chemical rearrangements can lead to the formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) with crosslinking. 1–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Autofluorescence of AGEs accumulated in skin collagen consequent to excessive glycemic exposure over time can be measured quantitatively with external devices (127), is associated with the presence
