Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


AMERICA, 3rd Edition Autofluorescence of AGEs accumulated in skin collagen consequent to excessive glycemic exposure over time can be measured quantitatively with external devices (127), is associated with the presence of complications (128,129,130), as are AGEs (131), and can indicate the presence of diabetes or IGT. In a study of 351 community subjects, 84 (24%) had abnormal glucose tolerance on OGTT; 65% of these participants had IGT, and 35% had type 2 diabetes. ROC curves showed an AUC of 0.80 for the autofluorescence method versus 0.72 for FPG and 0.80 for A1c against the OGTT diagnosis considered as the gold standard in this study (132). In a study of Dutch subjects with one or more metabolic syndrome criteria, skin auto­ fluorescence was found superior to FPG and noninferior to A1c in the diagnosis of diabetes and IGT (133). In a study of Greek subjects (134), a nonstandard point-of-care device was used to measure A1c and defined diabetes as ≥6.5%. By comparison, an arbitrarily chosen level of skin autofluorescence was 98% sensitive and 56% specific for diabetes. The skin autofluorescence test yielded ROC AUC of 0.90 for the diagnosis of diabetes. The autofluorescence method, however, was unable to discriminate between women with gestational diabetes and control pregnant women, each at a mean 27 weeks of gestation (135). While the autofluorescence method for diagnosis of diabetes may hold promise, its widespread use will depend on studies of population-based cohorts, its relationship to the development of diabetic complications, availability and standardization of methods, and its cost-effectiveness compared to glycemic measurements. Retinopathy As a complication that can be measured objectively with fundus photography, reti­ nopathy has been used to establish the levels of glycemia that diagnose diabetes. It is considered relatively specific for diabetes. Patients not known to have diabetes who, on routine eye exam with ophthalmoscopy, are observed to have nonproliferative retinopathy beyond microaneurysms only are likely to have diabetes. A glycemic test should be performed to confirm this impression. In the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), microaneurysms alone have been reported in 6.9% of participants with IGT and FPG 95–125 mg/dL (5.27–6.94 mmol/L) who had not progressed to diabetes, as well as in 10.8% of these subjects who had developed diabetes within the previous 3 years (136). Moreover, in hypertensive and possibly even in normal subjects, microaneurysms have been observed (137,138). In the Beaver Dam Eye Study, 7.1% of nondiabetic subjects at baseline
