Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


a high-risk result of an A1c test, as recom­ mended by the IEC (35), or combine or follow it with an FPG needs further study. A diagnosis of high risk for diabetes by combining the results of two tests from the NHANES 2007–2008 cohort has been studied (203). Using A1c 5.7%–6.4%, FPG 100–125 mg/dL, and 2-hour PG 140–199 mg/dL, the concordance between A1c plus FPG and FPG plus 2-hour PG was deemed high, given a sensitivity of 92% and specificity of 84% of the first pair versus the second pair. The first pair also yielded a 24% increased prevalence in non-Hispanic blacks. SCREENING FOR TYPE 2 DIABETES Criteria have been proposed to justify screening, but not all have been fulfilled for type 2 diabetes (204,205): A. Does diabetes “represent an important health problem that imposes a significant burden on the population”? Unquestionably, the answer is yes. The prevalence of diabetes (24) and the economic costs it generates (5) are on a relentless ascending curve. B. Is the natural history of type 2 diabetes understood? Again, the answer is yes. Numerous studies, such as in the Pima Indians (Figure 1.1) (15) and the UKPDS (206), have shown that from the time of clinical diagnosis, a declining capacity of beta cells to secrete enough insulin to compensate for persistent insulin resistance leads to increasing need for drug therapy to restrain the increasing hyperglycemia and prevent microvascular complications. C. Is there a recognizable and detect­ able early asymptomatic stage when reliable diagnosis is possible? Again, numerous epidemiologic studies have shown that this is so. D. Are reliable and generally acceptable tests available to detect early diabetes? FPG and A1c are simple single blood tests; OGTT is less convenient and requires cooperation from the screenee. But, the answer is still yes. E. Does treatment started early in an asymptomatic phase provide greater benefit than when treatment is started later, after polyuria and polydipsia appear? The answer to this crucial question is still unknown but may be forthcoming from the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcome Study (DPPOS). As of a 2009 report, the DPPOS has followed 2,665 individuals with IGT for 10 years. Of this cohort, about 700 individuals were diagnosed with diabetes by OGTT when their mean A1c was only 6.0% and the degree and period of glycemic exposure was likely minimal (207). This cohort with good adherence is undergoing regular surveillance for microvascular, neuropathic,
