Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


their mean A1c was only 6.0% and the degree and period of glycemic exposure was likely minimal (207). This cohort with good adherence is undergoing regular surveillance for microvascular, neuropathic, and cardiovascular complications. The group originally treated with intensive lifestyle modification for 2.8 years during the DPP continues to maintain the benefit of a reduced incidence of diabetes and modest weight loss (207). This benefit could result in a reduced incidence of diabetic complications. F. Are the costs of detecting and treating early diabetes reasonable in the context of total health care expen­ ditures and the available resources and facilities to do so? This question requires local judgment, based on available resources. The DPP and its long-term follow-up have shown that metformin treatment of its prediabetic cohort was cost-saving, and the life­ style intervention was cost-effective. G. Can a screening program be maintained in an ongoing pattern rather than as a single one-time effort? This question cannot even be addressed until questions E and F are answered and the benefits and cost- effectiveness of even one sizable public health community screening program are completely assessed. H. Are there adverse effects of screening, such as difficulties obtaining health insurance from employers and resul­ tant lower quality of care (208), higher premiums for life insurance (209), or even denial of coverage, job discrim­ ination (210), social stigmatization (211,212), and short-term screenee anxiety (213,214), that could offset the potential benefits of earlier detection of diabetes? Insufficient data on such possible adverse effects are available to provide a firm answer to this worri­ some question. Guidelines for screening by various organizations are given below. The U.S. Preventive Task Force recommenda­ tions previously supported screening for diabetes only in individuals with blood pressure ≥135/80 mmHg (215,216) in hopes that early treatment of diabetes will augment the CVD benefit of treating even modest hypertension. This restricted recommendation has been criticized on the grounds that the evidence base used for it was not up to date (217). Furthermore, an analysis of a NHANES 2003–2010 cohort of 7,189 adults demonstrated that a systolic blood pressure of 135 mmHg as a screening criterion yielded a prevalence of undiag­ nosed diabetes (by A1c or FPG cutpoints) of 4% with a sensitivity of 44% and a speci­ ficity of 65% (218). Thus, the usefulness of systolic blood pressure for narrowing the target population that is worth screening is questionable. The U.S.
