Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


sensitivity of 44% and a speci­ ficity of 65% (218). Thus, the usefulness of systolic blood pressure for narrowing the target population that is worth screening is questionable. The U.S. Preventive Task Force now recommends screening for abnormal blood glucose as part of cardio­ vascular risk assessment in adults age Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–23 40–70 years who are overweight or obese (219). The American Academy of Family Physicians recommends screening for diabetes only in adults who have dyslipid­ emia and hypertension (220); in 2005, the Canadian Task Force on Preventive Health Care made a similar (Grade B) recommen­ dation to prevent CVD and death (221). The Canadian Task Force has since revised their recommendations: the FINDRISC (222) or CANRISK (223) calculators should be administered every 3–5 years to adults, and those found to be at high risk should be screened for diabetes with a A1c cutpoint of 6.5%. Those found to be at very high risk should be screened annu­ ally (224). The ADA does not recommend community screening because it may be poorly targeted and positive screenees may not have access to or seek follow-up care (40). A joint review of the screening issue by the World Health Organization and the International Diabetes Federation in 2003 concluded that “there is no direct evidence as to whether individuals will or will not benefit from the early detection of type 2 diabetes through screening” and noted that “there is an urgent need for direct RCT (randomized clinical trial) evidence” to address the question (225). They also concluded that “opportunistic screening may be justified” in health care venues with the capacity to treat those who screened positive for diabetes and to offer preventive measures to those identified to be at increased risk for diabetes. The report acknowledged that screening is going on and urged that health authorities and organizations formulate policies regarding screening, even if not to advocate it. A Health Technology Assessment (HTA) for the United Kingdom National Screening committee concluded in 2007 (226) that no direct evidence supporting type 2 diabetes screening existed as of then. If targeted screening was undertaken, the first stage should be a questionnaire to narrow the population to those at increased risk. For the second stage, any of the three glycemia tests were considered “acceptable” because each had advantages and disadvantages, but no opinion was rendered by the HTA as to which was
