Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


the second stage, any of the three glycemia tests were considered “acceptable” because each had advantages and disadvantages, but no opinion was rendered by the HTA as to which was “best.” One study that screened for diabetes has been carried out in a single practice in Ely, U.K. (227,228). In 1990–1992, 1,705 patients were randomly selected to be invited for screening and another 1,705 patients were randomly selected for screening in 2000–2003. Their mortality outcomes were compared to those of 1,526 patients who were never invited for screening. The earlier screened cohort had a borderline significant 21% reduction in total mortality (p=0.05) over 10 years compared with the never-screened group, whereas the later screened group had no significant reduction in mortality over 8 years. A systematic review of trials, observational studies, and other reviews conducted for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force concluded that screening for diabetes did not reduce mortality in the subsequent 10 years. Treatment of screen-detected IGT or IFG did decrease subsequent progression to diabetes (229). It remains to be seen whether a clinical trial with sufficient power that randomizes a much larger number of individuals to be screened for diabetes or not to be screened will be conducted. In the meantime, a community’s public health decision to undertake screening for diabetes will depend on that community’s expected prevalence of diabetes, average age, racial/ ethnic mix, available resources, pressure of competing health care needs, and ability to treat positive screenees and to repeat testing of negative screenees. The potential benefit of delaying or preventing diabetes, even if mortality rates are not improved, which is being examined in the DPPOS, needs also to be considered. Physicians’ Offices Opportunistic screening for diabetes in a physician’s office or other health care venue has two important advantages. First, screening can usually readily be targeted to patients at higher than average risk to develop diabetes, thus potentially increasing the yield. The commonly accepted risk factors for diabetes are listed in Table 1.12 (40). These include conditions for which patients are already likely to be receiving care in the office, such as hypertension, and measurements like height and weight easily translated by calculation or nomograms into BMI. In actual practice, however, the results can be unrewarding, with a high cost for each new case identified (230). Clinical factors have also been combined into risk scores, some of which are almost as efficient as
