Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


can be unrewarding, with a high cost for each new case identified (230). Clinical factors have also been combined into risk scores, some of which are almost as efficient as using glycemic measurements alone. They improve if glycemic measurements are added. For example, a predictive equation in 1,032 Egyptian subjects used age in years, sex, BMI, systolic blood pressure, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, postprandial time, and random capillary blood glucose (CBG) at that time (231). This equation provided a probability of 0.38 that the subject would have diabetes, IGT, or IFG with a sensitivity of 55%, spec­ ificity of 90%, and a positive predictive value of 65%. A risk score created by the ADA for diabetes (232) yielded a sensitivity of 46% and specificity of 60% compared to a random blood glucose of 117 mg/dL (6.49 mmol/L) in a U.K. community (233). Second, individuals screened positive in a physician’s office are more likely to receive follow-up and appropriate therapeutic intervention, since they are already in the health care system. The cutpoints for a positive screening test are TABLE 1.12. Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes BMI ≥25 kg/m2 High-risk ethnicity First-degree relatives with diabetes Age ≥45 years Physical inactivity Previous gestational diabetes Polycystic ovaries Hypertension History of cardiovascular disease HDL cholesterol ≤35 mg/dL and/or triglycerides ≥250 mg/dL Conversions for cholesterol and triglyceride values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. BMI, body mass index; HDL, high-density lipoprotein. SOURCE: Reference 40 1–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition the same as those for the diagnosis of diabetes itself, with required confirmation by a repeat test. Moreover, those with IGT and IFG or a high-risk A1c level can be identified, depending on the physician’s choice of method, and preventive measures instituted. Other Health Care Venues Another venue for opportunistic screening is hospital emergency departments, with 120 million annual visits in the United States. In one report, a convenience sample of 618 patients presenting to an emergency department was screened by A1c followed by OGTT performed later (234). Mean age was 49.7 years, 52.2% were of minority race/ethnicity, and mean A1c was 5.7%. Compared to diabetes by OGTT criteria, A1c ≥6.5% was 54% sensitive and 96% specific. A ROC analysis showed A1c 6.0% to be the “optimum” diagnostic cutpoint yielding a sensitivity of 77% and specificity of 87% with a positive predictive value of 42%. While this was not a random emergency
