Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


on clinical grounds, both A1c and OGTT cutpoints (either FPG, 2-hour PG, or both) pointed to individuals with similar metabolic and CVD risk factor characteristics. In a study of Mexican Americans, subjects at high risk for diabetes by either IFG or IGT had distinct reductions in both insulin secretion rates in response to glucose and in insulin sensitivity (158). Given the insufficient evidence for long-term benefit resulting from community screening and its likelihood of considerable costs, the ADA position to not support community screening cited above seems reasonable. However, physicians should not be precluded from opting to screen their very high-risk patients periodically in the hope that early detection of type 2 diabetes may yet prove to prevent the disease’s long-term complications. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes 1–27 Economic Analysis of Screening A complete and accurate economic analysis of screening for diabetes is not possible until the long-term benefit and costs of early detection of asymptomatic diabetes are available from actual observation. Projections of models are limited by lack of knowledge of what future costs of care for diabetes and its complications are likely to be. Estimates of the benefits and costs of improved glycemic management and its cost- effectiveness are, however, available from UKPDS (273,274,275), DPP (276,277,278), and even DCCT data extrapolated to type 2 diabetes (279). According to one model, screening costs depended on the age at which it was started and the frequency at which it was conducted (280). Costs of one quality-ad­ justed life year (QALY) gained ranged from $10,500 or less to $40,778 (280). In another analysis, the cost per QALY gained if screening were targeted to individ­ uals at age 55 years with hypertension was calculated at $34,375, less than one-tenth the cost of universal screening (281). An analysis of the direct medical costs of screening, from a single payer health care system perspective and the societal perspective, of various tests and their cutpoints has also been presented (282). Because of the wide variability in the results of the economic analyses and the uncertainty of their long-term applicability, they are not discussed in detail. A randomized controlled trial of screening compared to no screening would be essential as the basis for a realistic assessment of the cost-effectiveness of screening. Other Health Care Results of Screening Screening for diabetes or high risk for diabetes (prediabetes) would be bene­ ficial if it was informative to positive
