Chapter 1: Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, glucose, type diabetes, risk, study, screening, diagnosis, fpg, years, care, ifg, plasma, plasma glucose, igt


of the cost-effectiveness of screening. Other Health Care Results of Screening Screening for diabetes or high risk for diabetes (prediabetes) would be bene­ ficial if it was informative to positive screenees and followed by therapeutic or preventive behavior. In one longitu­ dinal study comparing health behaviors over time of individuals before and after diagnosis of diabetes, an approximately 50% increase in physician visits was observed after diagnosis (283). One beneficial effect of receiving a diagnosis of diabetes is a reduction in smoking (283,284). However, neither body weight nor exercise showed beneficial changes after the diagnosis of diabetes, irrespec­ tive of medication use (Figure 1.14) (283). This study did not report whether the diagnosis was based on clinical symp­ toms or screening, although the latter was more likely among those not on medication. In the ADDITION screening study, an intervention to change health behaviors was largely unsuccessful (285), and compared to changing three to four health behaviors, failure to change any health behaviors increased the risk of CVD events in the ensuing 5 years three­ fold (286). In the NHANES 2005–2006 population, only 7.3% of the positive prediabetes screenees were already aware of their condition, so the screening was certainly informative for the large majority of the positives (287). Only 47.7% of those with known prediabetes had been tested for diabetes in the preceding 3 years. When known prediabetic individuals were asked about preventive behavior in the preceding 12 months, about one-half reported efforts at weight reduction or control and a similar percentage reported increasing physical activity. Only about one-third reported being given physician advice to perform these preventive behaviors (287). SCREENING FOR TYPE 1 DIABETES Screening for type 1 diabetes in the general population is not recommended by the ADA on the grounds that relatively few cases would be detected (263). Screening of offspring or siblings (or other relatives) of patients with type 1 diabetes with multiple islet cell autoantibodies, if requested by parents, may be undertaken at the discretion of physicians, or for clinical research purposes. Positive screenees should be counseled about their risk, educated as to symptoms, and monitored periodically for hyperglycemia. Some idea of the results that can be expected are provided by the TrialNet Natural History Study (288), using research assays not generally available FIGURE 1.14. Estimated Probabilities of Health Behaviors and Obesity After Diagnosis of Diabetes Probability ranges from 0 to 1. For more information,
