Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


Sexually Transmitted Infections Sevgi O. Aral and Mead Over, with Lisa Manhart and King K. Holmes Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are responsible for an neonatal and infant infections and blindness in infants;infer- enormous burden of morbidity and mortality in many devel- tility in both men and women;urethral strictures in men;gen- oping countries because of their effects on reproductive and ital malignancies, such as cancer of the cervix uteri, vulva, transmission ofHIV infection (Laga,Diallo,and Buvé 1994). chlamydia;liver failure and liver cancer secondary to hepatitis B or human T cell lymphotropic virus type I;and central nerv- ous system disease secondary to syphilis (Holmes and Aral INTRODUCTION 1991; Meheus, Schulz, and Cates 1990; van Dam, Dallabetta, and Piot 1999).Thus,STI sequelae affect mostly women and Largely because of the HIV epidemic, interest in STIs has children. increased over the past two decades.During that time,the epi- In developing countries,high levels ofSTIs and high rates of demiology ofSTIs has changed in developing countries,partly complications and sequelae result largely from inadequacies in asaresultofmodificationsinSTIcasemanagementapproaches health service provision and health care seeking (Aral and and partly because of behavioral changes in response to the Wasserheit 1999). STI care is provided by a large variety of have enhanced understanding of the intricacies of STI trans- case management,and the quality ofcare they provide is often mission dynamics and the role of interventions in the control less than desirable (Moses and others 1994; WHO 1991). has changed:the epidemiology ofSTIs still differs substantially larly among women (van Dam 1995),because ofthe low levels sociocultural and economic contexts in developing countries ated with genital symptoms,and the asymptomatic nature of influence the epidemiology of STIs and help make them an many STIs.A study in Nairobi,Kenya,found that 42 percent of important public health priority. patients had been symptomatic for more than a week before Incidence and prevalence rates ofSTIs are generally high in coming to a clinic and that 23 percent had been symptomatic both urban and rural populations and vary considerably across for more than two weeks (Moses and others 1994). areas. Because diagnosis and treatment of STIs are often Setting up good-quality STI services is considerably more delayed, inadequate, or both, rates of STI complications are difficult in resource-poor settings than elsewhere. Variables also high in developing countries.Those complications include that affect the duration of infectiousness include adequacy of abdominal pain in women; adverse pregnancy outcomes, such marginalized groups as sex workers, patient loads at
