Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


activity,which in turn increases the rate In some developing countries, including Cambodia, the at which infected and susceptible individuals are sexually Dominican Republic,and Thailand,sexual risk behaviors have exposed to each other and consequently the rate at which STIs been changing over the past decade.In Uganda,for example, spread. the age ofsexual debut has increased,the frequency ofsex with casual partners has decreased, and the use of condoms has increased (Stoneburner and Low-Beer 2004). During the Changes in STI Epidemiology, Management, and Prevention since 1993 tries asked individuals ifthey had done anything to avoid AIDS Since 1993,STI epidemiology and management have evolved (Low-Beer and Stoneburner 2003):almost 80 percent of men interactively, particularly in developing countries. Techno- and 50 percent of women surveyed reported that they had. logicaladvancesindiagnosis,screening,andtreatment;evalua- Specific behavior changes reported included increased mono- tionandwidespreadimplementationofnewcase-management gamy,reduced number of partners,avoidance of sex workers, algorithms; and changes in risk behaviors in response to the and increased condom use. AIDS epidemic have all influenced the dynamic typology of By contrast,in developed countries,recent years have seen STIs(WasserheitandAral1996). behavior changes in the opposite direction; for example, in The introduction of nucleic acid amplification tests,which many European countries and in the United States,risk behav- have improved the sensitivity and expanded the repertoire of iors among men who have sex with men have increased signif- usable specimens, has heralded a new era in STI diagnosis. icantly (CDC 2004;L.Doherty and others 2002).In addition, The use of urine and vaginal swabs in diagnosis has enabled Grémy and Beltzer (2004) report declines in condom use providers to supply diagnostic and screening services outside among heterosexual adult populations in Europe.Investigators traditional clinical facilities and has greatly enhanced the cov- attribute increases in risk behaviors to the introduction and erage of outreach activities . Unfortunately, availability ofantiretroviral therapy for HIV infection and the many ofthese tests are currently too expensive for routine use difficulties in sustaining preventive behaviors in the long term, in developing countries. Single-dose oral azithromycin has referred to as prevention fatigue. Some researchers speculate improved the treatment of several bacterial STIs (Lau and that the widespread introduction of antiretroviral therapy in Qureshi 2002),but quinolones are apparently becoming inef- developing countries may have a similar disinhibitory effect on fective for gonorrhea in some locations . sexual behaviors and that changes in sexual behavior may off- A major recent advance in STI prevention is the early suc- set the beneficial effect of antiretroviral therapy
