Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


are important in the transmission dynam- paramedical personnel, though it often results in some ics of STIs at the population level,and position in a sexual overtreatment. Nevertheless, syndromic management has network is important in the transmission and acquisition of been recommended as a realistic approach for managing STIs at the individual level . symptomatic patients in developing countries (Over and Piot • Trajectories whereby STI epidemics evolve differ for 1993). Implementation issues associated with the syndromic different types of population-pathogen interactions (Aral management approach involve inadequate local evaluation of 2002a; Blanchard 2002; Garnett 2002). Whereas highly treatment algorithms because of a lack of local data,inconsis- infectious, short-duration bacterial STIs—for instance, tencies in implementation, and inadequate monitoring gonorrhea—depend on the presence ofcore groups marked (Dallabetta,Gerbase,and Holmes 1998; Hawkes and Santhya by multiple sex partnerships of short duration for their 2002;WHO 2001b). spread,less infectious,long-duration viral STIs—for exam- Limitations of the syndromic management approach ple,HSV—depend on the presence ofmultiple partnerships include the inability to directly target the subclinical STI pool, oflonger duration. the variability of STI symptoms and signs, the potential for • Interactions among sexually transmitted pathogens affect wasting antibiotics,the risk ofpromoting drug resistance,and STIepidemictrajectoriesatthepopulationlevel(Wasserheit the unintended consequence of decreasing the skill levels of izedcommunitytrialsevaluatingtheeffectofSTItreatment Donovan 2004). Moreover, syndromic management tends to onHIVtransmission(Grosskurthandothers 1995;Kamali undermine STI surveillance efforts because cases are managed andothers2003;Wawerandothers1999)canbeaccounted and treated in the absence of a specific clinical or laboratory for by the complex, multifactorial, multilevel, and phase- diagnosis (O’Farrell 2002). specificnatureofSTIepidemics(Orroth2003). Role ofCore Groups and Bridge Populations. Core groups— that is, groups of individuals who have large numbers of sex Epidemiology and Control partners who themselves have large numbers ofsex partners— The epidemiology of STI pathogens,the local prevention and play an important role in the spread and persistence of STIs care infrastructure,and the cultural and sociopolitical context and are characterized by a high prevalence ofSTIs.Examples of Sexually Transmitted Infections | 313 core groups include sex workers,drug users,truck drivers,and behaviors, STIs and HIV may facilitate each other’s bar girls.Because a case treated or prevented in a core group transmission. member tends to prevent that person from infecting several others,interventions that target core groups tend to be more effective and more cost-effective than interventions that target BACTERIAL AND VIRAL STIsAND THEIR the general population (Ainsworth and Over 1997;Over 1999; SEQUELAE Over and Piot 1993).In situations in which a high prevalence of STIs is concentrated in core groups,so-called bridge popu-
