Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


STIsAND THEIR the general population (Ainsworth and Over 1997;Over 1999; SEQUELAE Over and Piot 1993).In situations in which a high prevalence of STIs is concentrated in core groups,so-called bridge popu- Both bacterial and viral STIs are widespread in developing lations (individuals who have sexual links with members of countries; recently, incidence of bacterial STIs has declined both high- and low-prevalence subpopulations) may play an while that ofviral STIs has been increasing. important role in disseminating infection from core groups to the general population (Aral 2000; Aral and others 1999; Natural History of Bacterial STIs and Their Sequelae Gorbach and others 2000;Morris and others 1996). Several variables influence the relative importance of core Chancroid is a genital ulcer disease caused by Haemophilus groups in the spread of STIs, including the characteristics of ducreyi. Its incidence has declined greatly in both developed the specific pathogen,such as its transmissibility and duration and developing countries. This decline has been associated of infectiousness; the phase of a particular epidemic; and the with the provision ofSTI diagnostic and therapeutic services to duration ofsexual partnerships among those involved in mul- sex workers and with improved syndromic man- tipartner sexual activity (Aral 2002a, 2002b; Blanchard 2002; agement of genital ulcers. Like other genital ulcer diseases, Garnett 2002; Wasserheit and Aral 1996). The role of core chancroid is associated with increased acquisition and trans- groups in STI dissemination tends to be greater during the ini- mission ofHIV . tial and later phases ofepidemics,when infection is highly con- Syphilis is a genital ulcer disease caused by Treponema pal- middle phases ofepidemics,when infection tends to be widely mated the global prevalence of syphilis at 12 million (WHO spread across subpopulations.The importance of core groups 2001a),with high prevalence rates in South and Southeast Asia appears to be greater in populations in which most people are and Sub-Saharan Africa. Those most likely to be affected are involved in sexual activity with a single partner and only a populations in developing countries and disadvantaged sub- small minority ofpeople engage in short-term sexual partner- populations in developed countries. Since 1999, syphilis out- ships with a large number ofsex partners (Laumann and Youm breaks have reemerged in many developed countries among 1999). men who have sex with men (CDC 2004;L.Doherty and oth- ers 2002). Among heterosexuals, sexual contact with sex Antibiotic Use and Drug Resistance. Antibiotic use is unreg- workers is an important risk factor.If untreated,syphilis
