Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


with men (CDC 2004;L.Doherty and oth- ers 2002). Among heterosexuals, sexual contact with sex Antibiotic Use and Drug Resistance. Antibiotic use is unreg- workers is an important risk factor.If untreated,syphilis dur- ulated in many developing countries, and antibiotics are fre- ing pregnancy may lead to stillbirth and congenital syphilis quently misused and overused,which results in drug resistance. (Genc and Ledger 2000). Resistance to antimicrobial drugs is increasing mortality and GonorrheaisadischargediseasecausedbyN.gonorrhoeae. morbidity from infectious diseases (Hart and Kariuki 1998). In1999,WHOestimateditsglobalprevalenceat62.4million STIs are among the most frequently occurring infections . Like syphilis, its prevalence is high in South worldwide, with more than 76 percent estimated to occur in andSoutheastAsiaandSub-SaharanAfrica,inmanydevelop- the developing world .Neisseria gonorrhoeae has ing countries elsewhere, and among high-risk groups and shown great versatility in developing resistance to antimicro- disadvantaged subpopulations in developed countries. bial drugs, including sulfonamides, penicillins, and tetracy- Communitysurveysrevealasubstantialpoolofasymptomatic cline. Fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin gonococcal infections (Chandeying and others 2000; Turner have proved highly effective in treating gonorrhea, but after and others 2002). Following the emergence of AIDS, gonor- widespread and often inappropriate use of fluoroquinolones, rhea cases declined among men having sex with men, sex resistant N. gonorrhoeae has emerged. In some areas, such workers, and the general population in the developed world resistance leaves third-generation cephalosporins as the only and among sex workers in many developing countries predictably effective antibiotic treatment for gonorrhea. (Donovan2004). In most populations tested, infection with Chlamydia tra- STIs and HIV/AIDS. Because HIV is a sexually transmitted chomatis is the most common bacterial STI. In 1999, WHO infection,people who are infected with another STI also tend estimated the global prevalence of chlamydial infection to be to be at increased risk of HIV infection and vice versa. 92 million . Chlamydial infection is common However,beyond this correlation resulting from common risk in most countries, especially among young people. Key risk 314 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sevgi O. Aral and Mead Over with others factors are being younger than 25 and having a new sex part- HSV-2 include severe primary disease, meningitis, hepatitis, ner.Many women with uncomplicated infection are asympto- erythema multiforme, and neonatal herpes . matic or have mild symptoms. Like untreated gonococcal Infected neonates may die or develop severe neurological infection, untreated chlamydial infection can cause pelvic sequelae despite antiviral therapy.In contrast to bacterial STIs, inflammatory disease, chronic pelvic pain, and ectopic preg- HSV-2 may
