Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


amplification tests high- HPV infection is common even among relatively sexually lighted the poor sensitivity of microscopy in the detection of inexperienced individuals (Giuliano and others 2002; Stone T. vaginalis. Even though most infected people are asympto- and others 2002). Investigators believe that most adults matic,T.vaginaliscan cause vaginitis with vaginal discharge in become infected with HPV but that only a few develop warts women and urethritis in men.T.vaginalishas been associated orgenitaloranalcancer.Infectionwithahigh-riskHPVtype with preterm birth and may promote the sexual transmission is implicated in nearly all cases of invasive cervical cancer of HIV (Laga and others 1993).However,a randomized con- (Walboomers and others 1999) and with vaginal, vulvar, and trolled trial did not show that screening and treatment for analcancers. T.vaginalisto prevent preterm birth were effective (Klebanoff In developed countries,hepatitis B virus is spread predomi- and others 2001). nantly by sexual and injecting drug-use transmission.Indeed, Like T. vaginalis, bacterial vaginosis and vulvovaginal can- the first three trials of hepatitis B vaccine successfully demon- didiasis cause vaginal symptoms in women, are extremely strated prevention ofsexual transmission ofhepatitis B virus in prevalent in developing countries,and in one or more studies men who have sex with men (Manhart and Holmes 2005).In have been associated with HIV acquisition or HIV genital shed- developing countries,hepatitis B is more often acquired peri- ding by women .Although often referred to as natally or during childhood,but a rise in seroincidence in ado- reproductive tract infections rather than STIs, they are man- lescence and young adulthood in some countries probably aged in conjunction with STIs,and bacterial vaginosis is asso- reflects sexual or injecting drug-use transmission.Hepatitis B ciated with some ofthe same risk factors as other STIs. virus causes acute hepatitis and in some people causes chronic hepatitis that can lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer. Human T cell lymphotropic virus type I (and perhaps in Viral STIs and Their Sequelae more cases type II) is, like hepatitis B virus, transmitted Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 infect the genital and anal areas,but perinatally and sexually. In some high-risk populations, for Symptoms are mild in most of those infected and tend to go lymphotropic virus type I infection is substantially more com- unrecognized and undiagnosed (Corey 2000; Scoular 2002). mon than HIV infection.This infection causes a serious form Genital herpes establishes a lifelong infection that in some peo- of spastic paralysis or human T cell lymphotropic-associated ple is associated with significant morbidity.Complications of myelopathy,as
