Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


infections to susceptible sex Demographic and Social Risk Markers. The prevalence and partners. These behaviors include having concurrent incidence of STIs vary across societies and subpopulations partnerships (Koumans and others 2001; Kraut-Becher and defined by age,gender,race and ethnicity,and socioeconomic Aral 2003; Morris and Kretzchmar 1995) and having short 316 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sevgi O. Aral and Mead Over with others gapsbetweensexpartnersinserialmonogamouspartnerships (including opportunity costs) of treatment, perceived and (Kraut-BecherandAral2003). actualqualityofcare,andbeliefsabouttheappropriateprovider Sex partners’ behaviors are also critical determinants of to consult. The proportion of those infected seeking care is exposure to infection. Investigators use many behavioral and highlyvariable,anddelaysinseekingtreatmentcanbesubstan- epidemiological indicators to assess partners’ risk of having tial. In many places, the proportion of people seeking timely infection,including existence and number ofnew sex partners; care from appropriately trained providers is limited (Hawkes presence of concurrent partnerships; gap between sex part- andSanthya2002;Mosesandothers2002;Rekart2002). ners;partners’number ofpartners;and risk status ofpartners’ Behaviors on the part of health care providers that ensure partners—for example, if they have sex with sex workers or timely and accurate diagnosis,appropriate treatment,and non- men who have sex with men . judgmental attitudes toward those infected would also help reduce the duration ofinfectiousness ofSTIs.However,estab- Behavioral Risk Factors Associated with STI Acquisition and lishing effective, accessible, affordable, and decentralized Transmission on Exposure to Infected Partners. Certain services is difficult (Over 2004;World Bank 2003).The major behaviors influence the likelihood ofan infected person’s trans- barriers Moses and others (2002) identified in Nairobi reflect mitting infection to a susceptible partner, including condom the situation in many developing countries. Those barriers use,sexual practices such as anal intercourse,vaginal douching, include inadequate basic training and inefficient deployment Moses 2001;Donovan 2000a,2000b).The probability oftrans- alized groups (for instance,female sex workers); high patient mission varies depending on the pathogen and is much higher loads at health centers;lack of supportive supervision;inade- for bacterial STIs,such as gonorrhea,syphilis,and chlamydia, quate referral systems;chronic shortages ofsupplies and drugs; than for other STIs, such as HIV infection. Thus, preventive and inadequate recording ofhealth information.User fees can behaviors such as condom use may be more effective in pre- be a substantial additional barrier,though they may contribute venting the latter than the former (National Institute for to the sustainability ofthe treatment program and improve the Allergy and Infectious Diseases 2001).In addition,the proba- provider’s incentives. bility of both acquisition and transmission is significantly affected by such nonbehavioral cofactors as circumcision status Behavioral Interactions. Both at the individual and
