Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


Infectious Diseases 2001).In addition,the proba- provider’s incentives. bility of both acquisition and transmission is significantly affected by such nonbehavioral cofactors as circumcision status Behavioral Interactions. Both at the individual and the pop- (Aral and Holmes 1999). ulation levels, people’s risk behaviors respond to changing Overall,oral sex and anal sex tend to be practiced less often circumstances. In many developing countries where HIV in the developing world than in the developed world (Vos incidence has been high, people have adopted compensatory 1994). Insertion of herbs to tighten or dry the vagina and behavior changes,such as delayed age ofsexual debut,reduced other practices of vaginal clearing and wiping are widespread number of sex partners, and increased use of condoms (Brown and Brown 2000).Condom use is increasing in some (Shelton and others 2004; Stoneburner and Low-Beer 2004), countries—for example, India, Thailand, and Uganda— especially with high-risk partners (Peterman and others 2000). especially during high-risk encounters. Some people now seek health care when they suspect they have been exposed to an STI. Behaviors Associated with the Duration of Infectiousness. At the same time, risk behaviors can overlap: people who The duration of infectiousness is an important component of initiate sexual activity early in life tend to have many partners, transmission dynamics.Because effective treatment curtails the and people who engage in risky sex tend to also use drugs and duration of curable STIs, the speed with which infected alcohol.A history ofsexual abuse or ofbeing an abuser is also individuals seek treatment and the speed and effectiveness with positively associated with high-risk sexual behaviors and drug which health care providers supply effective treatment together use . The adoption of preventive behaviors raises determine duration. To the extent that suppressive therapies the possibility that people will compensate by changing other for HSV-2 and HIV infection,duration is also important in the widespread adoption of antiviral therapy or condom use may transmission dynamics ofincurable viral STIs. lead to increases in the numbers of sex partners (Blower and Behaviors that can reduce the average duration of infec- others 2001;Blower and Farmer 2003;Over and others 2004). effectiveparticipationinriskassessment,andcompliancewith effects of such changes in behavior is helpful, empirical therapyandpreventionrecommendationsonthepartofthose research in varied contexts is urgently needed to identify the infected and at risk (Aral and Wasserheit 1999). Health care variables that determine patterns of interaction among risky seeking depends on perceived seriousness and causality of and preventive behaviors.Two such variables may be individ- Sexually
