Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


that the esti- forced to have sex with a nonsteady partner,35 percent were mated prevalence rates are significantly higher for herpes than for the other diseases. Among certain their steady partner had other partners,27 percent said low-risk groups, the prevalence of chlamydia is higher than that of syphilis. Standard errors (not shown) are estimated using the White correction for heteroskedasticity under the assumption their partners had STI symptoms,24 percent said their partner thatthe observations for a single country are comparable to a cluster of data. Other explanatory was intoxicated during sexual intercourse more than half the variables that were unsuccessful in explaining a significant proportion of the variance included percentage of the population foreign born, percentage of the population that is Muslim, male-to- time,and only 10 percent had used a condom in the previous female literacy gap, urban male-to-female population ratio, and military personnel per 1,000 three months. urban population. 318 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sevgi O. Aral and Mead Over with others BURDEN OF STIsAND BENEFITS OF CONTROL a. Gross national income per capita Average national prevalence of STIs among low-risk groups On the basis of an independent analysis of cross-country data (deviations from mean) on STI prevalence,we believe that WHO may have underesti- 5 mated the burden ofSTIs relative to that ofHIV and other dis- eases (www.fic.nih.gov/dcpp/gbd.html). Adjusting the WHO estimates on the basis ofour calculations increases the estimate ofyears oflife lost burden by about 18.1 percentand the over- all estimate of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost by (cid:1)5 about 8.2 percent. Coefficient (cid:3) (cid:1) 0.86, t (cid:3) (cid:1)5.14 (cid:1)10 DALYs Gained from Effectively Preventing or Treating STIs (cid:1)2 (cid:1)1 0 1 2 Gross national income per capita In the first edition of this volume, chapter 20presented esti- deviations from mean adjusted for Gini coefficient mates of the so-called static and dynamic burdens of prevent- ing or curing a single case ofan STI and ofHIV (Over and Piot b. Income inequality 1993).We reproduce those estimates in table 17.2 for four of Average national prevalence of STIs among low-risk groups the STIs.2 The static benefit column estimates the average (deviations from mean) number of DALYs saved for a single person by curing or pre- 5 venting his or her own case of each disease. These estimates arebased on specific assumptions regarding the distribution of incidence, case-fatality rates, and severity across age ranges. Although updating these
