Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


of HIV infection is approxi- byintervention level (that is, individual, group, or commu- mately equal to 10 times the incidence rate.Thus,a 10 percent- nity); by the outcomes measured; and by the intervention age point increase in the prevalence ofsyphilis or gonorrhea is modality used (for example, behavior change, vaccination, estimated to increase the incidence of HIV by 0.27 percentage topical microbicide use, screening, or treatment). Prevention points for syphilis and 0.57 for gonorrhea. For comparisons, outcomes may measure the prevention of acquisition, of Sexually Transmitted Infections | 321 transmission, and of complications of STIs (Manhart and or recurrent gonococcal or chlamydial infection in the index Holmes 2005).This section reviews the interventions for which patient (Golden and others 2005). the strongest evidence exists. Preventing Complications. Risk-based screening for C. tra- chomatis infection resulted in a 56 percent reduction in the Individual-Level Interventions subsequent risk of incident pelvic inflammatory disease A large number ofSTI interventions that have been rigorously (Scholes and others 1996). Several trials have shown that evaluated are individual-level interventions. antiviral suppression decreases clinical and virological recur- rences ofgenital herpes (Corey and Handsfield 2000). Preventing Acquisition. The following have been the main means ofpreventing STI acquisition: Group-Level Interventions • Behavior change.Counseling on risk reduction was the most Studies ofbehavior-change methods in small-group settings to frequently used behavior-change approach. Most studies reduce the acquisition ofSTIs had mixed outcomes.Behavior- showed a reduction in risk behaviors as a result ofcounsel- change approaches resulted in significant reduction in incident ing, and some showed decreases in STI outcomes (Kamb STIs; antimicrobial prophylaxis and provision of female con- and others 1998). doms did not. • Antimicrobial prophylaxis.Two studies (Harrison and others 1979;Kaul and others 2004)showed reductions in the inci- dence ofgonococcal,chlamydial,or trichomonal infections Community-Level Interventions following antimicrobial prophylaxis. Four community-level randomized trials have sought to reduce • Vaccines and passive immunization. A yeast-derived HPV the prevalence and transmission of STIs by shortening the type 16 vaccine was 100 percent efficacious in preventing duration of infectiousness within the general population persistent HPV-16 infection in young college women (Manhart and Holmes 2005). (Koutsky and others 2002),and a bivalent HPV type 16 and The “Mema Kwa Vigara”study in Mwanza,Tanzania,ran- type 18 vaccine was also highly efficacious in preventing domized 20 communities to intervention and control commu- those infections. An HSV-2 glycoprotein D-adjuvant vac- nities. The intervention consisted of school-based sexual and HSV-1 infection partially protected women, but not men,
