Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


(3.09) n.a. (3.09) those who advocate spreading prevention,screening,and treat- Vaginal discharge 48.23 102.92 81.04 (0) (89.63) (70.10) ment resources more thinly over the entire population. Opponents ofprioritization argue that most ofthe people who Total 24.05 96.10 39.49 (19.04) (73.44) (47.23) practice the riskiest behavior are hard to find and that attempts to find them would expose those individuals to stigmatization Source:Authors’ calculations based on a literature review done as a background study for this and repressive measures. chapter by Kumaranayake and others 2004. n.a. (cid:3)not applicable. A group of researchers at the University of North Carolina Note: The figures in parentheses are standard deviations. The 42 observations in the table are has developed and applied a novel approach to STI interven- individual unit cost estimates distributed across separate studies. tions that has demonstrated in several countries that finding costed.Of the 46 estimates of the unit cost of treatment,only the people who practice the riskiest sexual behavior without 33 could be interpreted as,or converted to,2001 U.S.dollars, targeting them as individuals is possible (Weir and others and the same applied to 9 ofthe 10 estimates ofthe unit cost of 2003).As an example ofthis approach,consider its application a cure.Table 17.4 summarizes the results ofthese studies by the to Madagascar,a country where risky sexual behavior had pre- disease or syndrome that occasioned the treatment. viously been thought to be too common to be identified or to The most notable thing about the summary statistics is their be distinguished from less risky behavior. variability:the cost per unit of output can vary by a factor of In May 2003,the Malagasy Steering Committee,which con- plausibly be almost four times that of treatment alone, the ernment officials, and other knowledgeable experts, selected standard errors are so large as to make the difference statisti- five towns judged to be at high risk for STIs for a pilot study. cally insignificant. The Priorities for Local AIDS Control Effort (PLACE) method The same point—that is, that unit costs vary enormously applied in these towns was,first,to interview adults at random from one site to another—is made by the preliminary results of on the streets of the city to find out where people go to meet a study by Dandona and others (2005). The cost per case and socialize and,second,to visit and collect data on these loca- treated in the study varies by a factor of10 across the 14 sites. tions and the
