Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


The cost per case and socialize and,second,to visit and collect data on these loca- treated in the study varies by a factor of10 across the 14 sites. tions and the people who frequent them. Furthermore,the two sites that treat the fewest and the most In each ofthe five cities,the informants tended to agree on cases per year also display the highest costs,a finding that sug- the most frequented sites. They identified between 70 and gests the existence of both economies and diseconomies of 267 unique socialization sites of various types, ranging from scale. bars and restaurants to beaches and brothels.Interviews with The variables that determine the costs—and therefore the people frequenting the sites revealed them to be much more cost-effectiveness—ofSTI treatment include the following: sexually active than the average Malagasy adult.According to • delivery by the public or private sector outside the capital city,Antananarivo,had two or more sexual • economies ofscale partners in the previous year. In contrast, the percentage of • economies ofscope women at the socialization sites who had had more than two • prevalence and incidence partners ranged from 46 to 68 percent. According to the • transmission efficiency women outside Antananarivo had four or more partners in the 324 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sevgi O. Aral and Mead Over with others having this many partners was 10 times larger.The men inter- ative spillover effects (externalities).The right combination viewed at these sites were even more sexually active than the of patient and provider incentives needs to be found that women. will maximize the beneficial spillovers while minimizing the The pilot study also investigated whether information on or harmful ones. products for prevention ofSTIs,HIV,or both were available at • The implementation of studies in support of global elimi- the socialization sites.In the five towns,the proportion ofsites nation programs. where condoms were available on the day of the visit varied from 27 to 54 percent. These percentages are not negligible Because of the clandestine nature of most sexual behavior, andare undoubtedly much higher than they were 10 years ago, STIs are probably massively underreported,which in turn leads and the availability of condoms at so many of these sites is a to an underestimation of their importance. New survey and tribute to the success of the condom social-marketing cam- measurement tools have been developed.They now need to be paign.However,the statistics also indicate substantial room for applied
