Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


importance. New survey and tribute to the success of the condom social-marketing cam- measurement tools have been developed.They now need to be paign.However,the statistics also indicate substantial room for applied to populations in poor countries to improve these improvement,forexample,bydistributingcondomsin100per- estimates. cent of identified socialization sites. The feasibility of such a In addition, randomized controlled trials need to be con- program is enhanced by information from the PLACE study ducted in different settings to test the hypothesis that treating that more than 80 percent ofthe owners or managers ofthese or preventing STIs in high-risk individuals has beneficial sites expressed their willingness to host STI and HIV preven- spillover effects by preventing infections among low-risk indi- tion programs, and more than half were willing to sell viduals. An improved understanding of the determinants of condoms. high-risk sexual behavior and the role that such behavior can Researchers have carried out similar PLACE studies in sometimes play in helping women to escape from poverty and Burkina Faso, Ghana, South Africa, and elsewhere. Un- helping men to cope with it is also needed,as is a better under- fortunately, in none of these countries has this extensive risk standing ofthe full range ofbenefits ofeffective STI interven- mapping been followed by the implementation of prevention tions for high-risk individuals and their dependents. programs at all the identified locations. Until such programs As concerns disease modeling and surveillance, further are implemented and evaluated,no African country will be able improvements are needed in understanding the implications to claim that it has scaled up the most effective type ofSTI pre- for interventions ofdifferent kinds oflocal,regional,and inter- vention to population levels. national sex networks. Tools RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA Because of the difficulty of persuading patients to adhere to a Priorities for global STI research include the following: course of medication for the prescribed period, single-dose therapy would be valuable. Rapid, point-of-care diagnostics • The development and evaluation oftherapeutic (drug treat- arealso a high priority, so that drugs can be targeted at ment or vaccines),behavioral,and structural interventions pathogens more accurately. New approaches for treating to prevent or reduce STIs and their sequelae. Given the chronic STIs should be incorporated into prevention strategies, spread of drug-resistant strains of gonorrhea and other andblisterpacksofantibioticsthatcanbesoldoverthecounter STIs, new pharmaceutical products and new combination for syndromic management ofSTIs should be available. therapies are needed to prevent and treat STIs. Vaccines would be particularly valuable,both for preventing •
