Chapter
KEYWORDS: sti, sexually, hiv, stis, transmitted, infection, prevalence, sex, countries, sexually transmitted, sexual, developing, treatment, infections, disease


STIs, new pharmaceutical products and new combination for syndromic management ofSTIs should be available. therapies are needed to prevent and treat STIs. Vaccines would be particularly valuable,both for preventing • The development and evaluation of mechanisms to accu- and for potentially treating chronic viral STIs and chlamydial rately quantify the disease burden in order to prioritize infection, which is often asymptomatic but is responsible for activities. considerable morbidity. • The development and evaluation ofinexpensive and practi- Diagnostics tests that could be used at home or at social cal rapid diagnostic tests to permit early detection and treat- meeting spots may help people decide whether to engage in ment ofSTIs. risky sex.Packages of diagnostic tests that change color when • The conducting of studies to evaluate effective prevention the contents expire would also be useful. modalities for persons at highest risk for STIs. • The undertaking of health services research to gain an Intervention Methods understanding ofpractical and cost-effective STI prevention strategies or systems that ideally can be integrated into exist- Syndromicmanagementalgorithmshavenowexistedformore treated for an STI,this treatment has both positive and neg- changesintherelativepricesofpharmaceuticalsanddiagnostic Sexually Transmitted Infections | 325 reagents, in the prevalence of the various STIs, in pathogens’ As we learn more about the complexities of delivering STI resistance,andsoon.Thus,everycountryneedssomeabilityto treatment services and take into account the diversity of risk respond to local changes by developing or modifying algo- behavior,the ease with which STI interventions can be ascribed rithmsasneeded. a simple cost-effectiveness ratio has declined.Ifno easy way to As concerns intervention packaging, many policy makers summarize experience to date with a simple cost-effectiveness continue to believe that the most sexually active people are ratio is available,how should we analyze economic investments hard to find.This beliefhampers efforts to target these people in STI treatment? We believe that the way forward is a better with STI prevention programs. The PLACE methods devel- understanding ofwhy STI treatment and other health services oped at the University ofNorth Carolina offer an opportunity vary so much in terms oftheir efficiency and effectiveness from to correct that impression and should be packaged with other one setting to another. By studying the determinants of this school curricula is a challenge in most ofthe world.As enroll- full costs ofhigh-quality STI service delivery and its place in the of a strong, culturally appropriate, sex education curriculum will lay the foundation for strong STI prevention and treatment campaigns. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS As this chapter has
