SMALL INTESTINE
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, typhimurium, tissue, ivoc, human, etal, epithelial, tml, cells, hours, bacteria, typhimurium tml, samples, fig


typhimurium TML had been incubated with human distal IVOC. However, it was possible that cellular invasion could ileal tissue for eight hours, the number of foci of bacterial/ have occurred but at a much lower frequency than that epithelialinteractionsobservedona4mmthickslicethrough observed in experiments using C2BBe cells (fig 1) or in a villus approached a frequency of 1. Foci of interaction, bovineloopassays(fig2).Inordertoassesscellularinvasion, particularly sites of epithelial cell invasion and membrane terminal ileal biopsies from four patients, on four separate ruffling, were also observed by TEM (fig 5B) where the days,wereincubatedwithStyphimuriumTMLforfourhours. ordered arrangement of microvilli and the glycocalyx layer Afterthistime,gentamicinprotectionassayswereperformed normally observed at the apical surface of terminal ileal to determine the extent of cellular invasion. The number of epithelial cells in uninfected tissue (fig 5A) appeared gentamicin protected bacteria ranged from 481 to 4083cfu/ significantlydisrupted. mg of tissue, with a mean of 1353cfu/mg (table 1). Importantly, no gentamicin resistant bacteria were detected DISCUSSION inuninfectedcontrolsamples.Inoculumpermgoftissuewas Nopublishedstudiestodatehaveinvestigatedtheinteraction approximately 1.256106cfu/mg. Thus the extent of cellular of invasive Salmonella with fully differentiated human gut invasiondetectedinthisassayafterfourhoursofincubation mucosal tissues. Thus we know very little about the early ranged from 0.04% to 0.3% of the original inoculum, which eventsassociatedwithinvasivehumanSalmonelladiseaseand was considered to be extremely low in comparison with havetorelyoninformationgleanedfromstudiesutilisingin similarassaysperformedwithculturedepithelialcells. vitroculturedepithelialcells,murineinfections,orcompara- Inordertovisualisebacteriathathadavoidedgentamicin tive studies with farm animal species. Consequently, to killing, possibly by acquiring an intracellular niche, inocu- investigate the early events that occur during Salmonella lated and uninoculated tissue samples were incubated in interaction with fully differentiated human terminal ileal IVOCfor4,6,or8hours,andthenprocessed,sectioned,and epithelial tissue, we utilised a previously established IVOC stainedforanalysisbylightmicroscopy.Itwasnotedthatthe culture system.7–101920 Initially, we verified the enteropatho- condition of inoculated tissue, observed in terms of villus genicity of S typhimurium TML using two established model morphologyandepithelialcelllayerintegrity,remainedwell systems, C2BBe cells and bovine ligated ileal loops. S preservedeveneighthoursafterincubationwithStyphimur- typhimurium TML associated strongly with C2BBe mono- ium TML (fig 4A). IVOC tissue sections were examined by layers.21–23 S typhimurium TML was also enteropathogenic in lightmicroscopytolocateanyareasoftheepitheliumwhere terms of inducing fluid secretory responses and eliciting bacteriaappearedtobeadherentorintracellular(fig4A–D). significant mucosal damage in bovine ligated loops.24 Suchfociofinteractionweresearchedforontissuefromfive Therefore, we concluded that S typhimurium TML was patientswhichhadbeenincubatedwithStyphimuriumTML invasive and enteropathogenic in C2BBe cells and bovine for four hours on separate days. In agreement with SEM ligatedilealloops,respectively. studiesitwasnotedthatin4/5casesnoobviousinteraction We observed that when human terminal ileal epithelial betweenbacteriaandthebrushborderwasobservedandthe tissue was exposed in many independent experiments to S vast majority of bacteria were situated in mucus above the typhimuriumTMLrapidlargescaleinvasionofenterocytesdid apical epithelial surface (fig 4B). However, in all samples notoccur.Rather,thekineticsofthisinvasionappearedtobe incubatedforeithersixhours(3/3cases)oreighthours(3/3
