CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66
KEYWORDS: disease, case, liver, copper, showed, fig, serum, iga, wilson, wilson disease, level, day, igan, patient, normal


CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66 CASE REPORT Immunoglobulin A nephropathy secondary to Wilson’s disease: a case report and literature review Yoshinosuke Shimamura1 · Takuto Maeda1 · Yufu Gocho1 · Yayoi Ogawa2 · Kunihiko Tsuji3 · Hideki Takizawa1 Received: 30 March 2018 / Accepted: 20 September 2018 / Published online: 25 September 2018 © Japanese Society of Nephrology 2018 Abstract Immunoglobulin A nephropathy is the most common primary glomerulonephritis worldwide, and it can be associated with liver disease. However, cases of Immunoglobulin A nephropathy secondary to Wilson’s disease are very rare. A 20-year-old Japanese man presented with microscopic hematuria, proteinuria, and renal dysfunction. A renal biopsy showed mesangial cell proliferation, immunoglobulin A deposition, and electron-dense deposit in the mesangial areas, all of which are consist- ent with Immunoglobulin A nephropathy. Computed tomography of the abdomen showed liver atrophy and splenomegaly, and the diagnosis of Wilson’s disease was confirmed with decreased serum ceruloplasmin levels, increased urinary copper excretion, Kayser–Fleischer rings and copper deposition in the liver biopsy. The patient was treated successfully with trientine hydrochloride and zinc acetate and showed improvement in renal manifestations. Wilson’s disease is a rare cause of second- ary Immunoglobulin A nephropathy. We recommend that Wilson’s disease should be considered the cause of secondary Immunoglobulin A nephropathy in juvenile patients with hematuria, proteinuria, and splenomegaly and suggest measuring the serum ceruloplasmin concentrations, urinary copper excretion, and evaluating Kayser–Fleischer rings in these patients. Keywords Wilson’s disease · IgA nephropathy · Trientine hydrochloride · Zinc acetate Introduction Case report Immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) is the most common A 20-year-old Japanese man was referred to our medical primary glomerulonephritis worldwide. It usually occurs center with microscopic hematuria, proteinuria and worsen- between the age of 20 and 30 years, and approximately ing of the serum creatinine level after an episode of upper 30–40% of patients requires renal replacement therapy after respiratory infection. He had a baseline creatinine level of 20 years of diagnosis . IgAN also has been reported in 0.7 mg/dL. There was no complaint of arthralgia, myalgia, association with liver disease, and it accounts for 9% of all or abdominal pain. The patient had no history of any drug biopsy-proven cases of IgAN . However, cases of IgAN abuse or known allergies, and he never smoked or drank associated with Wilson’s disease (WD) are scarce. Here, we alcohol. Additionally, he had no family history of kidney or report a rare
