CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66
KEYWORDS: disease, case, liver, copper, showed, fig, serum, iga, wilson, wilson disease, level, day, igan, patient, normal


hemochro- matosis were considered because the patient presented with liver atrophy and splenomegaly without a clear etiology. Laboratory findings were notable for the low level of serum copper concentration (21 µg/day), low level of serum ceru- loplasmin (4.5 mg/dL) and elevated urine copper excretion (254 µg/day); Kayser–Fleischer rings were also found in the periphery of the cornea, all of which fulfilled the definite diagnosis of Wilson’s disease based on European Associa- tion for the Study of the Liver guidelines . The alpha 1 anti-trypsin level (209 mg/dL), serum ferritin levels (209 ng/ dL), and transferrin saturation (26%) were normal. Wilson’s disease was confirmed by liver biopsy, which showed cop- per deposition (Fig. 5), and a homozygous mutation in the Fig. 5 Light microscopy of the liver showed brownish copper deposi- gene ATP7B (R778L), the most common type of mutation tion (arrowhead) (Copper, × 400) 1 3 6 4 CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66 in Japanese patients, was confirmed on genetic testing. How- Additionally, proteinuria declined from 0.31 to 0.09 g/day, ever, light microscopy of the kidney did not show copper and his serum creatinine improved (1.51–1.20 mg/dl). The deposition in the renal tubules (Fig. 6). The final diagno- serum IgA level decreased from 442 to 309 mg/dl. The sis of IgA nephropathy secondary to Wilson’s disease was patient visited our outpatient clinic every 3 months and was made. Figure 7 shows clinical course of this patient. Six assessed with excellent medication adherence to date. We months after initiating 1.5 g of trientine hydrochloride and also recommended participating in patients’ associations to 150 mg of zinc acetate, liver enzymes remained normal, and support the patient and the family. the serum copper concentration decreased from 21 to 15 µg/ day without any adverse effect. Microhematuria disappeared. Discussion vations. First, we have reported the first adult case of IgAN secondary to WD. WD is a genetic autosomal recessive disease characterized by copper accumulation in the liver, eyes, and nerves . Although several cases presenting with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis were reported [6–8], renal abnormality is relatively rare. Another study reported that only 5 (6%) had both hematuria and proteinuria among 85 children with WD . However, case reports of IgAN associated with WD are scarce, and only two cases in children were reported. These reports are summarized in Table 2, one concerned a 9 year-old-girl, and another con- cerned a child younger than 14
