CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66
KEYWORDS: disease, case, liver, copper, showed, fig, serum, iga, wilson, wilson disease, level, day, igan, patient, normal


al. . First, the space of Disse was obstructed due to WD. Second, B-cells and plasma cells produced large amounts of polymeric IgA1 and some galactose-deficient IgA1s, and the galactose-deficient IgA1s were recognized by anti-glycan IgG or IgA antibodies. Both polymeric IgA1s and galactose-deficient IgA1–IgG immune complexes were too bulky to reach the asialoglycoprotein receptors on hepat- ocytes, but they could pass through the larger fenestrae in glomerular capillaries overlying the mesangium, inducing glomerular injury. This speculation is supported by several Fig. 8 Immunofluorescence staining of IgA1 was brighter than that of IgA2 (IgA1 and IgA2 immunofluorescence, × 400) reasons. First, the serum IgA levels declining after initiat- ing chelating agents. Second, the immunofluorescence stain- ing of IgA1 was brighter than that of IgA2 (Fig. 8). Third, because the patient had a normal blood pressure and galactose-deficient IgA1 (Gd-IgA1) was deposited using the the urinary protein excretion was less than 1 g per day. Gd-IgA1-specific monoclonal antibody KM55, as shown in Regarding liver transplantation in patients with WD, the Fig. 9 . revised Wilson’s disease prognostic index (RWPI) greater According to the Kidney Disease: Improving Global than 11 had a very high risk of death if liver transplanta- Outcomes guidelines , angiotensin-converting enzyme tion is not performed . Liver transplantation was inhibitor/angiotensin II-receptor blocker and glucocorti- reserved for this patient because he had an RWPI of 1, coid therapy are recommended for patients with IgAN to and the patient was expected to improve with chelating control proteinuria. However, we reserved the treatments agents alone. 1 3 6 6 CEN Case Reports (2019) 8:61–66 Ethical approval All procedures performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the ethical standards of the insti- tutional and/or national research committee at which the studies were conducted (IRB approval number: 2017−126) and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. Informed consent Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study.
