Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


age. Recent evidence suggests orchidopexy between 6-12 months improves germ cell development, with early reports of improved fertility, but little evidence yet for changes in malignancy prognosis. Hypospadias is also a common abnormality in newborn males, affecting about 1/150 boys. Androgens control masculinization of the genital tubercle into penis between 8-12 weeks’ gestation, with tubularization of the urethra from the perineum to the tip of the glans. If this process is disrupted hypospadias occurs, with a variable proximal urethral meatus, failed ventral preputial development producing a dorsal hood, and discrepancy in the ventral versus dorsal penile length, causing a ventral bend in the penis, known as chordee. Surgery to correct hypospadias is recommended between 6-18 months, as technical advances now allow operation to be done before the infant acquires long-term memory of the surgery. Severe hypospadias overlaps with disorders of sex development (DSD), so that babies without a fused scrotum containing 2 testes and who present with ‘hypospadias’ need full DSD investigations at birth. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Undescended testis, or "cryptorchidism", is a very common anomaly in male infants and pre-adolescent boys, with about 1 in 20 boys undergoing treatment by the time they reach puberty. Not only is it prevalent, but also there remain unresolved questions about prognosis in adult life. It is not known yet whether the dramatic changes in the recommended age for surgery (from 15 years of age in the 1950’s, to six months old now) ( 1-4 ) will decrease the risk of infertility or testicular cancer. However, current treatment is based on the assumption that early surgery will prevent germ cell degeneration during childhood, leading to improved fertility and fewer tumors ( 5 , 6 ). Our understanding of the embryology has advanced rapidly in recent years, with new theories and experimental evidence supporting a complex anatomical process controlled directly and indirectly by hormones ( 7 , 8 ). The classification of cryptorchidism also is changing, with the recent recognition of acquired anomalies ( 9 , 10 ). With so much change in the way we view and treat cryptorchidism, endocrinologists will need to keep checking on the evolving controversies described in this chapter. EMBRYOLOGY The testes descend prenatally from their initial intra-abdominal location on the urogenital ridge into the low-temperature environment of the scrotum via a complex multi-stage
