Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


controversies described in this chapter. EMBRYOLOGY The testes descend prenatally from their initial intra-abdominal location on the urogenital ridge into the low-temperature environment of the scrotum via a complex multi-stage mechanism ( 11 ). Prior to 7-8 weeks of development, the gonadal position is similar in both sexes. With the onset of sexual differentiation, the fetal testis begins producing anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH; also called Müllerian inhibiting substance (MIS)) from the Sertoli cells, as well as androgen and insulin-like hormone 3 (INSL3) from the Leydig cells. These hormones are involved in controlling descent of the male gonad, which is held by two thickenings in the mesentery, the cranial suspensory ligament at the upper pole, and the genito-inguinal ligament, or “gubernaculum”, at the lower pole ( 12 ). During the initial (transabdominal) phase of descent, regression of the cranial ligament and thickening of the gubernaculum allows the testis to be held near the inguinal region ( 13 ). By contrast, in the female the cranial ligament persists while the gubernaculum remains thin and elongates, which together hold the ovary higher on the posterior abdominal wall as the fetal abdomen enlarges. The inguinal canal forms by the abdominal wall muscles developing around the caudal, gelatinous end of the gubernaculum, which initially ends at the future external inguinal ring. By 15 weeks the testis is attached by a short, stout and gelatinous gubernaculum to the future internal inguinal ring, while the ovary is higher in the pelvis ( 14 ). In mid gestation a diverticulum of the peritoneal membrane, known as the processus vaginalis, begins to elongate within the gubernaculum, which retains a central connection (known as the gubernacular cord) with the epididymal tail and the lower pole of the testis. The caudal end of the gubernaculum grows out of the abdominal wall and elongates towards the scrotum, extending the processus vaginalis eventually to the scrotum. Between 25-30 weeks’ gestation the testis descends rapidly through the inguinal canal, and then more slowly across the pubic region and into the scrotum, with descent within this peritoneal diverticulum complete by 35 weeks. After the testis reaches the scrotum, two further anatomical events complete the inguinoscrotal phase, the first of which is obliteration of the proximal processus vaginalis ( 15 ). The second event is involution of the gelatinous gubernacular bulb and its anchoring to the inside of the scrotum. The former process prevents inguinal hernia or
