Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


vaginalis ( 15 ). The second event is involution of the gelatinous gubernacular bulb and its anchoring to the inside of the scrotum. The former process prevents inguinal hernia or hydrocele and the latter process prevents extravaginal or perinatal torsion of the testis ( 6 ). Figure 1. The embryological stages of testicular descent and the postnatal growth required to keep the testis in the scrotum. The two main phases of descent appear to be controlled independently by hormones. ( Fig. 1 ). INSL3 is the major factor controlling gubernacular enlargement ( 16-18 ) and androgen, particularly DHT, and AMH appear to play minor roles in this "swelling reaction" of the gubernaculum ( 19-22 ). Under the influence of the hormones mentioned above, the caudal end of the gubernaculum, where it attaches to the inguinal abdominal wall, enlarges by proliferation of the embryonic mesenchyme and deposition of extracellular matrix. Androgens also are responsible for regression of the cranial suspensory ligament, but they are not sufficient alone for transabdominal descent. The phase of gubernacular migration is controlled both directly and indirectly by androgens, with the aid of the genitofemoral nerve (GFN) releasing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) ( 23 , 24 ). Androgens act during a critical time window to regulate gubernacular development ( 25 ). Recent evidence suggests that the androgen receptors controlling this masculinization of the GFN may not be in the nerve itself, but in the target organ, the inguinoscrotal fat pad in the mammary line ( 26 ) . The number of sensory neurons and the amount of CGRP in the genitofemoral nerve of rats are significantly less after exposure to the anti-androgen, flutamide, consistent with androgens stimulating structural and functional changes in the nerve. The nerve is proposed to orient the direction of gubernacular migration, while the physical force needed for elongation of the processus vaginalis is probably provided by intra-abdominal pressure ( 27 ). CGRP released from the nerve stimulates mitosis and cremaster muscle development in the gubernacular tip, enabling elongation to the scrotum ( 16 ). Estrogens have a minor inhibitory role in normal gubernacular development, but estrogenic endocrine disruptors may be responsible in larger doses for cryptorchidism secondary to suppression of the "swelling reaction" by inhibition of INSL3. The trigger that initiates active migration of the caudal tip of the gubernaculum may come from the inguinoscrotal fat pad in the mammary line ( 28
