Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


by inhibition of INSL3. The trigger that initiates active migration of the caudal tip of the gubernaculum may come from the inguinoscrotal fat pad in the mammary line ( 28 ), as the androgen receptors are present in the mammary line mesenchyme but not in the adjacent gubernaculum during the critical window of androgenic programming in rodents ( 25 , 29 ). The gubernaculum has a surprisingly close link with the embryonic breast in normal marsupials as well as in eutherian animal models, such as the rat and mouse, especially after they have been exposed to the antiandrogen, flutamide ( 30 , 31 ). The primitive mammary line is in continuity with the apical ectodermal ridges of the upper and lower limb buds, and hence is likely to contain similar activated signaling systems as seen in limb bud development ( 32 ). These signals are likely to initiate outgrowth of the gubernaculum from the abdominal wall, so that it can migrate to the scrotum. ETIOLOGY Any anomaly in either the hormonal control or the anatomical processes in normal testicular descent will cause cryptorchidism ( 33 ). Hormonal defects in INSL3, AMH or androgenic action are identified only rarely, suggesting that mechanical anomalies may be more common. Those patients with hormonal defects may present with rare disorders of sexual development (DSD) with cryptorchidism as part of the complex genital anomaly. The first or transabdominal phase involves little movement of the testis and this may explain the low frequency (5-10%) of intra-abdominal testes. As the gubernacular swelling reaction holds the testis close to the inguinal canal while other structures grow further away, the transabdominal phase is only relative movement of the testis and hence less likely to be abnormal. By contrast, the inguinoscrotal migration phase requires very significant mechanical and anatomical re-arrangements, and consequently, anomalies are common: over 60% of testes are found just outside the external inguinal ring, consistent with anomalous or arrested gubernacular migration. Transient deficiency of androgen production in utero , perhaps related to deficiency of gonadotropin production by the fetal pituitary or the placenta ( 34 ), may account for some, particularly where there is intra-uterine growth retardation. Anomalies of the genitofemoral nerve also may cause undescended testes. For example, perineal testes may be caused by an anomalous location of the genitofemoral nerve ( 35 ). Inherited syndromes frequently are associated with cryptorchidism. Hypothalamic dysfunction, connective tissue disorders,
