Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


For example, perineal testes may be caused by an anomalous location of the genitofemoral nerve ( 35 ). Inherited syndromes frequently are associated with cryptorchidism. Hypothalamic dysfunction, connective tissue disorders, neurogenic (e.g., spina bifida), and mechanical anomalies (e.g., arthrogryposis multiplex congenita) may all cause disruption in testicular descent ( 36-38 ). Cryptorchidism is also common in infants with abdominal wall defects, such as exomphalos or omphalocele, gastroschisis and exstrophy of the bladder ( 39 ). There is much current interest in the potential adverse effects of environmental estrogenic endocrine disruptors on the incidence of both cryptorchidism and hypospadias ( 40 ). In addition, there are data on the effect of diethylstilbestrol (DES) on cryptorchidism in male offspring of exposed mothers ( 41 ). In the latter case there is supporting evidence from animal models ( 42 ), although in the former, the cause-and-effect relationship is more tenuous, because the level of exposure is less clear, and the epidemiology may not have allowed for changes in diagnostic criteria over recent decades. More work is needed before we can ascertain a proven cause-and-effect link with synthetic molecules in the environment. The body of the epididymis is hypoplastic and frequently is not tightly adherent to the cryptorchid testis ( 43 ). This is more common in high intra-abdominal testes and probably indicates significantly decreased androgen production. Whether epididymal-testicular separation is the cause or the result of cryptorchidism is not known ( 44 ). In addition, its effect on fertility is uncertain, even though the rete testis is nearly always still connected to the head of the epididymis. Recent studies show a strong link between maternal smoking and cryptorchidism in male offspring ( 45 , 46 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Up to 4-5% of newborn males show cryptorchidism, but this falls to 1-2% by 12 weeks after term, following normal (but postnatal) descent in premature infants, and delayed postnatal descent in some term babies. Beyond 12 weeks, spontaneous testicular descent is rare ( 47 ). Geographic differences in prevalence of cryptorchidism have been reported, with 9% of Danish boys with undescended testes at birth, compared with only 2% of males from Finland. Some of these apparent differences, however, may be related to the definitions used for ‘cryptorchidism’ in these studies. An undescended testis is best defined as a testis that cannot be manipulated into the bottom of the scrotum (without excess tension on the spermatic
