Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


for ‘cryptorchidism’ in these studies. An undescended testis is best defined as a testis that cannot be manipulated into the bottom of the scrotum (without excess tension on the spermatic cord) by 12 weeks of age. Most testes (about 85%) are near the neck of the scrotum, or just lateral to the external inguinal ring, described by Denis Browne as the "superficial inguinal pouch” ( 48 ). A few cryptorchid testes are within the inguinal canal, making them unpalpable unless they can be squeezed out of the external inguinal ring by compression. Ten percent of testes are intra-abdominal or absent (presumed to be secondary to prenatal torsion). Ectopic cryptorchid testes are rare (< 5%), and occur in the perineum, prepubic region, thigh, or the contralateral inguinal canal (transverse testicular ectopia) ( 49 ). ENDOCRINE EFFECTS OF CRYPTORCHIDISM In infants with undescended testes, the testosterone and gonadotropin levels are diminished compared with normal infants between one and four months of age ( 50 , 51 ), which is during the normal, transient hormonal surge, known as ‘minipuberty’ ( 52 ). Whether this is a sign of primary endocrinopathy or secondary dysfunction of the testis, caused by heat stress when the gonad is not in the low temperature environment of the scrotum, is unknown. Postnatal increase in testosterone production is also diminished in premature infants, perhaps secondary to inadequate stimulation by chorionic gonadotropin in utero ( 53 ). HCG is low compared with early pregnancy and may be of functional significance. Despite lower than normal androgen levels between 1 and 4 months of age, there is no apparent anomaly in androgen receptors from gonadal or skin biopsies collected at orchidopexy ( 54 ). The postnatal secretion of both AMH and inhibin-B in cryptorchid infants is also deranged. Production of AMH from Sertoli cells normally increases between 4-12 months, but this surge is blunted in undescended testes ( 55 , 56 ). Inhibin-B normally increases at minipuberty and remains elevated into the second year of life , but levels in infants with cryptorchidism are lower ( 57 ). GERM CELL MATURATION IN CRYPTORCHIDISM Germ cells mature postnatally from a primitive gonocyte through a series of steps to primary spermatocytes by 3-4 years. This process is perturbed in cryptorchid testes, with failure of transformation of gonocytes into type-A spermatogonia between 4-12 months ( 58-60 ). These observations suggest that germ cell deficiency may be
