Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


process is perturbed in cryptorchid testes, with failure of transformation of gonocytes into type-A spermatogonia between 4-12 months ( 58-60 ). These observations suggest that germ cell deficiency may be at least partly secondary to early postnatal dysfunction, rather than being congenital, as proposed by some authors ( 61 , 62 ). Lack of germ cell transformation has been proposed to be secondary to postnatal androgen deficiency ( 60 , 63 ) or low AMH levels ( 63 ). Recent studies, however, suggest that transformation is normal in both infants and mice with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS), and may be mediated by activin or another TGF-family factor ( 64 ). Abnormal postnatal maturation of gonocytes could lead to both infertility and malignancy ( 65 )), although some authors propose that there may be congenital carcinoma in-situ -cells in the cryptorchid testis ( 61 , 66 , 67 ). There is now a consensus that type-A spermatogonia are likely to be the stem cells for future spermatogenesis, and that their appearance between 3 and 12 months of age, as neonatal gonocytes transform, is the key step in postnatal germ cell development ( 68 , 69 ). Should this be confirmed, it implies that early surgical intervention should lead to an excellent prognosis, as long as the subsequent germ cell deficiency is secondary to postnatal heat stress of the maldescended testis, and therefore reversible. Failure of the totipotential gonocytes to transform into unipotential spermatogenic stem cells may leave some persisting gonocytes in the undescended testis, which is speculated to be the origin of subsequent tumors. DIAGNOSIS The aim of clinical examination is to locate the gonad, if palpable, and determine its lowest position without causing painful traction on the spermatic cord (which probably corresponds to the caudal limit of the tunica vaginalis) ( 70 ). In infants, the diagnosis is straightforward because the scrotum is thin and pendulous. Hypoplasia of the hemiscrotum indicates it does not contain a testis. The inguinal testis is within its tunica vaginalis which gives it significant mobility. Ultrasonography has become more frequently used for diagnosis of the impalpable testis, but generally is not contributory for true intra-abdominal testes. This is because absence of the testis (secondary to possible perinatal torsion) is common, and also because intra-abdominal testes are often concealed by the bowel and other viscera ( 71 ). In addition, the mobility of the undescended
