Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


to possible perinatal torsion) is common, and also because intra-abdominal testes are often concealed by the bowel and other viscera ( 71 ). In addition, the mobility of the undescended testis within its tunica vaginalis may make location by ultrasonography difficult. An ultrasound scan can be justified in bilateral impalpable testes, to confirm the presence of a testis. In addition AMH and inhibin-B should be measured to confirm the presence of functioning Sertoli cells ( 57 ). A simple and reliable approach is to use laparoscopy, which readily locates the testis itself (or blind-ending gonadal vessels), and allows orchidopexy in experienced hands ( 72 ). TREATMENT Newborn and Infant Hormone therapy has become extremely controversial ( 73 , 74 ) as it was based on the two assumptions that cryptorchidism is not only secondary to a deficiency of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, but also the mechanical processes were simple. Both hCG and GnRH therapy have been tried, with success rates ranging from 10-50%. Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies have not shown more than marginal benefit with either hCG or GnRH ( 75-77 ). Despite proven endocrine control of descent, the mechanical factors appear to be too complex for this simple approach to be successful except for acquired undescended testes ( 76 ). Because of its poor efficacy and possible side effects, a consensus meeting in Scandinavia several years ago recommended that hormone treatment be abandoned completely ( 73 , 74 ). Surgical treatment is based on the premise that early intervention will prevent secondary testicular degeneration caused by high temperature (35-37 o C) as the lower temperature of the scrotum (33 o C) is essential for normal postnatal germ cell maturation ( 78 ). Evidence of progressive germ cell loss in the cryptorchid testis after six months of age has accumulated over the last 50 years and now suggests that orchidopexy should be considered between 6 and 12 months of age ( 1-4 ). The first signs of abnormal germ cell development can be seen between 4-12 months of age ( 60 ), and intervention is based on the premise that these changes are secondary to high temperature and should be reversible. Certainly in animal models, early intervention prevents germ cell loss ( 79 ). A prospective study of children randomized to early (9 months) or late (3 years) surgery is showing improved testicular development with early intervention, as measured by ultrasonography
