Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


( 79 ). A prospective study of children randomized to early (9 months) or late (3 years) surgery is showing improved testicular development with early intervention, as measured by ultrasonography at 4 years of age ( 80 , 81 ). Surgery at this very early age ideally needs a trained pediatric surgeon, as the technique is quite different from that for a 5-10 year-old boy ( 82 , 83 ) All baby boys need examination at birth to document gonadal position. Those infants without two fully descended testes should be re-examined at 12 weeks of age and, if a testis is still undescended, the child should be referred to a pediatric surgeon for possible surgical treatment. Orchidopexy is done as an ambulatory procedure, with discharge home a few hours after operation. General anesthesia is supplemented with local/regional analgesia, which will provide pain relief for the first few hours postoperatively. Prognosis The complication rate after orchidopexy is less than 5% in experienced hands ( 82 , 83 ). Wound infection is common in infants secondary to external contamination of the wound, although there is a low risk of atrophy of the testis which is greatest when intra-abdominal testes are pulled down under tension. Laparoscopy, with or without ligation of the testicular vessels (Fowler-Stephens procedure) ( 84 ), shows increasing success for high intra-abdominal gonads ( 72 , 85 , 86 ). The prognosis for fertility, the primary aim of orchidopexy, remains uncertain ( 61 ),( 87-89 ). However, extensive review of the recent literature suggests improved outcomes with very early surgery ( 89 , 90 ). Now that early germ cell maturation in the first year is known to be deranged, improved fertility is to be expected with very early orchidopexy ( 88-90 ). Unfortunately, it will be a few more years before the long-term outcome of this new consensus policy is known. The risk of malignancy was previously calculated to be 5 -10 times greater than normal for a man with a history of unilateral cryptorchidism ( 91-95 ) when surgery was performed in mid-childhood. The risk in a future generation for men who underwent orchidopexy in infancy is unknown at present, but is anticipated to be much lower than in the past, as supported by preliminary evidence ( 90 ) . Some clinical features are associated with statistically better outcomes, and include testes near the neck of the scrotum,
