Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


in the past, as supported by preliminary evidence ( 90 ) . Some clinical features are associated with statistically better outcomes, and include testes near the neck of the scrotum, and ascending or retractile testes (see below), where malignancy risk is now thought to be similar to men without cryptorchidism in childhood ( 61 , 89 ). Poor prognostic factors are primary testicular or epididymal dysplasia, intra-abdominal or intra-canalicular position, associated strangulated inguinal hernia and (possibly) surgery late in childhood or adolescence ( 96 ). ACQUIRED CRYPTORCHIDISM Retractile Testes Retraction of the testis out of the scrotum secondary to reflex contraction of the cremaster muscle is both normal and common and is involved in temperature control and protecting the testis from trauma. The reflex is absent or weak at birth and becomes more active after one year, reaching a peak in 5-10 year-old boys ( 97 ). Many testes are erroneously described as "retractile" when they can be pulled down into the scrotum during the physical examination but retract back out of the scrotum on release. This retractability is assumed to be secondary to cremasteric activity, but an alternative explanation has been proposed recently, which is that the malposition may be caused by failure of the spermatic cord to elongate with age ( 98 ). Since the distance from external inguinal ring to the bottom of the scrotum increases from 5 cm at birth to 8-10 cm at 10 years of age, the spermatic cord must double in length to keep the testis in the scrotum during the first decade. Preliminary evidence suggests that failure of complete obliteration of the processus vaginalis may prevent normal postnatal elongation of the vas and vessels ( 99 ) ( Fig. 2 ). Figure 2. Acquired cryptorchidism occurs when the spermatic cord fails to elongate in proportion to growth between birth and late childhood. This figure shows what happens between birth and 5-10 years of age when the spermatic cord does not elongate with age. Ascending Testes The ascending testis is a special variant of acquired maldescent, in which there is delayed postnatal descent of the testis in the first three months after birth ( 100 ), ( 101 ). Follow-up studies suggest that subsequent "ascent" of the testis is common later in childhood ( 102-104 )). The cause for ascending testes is not resolved, with the only well-documented cause being neuronal dysfunction as
