Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


subsequent "ascent" of the testis is common later in childhood ( 102-104 )). The cause for ascending testes is not resolved, with the only well-documented cause being neuronal dysfunction as seen in children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia ( 105 ). In normal children, the explanation is likely to be persistence of the processus vaginalis, either patent or as a fibrous remnant ( 106 ). Management of Acquired Cryptorchidism Both “retractile” and ascending testes are likely to be different names for what is, in effect, acquired cryptorchidism caused by persistence of the processus vaginalis ( 107-110 ). The normal spermatic cord elongates gradually with growth, and hence acquired cryptorchidism develops insidiously, presenting mostly between 5 and 10 years of age ( 111 ). Orchidopexy is recommended by some authors once the testis can no longer reside spontaneously in the scrotum, and can be performed in the standard manner or by a scrotal approach ( 112 ). Once the fibrous remnant of the processus vaginalis is divided, the testis can reach the scrotum easily. In The Netherlands recently there has been a consensus to treat acquired cryptorchidism conservatively ( 113 ), with follow-up suggesting a poor outcome for fertility ( 114 ). However, whether early treatment by orchidopexy will improve the prognosis for fertility is not yet known. The prognosis for this special group is probably much better than for congenital cryptorchidism, as the testis is normally located in the scrotum during infancy ( 89 ), ( 115 , 116 ), when germ cell maturation is occurring. Unfortunately, previous studies of outcome for fertility and malignancy have not discriminated between congenital and acquired cryptorchidism, but recent studies suggest a mild suppression of fertility and little risk of malignancy ( 61 ),( 89 ). The frequency of acquired cryptorchidism, may account for up to half of all children coming to orchidopexy ( 111 ),( 117 ). HYPOSPADIAS The primitive phallus begins to enlarge at 8 weeks of development in the male, in response to fetal androgens. The inner genital folds fuse in the midline in association with elongation and canalization of the endodermal urethral plate on the penile shaft, to create the anterior urethra up to the coronal groove by about 12 weeks’ gestation, while the urethra within the glans forms in mid-gestation by canalization of the endoderm forming the distal urethral plate ( 118 , 119 ). The preputial skin
