Cryptorchidism and Hypospadias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cryptorchidism, testis, testes, testicular, undescended, descent, scrotum, pediatr, hypospadias, development, urol, age, hutson, urol pubmed


12 weeks’ gestation, while the urethra within the glans forms in mid-gestation by canalization of the endoderm forming the distal urethral plate ( 118 , 119 ). The preputial skin forms from low folds on the dorsum of the shaft at the corona, eventually covering the entire glans ( 118 ). Recent evidence suggests that some of the effects of androgen in penile development may be mediated by aromatization to estrogen, and estrogen receptors (ERα and ERβ) are located in the developing prepuce, glans and urethral plate ( 120 ). Failure of urethral canalization and fusion leads to hypospadias (Greek for "hole underneath"), with secondary deficiency of the ventral prepuce ("dorsal hood") and relative deficiency in growth of the peri-urethral tissues compared with the corpora cavernosa, leading to "chordee", or ventral curvature of the penis ( 121 ), ( Fig. 3 ). Figure 3. Hypospadias is associated with a) failure of the urethral meatus to be located on the tip of the glans, and failed ventral fusion of the prepuce, causing a ‘dorsal hood’; and b) inadequate growth of the ventral shaft around the urethra, leading to bend, known as chordee. Hypospadias occurs in one in every 100-300 boys, depending on the criteria used for diagnosis ( 122 ). About 10% of patients with hypospadias have a sibling or father with the anomaly, suggesting a polygenic inheritance pattern ( 123 ). The severity of the anomaly varies widely, from a perineal opening to an opening on the proximal glans, or even chordee with a normal urethral meatus. Care is needed in diagnosis, as some infants with a disorder of sex development (DSD) and ambiguous genitalia may be diagnosed as "simple hypospadias” ( 124 ). Since hypospadias is an anatomical anomaly of anterior urethral development, the rest of the external (and also internal) genitalia should be normal. Patients with DSD, by contrast, have a more extensive genital anomaly, reflecting the failure of all androgen-dependent development. A useful rule-of-thumb is to assume that any baby with "hypospadias", as well as an undescended testis and/or bifid scrotum, should be investigated for DSD, with immediate hormonal, chromosomal and anatomical studies. Immediate gender assignment as male is only safe when the scrotum is fused and both testes are descended fully (i.e., androgen-dependent genital development is normal). Surgical treatment is required to reconstruct the penis in hypospadias ( 125-127 ). Despite numerous different operative techniques available,
