Use of Bioelectronics in the Gastrointestinal Tract
KEYWORDS: stimulation, gastric, electrical, electrodes, patients, chenjd, nerve, motility, www, gro, enicidemnisevitcepsrep, constipation, gro enicidemnisevitcepsrep, enicidemnisevitcepsrep www, gastroparesis


mainly activates nerves. level, one can look at the smooth and skeletal For example, intestinal electrical stimulation muscle cells and the neural cells and ganglia (IES)appliedtotheduodenumofratshasshown within the GI tract. At a histologic level, one inhibitory effects on food intake and body can evaluatethemuscle thatmakes up the cir- weight . It was shown that cular,longitudinalsmoothmuscleandthemus- thepulsewidthchoicedirectlyaffectsthemod- cularispropriawithinthewalloftheGItract.At ulation of the intestine . An anorganlevel,onecanlookatthecoordination example of electrical stimulation of nerves is of the muscle layers as they contract to propel use of a gastric pacemaker for treating nausea luminalcontentsthroughtheGItractandatthe and vomiting . Direct nerve innervationofeachoftheorgansbythesympa- stimulationcanalsobeused,forexample,sacral theticandparasympatheticnervoussystem.Fi- nerve stimulation (SNS) has been successfully nally,atasystemslevel,onecandeterminehow used for treating fecal incontinence. Most re- 2 CitethisarticleasColdSpringHarbPerspectMed2019;9:a034165 gro.enicidemnisevitcepsrep.www BioelectronicsintheGastrointestinalTract cently, spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has been few milliamperes (1mA–10mA), whereas for proposedasapotentialtherapyforgastroparesis nerve the amplitudes are often in the range of and functional dyspepsia hundreds of microamperes. It is worth noting (Songetal.2017).Inaddition,thevagusnerve thatsomeinvestigatorshaveappliedafewmilli- canbeelectricallystimulateddirectly.Transcu- amperes intensityto larger nerve bundles such taneous electrical modulation methods have asvagusnerveinmammals. been explored as a potential therapy for func- tionalconstipation(Zhangetal.2014). Frequency The frequency of the stimulation varies from METHODSANDPARAMETERSOF verylowfrequenciesclosertonaturalfrequency STIMULATION:LONGPULSE,SHORT of the motility in the GI tract to medium PULSE,PULSETRAIN,INFERENTIAL frequencies in the range of tens of hertz, to CURRENTSTIMULATION extremely high frequencies in the range of a Electricalstimulationhasbeenusedasatherapy fewkilohertz.Thefrequencychoicedirectlyde- forGImotilitydisorders.Electricalstimulation pends on the application. For example, high- can be adjusted based on the waveform of frequency electrical stimulations in the range the stimulation, amplitude, pulse width, fre- of a few kilohertz (5kHz–10kHz) applied to quency, and duty cycle (burst patterns). In the the nerves can block the conduction of neural following, we have discussed each stimulation activity throughthe nerve. Blockage applied to parameter, its range, and potentially widely thevagusnerveisthemethodusedinanFDA- usedcombinations. approvedtherapyforobesityknownasVBLOC. Waveform DutyCycle Traditionally,squarewaveseitherintheformof Often,trainsofstimulationpulsesareinterrupted monophasicor biphasic pulses have been used withsilentperiods.Dutycycle,alsocalled“pulse for stimulation. The biphasic pulses can be train”or“burst”stimulation,definestheon-and eitherchargebalancedorimbalanced,meaning off-timeperiodsofthestimulationpulses. thattheamountofchargedeliveredtothetissue canbeidenticalordifferentinpositiveorneg- Pulse-Width ativephasesofthestimulation.Comparedwith monophasic,biphasicpulsescauselessdamage Short-pulseandlong-pulsestimulationoftenre- to the electrodes or tissues. There have been ferred to as low- and high-energy stimulation studies that investigated other waveforms such have been studied extensively in the GI field. assinusoidal,triangle,risingexponential,rising Longpulsesareoftenintherangeoftentohun- ramp,anddecayingexponentialpulses(Bennie dredsofmilliseconds,whereastheshortpulses etal.2002;Wongsarnpigoonetal.2010;Nielsen are in the range of hundreds of microseconds. etal.2017;Yipetal.2017);however,thenumber The high-energy pulses applied directly to the of these studies is limited compared with the muscle tissue has been shown to modulate the studies that used square waves as the shape of stomach(Linetal.1998,2011;McCallumetal. stimulationpulses. 2010).Thefrequencyofpulsesisoftencloseto the stomach’s natural frequency that is three cycles per minute. However,
