Use of Bioelectronics in the Gastrointestinal Tract
KEYWORDS: stimulation, gastric, electrical, electrodes, patients, chenjd, nerve, motility, www, gro, enicidemnisevitcepsrep, constipation, gro enicidemnisevitcepsrep, enicidemnisevitcepsrep www, gastroparesis


tissue has been shown to modulate the studies that used square waves as the shape of stomach(Linetal.1998,2011;McCallumetal. stimulationpulses. 2010).Thefrequencyofpulsesisoftencloseto the stomach’s natural frequency that is three cycles per minute. However, because of the Amplitude/Intensity shortageinappropriatedevices(mainly,battery The amplitude of the stimulation pulses often limitations),andelectrodeerosionhigh-energy varies depending on the delivery target, that stimulationhasnotbeenusedinchronicclinical is, muscle or nerve. The amplitudes used to practices. Low-energy stimulation is typically stimulate muscle are often in the range of a delivered with a pulse-width on the order of a CitethisarticleasColdSpringHarbPerspectMed2019;9:a034165 3 gro.enicidemnisevitcepsrep.www L.Milleretal. fewhundredmicroseconds,atfrequenciesrang- circumferentially and distally. Motility in the ing from 5Hz to 100Hz, and may improve distalregionisimportantinemptyingthestom- symptomssuchasnausea,vomiting,andbloat- ach and pushing solids into the duodenum. ing (O’Gradyet al. 2009; Deb et al.2012).The Multichannel stimulation applied sequentially best example of low-energy stimulation is the fromthegreatercurvature(proximalstomach) Enterra therapy that has been used to treat todistalstomachcanbeeffectiveinavoidingthe nauseaandvomitingsymptomsingastroparesis retrogradepacing,whichresultsinthesolidsto patients.Thepulse-widthinthiscaseisoftenset bepushedbackinthewrongdirection. at330µs,andpulsesareappliedat14Hz,with the duty cycle of 0.1sec “on” and 5sec “off” Dual-PulseStimulation intervals. Using multiple stimulation electrodes or Combining high- and low-energy pulses, Qi stimulation configuration, other stimulation et al. (2007) have shown that the dual-pulse methodologies have been derived from the modulationappliedtotheintestineispotential- aforementionedstimulationprotocols.Figure1 ly effective in both normalizing dysrhythmia showsthreeofthemostcommontypesofstim- andimprovingnauseaandvomitingsymptoms. ulation configurations used to stimulate the This study, which was performed on canines, stomach.Presentationofallstimulationconfig- benefits from the therapeutic effects of both urationsisnotpossibleinthisreview;however, longandshortpulses. examplesofsomeimportantonesfollow. InterferentialCurrentStimulation MultichannelStimulation Inthismethod,twosites(ormore)willbestim- More than one channel is used to deliverelec- ulatedatdifferentfrequencies(sinusoidalwave- trical stimulation to multiple locations (Chen form)intherangeofafewkilohertz.Theresult- et al. 2005). For example, Song et al. (2005) ed stimulation (also called beat) at the cross- andMintchevetal.(1998)haveusedtwo-chan- section of the two stimulation locations will nelandfour-channelstimulationconfigurations have a lower frequency equal to the difference thatweredirectlyappliedtothestomachintheir between the two stimulating frequencies. The studies. interferentialstimulationisoftenappliedtrans- The justification for multichannel stimula- cutaneously and allows the penetration of the tion of the stomach is to mimic normal func- beat frequency to deeper tissue, where direct tionalityofthestomachmotilitythatpropagates applicationoflow-frequencystimulationcannot Pulse width (PW) = ~300 µsec ~70 msec Amplitude = ~4 mA Low energy Proximal electrodes Source PW = ~300 msec Sink ~20 sec Stimulator High energy Off time Pulse train Distal electrodes On time Figure1.Placementofthestimulationelectrodesontheproximalanddistallocationsonthegreatercurvatureis shown. The electrodes are connected to a current stimulator device with source and sink. Three common stimulationtypes,includinglow-energy,high-energy,andpulse-trainstimulationsandrelatedparametersfor eachstimulation,isshown. 4 CitethisarticleasColdSpringHarbPerspectMed2019;9:a034165 gro.enicidemnisevitcepsrep.www BioelectronicsintheGastrointestinalTract penetrate. This method is used in treating and applied the electrode on the serosa of the constipation (Hutson et al. 2015; Iqbal et al. stomachtomapthegastricslowwaveactivity. 2016b). Other types of intramuscular electrodes have been
