Use of Bioelectronics in the Gastrointestinal Tract
KEYWORDS: stimulation, gastric, electrical, electrodes, patients, chenjd, nerve, motility, www, gro, enicidemnisevitcepsrep, constipation, gro enicidemnisevitcepsrep, enicidemnisevitcepsrep www, gastroparesis


is used in treating and applied the electrode on the serosa of the constipation (Hutson et al. 2015; Iqbal et al. stomachtomapthegastricslowwaveactivity. 2016b). Other types of intramuscular electrodes have been used to either record or stimulate the GI tract. These electrodes, which are also SynchronizedStimulation used in the cardiology field, are either in the form of needle or have a helical tip (similar to Conventionally, stimulation has been applied screw) that can be affixed in the muscle tissue. withoutthoroughconsiderationoftheintrinsic Mostoftheseelectrodesarecommerciallyavail- frequencyofslowwaves.However,synchroniz- able,andareusedinclinicalpractices.Tempo- ingthestimulation,especiallyhigh-energystim- rary gastric stimulation is a good example of ulation,whichresultsinmotility,canpotentially theuseoftheseelectrodesthatwereimplanted enhance contractions and result in accelerated through an endoscopy procedure in patients transit in the stomach and intestine (Yin and withgastroparesis(Ayinalaetal.2005). Chen 2007). Synchronized stimulation is the Electrodesinterfacingperipheralnervesare basis for closed-loop and smart modulation of generallydividedintoextraneuralandintraneu- theGItract (Wangetal.2018). ralcategories.Theextraneuralelectrodesareless invasive, and can be as simple as a pair of L- shapedorU-shapedAg/AgClwiresthatcanbe TYPESOFELECTRODES hookedtothenerve.Epineuralelectrodescanbe Varioustypesofelectrodeshavebeendeveloped alsousedtorecordandstimulate. for neuromuscular stimulation and record- Inrecentdecades,novelelectrodeswiththe ing. Generally speaking, these electrodes can capabilityofdeliveringmoreprecisestimulation becategorizedbasedontheirshapes,materials, with high resolution to the nerve has been de- charge transfer mechanisms, biocompatibility, veloped using microelectromechanical systems and invasiveness. In this section, we intend to (MEMS) fabrication technologies. Cuff and only review the common electrodes used to helicoidalelectrodesareexamplesofextraneural stimulate neuromuscular tissue in the GI field. electrodes that can be wrapped around the Comprehensive review of each category is dis- nerve, and often record compound action po- cussed elsewhere (Merrill et al. 2005; Navarro tentialsorstimulatethenerve.Theseelectrodes et al. 2005; Cogan 2008; Kim and Romero- can have multiple stimulation/recording sites, Ortega2012). andconformtotheshapeofthenerve.Another Surfaceelectrodesaretheonlynoninvasive prominent example of extraneural electrodes electrodes that are placed over the skin of withmultiplestimulatingsitesistheonesused the subject. These electrodes made from Ag/ forSCS. AgClhavebeenusedtodelivertranscutaneous Intraneural electrodes are more invasive electrical stimulation(TES) (e.g., ininterferen- comparedwithextraneural;however,havehigh- tial stimulation) or record electrogastrograms erspecificityinrecordingandstimulation.Utah whenplacedontheabdominalarea.Similarto slantedarray(USEA)isanexampleofsuchelec- surface electrodes, epimysial and epineurial trodesthathave48to96siliconmicroelectrodes electrodes have been used for invasive contact with varying lengths from 0.5mm to 1.5mm with muscle and nerve, respectively. The con- (Mathews et al. 2014; Warket al. 2015). These cept of surface electrodes has been used to de- microelectrodespenetratethenerveandcanbe velopelectrodeswithmorebutsmallercontacts. randomlyinterfacedwithvarioustypesoffibers. These electrodes, which are embedded on a Because USEA is not flexible, it does not con- biocompatible flexible material, are often used formtotheshapeofthenerve.Thus,tointerface for higher resolution purposes. For example, with neural ganglia, microelectrode arrays fab- Du et al. (2009) developed an electrode with ricatedonflexiblesubstratehasbeendeveloped 32 contacts on flexible printed circuit board, (Zachariahetal.2018). CitethisarticleasColdSpringHarbPerspectMed2019;9:a034165 5 gro.enicidemnisevitcepsrep.www L.Milleretal. SPECIFICDISEASESTARGETEDCLINICAL from 10% to
