Use of Bioelectronics in the Gastrointestinal Tract
KEYWORDS: stimulation, gastric, electrical, electrodes, patients, chenjd, nerve, motility, www, gro, enicidemnisevitcepsrep, constipation, gro enicidemnisevitcepsrep, enicidemnisevitcepsrep www, gastroparesis


Maggard et al. 2005). Although gastroparesis but to a lesser degree. Electrical nonoperative and pharmacologic weight loss therapiesforfunctionaldyspepsiausenoninva- therapies have met with only limited success, delivered via needles or electrodes placed at frequentlygastricbypassandgastricsleeve,are acupuncturepoints.Thismethodiscalledtrans- becoming increasingly common (Brolin 2002; cutaneous electroacupuncture (TEA). For the Holzwarth et al. 2002; Livingston 2002; Buch- therapy to be effective, electrical stimulation wald et al. 2004). However, the decision to must be performed on a daily basis because undergosurgeryisadifficultone.Patientswho theeffect ofelectrical stimulation does not last choose to undergo gastric bypass are at risk longerthan24h(YinandChen2010). fordevelopingmetabolic/nutritionalcomplica- In one study, 27 patients with functional tions,resultingfromthelong-termmalabsorp- dyspepsia were treated with TEA or sham- tive effects of gastric bypass and food intake TEAtwicedailyfor2weeksusing atranscuta- restriction. Long-term complications of gastric neous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) unit bypass including anemia secondary to iron or (Liuetal.2008).Therewasasignificantlygreater B deficiency, mineral deficiencies (hypokale- decrease in symptoms in the TEA group than miaandhypomagnesia),andbonediseaseasso- the sham-TEA group. Vagal activity was in- ciatedwithsecondaryhyperparathyroidismare creased with both acute and chronic TEA and not uncommon (De Prisco and Levine 2005; neuropeptideYwasincreasedwithchronicTEA. Fujioka2005). Inanothercrossoverstudy(Jietal.2014),itwas Themechanismofactionof GESfor treat- reportedthatTEAbutnotsham-TEAimproved ment of obesity appears most likely to induce dyspepticsymptomsby35%,andqualityoflife, satiety by modulation of the gut–brain neural gastric emptying, and gastric accommodation axis, gut peptide hormone release, and gastric byvariousdegrees. motor activity . There have been anumberofdevicesandanumberoftrialsused to treatobesity. Adevice called Transcend was NeurostimulationtoTreatObesity used between 2002 and 2006. In open-labeled Obesity,asdefinedbyabodymassindex(BMI) studies, this device appeared to work well of30kg/m2ormore,isarapidlygrowingprob- (Championetal.2006).However,inarandom- lem, currently affecting >30% of adults in the ized controlled trial there was no difference in United States (Flegal et al. 2002; Hedley et al. weight loss between the stimulation group and 2004). Morbid obesity is defined by a BMI of the sham treatment . In 40kg/m2 or more or a BMI of 35kg/m2 or trialsusingadevicecalledTantalus,therewere more in the presence of comorbidities (Brolin variable outcome measures. Reports indicate 2002; Flegal et al. 2002). Obesity is commonly ∼20%excessweightlossandimprovedglycemic associatedwithmanyseriousmedicaldisorders, control in diabetic patients (Bohdjalian et al. includingheartdisease,diabetes,hypertension, 2006, 2009a,b; Policker et al. 2009; Sanmiguel dyslipidemia,osteoarthritis,andsleepapnea.In et al. 2009). Another commercially available addition, ∼300,000 adults in the United States technology—termed VBLOC—involves surgical dieeachyearasaresultofobesity-relatedcauses placement of cuff-like electrodes around the (Allisonetal.1999). anterior and posterior vagal trunks at the The primary treatment objective for obese level of the esophageal hiatus in the abdomen. patientsisweightreduction,whichcanimprove There is onlyone published study on VBLOC: comorbidconditionsandalsoreducesriskfac- EMPOWER, a randomized controlled trial, torsfordisease.Evenmoderateweightloss(5%– comprising 294 patients from 15 U.S. centers. 10%
