TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


contributing significantly to the final organ. Autonomous activity of the receptor will cause clonal expansion of the mutated cell. If the regulatory cascade also positively controls function, the resulting tumor may progressively take over the function of the normal tissue and ultimately result in autonomous hyperfunction. If the mutation is present in all cells of an organism (germline mutation) autonomy will be displayed by the whole organ. From what we know of thyroid cell physiology it is easy to predict the phenotypes associated with gain-of-function of the cAMP-dependent regulatory cascade. Two observations provide pertinent models of this situation. Transgenic mice made to express ectopically the adenosine A2a receptor in their thyroid display severe hyperthyroidism associated with thyroid hyperplasia (1). As the A2a adenosine receptor is coupled to Gs and displays constitutive activity due to its continuous stimulation by ambient adenosine (2), this model mimics closely the situation expected for a gain-of-function germline mutation of the TSHR. Patients with the McCune-Albright syndrome are mosaïc for mutations in the Gs protein (Gsp mutations) leading to the constitutive stimulation of adenylyl-cyclase (3). Hyperfunctioning thyroid adenomas develop in these patients from cells harboring the mutation, making them a model for gain-of-function somatic mutations of the TSHR. A transgenic model in which Gsp mutations are targeted for expression in the mouse thyroid has been constructed. Though with a less dramatic phenotype this represents also a pertinent model for a gain-of-function of the cAMP regulatory cascade (4). Since the TSHR is capable of activating both Gs and Gq (though with lower potency) the question arises whether mutations with a different effect on the two cascades would be associated with different phenotypes. Studies in mice (5) and rare patients (6) suggests that activation of Gq may be required to observe goitrogenesis in patients with non-autoimmune familial hyperthyroidism. However, when tested in transfected non-thyroid cells, all identified gain-of-function mutations of the TSHR stimulate constitutively Gs, with only a minority capable of stimulating both Gs and Gq (7,8). Also, thyroid adenomas or multinodular goitre are frequent in McCune Albright syndrome , which is characterized by pure Gs stimulation (9). Familial non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism or hereditary toxic thyroid hyperplasia The major cause of hyperthyroidism in adults is Graves' disease in which an autoimmune reaction is mounted against the thyroid gland and auto-antibodies are produced that recognize and stimulate the TSHR (10,11). This may explain why the initial description by the group
