TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


an autoimmune reaction is mounted against the thyroid gland and auto-antibodies are produced that recognize and stimulate the TSHR (10,11). This may explain why the initial description by the group of Leclère of a family showing segregation of thyrotoxicosis as an autosomal dominant trait in the absence of signs of autoimmunity was met with skepticism (12). Re-investigation of this family together with another family from Reims identified two mutations of the TSHR gene, which segregated in perfect linkage with the disease (13). A series of additional families have been studied since (14-28) [Figure 1 and Table 1 , For a completed list of naturally occurring TSHR single amino acid substitutions with their functional characteristics, see the glycoprotein hormone receptor information resource “SSFA” (29,30) available under: http://www.ssfa-gphr.de]. The functional characteristics of these mutant receptors confirm that they are constitutively stimulated (see below). This nosological entity, hereditary toxic thyroid hyperplasia (HTTH), sometimes called Leclère’s disease, is characterized by the following clinical characteristics: autosomal dominant transmission; hyperthyroidism with a variable age of onset (from infancy to adulthood, even within a given family); hyperplastic goiter of variable size, but with a steady growth; absence of clinical or biological stigmata of auto-immunity. An observation common to most cases is the need for drastic ablative therapy (surgery or radioiodine) in order to control the disease, once the patient has become hyperthyroid (13,31). The autonomous nature of the thyroid tissue from these patients has been elegantly demonstrated by grafting in nude mice (32). Contrary to tissue from Graves' disease patients, HTTH cells continue to grow in the absence of stimulation by TSH or TSAb. The prevalence of hereditary toxic thyroid hyperplasia is difficult to estimate. It is likely that many cases are still mistaken for Graves' disease. This may be explained by the high frequency of thyroid auto-antibodies (anti-thyroglobulin, anti-thyroperoxidase) in the general population. It is expected that wider knowledge of the existence of the disease will lead to better diagnosis. This is not a purely academic problem, since presymptomatic diagnosis in children of affected families may prevent the developmental or psychological complications associated with infantile or juvenile hyperthyroidism (for a review, see (33)). A country-wide screening for the condition has been performed in Denmark. It was found in one out of 121 patients with juvenile thyrotoxicosis (0.8%; 95% CI: 0.02-4.6%), which corresponds to one in 17 patients with presumed non-autoimmune juvenile thyrotoxicosis (6%; 95% CI:0.15-28.69) (34).
