TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


found in one out of 121 patients with juvenile thyrotoxicosis (0.8%; 95% CI: 0.02-4.6%), which corresponds to one in 17 patients with presumed non-autoimmune juvenile thyrotoxicosis (6%; 95% CI:0.15-28.69) (34). Sporadic toxic thyroid hyperplasia Cases with toxic thyroid hyperplasia have been described in children born from unaffected parents (35-39). Conspicuously, congenital hyperthyroidism was present in most of the cases and required aggressive treatment. Mutations of one TSHR allele were identified in the children, but were absent in the parents. As paternity was confirmed by mini- or microsatellite testing, these cases qualify as true neo-mutations. When comparing the amino acid substitutions implicated in hereditary and sporadic cases, for the majority, they do not overlap (see Table 1 ). Whereas most of the sporadic cases harbor mutations that are also found in toxic adenomas, most of the hereditary cases have "private" mutations. Although there may be exceptions, the analysis of the functional characteristics of the individual mutant receptors in COS cells, and the clinical course of individual patients, suggest an explanation for this observation: "sporadic" and somatic mutations seem to have a stronger activating effect than "hereditary" mutations (40). From their severe phenotypes, it is likely that newborns with neo-mutations would not have survived, if not treated efficiently. On the contrary, from inspection of the available pedigrees, it seems that the milder phenotype of patients with “hereditary" mutations has only limited effect on reproductive fitness. The fact that "hereditary" mutations are rarely observed in toxic adenomas is compatible with the suggestion that they would cause extremely slow tissue growth and, accordingly, would rarely cause thyrotoxicosis if somatic. There is, however, no a priori reason for neo-mutations to cause stronger gain-of-function than hereditary mutations. Accordingly, an activating mutation of the TSHR gene has been found in a six month child with subclinical hyperthyroidism presenting with weight loss as the initial symptom (41). Somatic mutations: autonomous toxic adenomas Soon after mutations of Gαs had been found in adenomas of the pituitary somatotrophs (42), similar mutations (also called Gsp mutations) were found in some toxic thyroid adenomas and follicular carcinomas (43-46). The mutated residues (Arg201, Glu227) are homologous to those found mutated in the ras proto-oncogenes: i.e. the mutations decrease the endogenous GTPase activity of the G protein, resulting in a constitutively active molecule. Toxic adenomas were found to be a fruitful source of somatic mutations activating the TSHR, probably because the phenotype is very
