TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


receptor for which homologous structural information is available. The leucine-rich repeat domain (LRRD) and the hinge region are both harboring determinants for hormone (TSH model (surface) based on the FSH structure (82)) and antibody binding. The hinge region (colored pink) structurally links the LRRD with the serpentine domain made of transmembrane helices (H) 1-7 connected by intracellular (I1-3) and extracellular (E1-3) loops. Three cysteine bridges (yellow spheres) between the C-terminal LRRD and the C-terminus of the hinge region are indicated that are required for correct receptor arrangement and function. Wild type positions of constitutively activating mutations are indicated by side-chain representation (red sticks). Right: The known activating mutations (Table 1) are distributed over the entire serpentine portion of the receptor structure with clustering in the central core and specifically in helix 6. In contrast to other glycoprotein-hormone receptors (GPHRs), naturally occurring activating mutations were also identified in the extracellular loops and in the hinge region (Ser281). Structure-function relationships of the TSHR An important observation has been that the wild-type TSHR itself displays significant constitutive activity [(83,47) and review (84)]. This characteristic is not exceptional amongst GPCRs (e.g. (85)), but interestingly, it is not shared, at least to the same level, by its close relatives, the human luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin (LH/CG) receptor (LHCGR) and the human follitropin (FSH) receptor (FSHR). Compared to the TSHR, the LHCGR displays minimal basal activity and the human FSH receptor is totally silent (86). Together with the observation that mutations in residues distributed over most of the serpentine portion of the TSHR are equally effective in activating it (which does not seem to be a general characteristic in all GPCRs) this suggests that the unliganded TSHR might be less constrained than other GPCRs. As a consequence, being already “noisy” it would be more prone to further destabilization by a wide variety of mutations affecting multiple structural elements (Figure 1). The effect of activating mutations must accordingly be interpreted in terms of “increase in constitutive activity”. Most constitutively active mutant receptors (also referred to as “CAMs”) found in toxic adenomas and/or toxic thyroid hyperplasia share common characteristics: i) they increase the constitutive activity of the receptor toward stimulation of adenylyl cyclase; ii) with a few notable exceptions (see Table 1 and below) (48), they do not display constitutive activity toward the inositol phosphate/diacylglycerol pathway; iii) their expression at the cell surface is decreased (from slightly to severely);
