TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


has been observed between adenylylcyclase stimulation and differentiation than with growth (88). However, the built-in amplification associated with transfection of constructs in COS or HEK 293T cells has the advantage of allowing detection of even slight increases in constitutive activity of certain TSHR mutants. According to a current model of GPCR activation, the receptor would exist under at least two interconverting conformations: R (silent conformations) and R* (active forms) (89,55,90,91) (Figure 2). The unliganded wild type receptor would shuttle between both forms, the equilibrium being in favor of R (90). Binding of the agonistic ligand is believed to stabilize the R* conformation. Figure 2 Legend to figure 2: Left. Schematic representation of the equilibria between inactive (R) and active (R*) conformations of TSHR. The triangles indicate the equilibrium point of the wild type receptor (pink) and hypothetical mutants with increasing constitutive activity (brown, red). The situation of a receptor which would be devoid of basal activity is also indicated (blue triangle). Note that the wild type receptor (pink) has basal activity. Right. The concentration action curves corresponding to the hypothetical mutants and wild type receptors are indicated with the same color code. The resulting R-to-R* transition was supposed to involve a conformational change that modifies the relative position of transmembrane helices to each other, which in turn would translate into conformational changes in the cytoplasmic crevice between the intracellular loops and transmembrane helices interacting with the hetero-trimeric G-protein. This model is strongly supported by solved crystal structures of active GPCR conformations (59,61) reviewed in (92)]. They reveal that receptor activation and signal transduction is characterized by specific movements of transmembrane helices (TMHs) 5, 6 and 7 leading to modification of their distances relative to each other. Helix 6 is a major player in this process, its cytoplasmic end moves away from that of TMH3 by turning around a pivotal helix-kink. The result is an “opening” of the cytoplasmic crevice of the receptor allowing interaction with the G protein (59). (A more detailed description of the activation mechanics, adapted to a model of the TSHR, is given in the legend to Figure 3.) This essential function of TMH6 for determination of an active state (59,61) might explain, why most activating TSHR mutations were found in this particular helix (Figure 1). This conclusion is in accordance with the early concept that the silent form of GPCRs would be submitted to structural constraints
