TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


silencing locks (arrows). From comparison of the inactive and active rhodopsin (59) or beta-2 adrenoreceptor structures (61), the largest spatial movement affects TMH6, involving a combination of horizontal and rotational (wound arrow) movements around a pivotal helix-kink at a proline (TSHR Pro639). These global changes result in the partial “opening” of the intra-helical crevice on the cytoplasmic side of the receptor (horizontal double-head arrows), allowing complete binding and activation of G-proteins. In addition to the release of structural locks stabilizing the inactive conformation of GPCRs, activation of the GPHRs has been shown to involve a triggering mechanism exerted by an “intramolecular agonist” constituted by segments of the exoloops and the C-terminal portion of their ectodomain (94-96). According to this model, it is this module, activated by the binding of TSH, thyroid stimulating auto-antibodies, thyrostimulin (97,98) or mutations (see below) which would be the immediate agonist of the serpentine portion of the receptor (94,95,99,96,100,101). In all cases, however, mutations are expected to affect the local three dimensional structure of the receptor with a resulting global effect on its activation state. Amongst these are modification of “knob and hole” interactions (e.g. by repulsion) in tightly packed local microdomains and breakage, or creation of intramolecular interactions by changing the biophysical characteristics of side chains (e.g. (6)). As exclusive examples of these, mutations at Asp633 (57,102) or Asp619 (47) are expected to break interhelical locks between transmembrane helices 6 and 7 or 3, respectively. Interestingly, even mutations affecting an important residue of the trigger in the ectodomain (Ser281) seem also to be responsible for a “loss-of-local structure”. Indeed, substitution of the wild type residue (serine) by almost any amino acid results in constitutive activation (103,104). This implicates that predictions of phenotype-genotype relationships must always be considered with much caution if they are not backed by detailed structural and functional knowledge. Familial gestational hyperthyroidism Some degree of stimulation of the thyroid gland by human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) is commonly observed during early pregnancy. It is usually responsible for decrease in serum thyrotropin with an increase in free thyroxine concentrations that remains within the normal range (for references see (105)). When the concentrations of hCG are abnormally high, like in molar pregnancy, true hyperthyroidism may ensue. The pathophysiological mechanism is believed to be the promiscuous stimulation of the TSHR by excess hCG, as suggested by the rough direct or inverse relation between serum hCG and free
