TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


The pathophysiological mechanism is believed to be the promiscuous stimulation of the TSHR by excess hCG, as suggested by the rough direct or inverse relation between serum hCG and free T4 or TSH concentrations, respectively (106,105). A convincing rationale is provided by the close structural relationships of the glycoprotein hormones and their receptors, respectively (107). A new syndrome has been described in 1998 in a family with dominant transmission of hyperthyroidism limited to pregnancy (Figure 4) (108). The proposita and her mother had severe thyrotoxicosis together with hyperemesis gravidarum during the course of each of their pregnancies. When non pregnant they were clinically and biologically euthyroid. Both patients were heterozygous for a K183R mutation in the extracellular amino-terminal domain (Figure 3) of the TSHR gene. When tested by transient transfection in COS cells, the mutant receptor displayed normal characteristics towards TSH. However, providing a convincing explanation to the phenotype, it showed higher sensitivity to stimulation by hCG, when compared with wild type TSHR (108). The amino acid substitution responsible for the promiscuous stimulation of the TSHR by hCG is surprisingly conservative. Also surprising is the observation that residue 183 is a lysine in both the TSH and LH/CG receptors. When placed on the available three dimensional model of the hormone-binding domain of the TSHR (109), residue 183 belongs to one of the beta-sheets which constitute the putative surface of interaction with the hormones (Figure 3). Figure 4 Legend to figure 4: Familial gestational hyperthyroidism secondary to mutation of the TSHR gene. Upper panel displays the pedigree, with the two ladies affected, together with a “snake plot “of the TSHR, with the mutation indicated. Lower right panel illustrates the increased sensitivity of the K183R mutant TSHR vis-à-vis hCG. Binding of TSH, or hCG to the ectodomain of the TSHR, according to models based on crystallographic data from (110,82) is visualized in figure 3. Detailed analysis of the effect of the K183R mutation by site-directed mutagenesis indicated that any amino acid substitution at this position confers a slight increase in stability to the illegitimate hCG/TSHR complex (111). This increase in stability would be enough to cause signal transduction by the hCG concentrations achieved in pregnancy, but not by the LH concentrations observed after menopause. Indeed, the mother of the proposita remained euthyroid after menopause. This finding is compatible with a relatively modest gain-of-function of the K183R mutant upon stimulation by hCG. A
