TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


after menopause. Indeed, the mother of the proposita remained euthyroid after menopause. This finding is compatible with a relatively modest gain-of-function of the K183R mutant upon stimulation by hCG. A second family with the same phenotype has recently been identified. Interestingly, the mutation affects the same residue (K183N) (112). Contrary to other mammals, human and primates rely on chorionic gonadotropin for maintenance of corpus luteum in early pregnancy (113). The frequent partial suppression of TSH observed at peak hCG levels during normal pregnancy indicates that evolution has selected physiological mechanisms operating very close to the border of thyrotoxicosis. This may provide a rationale to the observation that, in comparison to other species, the glycoprotein hormones of primates display a lower biological activity due to positive selection by evolution of specific amino acid substitutions in their alpha-subunits (114). Up to now no spontaneous mutation has been identified which would increase the bioactivity of hCG. An interesting parallel may be drawn between familial gestational hyperthyroidism and cases of spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (sOHSS) (86,115). In sOHSS, mutations of the FSH receptor gene render the receptor abnormally sensitive to hCG. The result is recurrent hyperstimulation of the ovary, on the occasion of each pregnancy. LOSS OF FUNCTION MUTATIONS Loss-of-function mutations in the TSHR gene are expected to cause a syndrome of “resistance to TSH.” The expected phenotype is likely to resemble that of patients with mutations in TSH itself. These mutations have been described early because of the prior availability of information on TSH alpha and beta genes (114). Mouse models of resistance to TSH are available as natural (hyt/hyt mouse) (116) or experimental TSHR mutant lines (117,118). Interestingly, and contrary to the situation in human (see below), the thyroid of newborn TSHR knockout mice is of normal size. As expected, the homozygote animals displayed profound hypothyroidism. Their thyroids do not express the sodium-iodide symporter, but showed significant (non-iodinated) thyroglobulin production. From this information one would expect patients with two TSHR mutated alleles to exhibit a degree of hypothyroidism in accordance with the extent of the loss-of-function, going from mild, compensated, hypothyroidism, to profound neonatal hypothyroidism with absent iodide trapping. Heterozygous carriers are expected to be normal or display minimal increase in plasma TSH. Clinical cases with the mutations identified A few patients with convincing resistance to TSH had been described before molecular genetics permitted identification of the mutations (119,120). The first cases
