TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


TSH. Clinical cases with the mutations identified A few patients with convincing resistance to TSH had been described before molecular genetics permitted identification of the mutations (119,120). The first cases described in molecular terms were euthyroid siblings with elevated TSH (121). Sequencing of the TSHR gene identified a different mutation in each allele of the affected individuals, which made them compound heterozygotes. The substitutions were in the extracellular amino-terminal portion of the receptor (maternal allele, P162A; paternal allele, I167N). The functional characteristics of the mutant receptors showed that the paternal allele was virtually completely non-functional, whereas the maternal allele displayed an increase in the median effective TSH concentration for stimulation of cAMP production. Current knowledge of the structure of part of the ectodomain of the receptor allows to establish structure-function relationships for mutations affecting this portion of the receptor (122,109,123-126,101). A large number of familial cases with loss-of-function mutations of the TSHR have been identified in the course of screening programs for congenital hypothyroidism (127-140) [(Figure 5, For a complete list of naturally occurring and side-directed TSHR single amino acid substitutions with their functional characteristics see the GPHR information resource “SSFA” available under: http://www.ssfa-gphr.de (29,30)]. Some of the patients displayed the usual criteria for congenital hypothyroidism, including high TSH, low free T4, and undetectable trapping of 99Tc. In some cases, plasma thyroglobulin levels were normal or high. The patients can be compound heterozygotes for complete loss of function mutations (129), or homozygotes, born to consanguineous (128) or apparently unrelated parents (134). Figure 5 Legend to figure 5: Structural model of the TSHR with indication of loss-of-function mutations. The location and substitutions responsible for known loss-of-function mutations (side-chains as blue sticks) are indicated on a three-dimensional receptor model. Single letter abbreviations of amino-acids are used. In contrast to activating mutations, many inactivating mutations are located also in the LRRD. As observable in this complex model inactivating mutations can have different molecular effects on TSHR functions dependent on their localization, like diminishing hormone binding (location in the LRRD, e.g. R109Q), G-protein binding (intracellular localization, e.g. M527T, R531W), leading to a decreased receptor cell surface expression by modification of the three-dimensional structure (e.g. mutations at extracellular cysteines which interrupts stabilizing disulfide bridges, e.g. C390W), or interrupting the signal transport in the serpentine domain (located at the helices, e.g. A593V). In agreement with the phenotype of knock-out mice with homozygous invalidation of the TSHR,
