TSH Receptor Mutations and Diseases
KEYWORDS: receptor, mutations, thyroid, tshr, thyrotropin, tsh, thyrotropin receptor, mutation, journal, endocrinology, clinical, gene, hyperthyroidism, activating, journal clinical


C390W), or interrupting the signal transport in the serpentine domain (located at the helices, e.g. A593V). In agreement with the phenotype of knock-out mice with homozygous invalidation of the TSHR, patients with complete loss-of-function of the receptor display an in-place, thyroid with completely absent iodide or 99Tc trapping. However, in contrast with the situation in mice, the gland is hypoplastic. Activation of the cAMP pathway, while dispensable for the anatomical development of the gland and thyroglobulin production, is thus absolutely required for expression of the NIS gene and, at least in human, for normal growth of the tissue during fetal life. This explains that in the absence of thyroglobulin measurements or expert echography, loss-of-function mutations of the TSHR may easily be misdiagnosed as thyroid agenesis. In the heterozygous state, complete loss of function mutations of the TSHR is a cause of moderate hyperthyrotropinemia (subclinical hypothyroidism), segregating as an autosomal dominant trait (141). Resistance to thyrotropin not linked to the TSHR gene Finally, it must be stressed that an autosomal dominant form of partial resistance to TSH has been demonstrated in families in which linkage to the TSHR gene has been excluded (142). A locus has been identified on chromosome 15q25.3-26.1 but the gene responsible for the phenotype has not been identified yet (143). Polymorphisms A series of single nucleotide polymorphisms affecting the coding sequence have been identified in the TSHR gene. After the initial suggestion that some of these (D36H, P52T, D727E) would be associated with susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid diseases (144-146) the current consensus is that they represent neutral alleles with no pathophysiological significance (147-150). However, a genome-wide study involving a large cohort of patients has recently demonstrated association between non-coding SNPs at the TSHR gene locus and Graves’disease (151,152). The genetic substratum responsible for this association is still under study (152). However, a large meta-analysis of genome wide association studies failed to identify the TSHR as a locus affecting plasma TSH values (153). One polymorphic residue deserves special mention: position 601 was found to be a tyrosine or a histidine in the two initial reports of TSHR cloning (154,155). Characterization of the two alleles by transfection in COS cells indicated interesting functional differences: the Tyr601 allele displayed readily detectable constitutive activity, whereas the His601 was completely silent; the Tyr601 allele responded to stimulation by TSH by activating both the adenylylcyclase and phospholipase C dependent regulatory cascades, when the
