Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


reported to have beneficial effects on some of these inflammatory disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION A number of chronic inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), ankylosing spondylitis, gout, Sjögren’s syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, inflammatory bowel disease, pernicious anemia, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, vitiligo, and psoriasis are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 1 - 11 ). For example, in a meta-analysis of twenty-four studies comprising 111,758 patients with 22,927 cardiovascular events it was observed that there was a 50% increased risk of CVD death in patients with RA ( 12 ). The greater the disease activity the greater the risk of cardiovascular disease ( 13 ). In some studies patients with RA have a similar or greater risk for a cardiovascular event than patients with diabetes ( 14 , 15 ). Similarly, women with SLE in the 35- to 44-year age group were over 50 times more likely to have a myocardial infarction than were women of similar age in the Framingham Offspring Study ( 16 ). As a final example, a meta-analysis of 14 studies reported that in individuals with severe psoriasis the risk for cardiovascular mortality was 1.37, the risk for myocardial infarction was 3.04, and the risk for stroke was 1.59 times higher than the general population ( 17 ). It should be noted that the pathology in psoriasis is localized to the skin but nevertheless even this disorder, by inducing systemic inflammation, is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Further, supporting the link of RA, SLE, and psoriasis with atherosclerosis are studies showing that patients with these disorders have an increase in coronary artery calcium measured by CT and carotid intima media thickness measured by ultrasound ( 18 - 24 ). Finally, even children and adolescents with SLE have an increase in carotid intimal-medial thickness ( 25 ). Thus, it is clear that patients with a number of different chronic inflammatory diseases have an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular complications. In addition, chronic infections are also associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis ( 26 - 28 ). Since the development of effective anti-viral agents, it has been widely recognized that a major cause of morbidity and mortality in HIV infected patients is due to cardiovascular disease ( 29 , 30 ). Moreover, numerous
