Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


agents, it has been widely recognized that a major cause of morbidity and mortality in HIV infected patients is due to cardiovascular disease ( 29 , 30 ). Moreover, numerous studies have demonstrated an association of periodontal infections with an increased risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease ( 31 ). Additionally, carotid intima-media thickness is increased in patients with periodontal disease ( 32 - 35 ). The link between various chronic infections, such as HIV, dental infections, Helicobacter pylori, chronic bronchitis, and urinary tract infections with cardiovascular disease is presumably due to the chronic inflammation that accompanies these infections ( 36 ). For certain infections such as chlamydia pneumonia and cytomegalovirus it is possible that the association with cardiovascular disease is due to a direct role in the vessel wall. To definitively link inflammation with cardiovascular disease studies determining the effect of anti-inflammatory drugs on cardiovascular events have been carried out. The Cantos study has provided data supporting a link between inflammation and cardiovascular disease ( 37 ). In this trial 10,061 patients with a previous myocardial infarction and a hsCRP level of 2 mg/L or more were randomized to canakinumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting interleukin-1β, or placebo. At 48 months canakinumab did not reduce lipid levels from baseline but did reduce hsCRP levels by approximately 30-40% indicating a decrease in inflammation. Most importantly, canakinumab administration led to a significantly lower rate of recurrent cardiovascular events than placebo. In addition, several randomized trials have demonstrated that colchicine reduces cardiovascular events in patients with chronic cardiovascular disease ( 38 - 40 ). It should be noted that a recent trial where colchicine treatment was initiated very soon after an acute myocardial infarction failed to demonstrate a reduction in cardiovascular events in patients treated with colchicine ( 41 ). These results support the hypothesis that inflammation increases the risk of cardiovascular events and that reducing inflammation will decrease events. In contrast to the positive trials described above, a trial using methotrexate to inhibit inflammation failed to reduce cardiovascular event ( 42 ). However, in this trial methotrexate did not reduce levels of interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, or C-reactive protein raising the possibility that methotrexate did not effectively inhibit inflammation and therefore did not reduce cardiovascular events. Clearly further studies determining the effect of drugs that reduce inflammation on cardiovascular events are required. The mechanisms by which chronic inflammation and infection increase the risk of atherosclerotic
