Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


events. Clearly further studies determining the effect of drugs that reduce inflammation on cardiovascular events are required. The mechanisms by which chronic inflammation and infection increase the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease are likely multifactorial. As will be discussed below inflammation and infection induce a variety of alterations in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism that could contribute to the increased risk of atherosclerosis. LIPID AND LIPOPROTEIN ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENTS WITH INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS AND INFECTIONS Rheumatoid Arthritis The most consistent abnormality in patients with RA is a decrease in HDL-C and apolipoprotein A-I levels ( 9 , 43 - 46 ). In particular, small HDL particles are decreased in patients with RA ( 47 ). Patients with more severe RA have the greatest reductions in HDL-C levels ( 43 - 46 , 48 ). There is an inverse correlation of CRP levels with HDL-C levels (i.e., higher CRP levels are associated with lower HDL-C levels). With regards to total cholesterol and LDL-C, there is more variability with many studies showing a decrease, other studies showing no change, and some studies showing an increase in patients with RA ( 43 - 46 , 48 ). The more severe the RA the greater the likelihood that the LDL-C levels will be decreased. Small dense LDL levels are increased in RA ( 49 , 50 ). Serum triglyceride (TG) levels tend to be increased in patients with RA ( 43 - 46 , 48 , 51 ). Levels of lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) are characteristically elevated in patients with RA and correlate with CRP levels ( 52 - 54 ). Systemic Lupus Erythematosus The changes in serum lipids and lipoproteins seen in patients with SLE are very similar to those observed in patients with RA ( 55 - 57 ). Specifically, there is a decrease in HDL-C levels and an increase in serum TG levels. LDL-C levels are variable and maybe increased, normal, or low but small dense LDL levels tend to be increased. In a study of 344 patients 36.6% had elevated LDL-C levels ( 58 ). Lp(a) levels are also increased ( 59 ). Similar to RA the more severe the disease state the greater the alterations in serum lipid levels. Psoriasis A large number of studies have compared serum lipid levels in controls and patients with psoriasis ( 60 ). However, many of these studies included only a small number of subjects and
