Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


number of studies have compared serum lipid levels in controls and patients with psoriasis ( 60 ). However, many of these studies included only a small number of subjects and the results have therefore been extremely variable with some studies showing alterations in serum lipid levels in patients with psoriasis and other studies showing no changes. In general, there is a tendency for an increase in serum TGs and a decrease in HDL-C levels in patients with psoriasis ( 61 - 65 ). Additionally, a number of studies showed an increase in LDL-C and Lp(a) levels in patients with psoriasis ( 61 , 62 , 64 ). Small dense LDL levels and oxidized Lp(a) are also increased in psoriasis ( 51 ) ( 66 ). This variability between studies is most likely due to differences in the severity of the psoriasis with more severe disease demonstrating more robust alterations in lipid levels. The prevalence of other abnormalities that affect lipid metabolism such as obesity and abnormalities in glucose metabolism could also account for the variability in results. Other Inflammatory Disease Decreased HDL-C levels have also been observed in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, Sjögren’s syndrome, and ankylosing spondylitis ( 67 - 70 ). LDL-C and TG levels varied but LDL-C levels tended to be decreased and TG levels increased. Periodontal Disease Differences exist between studies but in general patients with periodontitis tend to have increased LDL-C and TG levels and decreased HDL-C levels ( 71 - 75 ). Additionally, the prevalence of small dense LDL is increased in patients with periodontitis ( 74 , 76 ). The severity of the periodontitis correlated with the changes in the in the lipid profile with patients with increased periodontal disease having higher TG levels, lower HDL-C levels, and smaller LDL particle size ( 77 ). Moreover, treatment of periodontitis improved the dyslipidemia, with the HDL-C levels increasing and the LDL-C levels decreasing ( 74 , 78 , 79 ). Acute Infections Patients with a variety of different infections (gram positive bacterial, gram negative bacterial, viral, tuberculosis, parasitic) have similar alterations in plasma lipid levels. Specifically, total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels are decreased while plasma TG levels are elevated or inappropriately normal for the poor nutritional status ( 36 , 80 - 87 ). As expected apolipoprotein A-I, A-II, and B levels are reduced ( 80 , 85 , 86 ). While LDL-C
