Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


the poor nutritional status ( 36 , 80 - 87 ). As expected apolipoprotein A-I, A-II, and B levels are reduced ( 80 , 85 , 86 ). While LDL-C levels were decreased, the concentration of small dense LDL has been found to be increased during infections ( 88 - 90 ).That plasma cholesterol levels decrease during infection has been known for many years as it was described by Denis in 1919 in the Journal of Biological Chemistry (JBC 29: 93, 1919). The alterations in lipids correlate with the severity of the underlying infection i.e., the more severe the infection the more severe the alterations in lipid and lipoprotein levels ( 91 , 92 ). The decreases in plasma cholesterol levels can be quite profound and a case report described HDL-C levels < 10mg/dl and LDL-C levels < 3mg/dl in sepsis ( 93 ). These changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels were also noted during COVID 19 infections ( 94 , 95 ). Of note studies have demonstrated that the degree of reduction in total cholesterol, HDL-C, and apolipoprotein A-I are predictive of mortality in patients with severe sepsis ( 87 , 96 - 100 ). Moreover, epidemiologic studies have suggested that low cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL levels increase the chance of developing an infection ( 101 - 104 ). Additionally, a genetic approach, which reduces the risk of confounding variables, has suggested a causal relationship between low HDL-C levels and an increased risk of infections ( 105 , 106 ). During recovery from the infection plasma lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities return towards normal. The changes in lipid and lipoproteins that occur during infection can be experimentally reproduced in humans and animals by the administration of endotoxin and lipoteichoic acid ( 36 , 107 ). Summary Thus, in these different inflammatory disorders and infectious diseases, the alterations in plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are very similar with decreases in plasma HDL being consistently observed. Also of note is the consistent increase in small dense LDL and Lp(a) levels (the increase in Lp(a) occurs in inflammatory diseases but not infections) ( 36 , 108 ). There is also a tendency for plasma TG levels to be elevated, and LDL-C levels decreased. The greater the severity of the underlying disease the more consistently these abnormalities in lipids are observed. Additionally, treatment of the underlying disease leading to a reduction in inflammation results
