Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


The greater the severity of the underlying disease the more consistently these abnormalities in lipids are observed. Additionally, treatment of the underlying disease leading to a reduction in inflammation results in a return of the lipid profile towards normal. This is best illustrated in periodontal disease where intensive dental hygiene can reverse the abnormalities in the lipid profile ( 78 , 79 ). Table 1. Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window TGs- Tend to be increased HDL-C- Decreased LDL-C- Variable but with more severe inflammation or infection they are decreased Small dense LDL- Increased Lp(a)- Increased with inflammation; may decrease with certain infections EFFECT OF ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS ON LIPID LEVELS Treatments that reduce inflammation will return the lipid profile towards normal resulting in an increase in plasm HDL levels and a decrease in TG levels. If LDL levels were reduced at baseline, treatment that reduces inflammation will also result in an increase in LDL levels (i.e., a return towards “normal” levels) ( 109 - 111 ). Many of the drugs used for the treatment of RA, SLE, and psoriasis decrease inflammation and have been shown to increase both HDL and LDL levels ( 9 , 109 , 110 , 112 ). The increase in HDL tends to be more robust. In a few instances, drugs used to treat inflammatory disorders have effects on lipid metabolism that are independent of the reduction in inflammation. For example, high dose glucocorticoid treatment results in an increase in serum TG and LDL levels due to the increased production and secretion of VLDL by the liver ( 113 - 115 ) and hydroxychloroquine has been reported to lower total cholesterol, LDL, and TGs in patients with RA and SLE ( 116 - 118 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF THE DYSLIPIDEMIA OF INFLAMMATION AND INFECTION Inflammation and infections increase the production of a variety of cytokines, including TNF, IL-1, and IL-6, which have been shown to alter lipid metabolism ( 36 ). Many of the changes in plasma lipids and lipoproteins that are seen during chronic inflammation and infections are also observed following the acute administration of cytokines ( 36 ). Increased TG Levels Multiple cytokines increase serum TG and VLDL levels (TNF, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, etc.) ( 36 ). Administration of LPS (a model of gram-negative infections) or lipoteichoic acid (a model of gram-positive infections), both of which stimulate
