Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


VLDL levels (TNF, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, etc.) ( 36 ). Administration of LPS (a model of gram-negative infections) or lipoteichoic acid (a model of gram-positive infections), both of which stimulate cytokine production, increase serum TG and VLDL levels within 2 hours and this effect is sustained for at least 24 hours. The increase in serum TGs is due to both an increase in hepatic VLDL production and secretion and a decrease in the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( figure 1 ) ( 36 ). The increase in VLDL production and secretion is a result of increased hepatic fatty acid synthesis, an increase in adipose tissue lipolysis with the increased transport of fatty acids to the liver, and a decrease in fatty acid oxidation in the liver. Together these changes provide an abundant supply of fatty acids in the liver that stimulate an increase in hepatic TG synthesis ( 36 ). The increased availability of TGs leads to the increased formation and secretion of VLDL. The decrease in the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins is due to a decrease in lipoprotein lipase, the key enzyme that metabolizes TGs in the circulation ( 36 ). A variety of cytokines have been shown to decrease the synthesis of lipoprotein lipase in adipose and muscle tissue ( 36 ). Additionally, sepsis decreases apolipoprotein C2, a cofactor for lipoprotein lipase ( 119 ). Studies have also shown that inflammation increases angiopoietin like protein 4, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity, which would further block the metabolism of TG rich lipoproteins ( 120 ). In SLE, antibodies to lipoprotein lipase have been reported and are associated with increased TG levels ( 121 , 122 ). Figure 1. Pathogenesis of Hypertriglyceridemia. Production of Small Dense LDL The elevation in TG rich lipoproteins in turn has effects on other lipoproteins ( 36 ). Specifically, cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates the exchange of TGs from TG rich VLDL and chylomicrons to LDL. The increase in TG rich lipoproteins per se leads to an increase in CETP mediated exchange, increasing the TG content of LDL. The TG on LDL is then hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase leading to the increased production of small dense LDL. Decreased HDL Levels In addition to a decrease in HDL, inflammation can also lead to structural changes in this lipoprotein ( 36 ). During inflammation HDL particles tend to be larger with a decrease
