Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


addition to a decrease in HDL, inflammation can also lead to structural changes in this lipoprotein ( 36 ). During inflammation HDL particles tend to be larger with a decrease in cholesterol ester and an increase in free cholesterol, TGs, and free fatty acids. Furthermore, there are marked changes in HDL associated proteins and the enzymes and transfer proteins involved in HDL metabolism and function ( figure 2 and 3 ). Figure 2. Changes in HDL Protein Composition During Inflammation. Figure 3. Changes in Enzymes and Transfer Proteins During Inflammation. The precise mechanism by which inflammation and infection decrease HDL levels is uncertain and is likely to involve multiple mechanisms ( 36 ). Decreases in apolipoprotein A-I synthesis in the liver occur during inflammation and would result in the decreased formation of HDL. However, in acute infection and inflammation HDL decreases faster than would be predicted from decreased synthesis of apolipoprotein A-I. Increased serum amyloid A (SAA) production by the liver and other tissues occurs during inflammation and infection and the SAA binds to HDL displacing apolipoprotein A-I, which can accelerate the clearance of HDL. However, the overexpression in SAA in the absence of the acute phase response does not result in a decrease in HDL levels ( 123 ). Inflammation results in a decrease in LCAT leading to decreased cholesterol ester formation, which would prevent the formation of normal HDL, leading to decreased cholesterol carried in HDL. Elevations in TG rich lipoproteins that accompany inflammation and infection can lead to the enrichment of HDL with TGs that can accelerate the clearance of HDL. Finally, cytokine induced increases in enzymes such as secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) and endothelial cell lipase, which metabolize key constituents of HDL, could alter the stability and metabolism of HDL. Given the complexity of HDL metabolism, it is not surprising that multiple pathways could be affected by inflammation, which together may account for the decrease in HDL levels. Increased Lp(a) The mechanism accounting for the increase in Lp(a) during inflammation is likely due to increased apo (a) synthesis, as apo (a) is a positive acute phase protein whose expression is up-regulated during inflammation ( 36 , 124 ). The apo (a) gene contains several IL-6 responsive elements that enhance transcription ( 125 ). Tocilizumab an antibody against IL-6, that is used to treat RA, has been shown to decrease Lp(a) levels ( 126 ) . FUNCTIONAL
