Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


elements that enhance transcription ( 125 ). Tocilizumab an antibody against IL-6, that is used to treat RA, has been shown to decrease Lp(a) levels ( 126 ) . FUNCTIONAL CHANGES IN LIPOPROTEINS THAT INCREASE THE RISK OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS LDL While the levels of LDL do not consistently increase and may even decrease with inflammation and infection, many studies have indicated that inflammation and infection are associated with small dense LDL ( 36 ). These small dense LDL particles are believed to be more pro-atherogenic for a number of reasons ( 127 ). Small dense LDL particles have a decreased affinity for the LDL receptor resulting in a prolonged period of time in the circulation. Additionally, they more easily enter the arterial wall and bind more avidly to intra-arterial proteoglycans, which traps them in the arterial wall. Finally, small dense LDL particles are more susceptible to oxidation, which could result in an enhanced uptake by macrophages ( 128 ). Several markers of lipid peroxidation, including conjugated dienes, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, malondialdehyde, and lipid hydroperoxides are increased in serum and/or circulating LDL during inflammation and infection ( 36 , 77 , 129 - 132 ). Moreover, LDL isolated from LPS-treated animals is more susceptible to oxidation in vitro ( 36 ). Oxidized LDL is taken up very efficiently by macrophages and is thought to play a major role in foam cell formation in the arterial wall ( 133 ). Additionally, antibodies to oxidized LDL are present in patients with SLE and could facilitate the uptake of an antibody LDL complex via the Fc-receptor in macrophages ( 129 ). Finally, studies have shown that LDL isolated from patients with periodontal disease leads to enhanced uptake of cholesterol esters by macrophages ( 77 ) HDL In addition to a decrease in serum HDL, inflammation and infection affects the anti-atherogenic properties of HDL ( 36 , 134 , 135 ). Reverse cholesterol transport plays a key role in preventing cholesterol accumulation in macrophages thereby reducing atherosclerosis. Many steps in the reverse cholesterol transport pathway are adversely affected during inflammation and infection ( figure 4 and 5 ) ( 48 , 136 ). First, cytokines induced by inflammation and infection decrease the production of Apo A-I, the main protein constituent of HDL. Second, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-B1, and apolipoprotein E in macrophages, which will lead to a decrease in the
