Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


A-I, the main protein constituent of HDL. Second, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of ABCA1, ABCG1, SR-B1, and apolipoprotein E in macrophages, which will lead to a decrease in the efflux of phospholipids and cholesterol from the macrophage to HDL. Third, the structurally altered HDL formed during inflammation is a poor acceptor of cellular cholesterol and in fact may actually deliver cholesterol to the macrophage ( 48 , 67 , 136 - 143 ). HDL isolated from patients with RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, Helicobacter pylori infection, psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis, periodontal disease, and acute sepsis are poor facilitators of cholesterol efflux ( 67 , 137 - 142 , 144 , 145 ). Similarly, the experimental administration of endotoxin to humans also results in the formation of HDL that is a poor facilitator of the efflux of cholesterol from macrophages ( 146 ). Of note treatments that reduce inflammation in patients with RA, psoriasis, or periodontitis can restore towards normal the ability of HDL to remove cholesterol from cells ( 142 , 147 - 149 ). Fourth, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the production and activity of LCAT, which will limit the conversion of cholesterol to cholesteryl esters in HDL. This step is required for the formation of a normal spherical HDL particle and facilitates the ability of HDL to transport cholesterol. Fifth, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease CETP levels, which will decrease the movement of cholesterol from HDL to Apo B containing lipoproteins, an important step in the delivery of cholesterol to the liver. Sixth, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of SR-B1 in the liver. SR-B1 plays a key role in the uptake of cholesterol from HDL particles into hepatocytes. Finally, inflammation and infection decrease both the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids and the secretion of cholesterol into the bile, the two mechanisms by which cholesterol is disposed of by the liver. Figure 4. Effect of Inflammation on Reverse Cholesterol Transport (from reference ( 136 )). Figure 5. Effect of Inflammation on the Factors Involved in Reverse Cholesterol Transport (from reference ( 136 )). Another important function of HDL is to prevent the oxidation of LDL. Oxidized LDL is more easily taken up by macrophages and is pro-atherogenic ( 133 ). Paraoxonase is an enzyme that is associated with HDL and plays a key role in preventing the oxidation of LDL. Inflammation and infection decrease the expression of paraoxonase 1 in the liver
