Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


an enzyme that is associated with HDL and plays a key role in preventing the oxidation of LDL. Inflammation and infection decrease the expression of paraoxonase 1 in the liver resulting in a decrease in circulating paraoxonase activity ( 36 ). Plasma paraoxonase levels are decreased in patients with RA, SLE, psoriasis, and infections ( 150 - 158 ) Studies have shown that HDL isolated from patients with RA and SLE have a diminished ability to protect LDL from oxidation and in fact may facilitate LDL oxidation ( 134 ). Moreover, in patients with RA, reducing inflammation and disease activity with methotrexate treatment restored HDL function towards normal ( 159 ). Additionally, treatment with atorvastatin 80mg improved the function of HDL in patients with RA ( 160 ). Thus, it should be recognized that in patients with inflammatory disorders and infections the absolute levels of lipids and lipoproteins may not be the only factor increasing the risk of atherosclerosis ( 36 , 60 , 130 , 134 - 136 ). Rather functional changes in LDL and HDL may be pro-atherogenic and thereby contribute to the increased risk of atherosclerosis in inflammatory disorders and infections. Additionally, the increase in Lp(a) may also play an important role. In an analysis of the UK Biobank the combination of autoimmune conditions and elevated Lp(a) had a high risk of cardiovascular disease than either of these conditions alone ((combination of autoimmune conditions and elevated Lp(a) HR 1.77; only elevated Lp(a) HR 1.23; only autoimmune conditions HR, 1.28) ( 161 ). Table 2. Pro-Atherogenic Changes During Inflammation View in own window Increased TGs Decreased HDL Increased small dense LDL Increased Lp(a) Oxidized LDL Dysfunctional HDL BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF LIPIDS DURING INFECTIONS AND INFLAMMATION The changes in lipids and lipoproteins that occur during inflammation and infection are part of the innate immune response and therefore are likely to play an important role in protecting from the detrimental effects of infection and inflammatory stimuli ( 36 , 162 - 164 ). Some of the potential beneficial effects are listed in Table 3 . Thus, the changes in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism that occur during inflammation may initially be protective but if chronic it can increase the risk of atherosclerosis. Table 3. Beneficial Effects of Lipoproteins View in own window Redistribution of nutrients to immune cells that are important in host defense Lipoproteins bind endotoxin, lipoteichoic acid, viruses, and
