Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


atherosclerosis. Table 3. Beneficial Effects of Lipoproteins View in own window Redistribution of nutrients to immune cells that are important in host defense Lipoproteins bind endotoxin, lipoteichoic acid, viruses, and other biological agents and prevent their toxic effects Lipoproteins bind urate crystals Lipoproteins bind and target parasites for destruction Apolipoproteins neutralize viruses Apolipoproteins lyse parasites LIPID MANAGEMENT IN A PATIENT WITH AN INFLAMMATORY DISEASE Deciding When to Treat As noted earlier, patients with inflammatory disorders are at an increased risk for atherosclerosis and this is not totally accounted for by standard lipid profile measurements and other risk factors ( 1 - 3 , 9 ). Some authors have advocated considering inflammatory disorders as a cardiovascular risk equivalent similar to diabetes; risk calculators commonly used for deciding on lipid lowering therapy do not take into account this increased risk in patients with inflammatory disorders ( 3 , 165 , 166 ). It should be noted that the QRISK calculator ( http://qrisk.org/ ) does factor in the presence of RA when calculating risk ( 167 ). Not surprisingly, the standard risk calculators for predicting cardiovascular disease underestimate the risk in this population ( 168 - 174 ). Even the Reynolds Risk Calculator ( http://www.reynoldsriskscore.org/Default.aspx ), which uses measurements of hsCRP levels, a marker of inflammation, underestimates the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with inflammatory disorders ( 168 - 172 , 175 ). Thus, using these calculators will underestimate cardiovascular risk in patients with inflammatory disorders. However, in both the 2018 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association and 2019 European Society of Cardiology (ESC)/European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) guideline recommendations, the presence of inflammatory disease is included as a risk factor, which can influence decisions on whether to initiate treatment ( 176 , 177 ). A reasonable approach is to use the standard approach and calculators but increase the calculated risk by approximately 50% in patients with severe inflammatory disorders. For example, if a patient with severe RA has a 5% ten-year risk and 40% lifetime risk one might increase the ten-year risk to 7.5% and lifetime risk to 60%. This approach has been recommended by an expert committee who advocated introducing a 1.5 multiplication factor (i.e., 50% increase) in patients with RA ( 9 ). Alternatively, one could carry out imaging studies such as obtaining a coronary artery calcium score to better define risk. Whatever the approach taken, it is crucial to
