Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


( 9 ). Alternatively, one could carry out imaging studies such as obtaining a coronary artery calcium score to better define risk. Whatever the approach taken, it is crucial to recognize that patients with inflammatory diseases have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and therefore one needs to be more aggressive in treating risk factors. Because Lp(a) levels are increased by inflammation it is important to measure Lp(a) levels in patients with inflammatory disorders. An elevated Lp(a) level would be an indication for more aggressive treatment of lipid levels and other cardiovascular risk factors. Guidelines from the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA) and European Society of Cardiology (ESC)/European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) are briefly summarized in table 4 , 5 ,and 6 ( 176 , 177 ) and are discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter “Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol” ( 178 ). Table 4. ACC/AHA Guidelines View in own window In patients with clinical ASCVD initiate high intensity statin therapy or maximally tolerated statin therapy. High intensity statin therapy is atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day. In very high-risk ASCVD, use an LDL-C > 70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L) to consider addition of non-statins (ezetimibe or PCSK9 inhibitors). Very high-risk includes a history of multiple major ASCVD events or 1 major ASCVD event and multiple high-risk conditions. In patients with LDL-C ≥190 mg/dL [≥4.9 mmol/L]) begin high-intensity statin therapy. If the LDL-C level remains ≥100 mg/dL (≥2.6 mmol/L), adding ezetimibe is reasonable. In patients with diabetes aged 40-75 years with an LDL > 70mg/dL begin moderate intensity statin therapy. For patients > 50 years of age consider high intensity statin to achieve a 50% reduction in LDL-C. In adults 40 to 75 years of age without diabetes mellitus and with LDL-C levels ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L) start a moderate-intensity statin if the 10-year ASCVD risk is ≥7.5%. Moderate intensity therapy is atorvastatin 10-20mg, rosuvastatin 5-10mg, simvastatin 20-40mg, pravastatin 40mg. Table 5. ESC/EAS Cardiovascular Risk Categories View in own window Very High-Risk ASCVD, either clinical or unequivocal on imaging DM with target organ damage or at least three major risk factors or T1DM of long duration (>20 years) Severe CKD (eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m2) A calculated SCORE >10% for 10-year risk of fatal CVD. Familial Hypercholesterolemia with ASCVD or with another major risk factor High Risk Markedly elevated single risk factors, in
