Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


PCSK9 inhibitors, and bempedoic acid) and solely on the studies that are focused on patients with inflammatory diseases. Detailed information on the use of these and other lipid lowering drugs can be found in the Endotext chapters on cholesterol lowering drugs and TG lowering drugs ( 188 , 189 ). STATIN THERAPY As expected, studies have demonstrated that statins lower LDL-C levels in patients with inflammatory disorders to a similar degree as patients without inflammatory disorders. For example, in a randomized trial in 116 patients with RA with a mean LDL-C level of 125mg/dl, the effect of atorvastatin 40mg was compared to placebo ( 190 ). Atorvastatin reduced LDL-C by 54mgdl vs. 3mg/dl in the placebo group ( 190 ). Similarly in the IDEAL trial there was a small subgroup of patients with RA ( 191 ). The IDEAL trial compared the ability of atorvastatin 80mg vs. simvastatin 20-40mg to reduce cardiovascular events. The lowering of LDL-C with either simvastatin or atorvastatin was similar in the patients with and without RA ( 191 ). Finally, a combined analysis of the IDEAL, Treat to New Target (TNT), and CARDS trials reported that the decrease in LDL-C levels with statin therapy was similar in patients with or without psoriasis ( 192 ). Studies have shown similar reductions in LDL-C levels with statin therapy in patients with SLE and HIV infections ( 193 - 196 ). The effects of statin treatment on other lipid parameters were also similar in patients with and without inflammatory diseases. Thus, as expected statins improve the lipid profile in patients with inflammatory disorders. In some studies, the incidence of statin associated side effects have been increased in patients with inflammatory disorders. Specifically, in the IDEAL trial RA patients reported myalgia more frequently than patients without RA (10.4% and 7.7% in RA patients vs 1.1% and 2.2% in non-RA patients receiving simvastatin and atorvastatin respectively) ( 191 ). Note that this does not necessarily indicate that statins induce myalgias more frequently in patients with RA as there was not a placebo group in the IDEAL trial. Rather it is likely that patients with RA have an increased prevalence of myalgias. A primary prevention cardiovascular outcome study evaluated the effect of statin therapy in individuals living with HIV ( 196 ). In this trial 7769 participants with HIV infection with a low-to-moderate risk of cardiovascular disease were randomized to receive
