Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


of statin therapy in individuals living with HIV ( 196 ). In this trial 7769 participants with HIV infection with a low-to-moderate risk of cardiovascular disease were randomized to receive pitavastatin 4 mg or placebo. The incidence of a major adverse cardiovascular event was reduced by 35% in the pitavastatin group (HR 0.65; 95% CI 0.48 to 0.90; P = 0.002). Pitavastatin lowered LDL-C by approximately 30mg/dL and thus the decrease in cardiovascular events was greater than predicted based on the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists meta-analysis (approximately 20% decrease in events per 39mg/dL decrease in LDL-C) ( 197 ). There are no large randomized controlled trials evaluating the impact of statin therapy on cardiovascular disease outcomes in patients with other inflammatory diseases. A subgroup analysis of a small number of patients with SLE in the ALERT study has been reported ( 198 ). The ALERT study was a randomized placebo-controlled trial examining the effect of fluvastatin 40-80mg on cardiovascular events after kidney transplantation. In this trial fluvastatin therapy reduced the risk of cardiovascular events by 74% in the patients with SLE ( 198 ). Additionally, a post hoc analysis of patients with inflammatory arthritis in the IDEAL and TNT trial has been reported ( 199 ). The IDEAL trial compared atorvastatin 80mg vs simvastatin 20-40mg and the TNT compared atorvastatin 80mg vs. atorvastatin 10mg. In these trials, statin therapy resulted in a decrease in lipid levels in the patients with inflammatory arthritis to a similar degree as patients without inflammatory arthritis ( 199 ). Moreover, there was an approximate 20% reduction in the risk of cardiovascular events in patients treated with atorvastatin 80mg compared to moderate dose statin therapy in patients with and without inflammatory arthritis ( 199 ). Similarly, a post hoc analysis of the IDEAL and TNT trials reported a similar reduction in cardiovascular events with high dose statin therapy compared to low dose statin therapy in patients with psoriasis ( 192 ). A trial that focused solely on patients with RA was initiated but stopped early due to a lower than expected event rate ( 200 ). In this trial 3,002 patients with RA were randomized to atorvastatin 40mg/day vs. placebo for a median of 2.51 years. As expected, the reduction in LDL-C levels was significantly greater in the atorvastatin group compared to placebo (-30mg/dL, p<0.001). There was a 34% risk reduction for major cardiovascular events in the
