Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


expected, the reduction in LDL-C levels was significantly greater in the atorvastatin group compared to placebo (-30mg/dL, p<0.001). There was a 34% risk reduction for major cardiovascular events in the atorvastatin group compared to placebo that was not statistically significant due to the small number of events. Of note, the decrease in events was actually greater than expected based on the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of the effect of statins in other populations (42% decrease per 39mg/dL in this trial whereas in the large collaboration meta-analysis there was a 20% decrease per 39mg/dL) ( 197 ). The number and type of adverse events were similar in the atorvastatin and placebo groups. Taken together these results strongly suggest that patients with inflammatory diseases will have a reduction in cardiovascular events with statin therapy similar to or greater to what is observed in patients without inflammatory disorders. It is well recognized that statins have anti-inflammatory properties and studies have consistently demonstrated a decrease in hsCRP levels in patients treated with statins ( 189 ). A meta-analysis by Ly et al included 15 studies with 992 patients and reported that statin therapy decreased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, CRP, tender joint count, swollen joint count, and morning stiffness ( 201 ). Similarly, a meta-analysis by Xing et al included 13 studies with 737 patients ( 202 ). They reported that statin therapy decreased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, CRP, tender joint count, and swollen joint count ( 202 ). Additionally, the disease activity score 28 (DAS28), which focuses on joint pathology, decreased significantly in the patients treated with statin therapy and the patients with the most active disease benefited the most ( 202 , 203 ). A recent meta-analysis by Ren and Li found similar beneficial effects of statin therapy on RA ( 204 ). In contrast to the beneficial effects seen in patients with RA, in randomized placebo controlled trials in patients with SLE studies by Plazak et al and Petri et al failed to show a decrease in disease activity with statin therapy ( 194 , 205 ). In psoriasis treatment with statins has produced mixed results with some studies showing a decrease in skin abnormalities and others showing no significant effect or even an increase in disease activity ( 206 ). A meta-analysis of 5 randomized trials with 223 patients found that statins may improve psoriasis, particularly in patients with severe disease (
