Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


The mechanism for this beneficial effect is unclear. PCSK9 INHIBITORS The FOURIER trial was a cardiovascular outcome trial using the PCSK9 inhibitor evolocumab. In this very large trial 889 patients (3.2%) had an autoimmune or inflammatory disease, most commonly rheumatoid arthritis (33.7%) or psoriasis (15.6%) ( 224 ). The baseline LDL cholesterol levels in patients with or without an autoimmune or inflammatory disease were very similar and the reduction in LDL-C with a PCSK9 inhibitor was virtually identical in patients with or without an autoimmune or inflammatory disease (approximately 60%). Baseline hsCRP levels were higher in patients with an autoimmune or inflammatory disease and did not change with PCSK9 inhibitor treatment in patients with or without an autoimmune or inflammatory disease. Notably, compared with placebo, treatment with a PCSK9 inhibitor reduced the rate of the primary end point of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, unstable angina, or coronary revascularization by 14% in patients without an autoimmune or inflammatory disease and by 42% in patients with an autoimmune or inflammatory disease. These results demonstrate that in patients with autoimmune or inflammatory diseases PCSK9 inhibitors reduce LDL-C levels and are effective in decreasing cardiovascular events. BEMPEDOIC ACID The author is not aware of clinical trials of bempedoic acid in patients with inflammatory diseases or infections. Treatment Strategy The first priority in treating lipid disorders is to lower the LDL-C levels to goal, unless TGs are markedly elevated (> 500-1000mg/dl), which increases the risk of pancreatitis. LDL-C is the first priority because the database linking lowering LDL-C with reducing cardiovascular disease is extremely strong and we now have the ability to markedly decrease LDL-C levels in the vast majority of patients. Dietary therapy is the initial step but, in many patients, it will not be sufficient to achieve the LDL-C goals. If patients are willing and able to make major changes in their diet it is possible to achieve remarkable reductions in LDL-C levels but this seldom occurs in clinical practice (for details see the Endotext chapter “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels”) ( 225 ). Statins are the first-choice drugs to lower LDL-C levels and many patients with inflammatory disorders will require statin therapy. Statins are available as generic drugs and are relatively inexpensive. The choice of statin will depend on the magnitude of LDL-C lowering required and whether other drugs that the patient is taking
