Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


available as generic drugs and are relatively inexpensive. The choice of statin will depend on the magnitude of LDL-C lowering required and whether other drugs that the patient is taking might alter statin metabolism thereby increasing the risk of statin toxicity. For example, cyclosporine affects the metabolism of many of the statins and in patients taking cyclosporine fluvastatin appears to be the safest statin ( 226 ). If a patient is unable to tolerate statins or statins as monotherapy are not sufficient to lower LDL-C to goal the second-choice drug is either ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, or a PCSK9 inhibitor. Ezetimibe is a generic drug and relatively inexpensive and can be added to any statin. PCSK9 inhibitors can also be added to any statin and are the drugs of choice if a large decrease in LDL-C is required to reach goal (PCSK9 inhibitors will lower LDL-C levels by 50-60% when added to a statin, whereas ezetimibe and bempedoic acid will only lower LDL-C by approximately 20%). Ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors additively lower LDL-C levels when used in combination with a statin, because these drugs increase hepatic LDL receptor levels by different mechanisms, thereby resulting in a reduction in serum LDL-C levels. Niacin and the fibrates also lower LDL-C levels but are not usually employed to lower LDL-C levels The second priority should be non-HDL-C (non-HDL-C = total cholesterol – HDL-C), which is particularly important in patients with elevated TG levels (>150mg/dl). Non-HDL-C is a measure of all the pro-atherogenic apolipoprotein B containing particles. Numerous studies have shown that non-HDL-C is a strong risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. The non-HDL-C goals are 30mg/dl greater than the LDL-C goals. For example, if the LDL goal is <100mg/dl then the non-HDL-C goal would be <130mg/dl. Drugs that reduce either LDL-C or TG levels will reduce non-HDL-C levels. If LDL-C is only slightly below goal increasing drug dose or adding drugs to further lower LDL-C is a reasonable approach. If the LDL-C is significantly below goal lowering TG levels is reasonable. The third priority in treating lipid disorders is to decrease TG levels. Initial therapy should focus on lifestyle changes including a decrease in simple sugars and ethanol intake and initiating an exercise program. Fibrates, niacin, and omega-3-fatty acids all reduce serum TG levels. Typically, one will target TG levels when one is trying to lower non-HDL-C levels to goal.
