Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, levels, risk, disease, cardiovascular, arthritis, inflammation, lipid, free, pmc, free article, pmc free, article, cholesterol


initiating an exercise program. Fibrates, niacin, and omega-3-fatty acids all reduce serum TG levels. Typically, one will target TG levels when one is trying to lower non-HDL-C levels to goal. Note that there is limited evidence demonstrating that lowering TG levels reduces cardiovascular events with fibrates, niacin, and most omega-3-fatty acid preparations. A study has shown that adding the omega-3-fatty acid icosapent ethyl (EPA) to statins in patients with elevated TG levels reduces cardiovascular events ( 227 ) but there is controversy regarding these results (see Endotext chapter on Triglyceride Lowering Drugs for detailed information ( 188 )). In addition, the potential beneficial effects of fish oil on disease activity in many patients with inflammatory diseases make the use of omega-3-fatty acids an attractive choice in patients with inflammatory diseases and elevated TG levels/non-HDL-C levels. Patients with very high TG levels (> 500-1000 mg/dl) are at risk of pancreatitis and therefore lifestyle and TG lowering drug therapy should be initiated early to reduce the risk of pancreatitis ( 228 ). The fourth priority in treating lipid disorders is to increase HDL-C levels. There is strong epidemiologic data linking low HDL-C levels with cardiovascular disease, but whether increasing HDL levels with drugs reduces cardiovascular disease is unknown and studies have not been encouraging ( 229 ). Lifestyle changes are the initial step and include increased exercise, weight loss, and stopping cigarette smoking. Whether increasing HDL-C levels will result in a reduction in cardiovascular events is unknown and it is likely that HDL function is more important than HDL levels. Unfortunately, at this time we do not yet have drugs that specifically lower Lp(a) levels and therefore in patients with elevated Lp(a) levels we lower other risk factors for cardiovascular disease aggressively to reduce risk. In summary, modern therapy of patients with inflammatory diseases demands that we aggressively treat LDL-C to reduce the high risk of cardiovascular disease in this susceptible population. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. REFERENCES 1. Coumbe AG, Pritzker MR, Duprez DA. Cardiovascular risk and psoriasis: beyond the traditional risk factors. Am J Med 2014; 127:12-18 [ PubMed : 24161194 ] 2. Haque S, Mirjafari H, Bruce IN. Atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. Curr Opin Lipidol 2008; 19:338-343 [ PubMed : 18607179 ] 3. John H, Toms TE, Kitas GD. Rheumatoid arthritis: is it a
