Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


fragments (C-terminal fragments). After secretion into the circulation, PTH has a half-life of approximately 2 to 5 minutes ( 2 ). The synthesis and secretion of PTH are regulated by the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), which detects minimal changes in plasma calcium concentrations. CaSR is a seven-transmembrane domain G protein–coupled receptor (GPCR) expressed on the surface of parathyroid chief cells and renal tubular cells ( 2 ). When calcium binds to the extracellular domain of CaSR, a conformational change is induced, which facilitates the recruitment of heterotrimeric G protein subunits: Gαq11, Gαq, and to a lesser extent, Gαi. The Gαq proteins activate phospholipase C, leading to mobilization of intracellular calcium stores and an increase in cytosolic calcium, whereas Gαi inhibits adenylate cyclase activity, resulting in decreased cyclic AMP (cAMP) synthesis. These signaling changes, through mechanisms not yet fully understood, rapidly inhibit (within minutes) both the secretion of preformed PTH and its synthesis. Transcription of the PTH gene is suppressed in states of hypercalcemia and it is also suppressed by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D ( 3 ). In contrast, an acute drop in circulating calcium levels triggers PTH secretion within seconds. Additionally, elevated phosphate concentrations also stimulate PTH secretion. The relationship between serum calcium and PTH follows a sigmoidal curve, whereby a small decrease in serum calcium results in a large increase in PTH secretion. This tight regulation helps maintain calcium levels within the physiological range of 8.5 to 10.3 mg/dL, which is very important, since calcium plays a critical role in normal cellular function, membrane stability, intracellular signaling, endocrine and exocrine secretory processes, blood coagulation, platelet adhesion, neuromuscular activity, the electrophysiological function of the heart and smooth muscle, and in maintaining bone structure ( 4 ). PTH exerts its biological effects by binding to its receptor, PTHR1, which is expressed in osteoblasts and renal tubular cells. This receptor is recognized by both PTH and PTHrP (parathyroid hormone-related protein). PTHR1 activates multiple intracellular signaling pathways; however, its calciotropic actions are primarily mediated through activation and coupling of the Gαs subunit of the G protein, which stimulates adenylate cyclase, increasing cyclic AMP (cAMP) production. This in turn activates protein kinase A (PKA). Under conditions of hypocalcemia, PTH acts directly on the kidney and bone, and indirectly on the intestine, to restore serum calcium levels ( 1 ). In the kidney, PTH promotes calcium reabsorption and phosphate excretion in the urine, increases the production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin
