Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


to the generation of a highly positive luminal transepithelial voltage (~30 mV), which facilitates paracellular calcium and magnesium reabsorption via claudins 16 and 19 ( 7 ). Conversely, claudin-14 inhibits the expression of claudins 16 and 19 ( 12 , 13 ). PTH, via cAMP generation, stimulates the activity of both ROMK and NKCC2 (the Na + /K + /2Cl − cotransporter). NKCC2 facilitates the reabsorption of sodium, potassium, and chloride, while ROMK promotes K + efflux into the lumen, establishing the positive voltage required for calcium and magnesium reabsorption through claudins 16 and 19. PTH also enhances the translocation of claudin-14 from the membrane to the cytosol, thus favoring the membrane expression of claudins 16 and 19. In contrast, CaSR promotes claudin-14 expression and inhibits the activity of ROMK and NKCC2 ( 14 ). Most chloride is reabsorbed via the transcellular route, while sodium is reabsorbed approximately equally through transcellular and paracellular pathways ( 7 ). See Figure 2 . Figure 2. In this segment, approximately 25% of the filtered calcium load is reabsorbed via a paracellular pathway regulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH) and the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR). PTH stimulates NKCC2 and ROMK, leading to the reabsorption of sodium, potassium, and chloride via NKCC2, and the subsequent secretion of potassium through ROMK. The resulting luminal accumulation of potassium, along with sodium back-leak into the lumen through claudin-10b, creates a positive electrochemical gradient. This gradient facilitates the paracellular reabsorption of calcium and magnesium through claudins 16 and 19. PTH further promotes this process by inducing the cytosolic translocation of claudin-14, which supports the activity of claudins 16 and 19. PTH in the Distal Tubule In the distal tubule, approximately 8% of the filtered calcium load is reabsorbed through three transcellular steps: 1) Calcium entry through the apical membrane via the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 5 (TRPV5) channel, 2) Intracellular transport bound to the calcium-binding protein calbindin-D28k, and 3) Extrusion across the basolateral membrane into the interstitial space through the plasma membrane Ca 2+ -ATPase (PMCA1b) and the sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) located on the basolateral side of epithelial cells ( 15 ). See Figure 3 . Figure 3. In the distal tubule, approximately 8% of the filtered calcium load is reabsorbed via a transcellular mechanism regulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH), which promotes calcium entry through TRPV5 channels. Intracellular calcium is transported bound to calbindin-D28K from the apical membrane to the
