Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


reabsorbed via a transcellular mechanism regulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH), which promotes calcium entry through TRPV5 channels. Intracellular calcium is transported bound to calbindin-D28K from the apical membrane to the basolateral membrane, where it exits the cell into the interstitial space via a plasma membrane calcium ATPase (PMCA1b) and a sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX1). Uromodulin and mucin-1 inhibit caveolin-mediated endocytosis of TRPV5 channels. PTH in Bone In bone, PTH stimulates bone resorption and increases plasma concentrations of calcium and phosphate. However, osteoclasts do not express receptors for PTH; instead, PTH binds to the PTHR1 receptor on osteoblasts to promote the expression of RANKL (Receptor Activator of Nuclear Factor κB Ligand) and decreases the secretion of osteoprotegerin, a decoy receptor that binds RANKL and prevents its interaction with RANK. By upregulating RANKL, PTH facilitates the binding of RANKL to RANK on the surface of osteoclast precursors, triggering their differentiation into mature osteoclasts capable of resorbing bone by dissolving hydroxyapatite. The degradation products: calcium, phosphate, and alkaline phosphatase are taken up by osteoclasts via endocytosis and subsequently released into circulation ( 16 ). PTH in the Intestine In the intestine, PTH does not exert a direct effect on calcium metabolism. However, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D significantly enhances the intestinal absorption of dietary calcium and phosphate. Daily calcium intake is approximately 1000 mg, of which 25–35% is absorbed. This absorption occurs via two mechanisms: a saturable transcellular transport pathway located primarily in the duodenum, and a no saturable paracellular pathway occurring throughout the small and large intestines ( 17 , 18 ). CHANGES IN CALCIOTROPIC HORMONES AND CALCIUM BALANCE IN THE ELDERLY Calciotropic hormone production and calcium balance decrease with aging. On the other hand, the skeletal mass increases until growth is completed and then decreases at a constant rate during the rest of life. Parathyroid hormone, vitamin D and calcium can contribute to these changes. Vitamin D Serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)D] decrease with age and are associated with reduction in vertebral mineral content and a rise in serum concentrations of intact PTH. The mechanisms behind these changes are multifactorial ( 19 ). Skin absorption and vitamin D synthesis decrease with age, by an estimated 13% per decade. Reduced kidney conversion of 25(OH)D to 1,25(OH)D, along with partial resistance to the effects of 1,25(OH)D on the intestinal calcium absorption, also contribute to the decline in vitamin D activity in the
