Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


conversion of 25(OH)D to 1,25(OH)D, along with partial resistance to the effects of 1,25(OH)D on the intestinal calcium absorption, also contribute to the decline in vitamin D activity in the elderly. Parathyroid Hormone As we get older, the serum concentration of intact PTH increases ( 20 - 22 ) and correlates with a rise of urinary cAMP and the decrease in tubular reabsorption of phosphorus (P). The estimated PTH increase is 5 to 6% per decade, from 20 to 98 years of age ( 23 ) without gender difference. This change has been explained by the decreased efficiency in absorption, metabolism and action of vitamin D in the elderly which potentially lead to a decrease in ionized calcium and by renal retention of phosphate ( 24 ). However, increased PTH levels with age have been shown to be independent of serum concentrations of 25(OH)D, ionized calcium, and serum P concentrations ( 23 ); neither seems to depend on the decrease in glomerular filtration. An increase in serum PTH concentrations can affect the assessment of parathyroid function in older adults, making it an important factor to consider. Calcium Balance and Serum Phosphorus Multiple factors, like reduced calcium intake, lower intestinal absorption, or diminished action and serum levels of 1,25(OH)D, often result in a negative calcium balance in the elderly ( 20 - 22 , 24 ). Hyponatremia, which is more common in older adults, also plays a role in increasing renal calcium excretion. The increase in serum P concentrations, albeit within the normal range in older individuals without kidney disease, is associated with a higher risk of fractures ( 25 ). Whether the fracture risk is related to the P or to the regulatory hormones of phosphate such as fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF-23) produced by osteocytes or its co-factor α-Klotho, PTH, or 1,25(OH)D3, is unclear ( 21 ). FGF-23 inhibits P reabsorption and renal production of 1,25(OH)D, from early stages of chronic renal failure ( 21 ); the consequences of this phenomenon on the bones of the elderly are unknown. HYPERPARATHYROIDISM IN THE ELDERLY Definition Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is a disorder characterized by the autonomous secretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH) from one or more parathyroid glands, resulting in hypercalcemia or high-normal serum calcium levels ( 26 ). Epidemiology PHPT is a common endocrine disorder that occurs most frequently in individuals over the age of 50. Its incidence and prevalence are
