Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


adenoma (85%), multiglandular disease, which can manifest as hyperplasia or multiple adenomas (14%), or, in rare cases, as carcinoma (<1%). However, in older adults, multiglandular disease occurs in 20–30% of PHPT cases ( 36 ). Kebebew reported that 26% of octogenarian patients exhibited multiglandular disease ( 37 ). In most cases, unregulated monoclonal or oligoclonal proliferation occurs, along with reduced expression of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) in chief cells of the parathyroid glands. This results in both a mass effect and an altered set point ( 38 , 39 ). Most factors involved in this proliferative process remain unknown. Among the genetic mechanisms involved in the development of sporadic parathyroid adenoma are loss-of-function mutations in tumor suppressor genes and gain-of-function mutations in proto-oncogenes. To date, only mutations in MEN1 and CCND1 (menin and cyclin D1, respectively, a tumor suppressor and an oncogene, both located on chromosome 11) have been recognized as established drivers in the pathogenesis of parathyroid adenomas. Other genes confer predisposition and may contribute to tumorigenesis when combined with a second mutational event. These include: CDKN1B ( cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B : p27), CDKN2C ( cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2C : p18), GCM2 ( glial cells missing 2 ), CDC73 ( cell division cycle 73 , formerly known as HRPT2 : parafibromin), and CASR ( calcium-sensing receptor ). Finally, several genes have been proposed as candidate driver or candidate predispositon genes that may contribute to tumor initiation or predisposition. These include: ZFX ( zinc finger X-chromosomal protein ), EZH2 ( enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit ), CTNNB1 ( catenin beta 1 : β-catenin), CDKN1A ( cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A : p21), and CDKN2B ( cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2B : p15) ( 40 ). Clinical Presentation PHPT is the most common cause of hypercalcemia ( 29 ). Hypercalcemia results from PTH stimulation of PTHR1 receptors expressed on osteoblasts, leading to increased synthesis of RANKL. RANKL binds to the RANK receptor on osteoclasts, promoting their differentiation and activity. This enhances bone resorption and mobilizes calcium and phosphate from bone into the circulation ( 1 ). Hypercalcemia also results from increased renal tubular calcium reabsorption, both at the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle and in the distal tubule ( 11 , 15 ). Additionally, PTH increases the synthesis of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in the proximal tubule, leading to enhanced intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate (
