Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


forearm being the most affected site, whereas the lumbar spine was more commonly involved in younger patients. Osteitis fibrosa cystica was also more frequent in individuals over 65 years. Finally, positive parathyroid imaging findings were less common in elderly patients with mild asymptomatic disease ( 47 ). CLASSIC HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Historically, classic PHPT included: Neuromuscular symptoms , such as proximal myopathy, fatigue, and weakness. Chronic hyperparathyroidism can lead to proximal muscle weakness due to atrophy of type II muscle fibers ( 59 ). Neurocognitive symptoms , including depression, anxiety, psychosis, cognitive dysfunction, dementia, reduced social interaction, confusion, delirium, and lethargy ( 26 , 60 – 62 ). Gastrointestinal symptoms , such as anorexia, nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, constipation, and, occasionally, pancreatitis (1–10%) ( 26 ). Skeletal manifestations including osteitis fibrosa cystica, osteoporosis, and pathological fractures. Renal manifestations , particularly nephrolithiasis. Cardiovascular manifestations , such as left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) with diastolic dysfunction, arterial hypertension (AH), vascular dysfunction (both endothelial and smooth muscle), atherosclerosis, thickening of the intimal and medial layers with arterial stiffening, which may lead to coronary artery disease and acute myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, and myocardial, valvular, and vascular calcifications, contributing to increased cardiovascular (CV) mortality ( 57 , 63 – 66 ). The most common skeletal manifestation is osteoporosis, which increases the risk of fractures by 2–3 times, particularly in the vertebrae, distal forearm, and pelvis. Osteoporosis is present in 58% of patients over 75 years of age, compared to 21% in those under 75 ( 50 ). Hypercalciuria is observed in 30–40% of patients with PHPT, though it is less prevalent in older adults. PTH promotes tubular calcium reabsorption at the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle and the distal tubule, which would be expected to reduce calciuria. However, two mechanisms counteract this effect: first, the filtered calcium load increases due to hypercalcemia; second, sodium and calcium reabsorption in the proximal tubule, where approximately 65% of filtered calcium is normally reabsorbed, is reduced. This occurs due to PTH-mediated inhibition of the Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE3). The incidence of nephrolithiasis has declined and currently occurs in 15–25% of cases. When stratified by age, it is more common in younger individuals and occurs in only 15% of patients older than 75 years ( 50 ). Most stones are composed of calcium oxalate; however, alkaline urine promotes the precipitation of calcium phosphate. Other contributing factors to urolithiasis include dehydration and
