Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


serum calcium levels that can obscure or complicate the diagnosis. Patients with vitamin D deficiency tend to have larger parathyroid glands, higher PTH levels, increased osteoclastic activity, and a higher incidence of pathological fractures ( 70 ). 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels are elevated in 24% of patients and within the high-normal range in the remainder. These elevated levels are associated with increased urinary calcium excretion and lower bone mineral density (BMD). PTH decreases bicarbonate reabsorption in the proximal tubule. This may contribute to decreased serum bicarbonate concentrations, potentially causing hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. However, this is usually counterbalanced by the release of alkali from bone as a result of increased osteoclastic activity, so metabolic acidosis typically occurs only in patients with renal impairment or markedly elevated PTH levels. Hypercalciuria is present in 30–40% of patients. Bone turnover markers of formation and resorption are elevated or in the high-normal range, depending on the extent of skeletal involvement. Bone densitometry (DXA) is essential in the assessment of PHPT and typically shows reduced BMD at cortical bone-rich sites such as the one-third distal radius. The differential diagnosis of PHPT includes familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) , characterized by mild hypercalcemia, PTH levels in the high-normal or slightly elevated range, a calcium/creatinine clearance ratio < 0.01, and usually urinary calcium < 100 mg/24 hours ( 26 , 71 ). The recommended diagnostic tests are detailed in Table 1 . TABLE 1. RECOMMENDED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS View in own window Biochemical Recommended Optionals Total, and ionized calcium Magnesium Phosphorus Bicarbonate Creatinine Chloride 25-hydroxyvitamin D 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D Parathyroid hormone Skeletal DXA of hip, spine, and radius Trabecular Bone Score X-Rays or VFA (Vertebral Fracture Assessment) Bone turnover markers Renal eGFR or creatinine clearance 24-hour urinary calcium 24-hour urinary creatinine Stone risk profile in hypercalciuria Imaging for urolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis Genetic Ideal: In patients under 45 years of age, with a family history of MEN1, MEN4, or familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia Mandatory: In cases of MEN2A, atypical adenoma, carcinoma, or primary hyperparathyroidism associated with jaw tumor Imaging Studies for Localization Imaging studies are not used to diagnose PHPT, but rather for the preoperative localization of the pathological gland, which helps in planning the surgical approach and minimizing surgical time and trauma. Localization of the parathyroid glands can be challenging despite the available imaging techniques, especially when the glands are small (<5 mm and <500 mg), ectopic, supernumerary, or when multiglandular disease or
