Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


window Calcium ≥1 mg/dl above the upper limit of normal (threshold above which complications of the disease become more likely). Skeletal T-score < -2.5 at lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck, or distal one-third radius Vertebral fracture by imaging (X-ray, CT, MRI, or Vertebral Fracture Assessment by DXA) Renal Creatinine clearance <60 mL/min 24-hour urinary calcium > 250 mg in women or > 300 mg in men Nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis by imaging (X-ray, ultrasound, or CT) Age < 50 years The surgical indications for asymptomatic presentation aim to provide benefits that outweigh the risk of complications and are based on the risk of disease progression. However, surgery remains an option for any patient seeking a definitive cure, as long as no contraindications are present ( 84 ). There is insufficient evidence to recommend surgery for the improvement of neurocognitive function, quality of life, or cardiovascular indices, as will be detailed later. In patients over 70 years of age, referral for PTX is less frequent, even in the absence of formal contraindications. This more conservative approach is largely driven by concerns regarding surgical risk and the high prevalence of comorbidities in this age group, including hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease ( 54 , 57 , 85 ). Indeed, more than two-thirds of patients with PHPT present with or are treated for these conditions ( 86 – 89 ). Other factors influencing decisions against surgery include advanced age, mild or asymptomatic disease, stable hypercalcemia, and severe frailty ( 28 ). Importantly, the likelihood of undergoing surgery decreases with advancing age, regardless of disease severity or fulfillment of established surgical criteria ( 90 ). Dombrowsky reviewed the medical records of 25 patients over 75 years old with PHPT who were referred for surgery and compared them with 25 who were not. The average follow-up was 5.5 years. The goal was to identify the reasons for diagnostic delays and lack of surgical referrals. Hypercalcemia was unrecognized in 58% of cases. A diagnosis of PHPT was not made in 28% of patients, despite elevated calcium and PTH levels. In 16% of cases, the diagnosis was also missed in patients with clear PHPT-related symptoms such as fractures, osteoporosis, and kidney stones. Reasons for not choosing surgery included age (14%), comorbidities (20%), mild or asymptomatic disease (14%), and mild or stable hypercalcemia (14%) ( 91 ). Seib retrospectively analyzed 210,206 patients with PHPT (from
