Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


continuous use. The dosage of cinacalcet in studies has ranged from 30 to 180 mg/day. Reported adverse effects include arthralgia (38%), myalgia (27%), diarrhea (22%), upper respiratory tract symptoms (20%), and nausea (20%) ( 139 ). Cinacalcet exerts a modest effect on PTH levels (reductions ranging from 5% to 29.8%) and has no impact on BMD. Furthermore, cinacalcet has been associated with a reduction in urinary calcium excretion, likely due to a decreased filtered calcium load. The combination of cinacalcet and alendronate may be used in patients for whom both lowering serum calcium and improving BMD are desired outcomes. A 6-month therapeutic trial of cinacalcet has been proposed to predict the potential benefit of PTX on neurocognitive dysfunction and psychiatric manifestations associated with PHPT. In a prospective observation study short-term normalization of hypercalcemia with cinacalcet has been associated with improvements in depressive and anxiety symptoms, as well as cognitive performance, and appears to predict cognitive outcomes 6 months after PTX. Therefore, cinacalcet may help identify patients most likely to benefit from surgical intervention ( 120 ). Short-term medical normalization of hypercalcemia has been hypothesized as a feasible diagnostic method that could be used to predict the overall effect on quality of life, cognition, and muscle strength after PTX, thereby assisting in the decision to offer surgical treatment. One observational study without controls reported that symptom relief achieved through medical normalization of hypercalcemia correlated well with improvements seen after surgery ( 140 ). In summary, selecting the appropriate treatment for hyperparathyroidism in older adults represents a significant clinical challenge, requiring careful evaluation of the risk-benefit balance. In this population, chronic degenerative diseases such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and overweight are highly prevalent and contribute substantially to morbidity and the complexity of clinical management. Numerous studies have demonstrated that PTX is a safe procedure in older adults. However, it is essential that the surgery be performed by an experienced surgeon, with a careful assessment of the risk-benefit balance. Furthermore, the use of adjunct tools, such as intraoperative PTH monitoring. can aid in determining the extent of surgery, thereby reducing risks and optimizing clinical outcomes. HYPOPARATHYROIDISM Primary hypoparathyroidism is caused by a group of heterogeneous conditions caused by the deficiency in the production of PTH, which usually presents hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia ( 141 ). This is a rare disease, and its onset in older adults is even less common. In most cases,
