Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


production of PTH, which usually presents hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia ( 141 ). This is a rare disease, and its onset in older adults is even less common. In most cases, approximately 75%, are secondary to cervical surgeries, while the remaining 25% is attributed to medical causes such as autoimmune conditions, infiltrative processes or genetic variants that are rare in the elderly. It occurs more frequently in women and in individuals over 45 years of age ( 142 , 143 ). Hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism lead to a significant decrease in the quality of life of individuals, and this worsens with longer duration and as age increases. Furthermore, chronic hypoparathyroidism has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality related to cardiovascular disease, epilepsy, renal disease, cataracts, and mental health issues compared to the general population ( 144 ). Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D are mainstay of the treatment; however, in recent years, hormonal replacement with PTH analogs has gained greater importance in the management of hypoparathyroidism ( 145 ). Epidemiology Hypoparathyroidism is a rare disease. Its prevalence varies across populations, with estimates ranging from 6.4 to 37 cases per 100,000 people in countries like the United States, Norway, Denmark, and Italy. These differences are likely due to variations in surgical outcomes across countries. The annual incidence is estimated at 0.8 to 2.3 cases per 100,000 people ( 146 , 147 , 148 ). Hypoparathyroidism occurs more frequently in women (75% of cases), likely because thyroid diseases are more common in women, increasing their risk of undergoing neck surgery ( 149 ). Etiology POSTSURGICAL HYPOPARATHYRIODISM About 75% of hypoparathyroidism cases are iatrogenic, usually occurring after neck surgery. This complication arises in approximately 8% of all neck surgeries, but in 75% of those cases, it is transient and resolves within six months post-surgery. Patients are considered to have immediate postsurgical hypoparathyroidism if recovery occurs within one month; patients who require supplementation beyond 1 month are considered to have protracted hypoparathyroidism ( 150 ). If it continues after one year, it is defined as chronic postsurgical hypoparathyroidism. A PTH level >10 pg/mL generally rules out the risk of permanent hypoparathyroidism ( 151 ). The most common risk factors for postsurgical hypoparathyroidism are extensive neck surgery, thyroid cancer, neck exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism, multiple neck surgeries, total thyroidectomy, vitamin D deficiency, surgical complications such as postoperative bleeding or incidental parathyroidectomy, history of Graves’ disease or
