Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


surgery, thyroid cancer, neck exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism, multiple neck surgeries, total thyroidectomy, vitamin D deficiency, surgical complications such as postoperative bleeding or incidental parathyroidectomy, history of Graves’ disease or if the surgery is not performed by a high-volume surgeon ( 152 ). NON-SURGICAL CAUSES OF HYPOPARATHYROIDISM The remaining 25% of cases are due to varied non-surgical causes, which may include autoimmune disorders, genetic conditions (usually presenting in childhood), either syndromic or isolated, infiltrative diseases, medications or radiation damage to the neck ( Table 4 ) ( 153 ). Both magnesium deficiency and magnesium excess can lead to functional hypoparathyroidism, so it's important to address this imbalance when hypocalcemia is present ( 154 ). TABLE 4. ETIOLOGY OF HYPOPARATHYROIDISM View in own window Iatrogenic Neck surgery-related Radioactive iodine Neck radiotherapy Autoimmune Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 1 (AIRE gene) Isolated autoimmune hypoparathyroidism Genetic Genetic syndromes (DiGeorge, Kenny-Caffey, CHARGE) Isolated genetic hypoparathyroidism (PTH, ADH1, CASR, GNA11 mutations) Infiltrative Diseases Amyloidosis Sarcoidosis Metastases Granulomatous diseases Hemochromatosis Wilson’s disease Medications L-Asparaginase Immune checkpoint inhibitors Other Hypomagnesemia Clinical Presentation The signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia are heterogeneous and can affect different organs and systems ( Table 5 ). There is a wide variation in the severity of symptoms and they depend on the duration and severity of the hypocalcemia. Patients may complain of numbness, paresthesia of extremities, muscle cramping, tetany, or less specific symptoms such as fatigue or personality disturbances. Chronic hypocalcemia can lead to several complications such as neuropsychiatric manifestations, including depression, cognitive decline, and basal ganglia calcifications which can be particularly important in older adults due to their increased risk of neurocognitive deterioration ( 155 ). Other long-term complications can include ectopic calcifications (especially in the kidneys, brain, and blood vessels), nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis, and chronic kidney disease ( 156 ), in addition to cataracts. It should be noted that there is a "physiological" decrease in GFR in adults, which seems to begin around the age of 50 and that some authors have estimated at up to 1 ml/min/year. This physiological situation could be exacerbated by the complications associated with permanent hypoparathyroidism in the elderly population. Severe hypocalcemia may be associated with electrocardiographic (ECG) changes such as prolonged QT or peaked T waves or T wave inversion, but more extensive cardiovascular disease can present, such as chest pain or left ventricular impairment ( 157 , 158 ). A list of features associated with
