Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


or T wave inversion, but more extensive cardiovascular disease can present, such as chest pain or left ventricular impairment ( 157 , 158 ). A list of features associated with hypocalcemia can be found in the Endotext chapter, “Hypocalcemia” in the section of Diseases of Bone and Mineral Metabolism ( 159 ). TABLE 5. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF HYPOCALCEMIA View in own window Central Nervous System Seizures Calcifications of basal ganglia Dystonias Dementia Delirium Anxiety Depression Peripheral Nervous System Paresthesias Tetany Carpopedal spasm Chvostek sign Hyperreflexia Cardiovascular System Arrhythmias Dilated cardiomyopathy QT prolongation Atrioventricular block Peaked T waves Ocular Complications Cataracts Papilledema Blepharospasm Visual disturbances Renal Complications Nephrocalcinosis Chronic kidney disease Kidney stones Skin and Appendages Dental abnormalities Dry skin Onycholysis Eczema Musculoskeletal System Myopathy Spondyloarthropathy Increased bone mineral density Others Laryngospasm Asthenia Ectopic calcifications Decreased quality of life Differential Diagnosis of Hypocalcemia Hypocalcemia is a common clinical finding and is defined as total serum calcium <8.5 mg/dL or ionized calcium <4.7 mg/dL. The first step in evaluating hypocalcemia is to correct the calcium level based on the serum albumin level; this is done by taking the total calcium value and adding 0.8 mg/dL for each 1 g/dL decrease in serum albumin below 4, however, this practice is controversial, so if available, it is better to use ionized calcium ( 160 , 161 ). Once hypocalcemia is confirmed, it should be classified based on the level of parathyroid hormone (PTH). A low or inappropriately normal PTH level, along with low calcium and elevated serum phosphate, confirmed in two samples taken two weeks apart, is diagnostic of hypoparathyroidism, and the underlying causes should be investigated ( 162 ). If PTH is elevated, the hypocalcemia may be due to vitamin D deficiency, intestinal malabsorption, chronic kidney disease, hungry bone syndrome (typically after recent parathyroidectomy), and in rare occasions, pseudohypoparathyroidism, a genetic syndrome characterized by resistance to the action of PTH that can be associated or not with Albright’s hereditary osteodystrophy. Additional information can be found in the chapter entitled “Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism” in the section Diseases of Bone and Mineral Metabolism of Endotext ( 163 ). Treatment Oral supplementation with calcium and vitamin D is the standard treatment for primary hypoparathyroidism. The goal of therapy is to prevent symptomatic hypocalcemia and to maintain serum calcium at the lower end of the normal range. Additionally, serum phosphate should be kept within the normal range,
