Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


of therapy is to prevent symptomatic hypocalcemia and to maintain serum calcium at the lower end of the normal range. Additionally, serum phosphate should be kept within the normal range, aiming to keep the calcium × phosphate product below 55, as higher levels have been associated with extraskeletal calcifications. It is important to monitor 24-hour urinary calcium and avoid hypercalciuria, with a target urinary calcium excretion less than 4 mg/kg/day ( 164 ). ACUTE TREATMENT/SYMPTOMATIC Severe hypocalcemia can be life-threatening. Therefore, if symptoms such as tetany, seizures, altered mental status, or electrocardiogram changes like peaked T waves or QT prolongation are present, urgent treatment is necessary, ideally with intravenous calcium ( 165 ). Intravenous Treatment Intravenous treatment should begin with one ampule of 10% calcium gluconate, which contains 94 mg of elemental calcium, diluted in 50 ml of 5% dextrose solution, to be infused over 10–20 minutes. After this, a continuous infusion of calcium gluconate should be started. This is prepared with 10 ampules of 10% calcium gluconate diluted in 1 liter of either 5% dextrose or 0.9% saline solution, administered at 100 ml/hour and adjusted according to calcium levels every 4–6 hours. For patients with limited fluid tolerance, it's ideal to dilute the ampules in 500 ml of solution. In patients receiving intravenous calcium infusion, cardiac monitoring and calcium measurements every 4–6 hours are necessary, and the calcium must be given in a different IV line than the phosphorus ( 166 , 167 , 168 ). Oral Treatment Oral treatment is recommended and should be adjusted based on calcium levels. If serum calcium remains below 7.5 mg/dl despite the infusion, calcitriol should be started at a dose of 0.5 mcg every 24 hours, along with calcium carbonate supplements at a dose of 3-9 grams per day, divided into 3–4 doses. Dosage should be adjusted according to calcium levels. It's important to remember that calcium carbonate should be taken with food ( 169 ). Figure 4. Approach to the Treatment of Hypocalcemia. CHRONIC TREATMENT Calcium Supplements Calcium supplements are necessary because foods high in calcium are also typically high in phosphorus, making it impossible to meet calcium needs through diet alone. The required dose of calcium carbonate varies by individual, but typically 3-9 grams of calcium supplements divided into 3–4 daily doses are needed. Calcium carbonate contains 40% elemental calcium; however, it is often poorly tolerated, can cause constipation, and
