Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


but typically 3-9 grams of calcium supplements divided into 3–4 daily doses are needed. Calcium carbonate contains 40% elemental calcium; however, it is often poorly tolerated, can cause constipation, and requires an acidic environment for absorption ( 170 ). Calcium citrate is a better-tolerated formulation and does not require an acidic environment, making it suitable for patients with achlorhydria or those taking proton pump inhibitors, a situation more common in older adults. The downside of calcium citrate is that it contains only 21% elemental calcium, so more tablets are needed to reach an adequate dose. ( 171 ) Other supplements such as calcium gluconate and calcium lactate, are also available, but they are not widely useful in calcium supplementation ( Table 6 ) ( 172 ). TABLE 6. ORAL CALCIUM PRESENTATIONS View in own window Formulation Available dose Elemental Calcium Comments Calcium carbonate 500 mg, 600, 1000 mg 40% Least expensive Should be taken with meals GI intolerance Calcium citrate 950 mg 21% Not dependent on acidity Better GI tolerance Preferred in elderly Calcium gluconate 500 mg, 972 mg 9% Expensive More pills are needed Calcium lactate 300, 325, 650 mg 13% Well absorbed Vitamin D Supplements In hypoparathyroidism, the production of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D is impaired due to the lack of parathyroid hormone (PTH), making supplementation essential. Typically, a dose of 0.5–2 mcg of calcitriol once daily is required but phosphorus levels should be carefully monitored, especially in patients with impaired renal function. It is important to remember that the calcium-phosphorus product must be <55 to avoid calcifications ( 173 ). The use of cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) is more controversial. On one hand, patients are unable to convert vitamin D3 into its active form; on the other hand, some experts recommend its use due to the potential extra-skeletal benefits of adequate vitamin D3 levels. Additionally, supplementation has been shown to help reduce hypocalcemia, and it is recommended to maintain 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels above 20 ng/ml ( 174 ). Thiazide Diuretics In patients with hypercalciuria, thiazide diuretics can be used to reduce urinary calcium excretion to raise the serum calcium and prevent complications such as nephrocalcinosis and kidney stones. However, adverse effects may include renal losses of potassium and magnesium, which can lead to hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia (which may worsen hypocalcemia), and hyponatremia. For this reason, it is critical to monitor these electrolytes in the elderly, because electrolytic disturbances are
