Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


magnesium, which can lead to hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia (which may worsen hypocalcemia), and hyponatremia. For this reason, it is critical to monitor these electrolytes in the elderly, because electrolytic disturbances are common in this population ( 175 ). Hormone Replacement Therapy Although treatment with calcium and vitamin D can help manage hypocalcemia in patients with primary hypoparathyroidism, it often requires very high doses, which can lead to gastrointestinal intolerance and reduced quality of life. Overtreatment can cause complications such as nephrocalcinosis or kidney stones, and especially in older adults, it may lead to decreased glomerular filtration rate. Other complications associated with treatment include vascular or central nervous system calcifications, cataracts, and depression ( 176 , 177 ). For these reasons, parathyroid hormone (PTH) replacement therapy may improve outcomes. In recent years, alternatives for hormone replacement have been developed to reduce the amount of oral calcium required and to decrease related complications ( 178 ). PTH replacement therapy is recommended for individuals who require more than 2.5 grams of oral calcium per day or more than 1.5 mcg of calcitriol per day, as well as for those with hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, a glomerular filtration rate below 60 ml/min, or significantly reduced quality of life due to treatment ( 179 ). Recombinant PTH ( 1 – 34 ), also known as teriparatide, is a synthetic form of parathyroid hormone, that includes the biologically active fragment of human parathyroid hormone. It has been extensively studied for managing hypoparathyroidism as it effectively maintains normal blood calcium levels, lowers urinary calcium, and increases urinary phosphate ( 180 ). The hormone’s short half-life (about 1 hour) makes continuous or multiple daily dosing the most effective strategy. Twice-daily injections are more effective than once-daily, at a dose of 20 mcg every 12 hours, as they provide better 24-hour calcium stability and require lower doses ( 181 ). Continuous infusion via a pump further improved calcium stability and allowed for lower dosing compared to injections, with similar findings observed in both pediatric and adult patients, however, this approach is impractical for daily life ( 182 ). Although beneficial, PTH ( 1 – 34 ) is only FDA-approved for osteoporosis, not hypoparathyroidism. PTH ( 1 - 84 ): Natpara™ is the full-length, intact hormone containing the entire amino acid sequence of human parathyroid hormone. This medication is approved for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism. The usual dose is 50–100 mcg/day via subcutaneous
