Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


full-length, intact hormone containing the entire amino acid sequence of human parathyroid hormone. This medication is approved for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism. The usual dose is 50–100 mcg/day via subcutaneous injection. It effectively reduces the need for calcium and calcitriol supplementation and maintains blood calcium within the normal range ( 183 , 184 ). In clinical trials like the REPLACE study, over half of the participants were able to reduce or discontinue oral calcium and calcitriol while maintaining normal blood calcium levels. Long-term studies confirmed stable renal function, reduced calcium–phosphate product, and improved or stabilized bone mineral density, particularly in the spine and hip, though cortical bone declined ( 185 ). Unlike PTH ( 1 – 34 ), PTH ( 1 – 84 ) did not significantly reduce urinary calcium excretion. A 2022 meta-analysis found no major differences between PTH ( 1 – 84 ) and PTH ( 1 – 34 ) in most outcomes, except PTH ( 1 – 84 ) was more effective at lowering the calcium–phosphate product. Both therapies had minimal adverse effects ( 186 ). Although PTH ( 1 – 84 ) is FDA-approved for treating hypocalcemia in hypoparathyroidism, it has been discontinued worldwide due to manufacturing issues. Palopegteriparatide: TransCon™ PTH is a PTH ( 1 – 34 ) molecule conjugated with polyethylene glycol, which allows for a longer half-life and sustained release of active PTH. It has a ~60-hour half-life and is activated in the body at physiological temperature and pH. In Phase II and III trials, over 90% of patients achieved independence from conventional therapy, with normalized serum calcium and reduced urinary calcium and phosphate levels ( 187 ). In the Phase III PaTHway trial, 79% of patients on palopegteriparatide met the primary endpoint vs. 5% on placebo. By week 26, 93% were off conventional therapy. Improvements in quality of life and renal function (eGFR) were also observed ( 186 ). In the Phase II PaTH Forward trial, 91% of participants achieved treatment goals by week 162. Bone turnover markers initially increased then stabilized. Bone mineral density (BMD) remained within normal ranges. Palopegteriparatide was well tolerated, with mild/moderate side effects like injection site reactions (31%), hypercalcemia (9.8%), and headache (9.8%) and it has been approved by the FDA ( 188 ), European Medicines Agency and commercialized in several European countries. EMERGING THERAPIES Eneboparatide Eneboparatide (AZP-3601) is a long-acting PTH–PTHrP ( 1 – 36 )
