Parathyroid Function in the Elderly and Its Disorders
KEYWORDS: calcium, pubmed, patients, pth, hyperparathyroidism, primary, primary hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, parathyroid, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, surgery


approved by the FDA ( 188 ), European Medicines Agency and commercialized in several European countries. EMERGING THERAPIES Eneboparatide Eneboparatide (AZP-3601) is a long-acting PTH–PTHrP ( 1 – 36 ) analogue designed to treat hypoparathyroidism. It has a short pharmacokinetic but long pharmacodynamic profile, providing 24-hour calcium control with once-daily dosing. It binds strongly to the PTH1 receptor, specifically its R0 conformation, allowing sustained G-protein signaling and prolonged calcium-regulating effects for a longer period. In a phase II trial with 28 participants, 88% were able to discontinue conventional therapy while maintaining normal blood calcium levels. Additionally, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) increased by 6 ml/min, and bone turnover markers rose, suggesting restoration of physiological bone resorption. It is currently in Phase III clinical trials and has not shown significant adverse effects so far. Eneboparatide is a promising, once-daily treatment for hypoparathyroidism that provides stable calcium levels, reduces dependence on supplements, preserves bone health, and improves kidney function, all with a favorable safety profile ( 189 ). Calcilytics Calcilytics are negative allosteric modulators of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) and reduce its sensitivity to extracellular calcium. This can restore or correct activating mutations in autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1 (ADH1) and improve calcium concentrations. One calcilytic molecule, enacaleret, has been tested and shown to normalize calcium levels, reduce hypercalciuria, and increase both PTH and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels in a 24-week study. It is now under investigation for use in patients with ADH1. Due to their mechanism of action, these drugs are not suitable for patients with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism or those with structural damage to parathyroid tissue, as functional parathyroid cells are required for their effect ( 190 ). Conclusion Hypoparathyroidism is a rare disease but is associated with significant reductions in quality of life and multiple comorbidities, especially in older patients. In recent years, significant progress has been made in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism, offering hope for effective treatments for chronic hypoparathyroidism, sustained calcium control, reduced reliance on supplements, improved quality of life, and stable skeletal health. REFERENCES 1. Friedman PA, Goodman WG. PTH (1-84)/PTH (7-84): a balance of power. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 2006; 290: F975-F84. [ PubMed : 16601298 ] 2. Kumar R, Thompson JR. The regulation of parathyroid hormone secretion and synthesis. J Am Soc Nephrol 2011; 22: 216–224. [ PMC free article : PMC5546216 ] [ PubMed : 21164021 ] 3. Conigrave A, Ward D. Calcium-sensing receptor: pharmacological
