Case Report
KEYWORDS: atrial, coronary, agents, vasospasm, chemotherapy, rca, sinus, cancer, induced, fig, day, atrial branch, observed, branch, ischemia


Case Report Atrial fibrillation observed in a patient with esophageal cancer treated with fluorouracil Introduction Fluoropyrimidine derivatives are the major anticancer agents used for patients with gastrointestinal cancer. However, they are reported to have potent cardiotoxicity such as vascular endothelial injury and subsequent vasospasm . Fluorouracil (5-FU) and capecitabine, both of which are fluoropyrimidine derivatives, are the representative agents causing myocardial ischemia at a rate of 18% . These agents have potent direct toxic effects on the coronary endothelium, and inhibitory effects on nitric oxide (NO) synthesis leading to coronary vasospasm. Here, we report a patient demonstrating atrial fibrillation (AF) observed after the tration adminis- of 5-FU which likely induced vasospasm in the atrial branch of the right coronary artery (RCA). Case report A 69-year-old man complained of dysphagia and was diagnosed with middle-thoracic squamous cell esophageal cancer of cT3N2M1(PUL) Stage IVB according to the TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors-8th edition. He was referred to Kyushu University Hospital for chemotherapy. Esophagogas- troduodenoscopy showed a sub-obstructed esophagus and bleeding ulcer due to esophageal cancer. Positron emission tomography revealed lung metastases (Fig. 1). He was a current smoker and his past history included visceral inversion, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease. He experienced a single episode of paroxysm of AF, but no episodes of angina pectoris. Electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to the anticancer therapy showed sinus rhythm and no abnormalities in Journal the of Cardiology Cases 20 (2019) 183–186 A R T I C L E I N F O Article history: Received 11 June 2019 Received in revised form 18 July 2019 Accepted 30 July 2019 Keywords: Atrial fibrillation Esophageal A cancer Fluorouracil Vasospasm B S T R A C T Fluorouracil (5-FU), a commonly used anticancer agent, has potent cardiotoxicity that is mediated by vascular endothelial injury and vasospasm. Here, we report a patient demonstrating atrial fibrillation (AF), which was most likely induced by vasospasm mediated by 5-FU. A 69-year-old man presented with dysphagia and was diagnosed with advanced esophageal cancer. Frequent paroxysms of atrial fibrillation (AF) were observed during combination chemotherapy including 5-FU. AF was refractory to disopyramide, but was sensitive to antianginal agents (nicorandil and nitroglycerin transdermal patch). Coronary angiography performed within the chemotherapeutic period demonstrated moderate stenosis in the right coronary artery (RCA). Severe spasm at the proximal portion of the atrial branch in RCA was induced by provocation test using acetylcholine. Our case indicated that 5-FU predisposed vasospasm
