Case Report
KEYWORDS: atrial, coronary, agents, vasospasm, chemotherapy, rca, sinus, cancer, induced, fig, day, atrial branch, observed, branch, ischemia


right coronary artery (RCA). Severe spasm at the proximal portion of the atrial branch in RCA was induced by provocation test using acetylcholine. Our case indicated that 5-FU predisposed vasospasm in RCA and the subsequent atrial ischemia may lead to AF. events and sometimes leads to the paroxysms of atrial fibrillation (AF). Coronary-dilating agents should be considered for the treatment of AF which occurs after the administration of 5-FU and is refractory to antiarrhythmic agents.> © 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Japanese College of Cardiology. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( * Corresponding author at: Department of Hematology/Oncology/Cardiovascular 8586, Japan. E-mail address: (S. ST-T segment. Transthoracic echocardiography showed no wall motion abnormalities, no left ventricular wall thickening, and no left atrial dilatation. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 64.3%, and the dimensions of interventricular septum, ventricular left posterior wall, and left atrium were 8 mm, 10 mm, and 26 mm, respectively. Considering that his performance status was satisfactory, biweekly DCF combination therapy (docetaxel 30 mg/m2day 1, 5-FU 800 mg/m2 day 1–5, cisplatin 80 mg/m2 day 1) was started. On day 6, asymptomatic AF was documented and terminated 1 h later. Anticoagulation was not performed due to a low CHADS2 score (1 point due to hypertension alone) and the high bleeding risk of the esophageal ulcer. Instead, a b -blocker (bisoprolol transdermal patch) was prescribed. Thereafter, sinus bradycardia was recorded prior to the 2nd course of chemotherapy and bisoprolol was discontinued. The chemotherapy regimen was changed to FP combination therapy (5-FU 800 mg/m2 day 1–5, cisplatin 80 mg/m2day 1) due to an allergy to docetaxel. On day 4 of the 2nd course of chemotherapy, rapid AF was recorded with palpitations and mild oppressive pain in the chest. On day 5, syncope occurred due to rapid AF, showing a ventricular rate of 150 bpm (Fig. 2(A)). Intravenous disopyramide (50 mg) converted AF to a sinus rhythm after 3 s of sinus pause (Fig. 2 (B)), but atrial tachycardia occurred soon after (Fig. 2(C)). Transdermal nitroglycerin patch was attempted as the patient had a chest discomfort and inferior leads (II, III, aVF) ECG showed slight ST-segment depression (Fig. 2(D)). Thirty minutes after placing the transdermal patch, AF was converted to a sinus rhythm. AF did not occur thereafter during the 2nd course of chemotherapy. Dysphagia was exacerbated and lung metastasis showed progression based on the
