Case Report
KEYWORDS: atrial, coronary, agents, vasospasm, chemotherapy, rca, sinus, cancer, induced, fig, day, atrial branch, observed, branch, ischemia


patch, AF was converted to a sinus rhythm. AF did not occur thereafter during the 2nd course of chemotherapy. Dysphagia was exacerbated and lung metastasis showed progression based on the images of computed tomography (CT) performed after the completion of the 2nd course of chemo- therapy. Hence, radiation (60 Gy/30Fr) accompanied by an FP regimen (5-FU 700 mg/m2 day 1–5, cisplatin 50 mg/m2 day 1) was performed as the 3rd course of anticancer therapy. AF recurred on day 4 during the 3rd course. AF sustained over the day 5, coronary angiography was performed, and 50% stenosis was observed at segment 2 of RCA as shown in Fig. 3(A). A provocation test using 50 m g acetylcholine (ACh) induced diffuse spasms in RCA and severe (90%) spasms at the prior stenotic segment 2 accompanied with chest pain. Moreover, after the provocation test, the atrial branch of RCA showed 90% stenosis (Fig. 3(B)). Based on these coronary angiographic findings, nicorandil infusion and transdermal patches were attempted. Thirty minutes after administration of coronary dilating agents, sinus rhythm was restored without pause. In addition, the 4th FP-combination chemotherapy was success- fully terminated without uncontrollable AF by readministration of transdermal nitroglycerin patch. After completion of whole chemotherapeutic regimen, AF did not recur leading to discontinuation of antianginal treatment. Discussion We present a patient with advanced esophageal cancer treated with chemotherapy including 5-FU, which most likely induced vasospasm in RCA leading to the paroxysms of AF. Despite AF being associated with cancer treatment that was resistant to antiar- rhythmic agents, we could complete the cancer therapy safely using coronary dilating agents. Although the exact mechanisms remain unclear, AF is observed in a maximum of 1.4% of cancer patients during a chemotherapy regimen including 5-FU . The present case demonstrated dextrocardia and had coronary risk factors such as hypertension, current smoking, and chronic kidney disease. Indeed, coronary angiography performed on this patient demonstrated moderate organic stenosis in the proximal portion of the atrial branch in RCA (Fig. 3(A)). In addition, a provocation test using 50 m g ACh during the period Fig. of (A) 1. Endoscopic findings of a giant solitary tumor located in the middle part of esophagus, which are compatible with advanced esophageal cancer. (B) Positron emission tomography findings of lung S. metastases (arrow). Moriyama et al. / Journal of Cardiology Cases 20 (2019) 184 183–186 chemotherapy induced right coronary vasospasm, which in- cluded the
