Case Report
KEYWORDS: atrial, coronary, agents, vasospasm, chemotherapy, rca, sinus, cancer, induced, fig, day, atrial branch, observed, branch, ischemia


Positron emission tomography findings of lung S. metastases (arrow). Moriyama et al. / Journal of Cardiology Cases 20 (2019) 184 183–186 chemotherapy induced right coronary vasospasm, which in- cluded the atrial branch (Fig. 3(B)). Nicorandil infusion and transdermal patches restored sinus rhythm. These findings indicate that 5-FU caused vasospasm in the atherosclerotic RCA, and the subsequent atrial ischemia induced AF that was resistant to antiarrhythmic agents but sensitive to the coronary dilating agents. The occurrence of AF in cancer patients is not rare and is due to comorbid inflammation, direct action of cancer, indirect action mediated by the autonomic nervous system, and the adverse effects of anticancer agents impairing coronary circula- tion . Indeed, AF is a representative atrial arrhythmia, which is observed in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). The prevalence of CAD in AF patients ranges from 17 to 46%, whereas the prevalence of AF in patients with CAD is low, up to 5% . Our case strengthened literature reporting that acute cardiac ischemia sometimes underlies AF . Alasady et reported al. atrial branch involvement is an independent predictor of new-onset AF observed after myocardial infarction . Atrial ischemia creates arrhythmogenic substrates in animal models of atrial arrhythmia. Using canine models, Nishida et al. observed ectopic atrial activity and unstable multiple reentry circuits leading to AF in the ischemic border zone of infarcted atria undergoing atrial branch occlusion . In humans, the sinus node artery as well as the right atrial branch originate from the RCA. ECG monitoring in this case demonstrated sinus pause with a maximum duration of 3 s and subsequent atrial tachycardia after the termination of paroxysmal AF (Fig. 2(B)), which may reflect right coronary ischemia. Südhoff et al. demonstrated vasocontraction of brachial artery after administration of 5-FU and ameliorating effect of nitroglycerin . Arterial vasocon- traction induced by 5-FU administration may have aggravated ischemia leading to AF, which was successfully controlled by antianginal Fig. agents. Serial 2. electrocardiogram (ECG) monitors demonstrated: (A) atrial fibrillation (AF) with a ventricular rate of 150 bpm and the last portion of motion artefact caused by syncope (bidirectional underline), (B) sinus pause with a duration of 3 s immediately after the termination of AF, (C) atrial tachycardia observed after the restoration of sinus rhythm, and (D) 12-lead ECG showing AF and mild ST depression in the inferior leads (II, III, aVF) (indicated by S. asterisks). Moriyama et al. /
