Cardiac Imaging Tests
KEYWORDS: coronary, cardiac, left, contrast, arteries, used, artery, coronary artery, indicated, heart, normal, arrow, mri, imaging, coronary arteries


Cardiac imaging tests can delineate cardiac structure and function. Standard imaging tests include Echocardiography Chest x-ray Computed tomography (CT) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Various radionuclide techniques Standard CT and MRI have limited application because the heart constantly beats, but faster CT and magnetic resonance techniques can provide useful cardiac images if the rhythm is regular and the heart rate is controlled; sometimes patients are given a drug (eg, a beta-blocker) to slow the heart rate during imaging. In ECG gating, the image recording (or reconstruction) is synchronized with the electrocardiogram (ECG), providing information from several cardiac cycles that can be used to create single images of selected points in the cardiac cycle. CT gating uses the ECG to trigger the x-ray beam at the desired portion of the cardiac cycle, exposing the patient to less radiation than gating that reconstructs information from only the desired portion of the cardiac cycle (gated reconstruction) and does not interrupt the x-ray beam. Chest X-Rays in Cardiac Diagnosis Chest x-rays are often useful as a starting point in a cardiac diagnosis and should always be done when a diagnosis of heart failure is considered. Posteroanterior and lateral views provide a gross view of atrial and ventricular size and shape and pulmonary vasculature, but additional tests are almost always required for precise characterization of cardiac structure and function. 1/9 Chest Radiograph (Prosthetic Heart Valve) IMAGE ZEPHYR/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Computed Tomography (CT) in Cardiac Diagnosis Spiral (helical) CT may be used to evaluate pericarditis, congenital cardiac disorders (especially abnormal arteriovenous connections), disorders of the great vessels (eg, aortic aneurysm, aortic dissection), cardiac tumors, acute pulmonary embolism, chronic pulmonary thromboembolic disease, and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia. Noncontrast CT can be used to look for coronary artery calcification; the calcium load is sometimes used to refine estimates of cardiac risk. The use of CT to evaluate most other cardiac conditions requires a radiopaque contrast agent, which may limit its use in patients with renal impairment. 2/9 Cardiac CT Angiogram IMAGE LIVING ART ENTERPRISES, LLC/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Abnormal CT of the Heart Noncontrast CT Showing Coronary Artery Calcification This image shows dense coronary calcifications in the left main (red arrow) and left anterior descending artery (green arrow). 3/9 Cardiac CT (3D Scan of Prosthetic Heart Valve) This is an oblique view of the left side, looking toward the front of the chest (left). The prosthetic heart valve (white) is
