Cardiac Imaging Tests
KEYWORDS: coronary, cardiac, left, contrast, arteries, used, artery, coronary artery, indicated, heart, normal, arrow, mri, imaging, coronary arteries


CT (3D Scan of Prosthetic Heart Valve) This is an oblique view of the left side, looking toward the front of the chest (left). The prosthetic heart valve (white) is visible at center, where the aorta (upper center) meets the heart (lower center). The stitches used to close the chest are visible at upper left. ZEPHYR/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 1 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows respectively and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 2 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows, respectively, and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. 4/9 Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 3 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows respectively and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 4 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows respectively and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 5 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows respectively 5/9 and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. Contrast CT Showing Normal Coronary Arteries – Slide 6 This contrast CT shows normal coronary arteries. The left main is indicated by the red arrow. The left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries are indicated by the green and blue arrows respectively and the right coronary artery is indicated by the purple arrow. Contrast CT Showing Coronary Artery Disease IMAGE Electron beam CT, formerly called ultrafast CT or cine
