Cardiac Imaging Tests
KEYWORDS: coronary, cardiac, left, contrast, arteries, used, artery, coronary artery, indicated, heart, normal, arrow, mri, imaging, coronary arteries


for evaluating areas around the heart, particularly the mediastinum and great vessels (eg, for studying aneurysms, dissections, congenital heart disease, and stenoses). With ECG- gated data acquisition, MRI can be used to image the heart itself, and image resolution can approach that of CT or echocardiography, clearly delineating myocardial wall thickness and motion, chamber volumes, intraluminal masses or clot, and valve planes. Cardiac MRI Showing Normal Cardiac Anatomy IMAGE 7/9 Sequential MRI after injecting a paramagnetic contrast agent (gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid [Gd-DTPA]) produces higher resolution of myocardial perfusion patterns than does radionuclide imaging. MRI is generally considered the most accurate and reliable measure of ventricular volumes as well as ejection fraction. However, patients with impaired renal function can develop nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, a potentially life-threatening disorder, after use of gadolinium contrast. Contrast agents are being developed that are safe to use in patients with impaired renal function. When MRI is done with contrast, 3-dimensional information on infarct size and location can be obtained, and blood flow velocities in cardiac chambers can be measured. MRI can assess tissue viability by assessing the contractile response to inotropic stimulation with dobutamine or by using a contrast agent (eg, Gd-DTPA, which is excluded from cells with intact membranes). MRI discriminates myocardial scar from inflammation with edema. In patients with Marfan syndrome, MRI measurements of ascending aorta dilation are more accurate than echocardiographic measurements. MRI is increasingly being used in the evaluation of nonischemic cardiomyopathies such as amyloidosis. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), after injection of a gadolinium contrast agent, is used to assess blood volumes of interest (eg, blood vessels in the chest or abdomen); all blood flow can be assessed simultaneously. MRA can be used to detect aneurysms, stenosis, or occlusions in the carotid, coronary, renal, or peripheral arteries. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) can be used as an alternative to ultrasonography to detect deep venous thrombosis; however, MRV is less well studied and more expensive than ultrasonography. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) in Cardiac Diagnosis PET with CT (PET-CT) can demonstrate myocardial perfusion and metabolism and is increasingly being used to assess myocardial viability or to assess myocardial perfusion after an equivocal single-photon emission CT (SPECT) study or in patients with severe obesity. Perfusion agents are radioactive nuclides that are used to trace the amount of blood flow entering a specific region and are therefore useful in unmasking myocardial perfusion deficits not evident at rest.
