Atrial fibrillation with RVR and ST depression_ POCUS, cardioversion, Lewis leads, and is this Posterior OMI_ - Dr. Smith’s ECG Blog
KEYWORDS: atrial, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, ischemia, rvr, fibrillation rvr, tachycardia, fluids, subendocardial, demand, subendocardial ischemia, demand ischemia, right, sepsis, leads


An elderly man with a history of diabetes and hypertension presented with lethargy and weakness, decreased urine output, and hypotension. There was no history of GI bleeding or other hemorrhage, and no fever. He had no chest pain or shortness of breath. It was unknown whether there was a prior history of atrial fibrillation. He was on atenolol, but it was not known whether this was for hypertension or atrial fibrillation. He was not anticoagulated. Blood pressures ranged from 83/45 to 125/83. Heart rate ranged from 110 to 145. Initial ECG There is atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response (approximately 120 bpm). There are aberrantly conducted beats (Ashman phenomenon), which may be confused with PVC couplets. There is ST depression in V2–V6 that is clearly ischemic. Differential Diagnosis of Ischemia New or old atrial fibrillation with posterior OMI New atrial fibrillation with RVR causing demand ischemia Old atrial fibrillation with poor rate control causing demand ischemia OMI or ACS causing subendocardial ischemia with possible additional ischemia from atrial fibrillation with RVR Hemorrhage, dehydration, sepsis, or similar causes resulting in reflexive tachycardia and demand ischemia PEARL: ST depression maximal in V1–V4 is extremely specific for acute OMI, but not in the presence of atrial fibrillation with RVR. AI interpretation indicated that in the context of atrial fibrillation with RVR, ST depression in V1–V4 is most likely subendocardial ischemia. This case was not OMI, but rather supply–demand subendocardial ischemia. Point-of-Care Ultrasound (POCUS) Assessment of volume status was performed using bedside ultrasound of the inferior vena cava (IVC). The IVC was collapsing, consistent with volume depletion. Additional views showed a small right ventricle and a small left ventricle with reasonably good contractility, supporting volume depletion. The appropriate therapy was fluids and further workup for hemorrhage, dehydration, or sepsis. Initial Management and Reassessment Both an esmolol bolus and infusion, and IV fluids were started. Beta blockade should not be given early in a volume-depleted state, as reflexive tachycardia may be necessary to maintain cardiac output. Lactate was 3.3 mEq/L. Initial troponin I was 0.139 ng/mL. This was felt to represent Type II (demand ischemia) myocardial infarction rather than ACS. Cardioversion was not performed due to risk of thromboembolism, possible chronic atrial fibrillation, and because atrial fibrillation with RVR was not the primary cause of shock. Esmolol was stopped and 2 liters of IV fluids were administered. After fluids, the IVC was less collapsing.
