[ ]
KEYWORDS: albumin, patients, etal, recommendation, evidence, systematic, mortality, recommendations, review, cirrhosis, compared, effect, rcts, outcomes, use


[ ] Critical Care GuidelinesandConsensus Statements Use of Intravenous Albumin A Guideline From the International Collaboration for Transfusion Medicine Guidelines MedicineGuidelinesIntravenousAlbuminGuidelineGroup* BACKGROUND:Albuminisusedcommonlyacrossawiderangeofclinicalsettingstoimprove hemodynamics, to facilitate fluid removal, and to manage complications of cirrhosis. The International Collaboration for Transfusion Medicine Guidelines developed guidelines for the use of albumin in patients requiring critical care, undergoing cardiovascular surgery, undergoing kidney replacement therapy, or experiencing complications of cirrhosis. STUDYDESIGNANDMETHODS: Cochairs oversaw the guideline development process and the panel included researchers, clinicians, methodologists, and a patient representative. The evidenceinformingthisguidelinearisesfromasystematicreviewofrandomizedclinicaltrials and systematic reviews, in which multiple databases were searched (inception through November 23, 2022). The panel reviewed the data and formulated the guideline recom- mendations using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation methodology. The guidelines were revised after public consultation. RESULTS: The panel made 14 recommendations on albumin use in adult critical care (three recommendations), pediatric critical care (one recommendation), neonatal critical care (two recommendations), cardiovascular surgery (two recommendations), kidney replacement therapy (one recommendation), and complications of cirrhosis (five recommendations). Of the 14 recommendations, two recommendations had moderate certainty of evidence, five recommendations had low certainty of evidence, and seven recommendations had very low certaintyofevidence.Twoofthe14recommendationssuggestedconditionaluseofalbumin for patients with cirrhosis undergoing large-volume paracentesis or with spontaneous bac- terial peritonitis. Twelve of 14 recommendations did not suggest albumin use in a wide variety of clinical situations where albumin commonly is transfused. INTERPRETATION: Currently, few evidence-based indications support the routine use of al- bumin in clinical practice to improve patient outcomes. These guidelines provide clinicians with actionable recommendations on the use of albumin. CHEST2024;166(2):321-338 KEYWORDS:guideline;intensivecare;intravenousalbumin;kidneyreplacementtherapy;liver disease; sepsis ABBREVIATIONS: GRADE = Grading of Recommendations Assess- AFFILIATIONS: From the Department of Pathology and Molecular RCT=randomizedcontrolledtrial;RR=relativerisk ofMedicine,UniversityofOttawa,OttawaHospitalResearchInstitute chestjournal.org 321 Summary of Recommendations (Conditional Recommendation, Moderate Certainty of Intravenous albumin is a human-derived blood product Evidence of Effect). manufactured from donated human plasma. It is used 2. In critically ill adult patients with thermal broadlyinhospitalizedpatients,aswellasinoutpatients injuries or ARDS, intravenous albumin is not with complications of cirrhosis. Intravenous albumin suggested for volume replacement or to increase has been studied in numerous, large, well-designed, serum albumin level (Conditional Recommendation, randomized controlled clinical trials in multiple patient Very Low Certainty of Evidence of Effect). populations; the data show few applications of albumin that improve patient outcomes. Albumin is more 3. In critically ill adult patients, intravenous expensive to manufacture and to provide to patients, albumin in conjunction with diuretics is not when compared with crystalloids.
