[ ]
KEYWORDS: albumin, patients, etal, recommendation, evidence, systematic, mortality, recommendations, review, cirrhosis, compared, effect, rcts, outcomes, use


Evidence of Effect). precipitously by 10 to 15 g/L3; hypoalbuminemia is 12. In patients with cirrhosis and extraperitoneal thought to be the result of suppressed synthesis by infections, intravenous albumin is not suggested to inflammatory cytokines4 and transcapillary loss.5 In reduce mortality or kidney failure (Conditional addition to its use in patients with hypoalbuminemia, Recommendation, LowCertaintyof EvidenceofEffect). edema, or both, albumin also is used for the 13. In hospitalized patients with decompensated prevention and treatment of hypovolemia, particular cirrhosis with hypoalbuminemia (< 30 g/L), repeated after administration oflargevolumes ofIV crystalloid intravenous albumin to increase albumin levels to solutions.6 > 30 g/L is not suggested to reduce infection, kidney Practice audits describing the use of albumin show dysfunction, or death (Conditional Recommendation, highly variable practice among regions.7,8 Albumin Low Certainty of Evidence of Effect). is manufactured from large volumes of plasma 14. In outpatients with cirrhosis and uncomplicated and is expensive (approximately $130/25 g United ascites despite diuretic therapy, intravenous albumin States dollars; warehouse acquisition cost of is not routinely suggested to reduce complications albumin), with the acquisition cost likely a fraction associated with cirrhosis (Conditional of the total health care expenditure.9 Albumin also Recommendation, LowCertaintyof EvidenceofEffect). can be associated with adverse consequences, including fluid overload,10,11 hypotension,12 Background hemodilution requiring RBC transfusion,13 scenarios including complications of cirrhosis, dilution of natural anticoagulants.15 Because intradialytic hypotension, volume resuscitation, and potential benefits and risks are associated with its priming of cardiopulmonary bypass circuit. Iso-oncotic use, a multidisciplinary, international guideline albumin often is used to maintain intravascular volume panel was convened to develop evidence-based in patients with hypovolemia, assuming that crystalloid recommendations for the use of albumin in patient resuscitation will be ineffective given its shorter populations where it is prescribed commonly. These intravascular half-life. Hyperoncotic albumin is used to guidelines are designed to assist clinicians in their correct low serum albumin levels or to mobilize decisions on the use of albumin for its most extravascular fluid. common uses. Methods therapeutic apheresis was excluded because recent guidelines were published.16 GuidelinesFocus Theserecommendationsapplytopatientsreceivingalbuminincritical care settings with hypovolemia, sepsis, hypoalbuminemia, thermal GuidelinesDevelopmentProcess injuries, and ARDS; cirrhosis; intradialytic hypotension; and PanelComposition:Thisguidelinedevelopmentprocesswasfunded cardiovascular surgery. These settings were included based on by the Ontario Regional Blood Coordinating Network (Ontario, common uses of albumin, the systematic review of the published Canada) and the International Collaboration for Transfusion randomizedcontrolledtrials(RCTs),andwithinputfromthepanel. Medicine Guidelines (ICTMG; funded by Canadian Blood We included studies that compared the use
