[ ]
KEYWORDS: albumin, patients, etal, recommendation, evidence, systematic, mortality, recommendations, review, cirrhosis, compared, effect, rcts, outcomes, use


of albumin, the systematic review of the published Canada) and the International Collaboration for Transfusion randomizedcontrolledtrials(RCTs),andwithinputfromthepanel. Medicine Guidelines (ICTMG; funded by Canadian Blood We included studies that compared the use of albumin with that of Services). Neither entity had any input on recommendations or other resuscitation fluids, other pharmaceutical treatments, or guidelines content. An international panel of neonatal, pediatric, standardofcare. andadultspecialistswithexpertiseintheuseofalbumindeveloped the recommendations. This panel included 20 members with expertise in intensive care, hepatology, gastroenterology, TargetPopulation nephrology, hematology, pathology, neonatology, transfusion These guidelines provide actionable recommendations for the most medicine, cardiothoracic anesthesiology, internal medicine, and commonindicationsfor theuseofalbumin.Theuse ofalbuminfor methodologyandapatientrepresentative.Aframeworkandrelated chestjournal.org 323 clinical questions were developed according to the United States Gradingof the Evidence:Recommendationswereformulatedonthe Preventative Services Task Force Criteria. Disclosures were basisoftheGradingofRecommendations,Assessment,Development, ascertainedyearlyfromallmembers. andEvaluation(GRADE)(GRADEproGDT;McMasterUniversity).20 Theevidencecertaintywasgradedashigh,moderate,low,orverylow SystematicReviewoftheEvidence:Asystematicsearchforarticles certainty based on GRADE criteria.21 The panel ranked clinical published between inception and November 23, 2022, in outcomes (electronic survey) relevant for the development of recommendations according to GRADE criteria. Outcomes were Economic Evaluation Database Cochrane Database of Systematic ranked on a nine-part Likert scale for all relevant clinical outcomes Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Ovid identifiedbypanelmembers(1-3¼lowimportance,4-6¼important MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE epub ahead of print and in-process, butnotcritical,and7-9¼critical)(e-Appendix5).Recommendation andothernonindexedcitationswascompletedwiththeassistance strength was evaluated as strong or conditional. A strong of an information specialist. The Preferred Reporting Items for recommendation was made according to GRADE if the panel was Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses flow diagram for this “confident that the desirable effects outweighed the undesirable review is presented in e-Appendix 1. The guideline development effects.” A conditional recommendation was made if the panel group conducted two systematic reviews: one for patients with concluded that the “desirable effects probably outweigh the critical illness or cirrhosis or requiring kidney replacement undesirableeffects,”butthetrade-offswerenotwelldefinedandthe therapy (International Prospective Register of Systematic recommendation may not be applicable to all patients.22 The terms Reviews Identifier: CRD42019145152) and the other for patients recommend and suggest were used to reflect strong and conditional undergoing cardiovascular surgery (International Prospective recommendations,respectively. Register of Systematic Reviews Identifier: CRD42020171876). Manually searched references of primary articles, relevant Virtualconferencesandelectroniccorrespondencewereusedtodiscuss included. The search strategy is detailed in e-Appendix 2. Study surveys were sent to all members to assess agreement with inclusion criteria were: (1) original peer-reviewed published recommendations. Disagreements were resolved by discussion. If RCTs comparing albumin with an alternative strategy, (2) disagreementscouldnotberesolved,arecommendationwasaccepted systematic reviews and meta-analyses reporting on RCTs, or if most members (50% or more of the panel) agreed. Members both,
