[ ]
KEYWORDS: albumin, patients, etal, recommendation, evidence, systematic, mortality, recommendations, review, cirrhosis, compared, effect, rcts, outcomes, use


for harm was expressed.81 The panel suggested care exposure in both study groups. the use of albumin for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis chestjournal.org 331 (conditional recommendation), but raised concerns examined biweekly albumin infusions.91 The latter trial regarding the dosing protocol used in two of the four enrolled a smaller number of patients and used a lower trials and the risk of fluid overload (1.5 g/kg on day 1 dose,andthereforemayhavefailedtodetectadifference and 1.0 g/kg on day 3) and the lack of data suggesting in outcomes. The panel reported residual uncertainty this specific regimen is beneficial compared with regarding the benefit of this treatment and given this, alternative dosing (eg, lower dose daily for 3 days). The suggested against its routine use until additional RCTs panel also considered the lack of clarity on whether havebeenconducted.Theuseofweeklyalbumininthis albumin is necessary for all patients with spontaneous patient population would have considerable impacts on bacterial peritonitis or whether it could be used patients, would require chronic IV access, would have selectively (ie, patients at high risk of kidney failure or considerable impactson outpatient infusion clinics,and death: serum bilirubin > 4 mg/dL or serum creatinine would require a dependable supply of albumin. >1 mg/dL). Additional studies are necessary to address Although the unmasked trial reported cost- dosing, to address the benefit for patients with and effectiveness,92 additional masked trials with cost- without kidney impairment, and to clarify the risks of effectivenessanalysesarenecessarytoimproveprecision adverse events. The panel also noted that not all and generalizability and to inform future guidelines. physicians currently adhere to the trial dosing A 2020101 and a 2019102 systematic review on the strategy,99,100 although it continues to be recommended treatmentofhepatorenalsyndrome didnotidentifyany in current guidelines.93,94 A careful assessment of the randomized trials examining albumin for these patients patient’s volume status, cardiovascular status, and as compared with placebo or no treatment. Rather, all degree of kidney impairment before transfusion is trials examining this patient population uniformly have advisedandthedose,frequency,orbothbeingmodified administered albumin in both treatment and control accordingly. In contrast, the RCTs find no support for arms and have compared vasoconstrictor agents (eg, the use of albumin in patients with cirrhosis and terlipressin, midodrine) with placebo infusions. Hence, extraperitoneal infections.81 no recommendations regarding the use of albumin for In the setting of patients admitted with decompensated patients with cirrhosis and hepatorenal syndrome could cirrhosis and hypoalbuminemia, this guideline is be made. informedbyanRCTinvolving777patients10thatfound no improvement in patient important outcomes and a Discussion concern
