This article is licensed under CC-BY 4.0
KEYWORDS: sdleiflla, treatment, diagnosis, patients, tentanalysis, acs, thematiccon, review, brazil, tuberculosis, smrethsem, study, org, journal, diseases


way unwinds the success of TB andsocialsupporthaveinloweringthestigmaassociatedwith control, as evidenced by ref 51, which also found that when tuberculosis. diagnosis is delayed or wrongly done, patients and their Socioeconomic factor is not a new barrier to TB diagnosis drug resistance, a condition that is even worse to handle. has been highlighted several times that people living in poor Poor human resources in terms of knowledge of medical socioeconomic conditions have more cases of TB, difficulties practitionersaggravatetheproblemofoptimumcontrolofTB. intesting/diagnosis,aswellastreatmentandfollowup.Thisis Most medical practitioners, viz. doctors, nurses, lab assistant, reflected in why transport cost is one of the barriers to TB technicians, and nursing assistants, lack updated knowledge diagnosis and treatment as patients from rural areas have to aboutevolutioninTBdiagnosisandassuchcannotapplynew visit centralized testing and treatment centers which impact knowledge and information to enhance TB care. In the study sample collection challenge as they also revisit for treatment inref49,researchersfoundthatsomedoctorswhoarenotlung and follow-up where most patients as well as caregivers are specialists consider TB as a diagnosis very late, and lung most times low on finances and are now getting better. The specialistsintheearlystagesofdiagnosisconsiderchroniclung dangeristhatmosttimes,thiscanleadtodrug-resistantTBas diseases earlier on. This poverty of human resources is treatment most times is not completed. complemented by the fact that there is inadequate patient Gender limitation in TB treatment is recurrent; it has been training and counseling on the necessity of treatment reported that women and children are more vulnerable to be initiation.52 treated due to socioeconomic conditions. Wrong initial The lack of decentralized diagnostic service causes pressure diagnosis delays the focus on TB as wrong diagnosis hampers and backlog to be built in major centers, hence preventing prompt TB treatment and care. According to Yi et al.,22 the access to prompt diagnosis results. The mode of operation of barriers to TB diagnosis and treatment faced by the female TB programs in Cities and Towns where different phases of participants are the attachment and commitment they have treatmentareseparatedbetweendifferentfacilitiesslowsdown toward taking care of their families. The male participants therapy. Programs are run vertically and separately from one sought treatment and diagnosis less because of alcohol 2610 ACSInfect.Dis.2024,10,2600−2614 dna sisongaiD sisolucrebuT ot sseccA htiw erefretnI tahT sreirraB eht fo weiveR citametsyS eht ni dedulcnI selcitrA fo tnemssessA ytilauQ lacigolodohteM .4 elbaT b,ayllabolG seirtnuoC ssorcA tnemtaerT -erehtsI.7 aerehtsI.6 -ulcnocehtoD.01 lacihtehcraeserehtsI.9 -raperA.8 -nis’rehcraes -tacoltnemetats -urgnocerehtsI.5 ecneurgnocerehtsI.4 ecneurgnocerehtsI.3 ecneurgnocerehtsI.2 ecneurgnocerehtsI.1 ehtninwardsnois airetirctnerrucotgnidrocca dnastnapicit -ernoecneufl -erehtgni ehtneewtebecne hcraeserehtneewteb hcraeserehtneewteb hcraeserehtneewteb detatsehtneewteb metstroperhcraeser erehtsi,seidutstnecerrof,ro seciovrieht ecivdnahcraes -rutlucrehcraes -lodohtemhcraeser ehtdnaygolodohtem ehtdnaygolodohtem ehtdnaygolodohtem
