TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


infections such as skin and soft tissue infections, FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 02 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. inflammatory diseases, and joint and bone infections, as well as English publications, or duplicate studies across databases. Data complicationsinindividuals withemphysemaandAIDS(Klevens extraction involved identifying key findings related to the Thetreatmentofmultidrug-resistant(MDR)andextensivelydrug- applicability of the therapies. The results were synthesized to resistant (XDR) bacterial infections presents a considerable provide a comprehensive analysis of both emerging and challenge for clinicians, often resulting in limited therapeutic established alternatives to antibiotics, highlighting historical optionsandincreasedmorbidityandmortality(Basaketal.,2016; perspectivesalongsidecontemporaryresearch. Silvaetal.,2018). To address this crisis, a significant approach that has been 3 The current state of proposed is to focus on non-antibiotic alternatives for controlling bacterialinfections.Thesetechniquesserveasadequatesubstitutes antibiotic resistance for antibiotics, possessing comparable capabilities to manage bacterial infections without contributing to antibiotic resistance Recently,resistancetoroutinelyusedantibioticshasrisen,leading (Opal,2016;Lagadinouetal.,2020).Manystrategieshavebeenused tothe formation ofMDRbacteriathatcanwithstandthe effectsof to treat antibiotic-resistant infections, including using last-resort medicines like tigecycline and colistin. The WHO has bacteriophages, probiotics, nanoparticles (NPs), antimicrobial recentlypublishedarosterofsignificantpathogensthatdemonstrate peptides (AMPs), antibiofilms, and traditional natural remedies. elevatedlevelsofresistancetoantibiotics.Thislistiscategorizedinto Extensiveresearchhasbeenconductedoneachofthesealternatives. threeprioritytiersaccordingtotheurgentneedfornovelantibiotic While some methods demonstrate considerable effectiveness in treatments,namely:critical,high,andmedium1,2(Figure1).Also,the necessitates further research and effort . antimicrobials released in April 2021 that the clinically licensed Some of these alternative methods have been used before, but medicines and existing antibiotic development pipelines are antibiotics have been phased out, such as bacteriophages and insufficient to treat germs resistant to drugs (Lin et al., 2017; naturalremedies,whichhavebeenputbackontheagendadueto Mancuso et al., 2021; Hou et al., 2023). The report examines the antibioticresistance,althoughthesemethodsmayalsopresentsome clinically developed antibiotics against the diseases listed in the challenges . For instance, bacteriophages bacterial priority pathogens list from February 2017. In their themselves can cause resistance to phage in bacteria, or natural analysis, which looked at 27 non-traditional antibacterial agents remedies are more bacteriostatic and must be prescribed with including bacteriophages and antibodies, the WHO first included antibiotics for effectiveness . Some natural non-traditional antibacterial medications . remediesmaycauseseveralsideeffectsduetothecomplexityand Furthermore, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) propertiesoftheingredients.NPsrequireuniquedesignbasedon illustrated current resistance developments on the priority thephysicochemicalpropertiesofthematerial(Bakeretal.,2020). infections in its annual report on the antimicrobial resistance This review aims to evaluate the current state of antibiotic research and surveillance network resistance and explore non-antibiotic therapies as viable (from January 2020 to December 2020) . alternatives. Specifically, the objective is to examine the Based on data gathered from research laboratories and tertiary mechanismsbywhichbacteriadevelopresistance,assesstheroleof hospitals, the report emphasized the declining sensitivities of antibiotic use in livestock as a significant contributor to resistance, bacteria to frequently used antibiotics for drug-resistant
