TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


b-lactamases exert their effect on b-lactam extrachromosomal mobile elements or chromosomes as resistance antibiotics by hydrolyzing the b-lactam ring structure, thereby mechanisms. Numerous processes can lead to the development of altering the conformation of the antibiotic molecule (Tooke et al., antibiotic resistance, such as the antibiotic’s modification and 2019). One of the most essential b-lactamases available today is FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 04 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. FIGURE2 Theprimarymechanismsofbacterialresistancetoantibiotics. extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs), which can both Consequently,bacteriathatproduceNDM-1arecommonlyreferred hydrolyze and confer resistance in bacteria to a wide range of b- to as super bacteria. Furthermore, the NDM-1 gene is situated on lactamantibiotics,includingcefotaxime,ceftazidime,andaztreonam. bacterial plasmids, facilitating its horizontal transfer among Metal-b-lactamase exhibits a broad substrate range, effectively microorganisms. This characteristic contributes to the widespread hydrolyzing all b-lactam antibiotics except monocyclic b-lactam prevalence of NDM-1 and complicates efforts for prevention and antibiotics. The enzymatic activity of metal-b-lactamase is control(Khanetal.,2017).Itisconcerningsinceco-carryingdifferent contingent upon the presence of metal ions, specifically Zn, and is extended-spectrumb-lactamases,andcarbapenemasesmightresultin not susceptible to inhibition by currently available lactase inhibitors resistance to practically all b-lactam antibiotics (Potter et al., 2016; (Mojica et al., 2022; Arer and Kar, 2023; Yang et al., 2023). Pitoutetal.,2019). Furthermore, it is challenging to overcome its mediated antibiotic Apartfromthedirectdegradationofantibiotics,anothersignificant resistanceduetoitsvariedstructureandmodeofaction.NewDelhi pathway for drug resistance in bacteria is the alteration of antibiotics metalloproteinase-1(NDM-1)isarecentlyidentifiedmetalloenzyme (Wright, 2005). Aminoglycoside antibiotics are a typical example, as that can inactivate carbapenems and other b-lactam antibiotics, they include easily modifiable amino groups and several exposed including penicillin. This enzymatic activity contributes to a hydroxyl groups (Azucena and Mobashery, 2001; Ramirez and significant antibiotic resistance in bacteria, rendering them resistant Tolmasky,2010).Thediminishedaffinityofmodifiedaminoglycoside to a wide array of antibiotics, such as b-lactams, aminoglycosides, antibioticsforribosomaltargetsreducestheirantibacterialefficacyand carbapenems, macrolides, and quinolones. Notably, these bacteria facilitatesthedevelopmentofbacterialresistance.Notableenzymesthat exhibitsensitivitysolelytotigecyclineandpolymyxin(Kumarasamy modify aminoglycosides include acetyltransferases, phosphorylases, et al., 2010; Johnson and Woodford, 2013; Wang et al., 2021). nucleosidases, and adenylyltransferases (Wright, 1999; Ramirez and FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 05 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. Tolmasky, 2010). The genes that encode the enzymes that alter molecules from the acceptor site to the donor site. Ribosomal aminoglycosides are often located on plasmids and transposons. methylation modifications facilitated by erm genes represent the However, they can also be found on chromosomes (Azucena and primarymechanismthroughwhichbacteriainhibittheefficacyof Mobashery,2001).Inarecentstudy,Bordeleauetal.identifiedanovel macrolideantibiotics.Notableexamplesofcommonerythromycin aminoglycoside-modifyingenzymeknownasAPMA,whichfunctions resistance methyltransferases (ERMs) include erm(A) and erm(C) asanacetyltransferaseandcaninactivateapramycin(Bordeleauetal., found in Staphylococcus species, as well as erm(B) present in 2021). The association of aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes with Enterococcus and Pneumococcus (Weisblum, 1995; Leclercq, ESBLs is concerning, as it contributes to the development of MDR. 2002). Currently, the
