TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


erm(B) present in 2021). The association of aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes with Enterococcus and Pneumococcus (Weisblum, 1995; Leclercq, ESBLs is concerning, as it contributes to the development of MDR. 2002). Currently, the most extensively researched colistin Additionally, various antibiotic-modifying enzymes have been resistance gene, mcr, encodes a phosphoethanolamine transferase. characterized for their roles in conferring resistance to a broad This enzyme facilitates the addition of phosphoethanolamine to spectrum of antibiotics, including aminoglycosides, rifamycins, lipidA,whichdiminishesthenegativechargeoflipopolysaccharide macrolides,lincosamides,streptogramins,andphenicols(Darbyetal., (LPS).Thismodificationsubsequentlyreducesthebindingaffinity 2023).Forinstance,thelnugeneencodesanucleotidyltransferasethat of colistin, thereby enabling bacterial resistance to this antibiotic modifies lincomycin by adding phosphate-containing groups to the . Furthermore, chloramphenicol-florfenicol antibiotic, reducing its efficacy (Lüthje et al., 2007). Furthermore, resistance (CFR) is attributed to a methyltransferase encoded by erythromycin esterase and macrolide 2′-phosphotransferase, enzymes theCFRgeneonaplasmid.Thisenzymemethylatesexplicitlythe produced by members of the Enterobacteriaceae family, disrupt the adenine residue at position A2503 in the 23S rRNA, thereby activityofmacrolideantibiotics.Theseenzymesinhibitthebindingof conferring resistance to linezolid in bacterial populations (Toh macrolides to the 50S ribosomal subunit by degrading the tetracyclic etal.,.2007;Schwarzetal.,2000). macrolide’s lipophilic ring structure. This enzymatic activity plays a Furthermore, target bypass represents a strategic approach critical role in developing bacterial resistance to macrolide antibiotics designed to render the original target obsolete by creating (Boumghar-Bourtchaietal.,2008). alternative pathways that circumvent the effects of antibiotics. The interaction of methicillin with its target, PBP2a, inhibits the synthesisofthebacterialcellwall,ultimatelyleadingtobacterialcell 4.2 Changes in target sites death.TheproteinPBP2a,encodedbythemecAgeneinS.aureus,is asubstitutefortheoriginaltargetofmethicillin.Thisreplacement Anadditionalmechanismbywhichbacteriaacquireantibiotic proteindoesnotimpedecellwallsynthesiswhenmethicillinbinds resistanceinvolvesalterationstothetargetsite,therebyfacilitating to it, resulting in the emergence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus the development of resistance (Lambert, 2005; Schaenzer and (MRSA)(StapletonandTaylor,2002;Larsenetal.,2022).InE.coli, Wright, 2020). Bacteria employ various mechanisms to render theformationofthecellwallthroughpeptidoglycancross-linkingis antibiotics ineffective by preventing their binding to the target primarily facilitated by penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). These site, thereby contributing to drug resistance. These mechanisms proteins,whicharethemaintargetsofb-lactamantibiotics,catalyze include mutations in the gene that encodes the target, enzymatic D, D-transpeptidase activity. In a recent study, Caveney et al. modification of the target, and the development of alternative identifiedanalternativecross-linkingmechanismmediatedbythe pathways that circumvent the target altogether (Darby et al., L, D-transpeptidase YcbB, which can bypass the D, D- 2023; Smith et al., 2023). A solitary point mutation within the transpeptidase activity associated with PBPs. This mechanism ropB gene of E. coli, which is responsible for encoding RNA contributes to thedevelopment ofbacterial resistance tob-lactam polymerase, can confer significant resistance to rifampicin (Jin antibiotics(Caveneyetal.,2019). and Gross, 1988; Floss and Yu, 2005). Resistance to fluoroquinolones arises from mutations in the genes that encode DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV, both of which are critical for 4.3 Decrease in
