TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


Bacteria exhibiting reduced metabolic activity divisionfamilies(RNDfamily);4)smallMDRfamilies(SMRfamily); demonstrateresistanceortolerancetovariousclassesofantibiotics, and 5) multidrug and toxic compound extrusion families (MATE) whileheighteneddrugsensitivitycorrelateswithincreasedmetabolic (Henderson et al., 2021; Si et al., 2023). The RND family of efflux activity (Bhargava and Collins, 2015; Stokes et al., 2019). Lopatkin pumps is among the most thoroughly investigated, owing to the et al . identified a correlation between genes diverse array of substrates present in nearly all Gram-negative involved in central carbon and energy metabolism and antibiotic bacterial strains . The active efflux pump in resistance. The metabolic changes observed lead to a reduction in Gram-negativebacteriacomprisesthreedistinctcomponents:anouter basal respiration, inhibiting the activation of antibiotic-induced membraneprotein,amembranefusionprotein,andaneffluxprotein tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) activity. This mechanism or transporter within the inner membrane. The RND efflux pump allows for the evasion of metabolic toxicity and the reduction of AcrAB-TolC,consistingoftheperiplasmicfusionproteinAcrA,the drug lethality . Genetic modifications that plasma membrane transporter AcrB, and the outer membrane enhance the basal respiration rate of E. coli have been shown to channel protein TolC, is a critical component in the mechanism of improvetheefficacyofbactericidalantibioticswhenappliedtowild- MDR observed in E. coli (Jang and Tolc, 2023). Before exerting its typebacterial cells (Lobritz et al.,2015). Furthermore, quiescent or effectsonintracellulartargetsites,thedruginitiallyassociateswiththe auxotrophicbacterialstrainshavethepotentialtoexhibitresistance plasma membrane transporter AcrB, subsequently being extruded to a diverse range of antibiotics. Research indicates that under fromthecellviaAcrAandtheoutermembranechannelTolC.AcrB conditions of nutrient deprivation, E. coli demonstrates an exhibits minimal substrate specificity, allowing a wide range of increased synthesis of guanosine tetraphosphate (ppGpp). This structurally diverse compounds to function as substrates. This accumulation of ppGpp interferes with the biosynthesis of characteristic contributes to its role in MDR. Significantly, AcrAB- peptidoglycans and phospholipids, ultimately contributing to TolCispivotalindevelopingacquireddrugresistanceassociatedwith developing bacterial resistance to penicillin antibiotics (Amato resistant plasmids, as it enables and regulates the dissemination of et al., 2013). The advancement of metabolomics has established a genesthatencodeMDReffluxpumps(JangandTolc,2023). valuablemethodologyforinvestigatingthemetabolicprofilesofdrug- Theoverexpressionofadrugeffluxpumpconstitutesasignificant resistant bacterial strains. Metabolomic investigations of MDR mechanism underlying MDR in A. baumannii. AdeABC is the bacteria have revealed that alterations in glucose and amino acid inaugural and most extensively researched RND efflux pump metabolismcandisruptthecentralmetabolicpathwayknownasthe identifiedinA.baumannii.AdeABCisimplicatedinaminoglycoside TCAcycle.Thisdisruptionmayinfluenceelectrontransferwithinthe resistance and exhibits a specific efflux mechanism for tetracyclines respiratory chain, subsequently impacting bacterial sensitivity to and quinolones. Furthermore, AdeABC can interact with antibiotics and contributing to the development of bacterial carbapenemases or outer membrane proteins to facilitate resistance tolerance or drug resistance (Vincent et al., 2016; Zampieri et al., tocarbapenems.Furthermore,effluxpumpssignificantlycontributeto 2017).Pengetal(Pengetal.,2015).conductedacomparativeanalysis the antibiotic resistance observed in P. aeruginosa. For instance, the ofthemetabolomicsofkanamycin-resistantEdwardesfluminataand MexE-MexF-OprN efflux system
