TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


to facilitate resistance tolerance or drug resistance (Vincent et al., 2016; Zampieri et al., tocarbapenems.Furthermore,effluxpumpssignificantlycontributeto 2017).Pengetal(Pengetal.,2015).conductedacomparativeanalysis the antibiotic resistance observed in P. aeruginosa. For instance, the ofthemetabolomicsofkanamycin-resistantEdwardesfluminataand MexE-MexF-OprN efflux system is implicated in expulsing itssensitivecounterpart,E.dwardes.Theirfindingsrevealedthatthe carbapenems, chloramphenicol, and fluoroquinolone antibiotics MDRbacteria exhibited deficiencies incentral metabolic pathways, (PooleandSrikumar,2001;AeschlimannandTherapy,2003). particularlyinglucoseandaminoacidmetabolism.Theseresultsare Furthermore, bacterial biofilms serve as a natural impediment consistentwithearlierresearchonresistantstrainsofP.aeruginosa that limits the penetration of antibiotics into bacterial cells. The and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (Alonso et al., 2004; Stickland development of bacterial biofilms not only functions as a physical et al., 2010). Moreover, the exogenous injection of glucose and FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 07 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. alanine,inconjunctionwithantibiotics,mayrestorethekanamycin bacteria over extended periods, they become resistant to them. It’s sensitivity of resistant bacteria. This highlights the intimate standard procedure to give livestock low-dose antibiotics to relationship between a bacterium’s metabolic state and antibiotic encourage weight increase. Antibiotics are also haphazardly resistance. In conclusion, the physiological metabolism of bacteria administeredtoflocksorherdsthatareovercrowdedinanattempt playsasignificantroleindeterminingtheirsensitivitytoantibiotics; topreventsickness.Antibioticresistancearisesandspreadsasaresult however,thismetabolicprocessishighlyintricateandinfluencedby of such behaviors. These actions cause an enormous buildup of numerous factors. Consequently, further research is essential to antibioticsintheenvironmentandforbacteriathatcomeintotouch elucidate the mechanisms underlying the relationship between withthemtodevelopresistance(Allenand,2014).Severalnations, bacterial physiological metabolism and antibiotic sensitivity notablytheEU,haveoutlawedusingantibioticsinfeedorasgrowth (Tenover, 2006; Peng et al., 2015; Keller and Dörr, 2023; Xiao hormones . Hence, the exclusion of antibiotics etal.,2023). fromanimalfeedhasbeenoffsetbyenhancementsintheefficiencyof swine and poultry production facilitated by incorporating various feed supplements. These additives include organic and inorganic 5 One of the primary sources of acids,immunoglobulins,omega-3,probiotics,b-glucansderivedfrom antibiotic resistance: livestock yeast,essentialoils,prebiotics,zincoxide,cysteine,threonine,aswell asavarietyofherbsandspices(Adewoleetal.,2016;Bucław,2016). Antibiotics have a significant impact on animals’ and humans’ However, the results of another study showed that the removal of adverseeffects,mostnotablytheemergenceofresistantbacteria(Page development of drugresistance resulting from genetic changes,the andGautier,2012;Chantziarasetal.,2014;Simoneitetal.,2015).To most likely sources of antibiotic resistance among microorganisms prevent infections and make up for unsanitary conditions on commercial livestock farms, antibiotics are administered to many result, research is concentrated on comprehending the molecular food-producing animals, particularly chickens, pigs, and cattle mechanisms and origins of resistance acquisition. To demonstrate (Sivaraman and Yann, 2018). To mitigate this impact, some thatanimalsserveasreservoirsforresistantgenes,itischallengingto industrialized nations have implemented regulations to curb the pinpointthespecificpathwayandamountofresistancecomponents overuse of antibiotics as a preventative measure or as a tool for that animals pass on to humans. The environment’s naturally animalacceleration(Muazetal.,2018).Overthelast30years,several occurring resistance genes add to the complexity of this. For monitoring systems have been put in place to examine the use of antibioticsinanimalbreeding.TheDanishIntegratedAntimicrobial instance, resistance to natural antibiotics is known to develop far Resistance Monitoring and Research Program was the first to be before agriculture advanced.
