TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


of several phages bacteria.However,studieshavedemonstratedthatthisphenomenon with different mechanisms of action. This cocktail is doesnotalwaysresultinharmfuloutcomes.Forexample,mutations composed of 2 to 10 phages. This antibacterial strategy is leadingtophageresistancecanalterbacterialphenotypes,including unsafe because if the phages are not stored in a sufficient their susceptibility to antibiotics such as daptomycin (Taati doseinthecocktailordonotattackthesamebacteria,they Moghadametal.,2020;Paletal.,2024).Hoodetal.highlightedthis causeresistance(Ducetal.,2023). interaction,andmorerecently,Sumrallandcolleaguesdemonstrated 5. Useofphagesincombinationwithantibiotics:Thepotential that when the virulent phage A511 is exposed to Listeria of combining phages with antibiotics was first reported in monocytogenes 1042 under laboratory conditions, the presence of 2007. In what is known as phage-antibiotic synergy (PAS), glucoseandgalactosecanremoveteichoicacidsfromthebacterialcell theactivityofphagesisenhancedwhenusedinconjunction wall.Thismodificationischaracteristicofpathogenicserotypeband with sub-inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics (Nilsson, resultsintheconversionofthebacteriaintoalessinvasiveserumform 2014; Tagliaferri et al., 2019). Garcia and Johnson used a (Cervenyetal.,2002;Sumralletal.,2019). combination of phage MR-5 with linezolid to inhibit the FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 11 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. formationofbiofilmscreatedbyMRSA.Theyfoundthatthe interventions targeting the gut microbiota can be classified into two together had a more significant effect on bacterial distinct categories: authentic probiotics (comprising live colonization than either alone . Another microorganisms), prebiotics (comprising compounds that act as study on Pseudomonas aeruginosa revealed that the nourishmentformicroorganisms),synbiotics(ablendofprobiotics simultaneous useofphages with antibiotics, even when the and prebiotics), and symbiotics (a blend of diverse probiotics) hostbacteriawereantibiotic-resistant,couldincreasebacterial (Chaudhari and Dwivedi, 2022; Yarahmadi and Afkhami, 2024). susceptibility to antibiotics. This phenomenon occurs as Probioticshavegainedpopularityamongindividualsadvocatingfor antibiotic exposure sensitizes the bacteria, facilitating the healthy living and are frequently utilized as functional foods or phage’s ability to exert selective pressure. Combination dietarysupplementsintheUSandEUnations.Theseproductsare therapy presents a highly effective solution for managing readilyavailableinsupermarkets,pharmacies,andonlineplatforms bacterial infections. However, to achieve optimal outcomes, . Various well-known probiotic microorganisms further research involving human and in vivo models is includedifferentspeciesofBifidobacterium(suchasB.infantis,B. necessary to explore interactions between phages, bifidum, B. longum, B. adolescents, and B. breve), Lactobacillus antibiotics, and human tissues (Caflisch et al., 2019; Li (including L. acidophilus, L. casei, L. plantarum, L. bulgaricus, L. etal.,2021;Zhaoetal.,2024). reuteri, L. lactis, L. fermentum, L. rhamnosus, L. johnsonii, and L. gassed,L.paracasei),non-pathogenicstrainsofEnterococcus(such asE.faeciumandE.salivarius),certainnon-pathogenicspeciesofE. 6.1.1 Phage therapy: regulatory challenges coli, non-pathogenic Bacillus spp. (specifically Bacillus subtilis), Phage therapy, despite its immense potential, encounters lactic acid streptococci (S. thermophilus), yeast fungi like major challenge is the lack of a clear regulatory pathway and products containing Clostridium butyricum or Akkermansia concerns over intellectual property rights, as phages differ muciniphila (Liu et al., 2018; Jain et al., 2023). Probiotics have a fundamentally from conventional therapeutics. Unlike antibiotics, history of use in the treatment of infectious disorders. Because of whichcanbechemicallydefinedandpatented,phagesarebiological theircapacitytoobstructpathogendevelopment,quorumsensing, entities that are harder to patent due to global legal precedents and biofilm formation, they
