TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


efficacy of FMT as a treatment plan for patients wasdecreasedbytheprobioticPediococcusacidilacticiHW01(Lee withC.difficileinfectioninadditiontootherGIdisorderslikecolitis, et al., 2020). The supernatant from L. plantarum CIRM653 irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, diarrhea, and several markedly inhibited K. pneumoniae biofilm development, neurological conditions like multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s according to research by Lagrafeuille et al (Lagrafeuille et al., disease (Kumar et al., 2021; Matheson and Holsinger, 2023). One 2018). The supernatant downregulated operons essential for of the most prevalent super germs in the modern era is C. difficile quorum detection and disrupted the activation of genes linked to (Lawsonetal.,2016).Duetotheextensiveuseofantibioticsandthe biofilms.Furthermore,Bifidobacteriumlongum5(1A)decreasedK. resulting alteration of the intrinsic gut flora, which leaves the host pneumoniaeinfectioninmicebyenhancingneutrophilrecruitment, vulnerable to C. difficile invasion, colonization, and infection, the lowering bacterial burden, and generating proinflammatory outbreakhasgrowntoepidemicproportions(KhorutsandSadowsky, cytokines . The use of probiotics can prevent 2016). Antibiotics are the principal treatment for C. difficile thecolonizationofthecolonmicrobiota.Amongtheprobioticsthat infections; however, while they efficiently eliminate the infection, areeffectiveincolonizingA.baumannii,P.aeruginosaandCandida they paradoxically make the dysbiosis worse . albicans can be found in L. plantarum., L.fermentum pointed out Through a variety of methods of action, FMT rapidly restores (Wieërs et al., 2020). It has been observed that VRE is less microbial diversity and the dominance of protective species, decolonized if Barenzilla (L. paracasei) is used in patients with inhibitingtheactivityofC.difficile(ChengandFischer,2023). leukemia(Scheretal.,2013).InastudybySpaltonandcolleagues TheinterestinthepotentialofFMTtoeliminateordecreasethe (Stapletonetal.,2011)onpremenopausalwomenwithahistoryof presence of Antimicrobial-Resistant Organisms (ARO) in the GI urinary tract infections, they prescribed lactin-v (Lactobacillus tract was sparked by findings in individuals with C. difficile crispatus)orplacebodailyfor5daysandthenonceaweekfor10 infection, as documented in studies like the one conducted by weeks. The results showed that patients treated with Lactobacillus Millanandcolleagues(Millanetal.,2016).BeforeandafterFMT, vaginally had a significant reduction in UTI episodes compared stool samples from patients with C. difficile infection and FMT withthosewhoreceivedplacebo.Lactobacillicouldbeusedtotreat donors were examined. Comparing donors to a “healthy” control recurrenturinarytractinfections,andlong-termuseofantibiotics grouprevealedthattheburdenofantibioticresistancegene(ARG) in women. be useful (Wieërs et al., 2020). If microbiota can be intheirglobalresistome wassimilar(averageof3.4vs.6.0ARG), modified with probiotics, the problem of drug resistance will be primarily due to tetracycline resistance, whereas patients with C. significantly reduced. However, further study is needed to difficileinfectionhadanaverageof>30ARG.ARGwasmorevaried, understand better the material released by probiotic bacteria and indicating resistance to fluoroquinolone, beta-lactams, and the parabiotic effect of inactive bacterial cells (Taverniti and multidrug efflux pumps inindividuals infected with C. difficile. In Guglielmetti,2011;Fernández-Alonsoetal.,2022). addition, it was observed that FMT patients who “responded” to FMT—thatis,whodidnotfurtherdevelopaC.difficileinfection— had lower levels of ARG carriage than non-responders. This 6.3 Fecal microbiota transplantation decrease lasted a minimum of a year (Millan et al., 2016; Lamberte and an Schaik,
