TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


to FMT—thatis,whodidnotfurtherdevelopaC.difficileinfection— had lower levels of ARG carriage than non-responders. This 6.3 Fecal microbiota transplantation decrease lasted a minimum of a year (Millan et al., 2016; Lamberte and an Schaik, 2022). A post hoc analysis of the FMT involves transferring minimally processed fecal material PUNCH CD trial, which looked at RBX2660, a “microbiota from a healthy donor into the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of an restorationtherapy”similartoFMT,asatreatment forC.difficile individual with a medical condition, aiming to provide therapeutic infection, produced similar findings. Researchers discovered that benefits. FMT has its roots in the fourth century in China, when RBX2660 decreased the number of Enterobacterales resistant to treating GI disorders such as food poisoning and severe diarrhea antibioticsinpatients.Thedegreeofdonormicrobiotaengraftment usinghumanfecessuspensionwasrecommendedandshowntobe was correlated with a reduction in ARG carriage (Langdon et al., effective(Zhangetal.,2012;Yarahmadietal.,2024a).BenEiseman, 2021). The same medicine, currently sold under the name patientswithpseudomembranouscolitisinthecontemporaryeraof difficileinfections(Huntetal.,2024). medicine who recovered following rectal instillation of donor feces Clinical research has shown that autologous FMT (aFMT) is . Remarkably, he carried out FMT in 1958, superior to probiotic treatment and causes the GI microbiota of almosttwodecadesbeforethediscoverythatClostridiumdifficile(C. antibiotic-treated human patients to recover quickly and nearly difficile) was the cause of antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous completely . The results of an intention-to-treat colitis. “This simple yet rational therapeutic method should be clinicalstudywith22patientsinthedonorFMTgroupshowedthat “immediateanddramatic”reactions(Eisemanetal.,1958).Around infection.TheclinicalrecoverysuccessrateexceededthatofaFMT 2008, a C. difficile infection pandemic caused interest in FMT to at62.5%.Furthermore,FMTfromdonorseffectivelyreinstatedgut reemerge. FMT is the procedure of introducing a suspension of microbial diversity and functionality in recipients to levels commensal bacteria-containing feces from a healthy person donor comparabletothoseofthedonors(Kellyetal.,2016). intotherecipient’sintestinallumenbyavarietyoftechniques,suchas FMThasdemonstratedpromisingoutcomesinpediatriccases. colonoscopy, nasogastric, nasoduodenal, and enema (Bakken et al., Thefirstsuccessfullytreatedpediatricpatientwasa14-year-oldgirl FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 13 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. diagnosed with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, who and their potential as antimicrobial agents. Similarly, Nagy et al experienced recurrent infections caused by carbapenemase- (Nagyetal.,2011).used silverNPstodamage DNAbypositively producing Klebsiella pneumoniae. Following a single FMT, no regulating several antioxidant genes, ATPase pumps, metal recurrence was observed over a 1.5-year follow-up period depletion, and genes encoding metal transport in E. coli and S. (Freedman and Eppes, 1805). In another case, a 16-year-old girl aureus.Thisinvestigationledthemtotheconclusionthatbacteria’s with acute myelogenous leukemia received two FMTs to address antioxidant ability is reduced by the antibacterial action of colonization by VRE and carbapenemase-producing bacteria. The silverNPs. treatment successfully decolonized VRE, althoughcolonizationby To increase the efficacy of drug delivery to H. pylori carbapenemase-producing bacteria persisted. Notably, no adverse colonization sites and boost the rate of H. pylori eradication, a events were reported in either case . drug delivery system must
