TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


ribosomal subunit proteins. 2015;Arumugametal.,2015;Masadehetal.,2015). Likewise, there has been evidence of bacterial DNA degradation, Ironoxidenanoparticles(IONPs)areversatilematerialsutilized compression, and fragmentation, which has decreased the in various applications, including serving as contrast agents for physiological function of genes (Yougbaré et al., 2021; Franco magneticresonanceimaging(MRI),biosensors,diseasediagnostics, etal.,2022). drug delivery systems, pollutant removal, biomedical devices, and Zincoxidenanoparticles(ZnONPs)wereemployedinastudy antimicrobial agents (Negrescu et al., . 2022; Sakowicz and by Su et al . to investigate their impact on E. coli Lojewska, 2021a; Dadfar et al., 2019; Fernández Llamas et al., DNA. The researchers observed that the nanoparticles caused 2020; Sánchez-López et al., 2020; Shakil et al., 2023). While significant damage in 10 specific regions of the bacterial genome. divalentmetalssuchasironionsarecriticalformicrobialgrowth, Additionally, ZnONPs were found to alter gene expression, IONPsexhibitbroad-spectrumantibacterialactivity.Thisactivityis ribosome composition, molecular structure-activity relationships, primarilymediatedthroughmechanismssuchasthegenerationof and RNA modifications in E. coli. These findings highlight the ROSandelectrostaticinteractions,whichcaninvolveattractiveand multifaceted effects of ZnONPs on bacterial molecular pathways repulsive forces (Slavin et al., 2017; Makabenta et al., 2021; FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 14 frontiersin.org Yarahmadietal. Hochvaldová et al., 2022; Karnwal et al., 2023). Furthermore, theexperimentalpathogensmentionedabovewasconfirmedbythe IONPs’ antibacterial activity may be influenced by additional fact that in the first method, which was the release of a well, the factors such as synthesis techniques, precursors, size, and inhibitory zone above the well indicates repression. The second concentration . Gudkov et al (Gudkov et al., method,whichwasthedilutionofbroth,showedtheactivityofNPs 2021). reported that the antibacterial properties of IONPs can be based on the concentration of broth. The lowest concentration of influenced by modifications in their synthesis methods and size. NPswasfoundtosuppressthegrowthofexperimentalpathogens They identified several bacteriostatic mechanisms, including the (Bakeretal.,2020). generation of ROS, electrostatic interactions, disruption of the bacterial cell membrane, and the fragmentation of DNA and 6.4.1 Nanoparticles: challenges and limitations proteins through the induction of free radicals. Additionally, Lab-scaleproductionofnanomaterialsissimple.However,the Alprol et al . emphasized that IONPs limitations of the sophisticated experimental equipment and the synthesized through green methods demonstrate strong lackofsufficientunderstandingofscale-uptechniquesmakelarge- antibacterial effects against Gram-positive bacteria and moderate scalemanufacturingseemlikeachallengingtask.Thedifficultiesin inhibition of Gram-negative bacteria, primarily by inducing reproducing the preparatory process and scaling up the approach oxidativestressthroughROSgeneration. are also perceived to have negative impacts (Muthu and Wilson, Asdifferentbacterialstrainshavedifferentcellwallstructures, 2012;Afkhamietal.,2024).Amongthechallengesfacedduringthe the antibacterial efficacy of IONPs also varies by strain. The production of nanomaterials are contaminants, insufficient batch- antibacterial efficacy of IONPs is influenced by the bacterial to-batchvariability,poorqualitycontrol,biocompatibility,chemical strain, owing to variations in cell wall structure. Gram-positive instability,lowproductionyield,highcost,scalabilityissues,lackof bacteria possess a thick peptidoglycan layer with a net negative infrastructure, government regulations, and lack offunding (Baig charge, primarily
