TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, bacteria, bacterial, antibiotic, phage, amps, infections, etal, antibacterial, significant, activity, baumannii, research, yarahmadietal


to-batchvariability,poorqualitycontrol,biocompatibility,chemical strain, owing to variations in cell wall structure. Gram-positive instability,lowproductionyield,highcost,scalabilityissues,lackof bacteria possess a thick peptidoglycan layer with a net negative infrastructure, government regulations, and lack offunding (Baig charge, primarily due to the presence of teichoic acid (Swoboda etal.,2021;Chenetal.,2022). et al., 2010). In contrast, Gram-negative bacteria have a thinner ThetoxicityofNPsremainsoneofthemainproblems.Factors peptidoglycanlayercoveredbyanadditionalLPSlayer,whichalso influencing toxicity include surface area, particle size and shape, carries a higher net negative charge. IONPs interact with the solubility,andaggregation.Becauseoftheirtinysize,physiological forces, leading to membrane depolarization and disruption of (Ryman-Rasmussenetal.,2006;Jiaetal.,2018).Thereisevidence membrane integrity (Azam et al., 2012; Ismail et al., 2015; de that free radicals produced by NP harm cellular membranes, Lacerda Coriolano et al., 2021). As a result, due to these organelles, and DNA . Intracellularly delivered structural differences, Gram-positive bacteria are generally more nanomaterialsmaytriggeranimmuneresponsebyinteractingwith susceptible to IONPs than Gram-negative bacteria (Nakai and cell surface receptors (Penn et al., 2005; Vallhov et al., 2006). If Tsuruta, 2021; Shoudho et al., 2024). In addition to NPs derived pregnantmiceareexposedtotitaniumdioxideNPs,theymaycause fromceriumoxideandironoxide,naturalplantextractshavealso morphologicalabnormalitiesinthegrowingbabybecausetheycan beenexploredfortheirantimicrobialpotential. cross the placental barrier (Ferdous and Nemmar, 2020). For instance, in one study, Murraya koenigii (Curry leaf) was Additionally, it has been demonstrated that Ag NPs reduce usedasasourceofnano-hybridproduction,whichwasusedagainst estrogen plasma levels, which impacts embryonic development drug-resistantpathogens.Thisexperimentwasperformedinseveral andincreases thefrequencyofresorbedfetuses(Tengetal.,2016; ways and was approved. The agenda and the experiment were FerdousandNemmar,2020). performedinthreeways: Nanomaterials’ distinct physicochemical characteristics are directly linked to their toxicity; some of these characteristics, 1. Through good propagation and use of experimental however,givegoodsincorporatingnanomaterials morepromising pathogens of A. baumannii 211 and 210, P. aeruginosa performances and a wider range of applications than those of strain 40, S. aureus resistant to methicillin and E. coli 55 conventional chemicals. The “nanomaterial paradox” has made it and adding nano-hybrid particles and examining the challengingforthoseinvolvedtodevelopandusenanotechnology restraintzonethroughoutthewell(Bakeretal.,2020). withouthavingunfavorableeffects.Toaddressthisissue,significant 2. Using the broth dilution method, which increases the national and regional regulatory organizations have been actively concentration of nan hybrid particles, and finally uses a monitoring goods enabled by nanotechnology and working spectrophotometerwithvisibleUVlightatawavelengthof together to create a consensus on global standards and 600nm(growthpatternwasexamined)(Syedetal.,2019). regulations (Hamburg, 2012; Rauscher et al., 2017). Products that 3. Using the method of minimum inhibitory concentration. incorporate nanomaterials are currently governed by the general In this method, the lowest concentration of NPs that can and industry-specific regulatory and legal frameworks in place inhibitthegrowthofthedesiredpathogenwasinvestigated; (Hamburg, 2012; Soltani and Pouypouy, 2019). For example, itisalmostsimilartotheMICmethodforantibiotics(Syed nanomaterials are subject to the same regulations as all other etal.,2017). chemicals and mixtures in the EU. This means that before
