Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


Medicine ® Bibliometric Review Microbiota–gut–brain axis and anxiety or depression A perspective from bibliometric and visual analysis Abstract Background: Anxiety and depression are mental disorders that are prevalent worldwide. Previous studies have shown that it is related to the gut microbiota. The microbiota–gut–brain axis (MGB axis) is a bidirectional signaling pathway that links the gut and central nervous systems. It plays a pivotal role in the development of psychiatric and gastrointestinal disorders, with interactions occurring via the neural, metabolic, immune, and endocrine pathways. This study aimed to reveal the research trends in the MGB axis and anxiety or depression. Methods: Documents were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection with search terms for the microbiota–brain–gut axis and anxiety or depression. CiteSpace and VOSviewer are bibliometric tools used for co-citation analysis, co-occurrence analysis, collaborative network analysis, and keyword citation burst discovery. contributor, accounting for 497 publications (27.37%). Notably, Nutrients published the most articles, amounting to 77 (4.24%). College Cork topped the list with 138 articles (7.60%). Keyword analysis highlighted probiotics and inflammation as prominent areas of research, while also revealing the involvement of esteemed scholars in studying the MGB axis and anxiety or depression. Conclusion: These findings provide valuable insights into the current study and a future orientation in the field of the MGB axis and anxiety or depression. This information can assist researchers in selecting appropriate journals or collaborators and furthering their studies on the potential mechanisms of anxiety or depression, including their etiology, therapy, prevention, and prognosis. Abbreviations: A/D = anxiety or depression, AD = Alzheimer disease, BAs = bile acids, BDNF = brain-derived neurotrophic factors, CNS = central nervous system, CUMS = chronic unpredictable mild stress, FMT = fecal microbiota transplantation, GF = germ-free, HPA = hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal, IBD = inflammatory bowel disease, IBS = irritable bowel syndrome, JCR = journal citation reports, MDD = major depressive disorders, MGB = microbiota–gut–brain, TCM = Traditional Chinese Medicine. Keywords: anxiety, bibliometrics, depression, microbiota–gut–brain axis, visual analysis 1. Introduction indicate a 26% and 28% increase, respectively, in anxiety and major depressive disorders (MDD) within a single year accord- Anxiety and depression are prevalent debilitating mental dis- ing to a report by the World Health Organization. Anxiety orders. In 2019, 301 million individuals were living with an and depression often coexist, but the underlying mechanisms anxiety disorder, including 58 million children and adoles- of these disorders are not fully understood. Many studies
