Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


study includes documents defined as “articles” or “reviews.” munication pathway between the brain and gut that operates Original data from WoSCC were downloaded in text format through various means such as the intestinal nervous system, and censored by 2 independent reviewers if there were any autonomic nervous system, immune system, intestinal endo- differences between the 2 reviewers which was decided via dis- crine signals, neurotransmitters, the hypothalamic-pituitary- cussion with a third reviewer. adrenal axis (HPA axis), microbial metabolites (short-chain fatty acids, Bile acids [BAs], etc) and other medium and signal pathways. Much of the evidence linking anxiety/depression to 2.2. Analysis tool the MGB axis originates from animal studies, in which anxi- After selecting, we downloaded and imported the TXT format ety/depression-like phenotypes can be inferred from the behav- which contained “Full Record and Cited References” into the ior of animals in specific environments, such as the elevated plus VOSviewer software. Our analysis consisted of 2 parts, mak- maze and open field tests. Compared to conventionally housed ing use of the WoSCC literature online analysis system and the animals, germ-free mice exhibit reduced anxiety/depression-like VOSviewer 1.6.20 software, CiteSpace.6.3.R1 software. The behavior. Currently, it is known that MDD is associated WoSCC literature online analysis system examined publication with an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines, which in turn years, languages, document types, and the distribution of insti- activate the HPA axis and may exacerbate its over-activation tutions, countries or regions, and authors. This study provides associated with depression. Effective treatment of depression summaries of the top 10 institutions, countries/regions, jour- eliminates the enhancement of the inflammatory response and nals, and authors based on the number of publications, as well reduces activation of the HPA axis. As mentioned above, as information on the top 10 most highly cited publications. microbiota composition, inflammation, and immune alterations Co-authorship of countries, authors, and organizations, co- have been observed in maternal separation cases. Certain citation of cited references, and co-occurrence of all keywords probiotic or prebiotic interventions have also shown promise in were performed using VOSviewer and CiteSpace. To conduct reducing anxiety-like behaviors in animal models and alleviat- the co-occurrence analysis of keywords, The synonyms “gut ing inflammatory responses. microbiome,” “fecal microbiota,” “gut-microbiota” and “micro- Bibliometric analysis is an advanced tool that integrates data biome” into the term “gut microbiota,” “gut-brain-axis,” “brain- mining and visualization techniques. It plays a pivotal role in gut axis” into the term “gut-brain axis”
