Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


advanced tool that integrates data biome” into the term “gut microbiota,” “gut-brain-axis,” “brain- mining and visualization techniques. It plays a pivotal role in gut axis” into the term “gut-brain axis” were consolidated. quantitatively and qualitatively evaluating scientific research The parameters of CiteSpace were set as follows: time slicing and predicting research trends in specific fields. To explore the (1999–2024), years per slice (1), term type (burst terms), term world’s research trends related to the MGB axis and anxiety or source (all selections), and node type (1 chosen at a time). In depression (A/D). It is worth noting that bibliometric research addition, Excel 2019 software was used to draw a bar chart of in this field is scarce. This study used VOSviewer1.6.2013 and publication volume and descriptive analysis tables of countries CiteSpace.6.3.R114, a bibliometric analysis software, to gener- (regions), institutions, journals, authors, co-cited authors, and ate visual maps. These maps effectively present valuable infor- cited references. mation that may be easily discernible from detailed indices such as institutions, countries, authors, keywords, journals, and rel- evant data. 3. Result 3.1. Literature search and trends analysis 2. Materials and methods A total of 1902 publications related to the MGB axis and 2.1. Data collection and search strategy A/D were identified between 1999 and 2024. The search was limited to English-language articles and reviews, excluding This study extracted the most relevant publications from abstracts, meetings, case reports, books, letters, and corrections. the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) database at Subsequently, we retrieved 1816 documents, 1135 (62.5%) arti- cles, and 681 (37.5%) articles were reviewed (Fig. 1). Only a as follows: (TS=“Anxiety” OR TS=“Angst” OR TS=“Social few articles were published before 2011, but the number has Anxiety” OR TS=“Anxieties, Social” OR TS=“Anxiety, steadily increased since then. Notably, a significant growth trend Social” OR TS=“Social Anxieties” OR TS=“Hypervigilance” was observed in 2019 (Fig. 2). OR TS=“Nervousness” OR TS=“Anxiousness” OR TS=“Depression” OR TS=“Depressive Symptoms” OR TS=“Depressive Symptom” OR TS=“Symptom, Depressive” 3.2. Distribution of countries and institutions OR TS=“Emotional Depression” OR TS=“Depression, Emotional” OR TS=“MAJOR DEPRESSIVE DISORDER”) Approximately 65 countries or regions participated in research AND (TS=“Brain-Gut Axis” OR TS=“Axis, Brain-Gut” OR on the MGB axis and A/D. The number of literature types and TS=“Brain Gut Axis” OR TS=“Gut and Brain Axis” OR citations in each country or region are shown in Figures 3 and TS=“Gut-Brain Axis” OR TS=“Axis, Gut-Brain” OR TS=“Gut 4, respectively. Some studies have
