Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


uments with 4117 citations), although they were cited less fre- nals, Nutrients has the highest number of publications, with 77 quently. It is evident that publications from Ireland had a wider documents. It also boasts an impact factor of 5.9 and is clas- influence; the University College Cork has dominated the field sified as a Q1 journal according to journal citation reports. In of the MGB axis and A/D research through collaboration with the journal citation reports partition analysis, 5 journals were other institutions (Figs. 3 and 4). categorized as Q1, whereas the remaining 5 were classified as Lu et al. • Medicine (2025) 104:27 www.md-journal.com Q2. Notably, Nutrients, Brain Behavior, and Immunity, and the development of depressive-like behaviors, with mediation International Journal of Molecular Sciences appear to be the occurring through the host’s metabolism (Table 5). These most popular choices among researchers, each with distinct highly cited articles within the MGB axis and A/D have gained impact factor distributions. Overall, it is evident that documents widespread acceptance and inspired recent research, which will focusing on the MGB axis and A/D have been accepted by undoubtedly shape the future of this field. highly reputable journals. This not only helps to raise awareness of this field among a wide range of readers and researchers but also contributes to its importance as a topic of study in the field. 3.6. Analysis of keywords The 1816 documents visualized on the MGB axis and A/D con- tain 6150 keywords. The most frequently occurring keywords 3.4. Analysis of authors included gut-brain axis, depression, gut microbiota, anxiety, A total of 9514 authors participated in the publication of doc- stress, microbiota, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), behavior, uments on the MGB axis and A/D. Of these, 84 authors with probiotics, brain, inflammation, intestinal microbiota, anxiety- at least 6 documents were identified. The co-authorship rela- like behavior, microbiome, fecal microbiota, microbiota–gut– tions of the authors are depicted in Figure 5 through a visual- brain axis, double-blind, and disorders. Visual analysis revealed ization. John F. Cryan, Timothy G. Dinan, Gerard Clarke, and related author keywords about the gut-brain axis, inflammation Catherine Stanton were linked to the yellow cluster (Fig. 5), or probiotics (Fig. 6). The keyword IBS demonstrated the high- indicating that their cooperation was close to in the MGB est burst strength of 38.68, which burst from 2000 to 2018. axis and A/D authorship. Table 4 lists the top
