Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


MDD by mod- ulating the gut microbiome and tryptophan metabolism. By decreasing neural inflammation and brain degeneration, probiotics and prebiotics may have potential applications in the management of gut dysbiosis and cognitive impairment. AD is a common neurodegenerative disease, affecting approximately 47.5 million individuals. AD is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, recognition difficulties, memory loss, and executive dysfunction. It is common in individuals aged > 65 years. Growing evidence has demonstrated a relationship between the gut microbiota dysbiosis and AD. The composition of the gut microbiota in patients with AD differs from that in healthy individuals, particularly in terms of microbiota diver- sity and proportions of bacterial species. These compositional changes in the gut microbiota of patients with AD contribute to alterations in the microbial metabolome, which are implicated in AD pathogenesis. BAs play a significant role in AD, with primary BAs being significantly decreased in patients with AD. In contrast, secondary BAs and their conjugated forms are ele- vated. The MGB axis is important in the pathophysiological processes of AD. The detrimental effects related to AD patho- genesis are exacerbated by gut microbiota-derived metabolites, which result from the disruption of the gut mucosal immune system, elevated gut permeability, and altered bacterial translo- cation. These processes contribute to systemic inflammatory responses, further exacerbating the adverse effects associated with AD pathogenesis. IBD is characterized by chronic inflammation of the gas- trointestinal tract. More than 20% of individuals with IBD also experience symptoms of depression. Some studies have demonstrated that an imbalanced immune response contrib- utes to chronic persistent inflammation, anxiety, or depressive symptoms observed in IBD. Additionally, neuroglia cells, such as astrocytes and microglia found in the brain, are affected by dysregulated inflammation, which in turn influences the devel- opment of depressive symptoms. The kynurenine pathway, an important metabolic pathway for tryptophan, plays a role in modulating chronic inflammation and depressive symptoms. Tryptophan is transformed into a series of kynurenine metab- olites that have an impact on these symptoms. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), a key enzyme in kynurenine, is acti- vated by chronic inflammation, leading to the production of kynurenine. The disruption of the brain-gut axis caused by IBD allows kynurenine to cross the blood–brain barrier and generate a series of neuroactive kynurenine metabolites in glial cells. Therefore, kynurenine metabolites play an important role in facilitating the comorbidity of IBD and depressive symptoms. Previous studies have suggested that fecal microbiota trans-
