Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


104:27 Medicine Figure 6. Map of the relevant author keywords. It depicts the co-occurrence network of author keywords with at least 5 occurrences in MGB axis and A/D research. The size of a node reflects the number of times an author keyword appears. An edge between nodes implies that the author keywords co-occur. The thicker the edge, the more frequently the keywords coexist. The node color represents its category. A/D = anxiety or depression, MGB = microbiota–gut–brain. nerve of the MGB axis may be a pivotal signaling mechanism trends in the domains of the MGB axis and A/D. We conducted that regulates the antidepressant properties of FMT. FMT a thorough search for bibliometric literature exploring the link administration has been found to slowly decrease the signs of between the gut-brain axis and mental illness. However, we depression in patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS, regard- were unable to find any specialized bibliometric reports specif- less of intestinal disease remission. Treatment of depression and ically focusing on the relationship between the MGB axis and anxiety and the brain-gut axis have shown relevant progress in anxiety or depression. Therefore, this study makes a unique FMT, and the current standardized bacterial fluid is gradually contribution to the existing literature. Nevertheless, this study forming. This topic is expected to soon become a hot topic. had certain limitations. Initially, the data relied solely on the This visualization highlights the significance of micro- Web of Science database, which is a pivotal and commonly uti- bial metabolites in anxiety and depression. Studies on lized database for bibliometric analyses. Second, only English- preclinical models have shown a positive impact of butyrate- language publications were considered, potentially resulting in producing species on symptoms resembling anxiety and exclusion of influential documents. Moreover, the inclusion of depression. However, results from systematic reviews and meta- publications of varying quality may compromise the reliability analyses exploring the diversity of gut microbiota in patients of the findings. with anxiety and depression have been inconsistent. Differential abundance analysis suggests that individuals with anxiety and depression may exhibit higher levels of pro-inflammatory bac- 5. Conclusion teria and lower levels of bacteria that produce short-chain fatty This study offers a comparative bibliometric analysis conducted acids. To fully comprehend these associations, further research using CiteSpace and VOSviewer to demonstrate information is required to investigate potential confounding factors such as on research hotspots regarding the MGB axis and A/D over 2
