Medicine
KEYWORDS: axis, gut, mgb, anxiety, mgb axis, depression, microbiota, brain, research, analysis, anxiety depression, publications, documents, number, study


associations, further research using CiteSpace and VOSviewer to demonstrate information is required to investigate potential confounding factors such as on research hotspots regarding the MGB axis and A/D over 2 psychotropic drugs and diet. decades. The number of studies in the field has been steadily This study also suggests that the literature (n = 38) on the increasing. Visual analysis of the molecular mechanisms under- effects of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) monomers lying neuroinflammation, immunity, and microbial metabolom- on anxiety or depression in the brain-gut axis has gradually ics is a prominent research topic in this field. Some discoveries increased over the past 3 years. Some progress has been made have been made in investigating the monomeric components in using Chinese medicine monomers to treat in depression in of the microbial gut-brain axis in TCM. However, there is still induced depression in mice by increasing the levels of brain- findings in the human body, which remains an active area of derived neurotrophic factors in the brain, thereby modulating investigation. Therefore, this study presents the traits and orien- the MGB axis. The anti-depressive effects and mechanisms of tations of the MGB axis and A/D, offering valuable insights for TCM are related to increased levels of monoamine neurotrans- future research on neurological and gastrointestinal disorders. mitters, inhibition of HPA axis hyperactivity, regulation of hippocampal neurons and neurotrophic factors, regulation of immune cytokines, and regulation of the MGB axis function. Acknowledgments An increasing number of Chinese researchers are contributing We express our gratitude to Professor Zhou Bengang for his to this field. guidance in writing this manuscript. We also appreciate the orig- inal literature provided by the WOSCC. 4.2. Strength and limitation Author contributions Visualization of mapping knowledge facilitates the identifica- tion of crucial aspects of research hotspots, subjects, and leading Data curation: Honghua Zhou. Lu et al. • Medicine (2025) 104:27 www.md-journal.com Figure 7. Top 25 keywords with the strongest strength of bursts. Investigation: Jian Yuan, Zifan Ding. Cryan JF, O’Riordan KJ, Cowan CSM, et al. The microbiota-gut-brain Writing – original draft: Ronghua Lu, Honghua Zhou. axis. Physiol Rev. 2019;99:1877–2013. Writing – review & editing: Ronghua Lu, Zifan Ding. Crumeyrolle-Arias M, Jaglin M, Bruneau A, et al. Absence of the gut microbiota enhances anxiety-like behavior and neuroendo- crine response to acute stress in rats. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2014;42:207–17.
