Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


ABSTRACT Cushing’s syndrome results from chronic exposure to excessive circulating levels of glucocorticoids. Cushing’s disease, pituitary-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, is the most common cause of endogenous hypercortisolism. The recommended screening tests include the 1mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test, late-night salivary cortisol (at least 2 samples), and 24-hour urinary free cortisol (at least two 24-hour collections). If the initial test is positive on 2 occasions the patient should be evaluated by an endocrinologist for further assessment. Plasma 09:00h ACTH measurement guides imaging and further investigations. If ACTH is elevated/inappropriately normal, MRI scanning of the pituitary should be performed, but if ACTH is suppressed imaging of the adrenals should follow. The corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) or desmopressin tests helps distinguishing pituitary from ectopic ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, while bilateral petrosal sinus sampling remains the gold standard test and should be considered, if available, with the exception of the presence of a pituitary macroadenoma. It is prudent to perform a CT of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis in all patients. Transsphenoidal surgery is the first line treatment for Cushing’s disease, followed by radiotherapy as a second-line option. Adrenalectomy is the first-choice treatment for adrenal ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome and resection of the ACTH source should be performed for the ectopic ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, where possible. Bilateral adrenalectomy can always be considered as an option. Steroidogenesis inhibitors remain the most effective medical agents and are useful when surgery or the effects of radiotherapy are awaited or are unsuccessful. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Cushing’s syndrome results from chronic exposure to excessive circulating levels of glucocorticoids. It is now more than one hundred years since Harvey Cushing reported the classical clinical syndrome that bears his name. Even now, its investigation and management can vex the most experienced endocrinologist. It may be difficult to miss the diagnosis in its most florid form but, given the high prevalence of many of its non-specific symptoms such as obesity, muscle weakness, and depression, clinicians are now required to consider the diagnosis in its earlier manifestations. The plethora of investigations often needed for the diagnosis and differential diagnosis has grown over the intervening century, and require careful interpretation. In its severe form and when untreated, the metabolic upset of Cushing's syndrome is associated with a high mortality. However, more subtle excesses of cortisol may also have significant effects on glycemic
