Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


severe form and when untreated, the metabolic upset of Cushing's syndrome is associated with a high mortality. However, more subtle excesses of cortisol may also have significant effects on glycemic control and blood pressure, and may therefore be an important cause of morbidity. Treatment is often complex and may require all the modalities of surgery, radiotherapy. and medical management. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY, ETIOLOGY, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME In normal physiology the final product of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is the glucocorticoid cortisol, secreted from the zona fasciculata of the adrenal gland under the stimulus of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) from the pituitary gland. ACTH is secreted in response to corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and vasopressin from the hypothalamus. Cortisol exerts negative feedback control on both CRH and vasopressin in the hypothalamus, and ACTH in the pituitary. In normal individuals, cortisol is secreted in a circadian rhythm; levels fall during the day from a peak at 07.00h-08.00h to a nadir at around midnight: they then begin to rise again at 02.00h. It is the loss of this circadian rhythm, together with loss of the normal feedback mechanism of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which results in chronic exposure to excessive circulating cortisol levels and that gives rise to the clinical state of endogenous Cushing's syndrome ( 1 , 2 ). Any of the numerous synthetic steroids that have glucocorticoid activity, if administered in excessive quantities, can give rise to exogenous Cushing's syndrome. This is the commonest cause of Cushing's syndrome seen in general clinical practice, usually due to treatment for chronic conditions such as asthma or rheumatological disease. The clinician needs to carefully search for exogenous exposure to topical, inhaled, or injected forms of corticosteroids. The etiology of Cushing's syndrome can broadly be divided into two categories, ACTH-dependent and ACTH-independent ( Table 1 ). ACTH-dependent forms are characterized by excessive ACTH production, which stimulates all three layers of adrenal cortex and results in bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia and hypertrophy of adrenal gland. This results in increased weight of the adrenals, which often show micronodular or sometimes macronodular changes. Circulating glucocorticoids are increased and often, to a lesser extent, are accompanied by a rise in serum androgens. ACTH-independent forms constitute a heterogeneous group characterized by low levels of plasma ACTH, either because of adrenal glucocorticoid hypersecretion or secondary to the exogenous administration of glucocorticoids. Except for adrenal adenomas, which usually secrete only glucocorticoids, among the other endogenous adrenal
