Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


plasma ACTH, either because of adrenal glucocorticoid hypersecretion or secondary to the exogenous administration of glucocorticoids. Except for adrenal adenomas, which usually secrete only glucocorticoids, among the other endogenous adrenal entities there is usually also a rise in androgens and sometimes steroid precursors. The microscopic and macroscopic appearance of non-affected adrenal tissue mainly depends on the etiology of the disorder. Table 1. Etiology of Cushing's Syndrome View in own window ACTH-dependent Pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome (Cushing's disease) Ectopic ACTH syndrome Ectopic CRH syndrome (very rare) Exogenous ACTH administration ACTH-independent Adrenocortical adenoma Adrenocortical carcinoma ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (AIMAH) – now known as bilateral macronodular adrenocortical disease (BMAD)( 3 ) Idiopathic micronodular adrenocortical disease (i-MAD) Primary pigmented (micro)nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD, <1cm nodules), associated with Carney complex (c-PPNAD) or idiopathic (i-PPNAD) McCune-Albright syndrome Exogenous glucocorticoid administration ACTH-Dependent Cushing's Syndrome CUSHING’S DISEASE Pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome, better known as Cushing's disease, is the most common cause of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, accounting for 60-80% of all cases. Epidemiologic studies from Europe suggest an incidence of between 0.7 and 2.4 per million per year ( 4 , 5 ). It presents much more commonly in women, usually between 25 and 40 years of age. It is almost always due to a corticotroph adenoma ( 6 , 7 ). Although apparent nodular corticotroph hyperplasia (in the absence of an CRH-producing tumor) has been described, it is rare in large surgical series ( 8 , 9 ), and its existence is still debated. The majority of tumors are intrasellar microadenomas (<1 cm in diameter), although macroadenomas account for approximately 5-10% of tumors, and extrasellar extension or invasion may occur. True pituitary corticotroph carcinomas with extra-pituitary metastases causing Cushing's syndrome have also rarely been described ( 10 , 11 ). Despite much research, the molecular pathogenesis of corticotroph adenomas remains unknown, but the evidence supports the concept of primary pituitary rather than a hypothalamic disorder ( 12 ). However, recent data suggest that around one-third are due to a somatic mutation causing constitutive activation of USP8, a deubiquitinase which leads to increased expression of the EGF receptor on corticotrophs ( 13 ). Corticotroph adenomas could rarely be associated with familial syndromes such as MEN1, MEN2, Carney Complex, or familial isolated pituitary adenoma syndrome. Those are secondary to mutations in the menin gene ( MEN1 ), the RET oncogene, PRKR 1A and the AIP (gene coding for aryl hydrocarbon
