Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


familial isolated pituitary adenoma syndrome. Those are secondary to mutations in the menin gene ( MEN1 ), the RET oncogene, PRKR 1A and the AIP (gene coding for aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein) respectively ( 14 ). Very rarely, Cushing’s disease has been described in individuals with McCune-Albright and Beckwick-Wiedemann syndromes, where ACTH-independent CS is more common. Up to 40 percent of older patients with long-existing Cushing’s disease develop ACTH-dependent macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia. The adrenals tend to be enlarged, with occasional prominent nodules, but invariably with internodular hyperplasia ( 15 , 16 ); the level of ACTH may be lower than anticipated, and recovery of the hypercortisolemia delayed after apparent removal of the pituitary tumor. ECTOPIC ACTH SYNDROME AND ECTOPIC CRH TUMORS Most other cases of endogenous ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, after excluding Cushing’ disease, are associated with non-pituitary tumors secreting ACTH, referred to as the ectopic ACTH syndrome. Ectopic sources of ACTH derive from a diverse group of tumor types, which can broadly be divided into the group of highly malignant carcinomas and the more indolent group of neuroendocrine tumors, although this may be thought of as a continuum rather than as a binary separation. This may not be evident from series at endocrine centers where often more occult tumors are investigated ( Table 2 ), but bronchial neuroendocrine tumors tend to predominate and account for up to 25% of ectopic ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome cases. The next in frequency is small-cell lung carcinoma, causing around 19% of ectopic Cushing's syndrome ( 17 - 19 ). Around 16% patients with an ectopic source of ACTH remain occult and require repeat imaging. The ectopic ACTH syndrome is more common in men, and usually presents after the age of 40 years, but should always be considered, even in children. Table 2. Etiology of the Ectopic ACTH Syndrome in Patients ( 17 - 19 ) View in own window Tumor type Percentage of total Ectopic Cushing's syndrome cases reported in selected literature (n=398) Lung carcinoma 18.8 Bronchial neuroendocrine tumor 25.4 Thymic neuroendocrine tumor 7.3 Medullary cell carcinoma 4.5 Pancreatic or gastrointestinal NET 11.8 Phaeochromocytoma/paraganglioma 3.8 NET of unknown primary 6.0 Occult tumor 16.1 Miscellaneous malignant tumors 6.3 NET - neuroendocrine tumor. The ACTH precursor molecule, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) is expressed not only in normal pituitary but also in several normal extra-pituitary tissues, as well as in some tumors (lung, testis) ( 20 ). The mechanism by
