Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) is expressed not only in normal pituitary but also in several normal extra-pituitary tissues, as well as in some tumors (lung, testis) ( 20 ). The mechanism by which these non-corticotroph tumors express the POMC gene is not fully understood, but may be related to hypomethylation of the POMC promoter ( 21 , 22 ). In general, such tumors tend to produce higher amounts of POMC compared to ACTH, in contrast to the situation in Cushing’s disease. As well as producing ACTH and POMC, these tumors may also produce other pre-ACTH precursor peptides, so-called "big" ACTH ( 23 , 24 ), which may potentially be helpful in the differential diagnosis of these tumors ( 25 ). However, assays for these are not routinely available in clinical practice. Isolated ectopic CRH production is difficult to diagnose and exceedingly rare, with few confirmed cases described in the literature ( 26 ). In general, patients secreting CRH ectopically usually also secrete ACTH, rendering the distinction of little practical value. ACTH-Independent Cushing’s Syndrome ACTH-independent causes of Cushing’s syndrome, apart from exogenous glucocorticoids, encompass a heterogeneous group of diseases. The most common pathology is an adrenal adenoma or carcinoma. The latter may lack some of the classic histological features of malignancy, but can usually be differentiated on the basis of weight (more than 100g), nuclear pleomorphism, necrosis, mitotic figures, and vascular or lymphatic invasion. These features are incorporated in the Weiss score for the distinction between adenomas and carcinomas. Adrenal adenomas occur most often around 35 years of age and are significantly more common in women, with an incidence of approximately 0.6 per million per year ( 5 ). The incidence of adrenal cancer is approximately 0.2 per million per year ( 5 ). It is one and a half times more common in women, and has a bimodal age distribution, with peaks in childhood and adolescence, and 40-50 years ( 1 , 27 ). Approximately 50-60% of adrenocortical carcinomas secrete adrenal hormones of which the most common are glucocorticoids and adrenal androgens ( 28 ). Bilateral macronodular adrenocortical disease (BMAD, previously known as ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (AIMAH)) is a rare form of Cushing’s syndrome with sometimes huge nodular (>5cm) adrenal glands with more than 1cm nodules on imaging. Most cases are sporadic, but a few familial cases have been reported ( 29 ). In most the etiology is unknown, but
