Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


glands with more than 1cm nodules on imaging. Most cases are sporadic, but a few familial cases have been reported ( 29 ). In most the etiology is unknown, but in a few cases the nodules have been shown to express increased numbers of receptors normally found on the adrenal gland, or ectopic receptors that then can stimulate cortisol production. Most present as subclinical CS. The best described example is food-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, in which ectopic glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) receptors on the adrenal glands respond to GIP released after a meal causing hypercortisolemia ( 30 ). Treatment with octreotide may ameliorate the syndrome ( 31 ); however, the effect decreases after few months due to down-regulation of somatostatin receptors in the intestine ( 32 ). Abnormal expression of vasopressin, β-adrenergic, luteinizing hormone/human chorionic gonadotrophin, serotonin, angiotensin, leptin, glucagon, IL-1, and TSH have also been described and functionally linked to cortisol production ( 32 ). BMAD tissue may express more than one of these aberrant receptors ( 33 ). Around one-third of patients with BMAD have been found to show inactivating germline mutations of the tumor suppressor gene ARMC5 (armadillo repeat containing protein 5), with each of the nodules demonstrating second independent hits in the same gene: familial forms of BMAD have been described ( 34 ). Heterozygous germline pathogenic variants in KDM1A gene encoding lysine-specific demethylase 1 have been reported in GIP-dependent Cushing’s syndrome in BMAD ( 35 ). In some individuals with BMAD, germline mutations in MEN1, FH (fumarate hydratase gene), and ACP (familial polyposis coli gene) have been found ( 36 , 37 ) Cushing’s syndrome due to bilateral nodular adrenal disease can also be a feature of McCune-Albright syndrome ( 38 ). The characteristic features are fibrous dysplasia of bone, café-au-lait skin pigmentation, and endocrine dysfunction: pituitary, thyroid, adrenal, or most commonly gonadal hyperfunction (precocious puberty). This condition is caused by an activating mutation in the GNAS gene encoding for the α-subunit of the G protein stimulating cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation. This occurs in a mosaic pattern in early embryogenesis ( 39 ). However, if this affects some adrenal cells the constitutive activation of adenylate cyclase leads to nodule formation and glucocorticoid excess. The normal adrenal cortex, where the mutation is not present, becomes atrophic ( 40 , 41 ). Primary pigmented nodular adrenal disease (PPNAD), otherwise known as micronodular adrenal disease, is another rare
