Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


adrenal cortex, where the mutation is not present, becomes atrophic ( 40 , 41 ). Primary pigmented nodular adrenal disease (PPNAD), otherwise known as micronodular adrenal disease, is another rare form of Cushing’s syndrome. It is characterized by small or normal-size adrenal glands with cortical micronodules (average 2–3 mm) that may be dark or black in color. The internodular cortex is usually atrophic, unlike in ACTH-dependent macronodular hyperplasia ( 42 ). Cases of PPNAD have been reported without Cushing’s syndrome. Bilateral adrenalectomy is curative. 70% of PPNAD occur as part of the Carney complex in association with a variety of other abnormalities, including myxomas of the heart, skin or breast, hyperpigmentation of the skin, and other endocrine disorders (sexual precocity; Sertoli cell, Leydig cell, or adrenal rest tumors; and acromegaly). Cushing’s syndrome occurs in approximately 30% of cases of Carney complex. The tumor suppressor gene PRKAR1A (type 1A regulatory subunit of protein kinase A) has been shown to be mutated in over 70% of patients with Carney complex. A few cases of pituitary corticotrophinoma have been identified in patients with Carney complex, one of them having both adrenal and pituitary Cushing’s syndrome ( 43 , 44 ). In isolated PPNAD, mutations in PRKAR1A and also the phosphodiesterase 11A ( PDE11A ) gene have been demonstrated ( 45 , 46 ). A missense mutation of the ACTH receptor resulting in its constitutive activation and ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome has also been reported ( 47 ). Other very rare causes of Cushing's syndrome have been reported: adrenal rest tissue in the liver, in the adrenal beds, or in association with the gonads which may produce hypercortisolemia, usually in the context of ACTH-dependent disease after adrenalectomy ( 48 , 49 ). Ectopic cortisol production by an ovarian carcinoma has also been noted ( 50 ). Exogenous Cushing’s Syndrome The basis for iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome was discussed earlier. The development of the features of Cushing’s syndrome depends on the dose, duration, and potency of the corticosteroids used in clinical practice. ACTH is rarely prescribed nowadays, but it will also result in Cushingoid features if administered long-term. Some features, such as an increase in intraocular pressure, cataracts, benign intracranial hypertension, aseptic necrosis of the femoral head, osteoporosis, and pancreatitis, are reported as more common in iatrogenic than endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, whereas other features, notably hypertension, hirsutism, and oligomenorrhoea/amenorrhea, are less prevalent. However, it is unclear as
