Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


osteoporosis, and pancreatitis, are reported as more common in iatrogenic than endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, whereas other features, notably hypertension, hirsutism, and oligomenorrhoea/amenorrhea, are less prevalent. However, it is unclear as to whether these are true differences ( 51 ). Pseudo-Cushing's Syndrome Pseudo-Cushing's states are conditions in which a patient presents with clinical features suggestive of true Cushing's syndrome and with some biochemical evidence of hypercortisolemia. Both resolve after resolution of the predisposing condition. The pathophysiology has not clearly been established. Depression and alcohol abuse are the two most common such states ( 1 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME The clinical manifestations in Cushing’s syndrome result from a chronic exposure to excess glucocorticoids and show a wide spectrum of abnormalities, from mild, subclinical disease to florid manifestations. The classical impression of the disease in its most obvious form, as the association of gross obesity of the trunk with wasting of the limbs, facial rounding and plethora, hirsutism with frontal balding, muscle weakness, spontaneous bruising, vertebral fractures, hypertension and diabetes mellitus, is less commonly seen nowadays ( Table 3 ) ( 52 - 54 ). More frequently, the clinical diagnosis may be equivocal because many symptoms common in Cushing's syndrome, including lethargy, depression, obesity, hypertension, hirsutism, and menstrual irregularity, are also very common in the general population. Therefore, it is useful to have an investigation strategy exploring the more specific features considering the diagnosis, most helpfully relating to the catabolic features of glucocorticoid excess. It is very helpful to notice the presence of several signs and symptoms, accompanied by a progressive course. Sequential photographs of the patient over many years can be extremely helpful in demonstrating progression to a Cushingoid state. The clinical manifestations are usually determined by the duration and amplitude of glucocorticoid exposure, but in some aggressive cases of ectopic ACTH secretion, such as small cell carcinoma, symptoms of hypercortisolism are hard to detect because of the predominant malignant signs and symptoms such as weight loss and anorexia. The mean time to diagnosis of Cushing’s syndrome is reported as 34 months, and depends on the cause of glucocorticoid excess with shortest time to diagnosis in the ectopic Cushing’s syndrome (14 months), ACTH-independent CS (30months) and the longest with Cushing’s disease (38 months)( 55 ). The type of steroid excess is determined by the underlying condition. Adrenal adenomas generally secrete glucocorticoids, but in ACTH-dependent disease or a carcinoma hyperandrogenism is
