Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


disease (38 months)( 55 ). The type of steroid excess is determined by the underlying condition. Adrenal adenomas generally secrete glucocorticoids, but in ACTH-dependent disease or a carcinoma hyperandrogenism is common. Table 3. Presenting features of patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 43 - 45 ) View in own window Presenting features Prevalence (% of patients) Weight gain/obesity 81-97 Muscle weakness/tiredness 46-67 Round face 88-92 Skin thinning 84 Easy bruising 21-62 Edema 48-50 Purple wide striae 35-84 Hirsutism 56-81 Acne 19-64 Female balding 13-51 Dysmenorrhea 35-84 Reduced libido 33-100 (higher in men) Hypertension 68-90 Mental health disorders 26-62 Recurrent infections 14-25 Diabetes/impaired glucose tolerance 43-50 Fractures 21-56 It is important to observe that combinations of Cushingoid features very much depend on the natural course of its underlying cause. Patients with the ectopic ACTH syndrome usually present with severe and rapidly developing metabolic signs, most prominently anorexia, myopathy, and glucose intolerance. Because of severe hypercortisolemia and additional mineralocorticoid effect, hypokalemic alkalosis is found with peripheral edema on clinical examination. The combination of rapid clinical deterioration, hyperpigmentation, hypokalemic alkalosis, and clinical signs of mineralocorticoid excess should be indicative for suspicion of a small cell lung carcinoma secreting ACTH, or a high-grade bronchial carcinoid or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. In contrast, most patients with ACTH-producing low-grade bronchial carcinoids, because of the long duration of hypercortisolemia before clinical presentation, tend to develop all of the typical Cushingoid features, complicating its differentiation from Cushing’s disease. Patients with adrenal carcinomas have a rapid onset of symptoms, and may complain of abdominal pain accompanied with a palpable tumor mass. In addition to hypercortisolism, they often secrete mineralocorticoids and androgens, therefore distinguishing them from benign adenomas which usually secrete cortisol alone ( 56 ). In women with androgen secreting ACC acne and hirsutism is usually readily apparent. However, increasingly, these tumors are discovered incidentally after routine scanning for other reasons. In 10 percent of patients with adrenal incidentalomas, “subclinical” Cushing’s syndrome (currently called mild autonomous cortisol secretion, MACS) can be found; this is characterized by mild hypercortisolism without very obvious clinical manifestations of Cushing’s syndrome ( 57 ). Unlike in men, where the main source of androgens is the testes, in women a substantial proportion of circulating androgens are adrenal in origin, such that the signs and symptoms of adrenal hyperandrogenism are readily diagnosed by symptoms of hirsutism and acne, and signs of virilization. Obesity and weight gain are among
