Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


in origin, such that the signs and symptoms of adrenal hyperandrogenism are readily diagnosed by symptoms of hirsutism and acne, and signs of virilization. Obesity and weight gain are among the most common signs in Cushing’s syndrome. The distribution of fat can be useful, as typically in Cushing's syndrome there is increased visceral adiposity giving rise to truncal obesity, fat deposition in the cheeks and temporal fossae ("moon face"), dorsocervical area ("buffalo hump"), and supraclavicular fat pads ( 52 , 58 ). Rarely, fat deposition in the epidural space can be manifest as a neurological deficit ( 59 ), while retroorbital deposition is noticeable as exophthalmos ( 60 ). In children, more generalized weight gain associated with growth retardation should highlight the possibility of the diagnosis ( 2 ). Other signs that are more discriminatory are proximal myopathy, wide purple striae, osteoporosis, thin skin, and easy bruising. Based on the screening study of 369 individuals with obesity, or weight in the overweight range, there were no reported cases of Cushing’s syndrome ( 61 ). Therefore, screening patients with generalized obesity and no specific features of Cushing’s syndrome is generally not recommended. Myopathy of the proximal muscles of the lower limb and shoulder results from a catabolic glucocorticoid effect and is reported in 40-70% of patients with active Cushing’s syndrome. When assessing for myopathy it is useful to ask questions about function, typically affected by proximal muscle weakness, such as climbing stairs or getting up from a chair. Formal testing can be of leg extension whilst sitting, or rising unaided from a squatting position. Muscle weakness can be exacerbated by hypokalemia, as a result of concomitant mineralocorticoid activity; it is uncommon in pseudo-Cushing’s states ( 1 ). The myopathy may not fully recover after cure of hypercortisolism has been achieved ( 62 ). Osteoporosis occurs in approximately 50% of adult patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 63 ) and can be assessed by formal bone densitometry, or from a history of fractures, typically vertebral due to the preferential loss of trabecular bone induced by glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids inhibit osteoblast function ( 64 ). Vertebral compression fractures lead to height loss. Rib fractures are often painless, with typical radiographic appearance of exuberant callus. Also, osteonecrosis (aseptic necrosis) of the femoral head has been described, usually in relation to iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome following chronic high-dose glucocorticoid therapy ( 65 ). After successful treatment of the
