Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


osteonecrosis (aseptic necrosis) of the femoral head has been described, usually in relation to iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome following chronic high-dose glucocorticoid therapy ( 65 ). After successful treatment of the cause, bone density improves to a large extent ( 66 - 68 ). There are many changes in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which are rarely seen in the general population, suggesting the possibility of Cushing’s syndrome ( 1 , 52 ). The result of hypercortisolemia is thinning of the skin, which is best tested over the dorsum of the hand, visible as “cigarette paper” (Liddle’s sign), but it is helpful to consider the age and gender of the patient as natural atrophy increases with age. In addition, skin thickness may be preserved in women with hyperandrogenemia related to Cushing's syndrome. The classic plethora (facial redness) is not only a consequence of skin thinning but also of a loss of a facial subcutaneous fat. Because subcutaneous fat and elastic tissue is also diminished, patients suffer easy bruising, which often can be misinterpreted as senile purpura or even a coagulation disorder. Purple-colored "violaceous" striae greater than 1 cm in diameter are almost pathognomonic of Cushing's syndrome ( Figure 1 ). Typically seen on the abdomen, they can also occur in other areas, such as the thighs, breasts and arms. Narrow and colored striae are more commonly present, and should be differentiated from the typical healed ‘pearl’ striae seen most commonly post-partum. Figure 1. The wide purple striae on the abdominal wall due to Cushing’s syndrome (patient permission obtained). Increased fine non-pigmented vellus hair on the upper cheeks or forehead may be seen in Cushing’s syndrome, as well as more typical terminal hair hirsutism on the face and body, reflecting increased androgens. Cutaneous fungal infections as truncal tinea versicolor and onychomycosis are often found. Skin hyperpigmentation is much more common in ectopic Cushing’s syndrome (most often from small cell lung carcinoma) than Cushing’s disease. It is also associated with the rapid onset of profound weakness, often with little or no weight gain, and an absence of a gross Cushingoid appearance. However, as noted above, other forms of the ectopic ACTH syndrome, particularly associated with neuroendocrine tumors, may be clinically indistinguishable from patients with other forms of hypercortisolism ( 69 ). Severe hirsutism and virilization strongly suggest an adrenal carcinoma ( 70 ). Hypercortisolism may suppress other pituitary hormones. In both men and
