Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


with other forms of hypercortisolism ( 69 ). Severe hirsutism and virilization strongly suggest an adrenal carcinoma ( 70 ). Hypercortisolism may suppress other pituitary hormones. In both men and women, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism is common and correlates with the degree of hypercortisolemia ( 71 ). Glucocorticoids inhibit gonadotrophin–releasing hormone pulsatility and the release of luteinizing (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Women experience menstrual irregularity, while both sexes have decreased libido. Gonadal dysfunction is reversible after correction of the hypercortisolemia ( 72 ). In addition, the coexistence of polycystic ovarian syndrome in Cushing’s syndrome is common ( 73 ). There is reduced GH secretion during sleep and blunted GH responses to dynamic stimulation tests ( 74 ). Thyrotrophin-releasing hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone release has been shown to be disturbed, and in particular the nocturnal surge of thyroid-stimulating hormone is lost ( 75 ). This may not have a significant effect on free thyroid hormone levels during active hypercortisolemia, but there is a significantly increased prevalence of autoimmune thyroid disease in patients successfully treated for Cushing’s syndrome, and it is therefore important to follow them with serial thyroid function tests ( 76 , 77 ). Hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis is related to the degree of hypercortisolemia and represents a mineralocorticoid action of cortisol at the renal tubule due to saturation of the enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2, which inactivates cortisol to cortisone and allows selective binding of aldosterone to the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 78 ). When this occurs, cortisol can now access the mineralocorticoid receptor and act as a mineralocorticoid. This hypersaturation occurs when urine free cortisol excretion is greater than about 4100 nmol per day ( 79 ). Therefore, although a more common feature of ectopic ACTH secretion, it may also occur in approximately 10% of patients with Cushing’s disease. Cushing’s syndrome is characterized by insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. Glucose intolerance is evident in 20-64%, and overt diabetes mellitus in 30-47% of patients ( 80 - 83 ). Glucocorticoids stimulate glycogen deposition, promote gluconeogenesis, inhibit glucose uptake in peripheral tissues, activate lipolysis, and have a permissive effect on the counter-regulatory hormones, glucagon and catecholamines. An excess of cortisol also stimulates serum and glucocorticoids-inducible kinase-1 which raises the phosphorylation of the forkhead box protein O1 (FOXO1) in adipocytes, increasing insulin resistance ( 84 ). It has been suggested that 2-3% of overweight, poorly-controlled patients with diabetes may have occult Cushing’s syndrome ( 85
