Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


protein O1 (FOXO1) in adipocytes, increasing insulin resistance ( 84 ). It has been suggested that 2-3% of overweight, poorly-controlled patients with diabetes may have occult Cushing’s syndrome ( 85 , 86 ). However, in the absence of clinical suspicion the percentage is lower ( 87 , 88 ), and therefore it is probably not justified to screen for Cushing’s in poorly-controlled diabetic patients unless other suggestive features are present ( 89 ). Hyperglycemia becomes easier to control after treatment of hypercortisolism and diabetes remits with cure of Cushing’s syndrome in the majority of patients ( 90 ). . There is an increase in total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and a variable effect on high-density lipoprotein (HDL). These changes are multifactorial, including cortisol effects on increased hepatic synthesis of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), lipolysis, and free fatty acid metabolism ( 91 , 92 ). The major cause of mortality in Cushing’s disease are cardiovascular events, and patients exhibit direct markers of accelerated cardiovascular disease, including increased carotid artery intima-media thickness and atherosclerotic plaques ( 93 ) as well as hypertension, glucose intolerance, overt diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and visceral obesity. Overall, hypertension is common in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 82 ). Severe hypertension with additional hypokalemia is more prevalent in ectopic Cushing’s syndrome, usually best controlled with spironolactone or related drug ( 94 ). Cardiovascular risk markers continue to be present long after cure of the hypercortisolemia ( 95 ) and the cardiovascular risk remains increased ( 96 , 97 ). Sympathetic autonomic function is also abnormal in patients with Cushing's syndrome ( 98 ), and the ECG abnormalities of a prolonged QTc dispersion and left ventricular hypertrophy have been identified as characteristic features in patients with Cushing's disease ( 99 ). Hypercortisolemia increases clotting factors including factor VIII, fibrinogen, and von Willebrand factor, and reduces fibrinolytic activity by elevated plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and antiplasmin. This along with other risk factors such as obesity, surgery, and invasive investigative procedures, results in a significantly increased risk of thrombotic events in patients with Cushing's syndrome ( 100 ). Rates of thromboembolic events, either postoperatively or unrelated to surgery, are 18-fold higher in patients with Cushing’s syndrome than the estimated incidence in an age and sex matched control population ( 101 , 102 ). Venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been reported in 20% of patients with Cushing’s syndrome who did not receive thromboprophylaxis,
