Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


an age and sex matched control population ( 101 , 102 ). Venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been reported in 20% of patients with Cushing’s syndrome who did not receive thromboprophylaxis, at a mean follow-up of 6-9 years ( 103 ). In contrast, VTE occurred in only 6% of patients who received a therapeutic dose of unfractionated heparin at least for 2 weeks after any surgery. The hypercoagulable state may persist even up to 12 months of Cushing’s syndrome remission, and some experts recommend thromboprophylaxis from 24 hours following surgery; however, there is no clear evidence substantiating the duration of thromboprophylaxis ( 104 ). The recent Pituitary Society guidelines recommended use of thromboprophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin in patients undergoing surgery for Cushing’s syndrome and having an additional risk for VTE such us previous VTE, use of estrogens, reduced mobility, and severe hypercortisolism; however, there is no consensus on the duration of VTE prophylaxis ( 105 ). This ranged from 2-14 days before surgery to 2 days - 3months after surgery. Ophthalmic complications include glaucoma and exophthalmos due to retroorbital fat deposition ( 106 ). Cataract is rare, mostly a complication of diabetes. Psychiatric symptoms such as insomnia, depression, anxiety, easy irritability, paranoid episodes, and attempted suicide or panic attacks are present in more than half of patients having any cause of Cushing’s syndrome ( 107 , 108 ). Cognitive defects as learning, cognition, and impairment of short-term memory may be prominent ( 109 , 110 ). These changes are not always reversible with treatment. In patients with Cushing's syndrome there is a greater frequency of infections because of inhibition of immune function by glucocorticoids by decreasing the number of CD4 cells and NK cells and inhibition in cytokine synthesis ( 111 ), with predominant effects on cell-mediated immunity (Th1 responses). The most common infections are bacterial, and special attention should be pointed to the possibility of opportunistic pathogens, especially in cases of severe hypercortisolism ( 112 ). Some cases of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome occur in a periodic or cyclical form, with intermittent and variable cortisol secretion, the symptoms and signs waxing and waning according to the active periods of the disease. These patients can cause particular diagnostic difficulty, as it is imperative that the diagnostic tests are performed in the presence of hypercortisolemia to allow accurate interpretation. Patients may 'cycle in' or 'cycle out' over periods of months or
