Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


it is imperative that the diagnostic tests are performed in the presence of hypercortisolemia to allow accurate interpretation. Patients may 'cycle in' or 'cycle out' over periods of months or years; if at presentation they are eucortisolemic, they will need regular re-evaluation usually with urinary free cortisol or late-night salivary cortisol to allow full investigation at the appropriate time. Cyclicity can in fact occur with all causes of Cushing’s syndrome ( 113 ). BIOCHEMICAL CONFIRMATION OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME As stated above, there are many clinical features in various combinations in Cushing’s syndrome, but a small number of relatively pathognomonic ones, such as myopathy, wide purple striae, skin thinning and bruising, usually suggest the need for biochemical investigation. The basis for establishing the diagnosis of Cushing’s syndrome is biochemical confirmation of hypercortisolism, prior to any test of the differential diagnosis in terms of a specific cause. Hypercortisolemia together with the loss of the normal circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion, and disturbed feedback of the HPA axis, are the cardinal biochemical features of Cushing's syndrome. Almost all tests to confirm the diagnosis are based upon these principles. Furthermore, to screen for Cushing's syndrome, tests of high sensitivity should be used initially so as to avoid missing milder cases. Tests of high specificity can then be employed to exclude false positives. In moderate to high clinical probability of Cushing’s syndrome, 2-3 different screening tests should be used, while if the probability of CS is low 1 negative test such as an overnight dexamethasone suppression test is generally sufficient ( 105 ). It is important to realize that the validation of the published test criteria employed have been on specific assays, and thus test responses should ideally be validated on the local assay used before the results can be interpreted in particular patients. This is aided by supra-regional and nationwide inter-assay quality control assurance programs ( 1 ). Cortisol is normally secreted in a circadian rhythm, with the highest levels early in the morning (07.00-08.00h) and reaching their nadir levels at about midnight (<50 nmol/L or 1.8 μg/dL). In patients with Cushing’s syndrome the circadian rhythm is lost. However, many patients still maintain their morning values within the normal range, but have raised nocturnal levels, rendering midnight levels most useful diagnostically. The measurement of free serum cortisol is very challenging, so either levels of salivary cortisol or total serum cortisol are used. However, exogenous
