Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


levels, rendering midnight levels most useful diagnostically. The measurement of free serum cortisol is very challenging, so either levels of salivary cortisol or total serum cortisol are used. However, exogenous oral estrogens and some medical conditions (see below) will increase cortisol-binding globulin and therefore total cortisol levels. Hence, in all investigations relying on a serum cortisol assay that measures total cortisol, hormone replacement therapy or the oral contraceptive pill should be stopped 4-6 weeks prior to investigation, although it is likely that a shorter time off treatment may still be effective. Late Night Salivary Cortisol Late-night salivary cortisol measurement accurately reflects the plasma free cortisol concentration, because cortisol-binding globulin (CBG) is absent from saliva. Loss of the circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion by measuring late night-time salivary cortisol (best taken at bedtime as nadir salivary cortisol level is detected at the time of falling asleep) can be utilized as a sensitive screening test for Cushing’s syndrome. Due to the simple non-invasive collection procedure which can conveniently be performed at home, and the fact that salivary cortisol is stable for days at room temperature, it offers a number of attractive advantages over blood collection, particularly in children or in cyclical Cushing’s syndrome. Due to variability, taking at least 2 samples on different days is recommended and patients should be advised not to eat, drink, smoke or brush teeth at least 15 minutes before saliva collection. Understandably, this test should not be used in the night-shift workers and individuals with a variable work pattern. Assays using a modification of the plasma cortisol radioimmunoassay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, or liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry are now widely available. Over the past decade there has been considerable increasing interest in this test and it was used in 28% of patients with Cushing’s syndrome from a European registry of 1341 patients diagnosed in 2000-2016 and included in the ERCUSYN registry ( 114 ). It has been evaluated at a large number of centers worldwide. In a meta-analysis of multiple studies, in adult patients the sensitivity and specificity of the late-night salivary cortisol appears to be relatively consistent in different centers, and overall is 92% and 96% respectively ( 115 ). However, it should be noted that the diagnostic value cut-off varies between studies because of different assays and the comparison groups studied. Late-night salivary cortisol used as a screening test had a somewhat lower sensitivity of
