Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


the diagnostic value cut-off varies between studies because of different assays and the comparison groups studied. Late-night salivary cortisol used as a screening test had a somewhat lower sensitivity of 88-89% in subjects from the ERCUSYN registry. Normal values also differ between adults and pediatric populations, and may be affected by other comorbidities such as diabetes ( 116 ), and the method by which the saliva is collected ( 117 ). Not surprisingly, this test performs less well in patients with ‘subclinical Cushing's syndrome’ ( 118 ). Salivary cortisol has also been evaluated as the endpoint for the overnight dexamethasone suppression test. This has the potential benefit in terms of convenience but requires further evaluation ( 119 ). Salivary cortisol has also been advocated as a sensitive tool to detect recurrence or treatment failure in patient’s post-pituitary surgery for Cushing's disease ( 120 , 121 ). In summary, late-night salivary cortisol appears to be a useful and convenient screening test for Cushing's syndrome, particularly in the outpatient setting. However, local normal ranges need to be validated based on the assay used and population studied. Urinary Free Cortisol Measurement of urinary free cortisol (UFC) is a non-invasive test that is most commonly used in the screening of Cushing's syndrome (performed in 78% of individuals in the ERCUSYN registry) ( 114 ). Under normal conditions, 5-10% of plasma cortisol is 'free' or unbound and physiologically active. Unbound cortisol is filtered by the kidney, with the majority being reabsorbed in the tubules, and the remainder excreted unchanged. As serum cortisol increases in Cushing’s syndrome, the binding capacity of CBG is exceeded and a disproportionate rise in UFC is seen. Thus, 24-hour UFC collection produces an integrated measure of serum cortisol, smoothing out the variations in cortisol during the day and night. In a series of 146 patients with Cushing's syndrome, UFC measurement was shown to have a sensitivity of 95% for the diagnosis ( 122 ). However, within this series 11% had at least one of four UFC collections within the normal range, which confirmed the need for multiple collections (at least 2-3 collections are recommended). Furthermore, this sensitivity figure is based on the more florid cases, and is likely to be much less for the more common subtle cases now being seen ( 123 ). In the ERCUSYN registry UFC was reported to show 86% sensitivity in adrenal and ectopic Cushing's syndrome
