Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


less for the more common subtle cases now being seen ( 123 ). In the ERCUSYN registry UFC was reported to show 86% sensitivity in adrenal and ectopic Cushing's syndrome and 95% in Cushing’s disease ( 114 ). The major drawback of the test is the potential for an inadequate 24-hour urine collection, and written instructions must be given to the patient. Also, multiple collections reduce the possibility of overlooking episodic cortisol secretion. In addition, simultaneous creatinine excretion in the collection should be measured to assess completeness, and should equal approximately 1g/24 hours in a 70kg patient (variations depend on muscle mass). This should not vary by more than 10% between collections in the same individual ( 70 ). The cortisol to creatinine ratio in the first urine specimen can be used as a screening test, especially when cyclic secretion is suspected ( 124 ), with a cortisol to creatinine ratio over 25 nmol/mmol being suggestive of Cushing’s syndrome. The 24-hour UFC is of little value in the differentiation from pseudo-Cushing's states ( 125 , 126 ). High-performance liquid chromatography or tandem mass spectrometry are now used to measure UFC, which overcomes the previous problem with conventional radioimmunoassays of cross-reactivity of some exogenous glucocorticoids and other structurally similar steroids ( 127 ). Drugs such as carbamazepine, digoxin, and fenofibrate may co-elute with cortisol during high-performance liquid chromatography and cause falsely elevated results ( 128 ). In summary, UFC measurements have a high sensitivity if collected correctly, and several completely normal collections make the diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome very unlikely. Values greater than four-fold normal are rare except in Cushing's syndrome. For intermediate values the specificity is somewhat lower, and thus patients with marginally elevated levels require further biochemical assessment ( 1 , 123 ). It is our opinion that the test is of little use for screening, and in general we rarely utilize it as a 1 st line screening test nowadays. Low-Dose Dexamethasone Suppression Test (LDDST) This test works on the principle that in normal individual’s administration of an exogenous glucocorticoid results in suppression of the HPA axis, whilst patients with Cushing's syndrome are resistant, at least partially, to negative feedback. Dexamethasone is a synthetic glucocorticoid that is 30 times more potent than cortisol, and with a long duration of action. It does not cross-react with most cortisol assays. The original low-dose dexamethasone test (LDDST) described by Liddle in
