Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


and subsequent false positive results (see below), although such measurements are not readily available. Another reason for the false positive results on LDDST is increasing cortisol-binding globulin (seen in pregnancy, estrogens users or chronic active hepatitis). It should be noted that patients with PPNAD may show a paradoxical rise in cortisol levels to dexamethasone ( 137 ). Second Line Tests In some patients with equivocal results, other tests may be needed. The most useful of these are a midnight serum cortisol, LDDST as described above, and the dexamethasone-CRH test. Less reliable tests include the insulin tolerance test and the loperamide test ( 138 ). The desmopressin test is discussed below. MIDNIGHT SERUM CORTISOL Before the introduction of salivary cortisol, measurement of a midnight serum cortisol was the only reliable method used to determine loss of the circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion. It is still useful as a second-line test in cases of diagnostic difficulty. However, it is a burdensome test that requires that the patient should have been an in-patient for at least 48 hours to allow acclimatization to the hospital environment. The patient should not be forewarned of the test, and should be asleep prior to venipuncture, which must be performed within 5-10 minutes of waking the patient. A single sleeping midnight plasma cortisol <50nmol/L (1.8 μg/dL) effectively excludes Cushing's syndrome ( 139 ), but false positive results do occur, particularly in the critically ill, in acute infection, heart failure, and in the pseudo-Cushing's state associated with depression ( 140 ). An awake midnight cortisol of greater than 207 nmol/L (7.5 mg/dL) was reported to show 94% sensitivity and 100% specificity for the differentiation of Cushing's syndrome from pseudo-Cushing's states ( 141 ). In the ERCUSYN cohort, 62% individuals with Cushing's syndrome had this test performed with a reported sensitivity of 96-99% ( 114 ). This test has been currently replaced by LNSC and in most hospitals with high demand for the in-patient medical beds, investigations for CS are done mainly on an out-patient environment. DEXAMETHASONE-CRH TEST In 1993 the combined dexamethasone-CRH (Dex-CRH) test was introduced for the difficult scenario of the differentiation of pseudo-Cushing’s states (currently known as non-neoplastic hypercortisolism) from true Cushing’s syndrome in patients with only mild hypercortisolemia and equivocal physical findings ( 125 ). The theory is that a small number of patients with Cushing's disease as well as normal individuals will show suppression to
