Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


mild hypercortisolemia and equivocal physical findings ( 125 ). The theory is that a small number of patients with Cushing's disease as well as normal individuals will show suppression to dexamethasone, but those with Cushing's disease should still respond to CRH with a rise in ACTH and cortisol afterwards. In the original description of the test, dexamethasone 0.5 mg every 6 hours was given for eight doses, ending 2 hours before administration of ovine CRH (1 µg/kg intravenously) to 58 adults with UFC less than 1000 nmol/day (360 µg/day). Subsequent evaluation proved 39 to have Cushing’s syndrome and 19 to have a pseudo-Cushing’s state. The plasma cortisol value 15 minutes after CRH was less than 38 nmol/L (<1.4 µg/dL) in all patients with pseudo-Cushing’s states and greater in all patients with Cushing’s syndrome. A prospective follow-up study by the same group in 98 patients continued to show the test to have an impressive sensitivity and specificity of 99% and 96%, respectively ( 125 ). Importantly, in these two studies although eight of 59 patients with proven Cushing's disease showed suppression to dexamethasone, all were correctly characterized after CRH. However, the results from a number of other smaller studies have challenged the diagnostic utility of this test over the standard LDDST. Overall, in these reports the specificity of the LDDST in 92 patients without Cushing's syndrome was 79%, versus 70% for the Dex-CRH. The sensitivity in 59 patients with Cushing's syndrome was 96% for the LDDST versus 98% for the Dex-CRH ( 142 ). It is perhaps not surprising that the diagnostic utility of the Dex-CRH has altered with further studies at more centers. There are a number of reasons why there might be the case: variable dexamethasone metabolism in individuals; different definitions of patients with pseudo-Cushing's; different protocols and assays; and variable diagnostic thresholds. It is recommended that if this test is used, a dexamethasone level is measured at the time of CRH administration and the serum cortisol assay is accurate down to these low levels ( 89 ). We would not recommend its use, and indeed with the lack of availability of CRH currently, it is generally impossible to perform. DESMOPRESSIN TEST ACTH-secreting adenomas express V3 receptors therefore desmopressin increases ACTH and subsequently cortisol in patients with Cushing’s disease. The test involves intravenous injection of 10mcg of desmopressin and ACTH measurement every 15 minutes from -15minutes to 90minutes. The
