Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


increases ACTH and subsequently cortisol in patients with Cushing’s disease. The test involves intravenous injection of 10mcg of desmopressin and ACTH measurement every 15 minutes from -15minutes to 90minutes. The study of 173 subjects including 76 with Cushing’s disease, 30 with non-neoplastic hypercortisolism, 36 with obesity and 31 of controls proposed cut-off criteria for positive desmopressin test as ACTH increment of >6pmol/L (30ng/L) ( 143 ). Subsequently, another study of 52 patients with Cushing’s syndrome and 28 controls suggested new criteria with ACTH increment of 4pmol/L and basal cortisol above 331nmol/L providing sensitivity of 90.3% and specificity of 91.5% ( 144 ). The meta-analysis of 3 studies described use of desmopressin test in differentiation of Cushing’s disease and non-neoplastic hypercortisolism with cut-off for ACTH increment by 6 pmol/L in 2 studies and ACTH increment of 4 pmol/L and basal cortisol more than 331nmol/L gave pooled sensitivity of 88% and specificity of 94% ( 143 - 145 ). However, there was high patient selection bias and low certainty of evidence in that meta-analysis ( 145 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME Once Cushing's syndrome has been diagnosed, the next step is to differentiate between ACTH-dependent and ACTH-independent causes by measurement of plasma ACTH. Modern two-site immunoradiometric assays are more sensitive than the older radioimmunoassays and therefore provide the best discrimination. Rapid collection and processing of the sample is essential as ACTH is susceptible to degradation by peptidases so that the sample must be kept in an ice water bath and centrifuged, aliquoted, and frozen within 2 hours to avoid a spuriously low result. Measurements are usually taken on two different days to avoid misinterpretation because of the episodic secretion of ACTH. The circadian rhythm of ACTH in patients having Cushing’s syndrome is lost, as it is for cortisol measurement, and the optimal sample should be taken at 08.00-09.00h ( 146 ). It is useful to repeat this test because patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s disease have been shown to have on occasion ACTH levels less than 10 ng/L (2 pmol/L) on conventional radioimmunoassay ( 147 ). The ACTH immunoassays can interfere with heterophilic antibodies or ACTH fragments and cases of falsely elevated ACTH have been reported using the Immulite ACTH assay ( 148 ). Therefore, if results are inconsistent or not in keeping with the clinical or imaging features, ACTH should be remeasured using an alternative immunoassay. Consistent ACTH measurements of <10
