Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


148 ). Therefore, if results are inconsistent or not in keeping with the clinical or imaging features, ACTH should be remeasured using an alternative immunoassay. Consistent ACTH measurements of <10 ng/L (2 pmol/L) essentially confirm ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome, and radiologic evaluation of adrenals is the next step in diagnosis. Conversely, if levels are consistently greater than 20-30 ng/L (4-6 pmol/L), Cushing's syndrome is ACTH-dependent, due to pituitary disease or ectopic ACTH secretion. Intermediate levels are less discriminatory, but a lack of ACTH response to the CRH test or the desmopressin test (see below) may be particularly helpful in these intermediate cases. Investigating ACTH-Independent Cushing's Syndrome Imaging of the adrenal glands is the mainstay in differentiating between the various types of ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome. High-resolution computed tomography (CT) scanning of the adrenal glands is the investigation of choice, is accurate for masses greater than 1 cm, and allows evaluation of the contralateral gland ( 149 ). MRI may be useful for the differential diagnosis of adrenal masses; the T2-weighted signal is progressively less intense in phaeochromocytoma, carcinoma, adenoma, and finally normal tissue ( 150 ). Adrenal tumors typically appear as a unilateral mass with an atrophic contralateral gland ( 151 ). If the lesion is greater than 5 cm in diameter it should be considered to be potentially malignant until proven otherwise, and discussed in the local adrenal Multidisciplinary Team meeting (MDT). In comparison to carcinomas, adrenal adenomas are usually smaller and have a lower unenhanced CT attenuation value (usually <20HU) ( 152 ). Adrenal adenomas are homogeneous and hypointense on MRI T1-weighted images and iso- or hyperintense comparing to the liver on T2 images. Adrenal adenomas also demonstrate signal drop on out-of-phase MR imaging consistent with lipid-rich tissue. Signs of necrosis, hemorrhage and calcification are characteristics of both carcinoma and phaeochromocytomas, which can also co-secrete ACTH ( 153 ). Additional laboratory diagnostics reveal solely raised cortisol levels in adenomas, unlike additionally raised androgen levels in adrenocortical carcinomas. Bilateral adenomas can be present ( 154 ). In PPNAD the adrenal glands appear normal or slightly lumpy from multiple small nodules, but are not generally enlarged ( 150 , 155 ). Exogenous administration of glucocorticoids results in adrenal atrophy and very small glands may be a clue as to this entity. BMAD is characterized by bilaterally large (>5 cm) adrenals with a nodular configuration ( 15 , 156 ). Confusion can arise
