Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


glands may be a clue as to this entity. BMAD is characterized by bilaterally large (>5 cm) adrenals with a nodular configuration ( 15 , 156 ). Confusion can arise as the CT appearance of the adrenals in BMAD may be similar to the appearance seen in ACTH-dependent forms of Cushing's syndrome, where adrenal enlargement is present in 70% of cases ( 157 ), but the two can usually be distinguished by the ACTH level and the degree of adrenal enlargement. Some patients with Cushing's disease can also develop a degree of adrenal autonomy which can cause biochemical confusion ( 16 ). Identifying the Source in ACTH-Dependent Cushing's Syndrome This has been one of the most significant challenges in the investigation of Cushing's syndrome in the past, although advances over the last 15 years have greatly improved our diagnostic capability. Cushing's disease accounts for by far the majority of cases of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, between 85% and 90% in most series. In the European registry of Cushing’s syndrome (n=1341), 67% of cases were due to pituitary disease and, of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome , 92% were of pituitary origin ( 54 ).This depends on gender, and in the series of 115 patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, of the 85 women, 92% had Cushing's disease; this percentage was 77% in the 30 men ( 158 ). Therefore, even before one starts investigation, the pretest probability that the patient with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome has Cushing's disease is very high, and any investigation must improve on this pretest likelihood. However, as transsphenoidal pituitary surgery is widely accepted as the primary treatment of Cushing's disease, testing should be designed to avoid inappropriate pituitary surgery in patients with ectopic ACTH production. Thus, any test should ideally be set with 100% specificity for the diagnosis of Cushing's disease. Levels of serum cortisol and ACTH tend to be higher in the ectopic ACTH syndrome, but there is considerable overlap of values, producing poor discrimination ( 158 , 159 ). Hypokalemia is more common in ectopic ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome than in patients with Cushing’s disease. INVASIVE TESTING Bilateral Inferior Petrosal Sinus Sampling This is the "gold standard" test for distinguishing between Cushing's disease and an ectopic source of ACTH. However, most experts agree that if a pituitary macroadenoma (tumor of ≥ 10mm) is visualized on MRI and dynamic tests (hCRH/desmopressin) are consistent with Cushing’s disease, Bilateral inferior petrosal sinus
