Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


However, most experts agree that if a pituitary macroadenoma (tumor of ≥ 10mm) is visualized on MRI and dynamic tests (hCRH/desmopressin) are consistent with Cushing’s disease, Bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS) is not necessary ( 105 ).The procedure involves placement of sampling catheters in the inferior petrosal sinuses that drain the pituitary. Blood for measurement of ACTH is obtained simultaneously from each sinus and a peripheral vein at two time points before and at 3-5 minutes and possibly also 10 minutes after the administration of 100mcg of human CRH if available, or nowadays 10mg desmopressin. A central (inferior petrosal) to peripheral plasma ACTH gradient of 2:1 or greater pre-desmopressin, or a gradient of 3:1 post-desmopressin (previously post-CRH), is consistent with Cushing's disease. The results from early series show these criteria to be 100% sensitive and specific for Cushing’s disease when CRH stimulation was used ( 160 , 161 ). However, it is now clear that false negative tests and to a smaller degree false positive test results do occur ( 162 - 164 ). A meta-analysis including 23 studies and 1642 patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome reported that IPSS had sensitivity of 94% and specificity of 89% with area under the ROC curve of 97% to diagnose Cushing’s disease again all with CRH stimulation ( 165 ). In order to minimize these inaccuracies it is important to ensure the patient is actively hypercortisolemic (as above) at the time of the study ( 166 ), and that catheter position is confirmed as bilateral and any anomalous venous drainage noted by venography before sampling ( 167 ). There appears to be no discriminatory difference between ovine or human sequence CRH; however, as CRH is no longer available, desmopressin 10 μg shows similar efficacy ( 168 ). The study with 226 patients with Cushing’s disease and 24 patients with ectopic ACTH-dependent CS who underwent BIPSS with desmopressin stimulation achieved sensitivity of 97.8% and specificity of 100% when ACTH ration >2.8 was applied ( 169 ). However, it has been noted that for all with >6mm pituitary microadenoma on MRI baseline ACTH ratio of >1.4 distinguished all with Cushing’s disease without need for desmopressin stimulation. The meta-analysis of 11 studies including 611 patients compared BIPPS with CRH versus DDAVP stimulation and found no statistical difference in the results with pooled sensitivity of 96% for desmopressin and 98% for CRH with 100% specificity (
