Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


compared BIPPS with CRH versus DDAVP stimulation and found no statistical difference in the results with pooled sensitivity of 96% for desmopressin and 98% for CRH with 100% specificity ( 170 ). None of the studies using desmopressin reported subsequent hyponatremia when fluid restriction in the next 24hs has been followed. It should be noted that the procedure is technically difficult, and should only be performed by radiologists experienced in the technique. The most common complications are transient ear discomfort or pain, and local groin hematomas. More serious transient and permanent neurological sequelae have been reported, including brainstem infarction, although these are rare (<1%), and most have been related to a particular type of catheter used ( 171 , 172 ); if there are any early warning signs of such events the procedure should be immediately halted. Patients should be given heparin during sampling to prevent thrombotic events ( 82 ). There appears to be no advantage in trying to sample the cavernous sinus. Sampling of the internal jugular veins is a simpler procedure but is not as sensitive as BIPSS ( 173 ). A baseline inferior petrosal sinus (IPS) to peripheral prolactin ratio of >1.8 has been suggested as a confirmation of a successful catheterization ( 174 ). A multicenter study including 156 individuals with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s disease who underwent IPSS reported that IPS to peripheral ACTH to prolactin ratio of ≥1.4 improved further BIPSS performance in differentiating Cushing’s disease from ectopic ACTH-dependent CS with sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 100% ( 175 ), but not all are agreed that this extra level of analysis is worthwhile. BIPSS has also been suggested to help to lateralize microadenomas within the pituitary using the inferior petrosal sinus ACTH gradient (IPSG), with a basal or post-stimulus inter-sinus ratio of at least 1.4 being the criteria for lateralization used in all large studies ( 161 , 162 , 176 , 177 ). In these studies, the diagnostic accuracy of localization as assessed by operative outcome varied between 59% and 83%. This is improved if venous drainage is assessed to be symmetric ( 178 ). A study of 501 cases of Cushing’s disease showed that an interpetrosal ACTH ratio of ≥1.4 was achieved in 98% of patients but lateralized the lesion correctly in only 69% of subjects. A pituitary lesion was identified on the pre-operative MRI in 42% of patients in that study
