Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


in 98% of patients but lateralized the lesion correctly in only 69% of subjects. A pituitary lesion was identified on the pre-operative MRI in 42% of patients in that study and, if seen, had a positive predictive value of 86% ( 179 ). Hence, the interpetrosal ratio can guide pituitary exploration in cases of a normal pre-surgery MRI scan. In this study, MRI was falsely positive in 12% of individuals. An enhanced dynamic MRI has a better detection rate of pituitary microadenomas than conventional MRI and was reported to identify a pituitary lesion in 81% (83 out of 102) of patients with Cushing’s disease and lateralized correctly the pituitary adenoma in 62 out of 71 patients with histologically-proven Cushing's disease ( 180 ). The accuracy of lateralization appears to be higher in children (90%), a situation where imaging is often negative ( 181 ). There is some discrepancy between studies as to whether CRH or desmopressin improve the predictive value of the test ( 182 ). If a reversal of lateralization is seen pre- and post-stimulus, the test cannot be relied upon ( 183 ). NON-INVASIVE TESTS High Dose Dexamethasone Suppression Test As with the LDDST, the high dose dexamethasone suppression test (HDDST) was originally proposed by Liddle to differentiate between cortisol-secreting adrenal tumors and Cushing's disease ( 129 ). The HDDST’s role in the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome is based on the premise that most pituitary corticotroph tumors retain some albeit reduced responsiveness to negative glucocorticoid feedback, whereas ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors, like adrenal tumors, typically do not, with the exception of some neuroendocrine tumors, mainly bronchial ( 184 , 185 ). The test is performed according to the same protocol as the LDDST, either as 2mg 6 hourly for 2 days, or as an overnight using a single dose of 8mg of dexamethasone at 23.00h. The latter is more convenient for a patient because a single blood specimen is being tested on the next day at 08.00h. In most patients with pituitary-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, the final serum cortisol level is less than 5 mcg/dL (140 nmol/L). In normal subjects the level is usually undetectable ( 186 ). Overall, only about 80% of patients with Cushing's disease will show a positive response to the test, defined by suppression of cortisol to less than 50% of the basal value. There are a high number of false positive tests (~10-30%)
