Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


show a positive response to the test, defined by suppression of cortisol to less than 50% of the basal value. There are a high number of false positive tests (~10-30%) seen in ectopic Cushing’s syndrome ( 186 - 189 ). Shifting the criteria can only increase sensitivity with a loss of specificity, and vice-versa. Therefore, the test achieves worse discrimination than the pretest probability of Cushing's disease. In addition, one study has shown that suppression to HDDST can be inferred by a >30% suppression of serum cortisol to the 2-day LDDST ( 190 ). Therefore, we no longer recommend the routine use of the HDDST except when bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling is not available, and then only as part of a combined testing strategy with other tests. (see below). The HDDST was performed in 30% of subjects (n=402) from the European registry of patients with Cushing's syndrome, with a cortisol reduction supporting the diagnosis of pituitary Cushing's syndrome in 92% and ectopic Cushing's syndrome in 93% of patients (specificity not given) ( 114 ). When used in individuals with negative IPSS, HDDST supported the diagnosis of pituitary disease in 100% and ectopic Cushing's syndrome in 82%. The combined use of the HDDST and enhanced dynamic MRI of the pituitary was compared to BIPSS in 71 patients with histologically-proven Cushing's disease ( 180 ). The combination had a 98.6% positive predictive value (PPV) for Cushing's disease but a sensitivity of only 69.6%. In that study BIPSS alone had a similar PPV of 97%. The CRH Test Both ovine and human-sequence CRH are currently unavailable in most countries, and the test has been superseded by desmopressin. However, as it may become available in the future, the following section may be useful. The use of the CRH (corticotrophin-releasing hormone) test for the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome is based on the premise that pituitary corticotroph adenomas retain responsivity to CRH, while ectopic ACTH tumors lack CRH receptors and therefore do not respond to the agent. 100 µg of human sequence CRH (hCRH) is given as a bolus injection and the change in ACTH and cortisol measured. Human-sequence CRH has qualitatively similar properties to oCRH, although it is shorter-acting with a slightly smaller rise in plasma cortisol and ACTH in obese patients, and in those with Cushing's disease ( 191 ). This may be related to the more rapid clearance of the
