Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


respectively) ( 194 ). The authors do not report in this paper or an associated publication ( 27 ) whether time-point combinations other than the maximal were analyzed for the rise in cortisol. Indeed, our data showed that if the maximal rise in cortisol is used the sensitivity falls to 71% ( 158 ). These results again demonstrate that specific criteria need to be developed for each test, and cannot readily be extrapolated from other similar but non-identical agents. In summary, the CRH test has been a useful discriminator between causes of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, particularly in a combined testing strategy with the HDDST or LDDST when diagnostic accuracy is greater than that of either test alone, yielding 98% to 100% sensitivity, and an 88% to 100% specificity ( 187 , 190 , 195 ). Which cut-off to use should be evaluated at individual centers, and caution should be exercised as there will undoubtedly be patients with the ectopic ACTH syndrome who respond outside these cut-offs. However, it should be remembered that responses to both CRH and high-dose dexamethasone are more frequently discordant in Cushing's disease due to a macroadenoma ( 196 ). Nevertheless, where BIPSS is unavailable, a response to both CRH (a rise) and the LDDST (a fall) renders an ectopic source extremely unlikely. Desmopressin Test Both vasopressin and desmopressin (a synthetic long-acting vasopressin analogue without the V1-mediated pressor effects) stimulate ACTH release in Cushing’s disease, probably through the corticotroph-specific V3 (or V1b) receptor. The study of 170 patients including 149 with Cushing’s disease reported that an ACTH increase after desmopressin by more than 32.4% provided sensitivity of 83% but specificity of 62%, which was inferior to HDDST ( 197 ). The meta-analysis of 11 studies using DDAVP in the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome reported that combination of an ACTH increase of >35% and a cortisol increase of >20% including 511 individuals had a pooled sensitivity of 88% and specificity of 74% to correctly diagnose Cushing’s disease ( 145 ). Hexarelin, a growth hormone secretagogue, stimulates ACTH release probably occurs through stimulation of vasopressin release in normal subjects ( 198 ), and by stimulation of aberrant growth hormone secretagogue receptors in corticotroph tumors ( 199 ). These peptides have been utilized in a similar manner to CRH to try and improve the differentiation of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, but have unfortunately proved inferior ( 200 - 202
