Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


These peptides have been utilized in a similar manner to CRH to try and improve the differentiation of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome, but have unfortunately proved inferior ( 200 - 202 ). A combined desmopressin and hCRH stimulation test initially looked promising ( 203 ), but further study of this combined test showed significant overlap in the responses ( 204 ). The inferior discriminatory value of these stimulants is most likely due to the expression of both vasopressin and growth hormone secretagogue receptors by some ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors ( 82 , 205 ). A retrospective study including 167 patients with Cushing’s disease and 27 patients with ectopic ACTH-dependent CS reported 100% positive predictive value for diagnosing Cushing’s disease when both CRH-stimulation test and DDAVP stimulation test were positive when the pituitary MRI scan and CT scan for ectopic source were negative. The positive test was defined as an ACTH increment of >33% and cortisol increment of >18% after administration of desmopressin and ACTH increment of 37% and cortisol >18% after administration of CRH ( 206 ). The negative predictive value was 100% when both tests were negative and pituitary MRI was negative but CT for ectopic source of ACTH positive. The authors concluded that this strategy would avoid IPSS in 47% of the patients. IMAGING Pituitary Imaging of the pituitary is an important part of the investigation of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome to identify a possible pituitary lesion and to aid the surgeon during exploration. However, the results must be used in conjunction with the biochemical assessment as approximately 10% of normal subjects may have pituitary incidentalomas on MRI ( 207 ). Modern MRI techniques using T1-weighted spin echo and/or spoiled gradient recalled acquisition (SPGR, 1mm slice thickness) techniques will identify an adenoma in up to 80% of patients with Cushing’s disease ( 208 ). They provide greater sensitivity than conventional MRI but with more false positive results ( 208 , 209 ). On MRI, 95% of microadenomas exhibit a hypointense signal with no post-gadolinium enhancement ( Figure 2 ); however, as the remaining 5% have an isointense signal post-gadolinium, pre-gadolinium images are essential ( 210 ). The delayed pituitary microadenoma contrast washout was detected on FLAIR MRI as hyperintensity in 80% of patients with Cushing's disease and negative dynamic MRI (n=5) ( 211 , 212 ). If corticotroph microadenoma has not been clearly identified with modern MRI techniques, 11 C-methionine PET
