Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


of patients with Cushing's disease and negative dynamic MRI (n=5) ( 211 , 212 ). If corticotroph microadenoma has not been clearly identified with modern MRI techniques, 11 C-methionine PET co-registered with 3D gradient echo MRI may help in selected cases ( 213 ). The main limitation of this technique is short half-life of isotope of around 20min and it requires cyclotron on the site. CT has a sensitivity of only approximately 40-50% for identifying microadenomas, and is thus significantly inferior to MRI (sensitivity 50-60%) ( 27 , 214 ), and it should therefore be reserved for patients in whom MRI is contraindicated or unavailable. CT imaging typically shows a hypodense lesion that fails to enhance post-contrast. Preoperative localization to one side of the pituitary gland by MRI had been advocated as better than BIPSS with a positive predictive value of 93% ( 163 , 215 ). Other groups have found MRI less effective ( 162 , 216 ). In addition, as noted above, we have found MRI often to be unhelpful in the pediatric age group, and BIPSS to be of significant value in these patients ( 181 ). Figure 2. Magnetic resonance scan of the head with gadolinium showing left-sided pituitary hypointense microadenoma (white arrows) in 2 different patients (T1 image post-contrast). Ectopic Tumors Visualizing an ectopic ACTH source can be a challenge, but in general patients should begin with imaging of the chest and abdomen with CT and/or MRI, bearing in mind likely sites ( Table 2 ). The most common site of the secretory lesion is the chest, and although small cell lung carcinomas are generally easily visualized, small bronchial carcinoid tumors that can be less than 1cm in diameter often prove more difficult. Fine-cut high-resolution CT scanning with both supine and prone images can help differentiate between tumors and vascular shadows ( 1 ). MRI can identify chest lesions that are not evident on CT scanning, and characteristically show a high signal on T2-weighted and short-inversion-time inversion-recovery images (STIR) ( 217 ). The majority of ectopic ACTH secreting tumors are of neuroendocrine origin and therefore may express somatostatin receptor subtypes. Therefore, the radiolabeled somatostatin analogue ( 111 In-pentetreotide) scintigraphy may be useful to show either functionality of identified tumors, or to try and localize radiologically unidentified tumors ( 218 ). Undoubtedly this is a useful technique, but to date there are only sporadic reports that
