Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


functionality of identified tumors, or to try and localize radiologically unidentified tumors ( 218 ). Undoubtedly this is a useful technique, but to date there are only sporadic reports that it identifies lesions not apparent using conventional imaging ( 219 , 220 ). However, a lesion of uncertain pathology is more likely to represent a neuroendocrine tumor, and hence an ectopic source of ACTH, if somatostatin scintigraphy is positive. Unless the tumors are metabolically active, which is not usually the case, 18 F-deoxyglucose positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET) does not generally offer any advantage over conventional CT or MRI ( 221 , 222 ). However, 68 Ga-DOTA-conjugated peptides (octreotide, lanreotide or octreotide) PET scanning, targeting SST receptors 1-5, is more sensitive than conventional octreotide scintigraphy and is indicated in the detection of primary occult neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) when conventional imaging modalities have failed ( 223 ). In a systematic review of small studies including a total of 77 patients with ectopic Cushing’s syndrome, the detection rate of the tumor was 70% for 68 Ga-labelled peptide PET and 61% for 18 F-FDG PET ( 224 ). Subsequent systematic review of 68 Gallium-DOTATATE, DOTATOC, and DOTANOC positron emission tomography/computed tomography ( 68 Ga-SSTR PET/CT) in detecting ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors had a pooled sensitivity of 64%, increasing to 76% in histologically confirmed lesions ( 225 ). 68 Ga-somatostatin receptor analogues had better sensitivity in the diagnosis of bronchial carcinoids causing Cushing’s syndrome, while 18 F-FDG PET appeared superior for small-cell lung cancers and other aggressive tumors ( 226 ). STRATEGY FOR THE DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME There have been a number of international consensus statements published for the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome, the latest on the diagnosis in 2021 ( 82 , 89 , 105 ). It is recommended that UFC (at least two measurements), the LDDST, or late-night salivary cortisol (two measurements) are used as the first line screening test. A second test should confirm abnormal results on one test ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Investigations algorithm for suspected Cushing’s syndrome; CS – Cushing’s syndrome, ONDST – overnight dexamethasone suppression test, UFC – urinary free cortisol, LDDST – low dose dexamethasone suppression test, HDDST – high dose dexamethasone suppression test, BIPSS – bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling, PPNAD – primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease, BMAD - bilateral multinodular adrenocortical disease. In patients with discordant results second-line tests
