Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


dexamethasone suppression test, BIPSS – bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling, PPNAD – primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease, BMAD - bilateral multinodular adrenocortical disease. In patients with discordant results second-line tests should be used as necessary for confirmation. Once the diagnosis of Cushing’s syndrome is unequivocal, ACTH levels, the desmopressin test (combined with the results of the LDDST), together with appropriate imaging, are the most useful non-invasive investigations to determine the etiology. BIPSS is recommended in cases of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome where the clinical, biochemical, or radiological results are discordant or equivocal. However, in many centers where BIPSS is available and validated, the practice is to use this test in almost all cases of ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome with the exception of corticotroph macroadenomas, although the Bordeaux group have indicated that the use of dynamic testing plus high-quality imaging can reduce the necessity for BIPSS to some 50% of cases ( 206 ). TREATMENT OF CUSHING’S SYNDROME Treatment should be directed toward resolving the primary cause of Cushing’s syndrome, presuming accurate differential diagnosis. Hypercortisolism, accompanied with fatal consequences if left untreated, should be controlled by all means. Whenever possible, surgery, regardless of etiology, presents a first-line treatment option aiming for a permanent cure and resolving the hypercortisolism together with its clinical consequences. However, the approach to the patient with Cushing’s syndrome is individual, so radiation therapy or even medical therapy as first-line treatment could be appropriate depending on etiology, clinical state, and the personal choice of a patient. Following treatment, all of the signs and symptoms of adrenal deficiency should be promptly corrected with steroid replacement therapy. Associated medical disorders of Cushing’s syndrome such as diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, osteoporosis, and hypertension should be treated, aiming to avoid permanent dependence on therapy after resolving the primary cause of Cushing’s syndrome. It should also be emphasized that in severely-unwell patients the metabolic complications should be vigorously treated as a matter of priority, including hypokalemia, hypertension, and hyperglycemia. Any infections should be sought and treated, and some would advise prophylactic antibiotics (especially against pneumocystis infections) if the serum cortisol is especially high (>1000-1200 nmol/L). Most importantly, most centers would now advise immediate anti-coagulation with prophylactic low molecular weight heparin peri-operatively in all but the mildest cases or unless there are contraindications ( 227 ). Treatment of Cushing’s Disease First-line therapy almost always comprises transsphenoidal surgery ( Figure 4 ). Patients with persistent Cushing’s post-operatively can
