Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


cases or unless there are contraindications ( 227 ). Treatment of Cushing’s Disease First-line therapy almost always comprises transsphenoidal surgery ( Figure 4 ). Patients with persistent Cushing’s post-operatively can be re-operated with a lower success rate than primary surgery and with higher rates of other pituitary hormonal deficiencies. Prior to repeated surgery it is wise to repeat diagnostic testing, especially if corticotrophinoma has not been found on pathologic examination, to exclude the possibility of missed ectopic ACTH syndrome. Besides re-operation, patients can be treated either by radiotherapy, medical therapy, or as a definitive solution to the hypercortisolism, bilateral adrenalectomy. TRANSSPHENOIDAL SURGERY According to the relevant 2021 consensus statement on the treatment of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome ( 105 , 228 , 229 ), transsphenoidal surgery is widely regarded as the treatment of choice for Cushing’s disease ( 229 ). Besides the traditional microscopic approach there is an endoscopic approach which appears useful in patients with persistent or recurrent disease ( 230 , 231 ) and is associated with a shorter hospital stay ( 232 ), and is now most often utilized. It is recommended to limit the number of surgeons performing transsphenoidal surgery to increase the number of operations performed per surgeon per year and have one dedicated surgeon per center for treatment of Cushing’s disease. The surgeons who have performed 200 transsphenoidal operations have the best outcomes and the lowest complication rates ( 233 ). The Pituitary Society consensus recommends that surgery for Cushing’s disease should be performed in the Pituitary Tumor Centers of Excellence when possible ( 105 ). The remission rate of Cushing’s disease due to pituitary microadenoma is similar for both techniques (around 80%, total n=6695), with better results in pituitary macroadenomas when using endoscopic approach (59.9% vs 76.3%) ( 234 ). The procedure is not without risks, and in the European Cushing’s disease survey group of 668 patients, the perioperative mortality was 1.9%, with other major complications occurring in 14.5% ( 235 ). The frequency of reported adverse events varies widely: diabetes insipidus (AVP-deficiency, either temporary or permanent) (3-46%); hypogonadism (14-53%); hypothyroidism (14-40%); cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea (4.6-27.9%); severe growth hormone deficiency (13%); bleeding (1.3-5%); and meningitis (0-2.8%) ( 235 - 237 ). Where an adenoma is apparent at transsphenoidal exploration, a selective microadenomectomy of tumor tissue is performed, and the surgeon may be guided by pre-operative imaging. However, where no tumor is obvious, and there
