Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


is apparent at transsphenoidal exploration, a selective microadenomectomy of tumor tissue is performed, and the surgeon may be guided by pre-operative imaging. However, where no tumor is obvious, and there is no concern regarding fertility, subtotal resection of 85-90% of the anterior pituitary gland should be considered, leaving a small part near the pituitary stalk. However, there is still a substantial and unpredictable risk of panhypopituitarism. The overall remission rate combined for microadenomas and macroadenomas in various large series is in the order of 70-79%, although higher rates of approximately 90% can be achieved with microadenomas ( 8 , 234 - 236 , 238 - 242 ) ( 241 ). Remission rates are based on post-operative pathologic and biochemical results, although both can be equivocal. Half of all tumors cannot be pre-operatively visualized ( 243 ), and therefore parts of the tumor can be overlooked intra-operatively and left behind, affecting the surgical success rate ( 244 ). Adenomas can occur near or within the pituitary stalk, rarely in ectopic locations ( 245 , 246 ), and may show signs of microscopic invasion ( 247 ). Prognostic markers of long-term remission are patient age over 25 years, a microadenoma detected by MRI, lack of invasion of the dura or cavernous sinus, histological confirmation of an ACTH-secreting tumor, low post-operative cortisol levels, and long-lasting adrenal insufficiency ( 228 , 241 ). ( 242 , 248 ). Figure 4. Managementalgorithm of Cushing’s disease; TSA, Transsphenoidaladenonectomy; CD, Cushing’s disease. Of patients achieving remission, some 10-15% of these will have a recurrence by 10 years and 20% by 20 years ( 249 ), this emphasizing the need for long-term annual follow-up based on the same diagnostic criteria as with initial diagnostics in the following order; salivary late-night cortisol, an overnight 1 mg dexamethasone suppression test, and lastly 24hours UFC ( 105 ). Special attention should be paid to patients with intermittent hypercortisolism ( 250 ). Transsphenoidal surgery is also a useful procedure in patients with Nelson’s syndrome to reduce tumor size, and ameliorate hyperpigmentation ( 251 ). Thromboprophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin should be considered peri-operatively in all surgical procedures for Cushing's syndrome ( 100 , 101 , 105 ). The recent Pituitary Society guidelines recommended use of thromboprophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin in patients undergoing surgery for Cushing’s syndrome and especially having an additional risk for VTE such us previous VTE, use
