Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


guidelines recommended use of thromboprophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin in patients undergoing surgery for Cushing’s syndrome and especially having an additional risk for VTE such us previous VTE, use of estrogens, reduced mobility and severe hypercortisolism; however, there is no consensus on duration of VTE prophylaxis ( 105 ). Our practice is generally to consider LMW heparin prophylaxis in all patients, and to continue for some 2-3 months post-operatively. POST-OPERATIVE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT Many use glucocorticoid coverage for transsphenoidal surgery, tapering off within 1 to 3 days. Morning (09.00h) serum cortisol measurements are then obtained on day 4 or 5 post-operatively starting 20 hours after the last glucocorticoid administration, during which time the patient should be closely observed for the development of signs of adrenal insufficiency ( 252 ). However, where there is close post-operative supervision, it may be possible to assess early cortisol results in the absence of corticosteroid cover. In the immediate post-operative period, there is a wide range of possible biochemical results. Post-operative hypocortisolemia (<50 nmol/L [1.8 µg/dL] at 09.00h) is probably the best indicator of the likelihood of long-term remission ( 253 - 255 ). However, detectable cortisol levels of less than 140 nmol/L (<5µg/dL) are also compatible with sustained remission ( 256 - 258 ). In cases of a mild or cyclic Cushing’s disease the normal corticotrophs may not be suppressed and sustain a normal cortisol level with a normal diurnal rhythm. Higher post-operative cortisol levels are more likely to be associated with failed surgery; however, cortisol levels may sometimes gradually decline over 1-2 months reflecting gradual infarction of remnant tumor or a gradual loss of autonomy of the adrenal, reported in some 5% of patients ( 256 , 259 ). Regardless of the possibility of this late remission, the approach should be individualized and additional testing done prior to 3 months if there is reason to believe in residual disease. Persistent cortisol levels greater than 140 nmol/L (>5 µg/dL) 3 months after surgery require further investigation. Persistent hypercortisolemia after transsphenoidal exploration should prompt reevaluation of the diagnosis of Cushing’s disease, especially if previous diagnostic test results were indeterminate or conflicting, or if no tumor was found on pathological examination. The treatment options for patients with persistent Cushing’s disease include: repeat surgery, radiation therapy, and bilateral adrenalectomy. If immediate surgical remission is not achieved at the first exploration, early repeat transsphenoidal surgery including the
