Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


patients with persistent Cushing’s disease include: repeat surgery, radiation therapy, and bilateral adrenalectomy. If immediate surgical remission is not achieved at the first exploration, early repeat transsphenoidal surgery including the endoscopic technique may be worthwhile in a significant proportion of patients (approximately 50%), at the expense of an increased likelihood of hypopituitarism ( 231 , 260 , 261 ). Repeat sellar exploration is less likely to be helpful in patients with empty sella syndrome or very little pituitary tissue on MRI scans. Patients with cavernous sinus or dural invasion identified at the initial procedure are not candidates for repeat surgery to treat hypercortisolism and should receive alternative therapy. Patients who are hypocortisolemic should be started on glucocorticoid replacement. Eventually, hydrocortisone 15-20 mg total daily dose in three divided doses is the preferred choice by most. The largest dose (10 mg) should be taken before getting out of bed, and the last 5mg dose should be taken in early afternoon and no later than 18.00h because later administration of glucocorticoids may result in disordered sleep. This low dose of hydrocortisone should be used to avoid long-term suppression of the HPA axis. All patients receiving chronic glucocorticoid replacement therapy should be instructed that they are “dependent” on taking glucocorticoids as prescribed, and that failure to take or absorb the medication could lead to adrenal crisis and possibly death. They should be prescribed a 100mg hydrocortisone (or other high-dose glucocorticoid) intramuscular injection pack for emergency use. They should also obtain a medical information bracelet or necklace that identifies this requirement ( Medic-Alert Foundation or similar). Education should stress the need for compliance with the daily dose of glucocorticoid; the need to double the oral dose for nausea, diarrhea, and fever; and the need for parenteral administration and medical evaluation during emesis, trauma, or severe medical stress. The patient should be told to expect desquamation of the skin, and flu-like symptoms (malaise, joint aching, anorexia, and nausea) during the early post-operative months, and that these are signs that indicate remission. Symptoms can be especially prominent in patients with long-standing, severe Cushing’s syndrome. Some of these symptoms have been related to high levels of circulating interleukin-6 ( 262 ). Most patients tolerate these symptoms of glucocorticoid withdrawal much better if they are forewarned and alerted to their ‘positive’ nature. Signs of adrenal insufficiency, such as vomiting, electrolyte abnormalities, and postural hypotension, should be excluded (
