Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


glucocorticoid withdrawal much better if they are forewarned and alerted to their ‘positive’ nature. Signs of adrenal insufficiency, such as vomiting, electrolyte abnormalities, and postural hypotension, should be excluded ( 263 ). However, if patients develop severe symptoms of glucocorticoids withdrawal significantly affecting their quality of life, an initial higher dose of hydrocortisone replacement can be prescribed e.g. starting with double dose and tapering down to the total 20mg daily over 2-3 months ( 264 ). Recovery of the HPA axis can be monitored by measurement of 09.00h serum cortisol after omission of hydrocortisone replacement for 20 hours. Because recovery after transsphenoidal surgery rarely occurs before 3-6 months and is common at 1 year, initial testing at 3-4 to 9 months is reasonable ( 122 ). If the cortisol is undetectable on 2 consecutive days, then recovery of the axis has not occurred and glucocorticoid replacement can be restarted. If the cortisol is >100nmol/L, adequate reserve of the HPA axis can be assessed using the insulin tolerance test ( 231 ), with a peak cortisol value of greater than 500 nmol/L (>18 µg/dL), indicating adequate reserve ( 265 ), although this value may need to be revised downwards with more recent assays. Many centers use the cortisol response to 250 µg synthetic ( 1 - 24 ) ACTH (Short Synacthen Test) as an alternative means of assessing HPA reserve ( 266 , 267 ), but there is some controversy as to its reliability in this situation ( 267 , 268 ) and it is certainly not recommended in the first 6 weeks post-surgery. If it is used instead of the insulin tolerance test, a 30-minute cortisol is most reliable ( 265 ), but the cut-off value for a ‘passed’ SST can vary between laboratories and assays (430-550nmol/L). Glucocorticoid replacement can be discontinued abruptly if the cortisol response is shown to be normal. Where recovery of the HPA axis is only partial on dynamic testing, but the 09.00h cortisol levels are above the lower limit of the normal range (200 nmol/L [7 µg/dL]), it is reasonable to slightly lower the hydrocortisone dose and repeat SST in 3-6 months unless symptoms of adrenal insufficiency occur. Patients need to continue to be aware of the continuing need for additional glucocorticoids at times of stress or illness and should be given a supply of oral hydrocortisone and an intramuscular injection pack. Assessment of adequate
