Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


of the continuing need for additional glucocorticoids at times of stress or illness and should be given a supply of oral hydrocortisone and an intramuscular injection pack. Assessment of adequate replacement of hydrocortisone dosing by measuring serum cortisol at various points throughout the day, ensuring that levels are always sufficient (>50 nmol/L [>1.8 µg/dL]) before each dose, is useful. This may mean that the peak levels after each dose appear to be unphysiological, but there is a trade-off between mirroring a normal physiologic rhythm as far as possible and the inconvenience of multiple dosing. Modified release hydrocortisone may provide more physiological replacement ( 269 ). Two further conundrums may arise: the questions of recurrence and permanent lack of recovery of the axis. Life-long monitoring for recurrence of hypercortisolism is required ( 270 ). The evaluation of recurrence should start after the recovery of HPA axis has been confirmed and continue annually along clinical assessment. Patients who articulate that the Cushing’s syndrome has returned are often correct, even before physical and biochemical evidence are unequivocal. Investigation is warranted in a patient with these complaints or with recurrent physical signs characteristic of hypercortisolemia. Measurement of late-night salivary cortisol (at least 2 samples on different days) is most sensitive for detecting recurrence ( 105 , 271 ), followed by 1mg dexamethasone suppression test and 24hours UFC (again at least 2-3 collections). If recurrent Cushing’s disease is diagnosed, the therapeutic options are the same as for persistent disease. Repeat transsphenoidal surgery should be offered for recurrence of Cushing’s disease if tumor is visible on MRI, ACTH-staining from 1 st operation confirmed a corticotroph adenoma or the initial IPSS was consistent with Cushing’s disease ( 272 , 273 ). The remission rates from re-operation are reported between 37% and 88% with increasing risk of complications ( 241 ). Predictors of remission were post-operative cortisol of <55nmol/L (<2ng/dL), and operation for recurrence rather than persistent disease. It should be remembered when investigating recurrence that long-standing ACTH stimulation by a pituitary adenoma causing macronodular adrenal hyperplasia may subsequently involve semi-autonomous cortisol production ( 274 ). The patient who has a subnormal cortisol response to ACTH 3 years after transsphenoidal surgery (in the absence of over-replacement) is likely to proceed to life-long ACTH deficiency, but this is also highly indicative of a lack of recurrence long-term. Post-operatively, assessment for deficiencies of other pituitary hormones should also be sought,
