Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


to proceed to life-long ACTH deficiency, but this is also highly indicative of a lack of recurrence long-term. Post-operatively, assessment for deficiencies of other pituitary hormones should also be sought, and the appropriate replacement regimen initiated as necessary, especially growth hormone deficiency in children. Diuresis is common after transsphenoidal surgery and may result from intraoperative or glucocorticoid-induced fluid overload or may be due to AVP deficiency. For these reasons, assessment of paired serum and urine osmolality and the serum sodium concentration is essential. It is advisable to withhold specific therapy unless the serum osmolality is greater than 295 mOsm/kg, the serum sodium is greater than 145 mmol/L, and the urine output is greater than 200 mL/hour with an inappropriately low urine osmolality. Desmopressin (DDAVP, Ferring) 0.5-1 µg given subcutaneously will provide adequate vasopressin replacement for 12 hours or more. Hyponatremia may occur in as many as 20% of patients within 10 days of surgery. This may be due to injudicious fluid replacement or the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIAD) as is frequently seen after extensive gland exploration, and fluid intake should be restricted ( 275 ). While transient central diabetes insipidus is common, in about 20% of operations ( 276 ), a small minority of patients proceed to permanent AVP deficiency, requiring long-term treatment with a vasopressin analogue. The state of permanent diabetes insipidus is usually accompanied by other anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies ( 277 ). Many glucocorticoid-induced abnormalities, including hypokalemia, hypertension, and glucose intolerance, may be normalized during the post-operative period so that preoperative treatments for these need to be reassessed. BILATERAL ADRENALECTOMY Bilateral adrenalectomy is also an important therapeutic option in patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome not cured by other techniques, particularly in young patients desiring fertility where there are concerns over radiotherapy-induced hypopituitarism. However, it has the disadvantages of life-long glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement therapy, and increased peri-operative morbidity and mortality (although these complications should be extremely low following laparoscopic adrenalectomy in experienced centers). The incidence of adrenal crisis following bilateral adrenalectomy throughout life is reported higher than in patients with Addison’s disease or ACTH deficiency (9.3 events per 100 patients versus 3-6 events/100 patients) ( 278 ). In the post-operative period after bilateral adrenalectomy, the hydrocortisone dose should be maintained at 50mg of hydrocortisone four times a day by intravenous/intramuscular injection or 200mg per 24 hours in continuous intravenous infusion ( 279 ). When
