Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


the hydrocortisone dose should be maintained at 50mg of hydrocortisone four times a day by intravenous/intramuscular injection or 200mg per 24 hours in continuous intravenous infusion ( 279 ). When no complications are seen after 48 hours post-operatively, the dose of hydrocortisone is reduced to the double replacement dose (40 mg total/day). At this stage, fludrocortisone 100-200mcg daily orally should be introduced. In addition, the development of Nelson’s syndrome in patients with ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas occurs in between 28% and 53% of cases ( 280 - 283 ) at a mean time of 5.3 years following surgery. The chance of developing Nelson’s syndrome (later renamed as “corticotroph tumor progression after bilateral adrenalectomy”) appears to be greater if adrenalectomy is performed at a younger age, and if a pituitary adenoma is confirmed at previous pituitary surgery ( 280 , 284 ). Prophylactic pituitary radiotherapy probably reduces the risk of developing Nelson’s syndrome ( 280 ). However, it may be best to hold radiotherapy in reserve and undertake regular MRI scanning of the pituitary, especially when imaging has originally not shown any clear tumor ( 285 ). The expert consensus recommends MRI scanning at 3 months then 12-monthly for 3 years after bilateral adrenalectomy and every 2-4 years afterwards ( 283 ). New or worsening skin hyperpigmentation should prompt ACTH measurement and pituitary MRI. The ACTH threshold proposed as a cut-off for diagnosis of Nelson’s syndrome is not agreed and varies between 200 and 700pg/mL (44-154pmol/L, taken before the morning dose of hydrocortisone) with progressive increase of ACTH being more indicative ( 283 ). Others have advocated unilateral adrenalectomy plus pituitary irradiation as an alternative to bilateral adrenalectomy, as it gives similar remission rates to primary transsphenoidal surgery ( 286 ), but this should be reserved for selected cases. Transsphenoidal surgery for corticotroph tumor progression should be considered as first-line treatment before extrasellar expansion occurs with radiotherapy as second-line treatment if appropriate following multi-disciplinary team discussion ( 283 ). There is no established medical treatment in Nelson’s syndrome, and single case reports of aggressive tumors suggest some response to temozolomide ( 287 , 288 ). A recurrence of hypercortisolism following bilateral adrenalectomy due to growth of rest adrenal tissue with persistent ACTH stimulation is reported in <10% of cases ( 105 ). PITUITARY RADIOTHERAPY For patients in whom fertility does not represent an important issue and with uncertain preoperative localization, radiotherapy may
