Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


stimulation is reported in <10% of cases ( 105 ). PITUITARY RADIOTHERAPY For patients in whom fertility does not represent an important issue and with uncertain preoperative localization, radiotherapy may be used as primary treatment, while in patients showing no signs of remission after transsphenoidal resection of a tumor, pituitary irradiation is one of the next treatment options. It may also be considered as primary therapy for children under age 18 years, because results are comparable to surgery ( 289 , 290 ). Pituitary irradiation may also decrease the occurrence of Nelson's syndrome (“corticotroph tumor progression after bilateral adrenalectomy”) after medical or surgical adrenalectomy, but this has not been tested in a prospective randomized trial ( 291 ). Primary pituitary radiotherapy for the treatment of Cushing’s disease in adults has been shown to produce rather poor long-term remission rates of around 50% ( 249 , 292 ). In contrast, as a second-line therapy to failed pituitary surgery, better results are achieved with around 80% showing long-term remission as defined by the normalization of the clinical state and biochemical parameters ( 293 , 294 ). In children, however, not only primary therapy shows better results with cure rate of 80%, but also they respond more rapidly, usually within 12 months ( 290 ), while remission in adults usually occurs by two years although it can take considerably longer. Medical therapy to control hypercortisolemia is usually utilized in the interim, and patients should be reassessed at least yearly ( 295 ). In order to evaluate results of pituitary irradiation, urinary free cortisol or several serum cortisol levels throughout the day are measured and medical therapy should be stopped for several consecutive days, followed upon patient education of early recognition signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency in outpatient conditions. Conventional pituitary radiotherapy using a linear accelerator is delivered at a total dose of 45 to 50 Gy in 25 fractional doses over 35 days using a 3-or 5-field (opposed lateral fields and vertex field) technique. Side effects when given as primary therapy are rare, but there is significant risk of growth hormone deficiency occurring early in 36-68% of treated adults, while other anterior pituitary deficiencies may develop over time in around 20% of patients ( 96 , 293 , 296 ). There is some evidence of an increased risk of cerebrovascular complications, which is of concern particularly in younger patients ( 297 ),
