Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


patients ( 96 , 293 , 296 ). There is some evidence of an increased risk of cerebrovascular complications, which is of concern particularly in younger patients ( 297 ), but not all studies agree and further studies are required ( 298 ). The incidence of ischemic infarcts after fractionated radiotherapy for pituitary adenomas was reported in the mean of 6.7% of patients (0-11.6%) in the systematic review of 11 studies including 4394 patients. Four studies on complications of gamma-knife surgery described no ischemic events ( 299 ) (see below). The risk of optic neuropathy is low and probably less than 1% as long as low-dose fractions are used. Although meningiomas and gliomas have been reported after pituitary radiotherapy ( 295 , 300 ), a recent analysis suggests that external beam radiotherapy induces second tumors in around 4% of patients with pituitary tumors compared to 2% in controls ( 301 ) . Stereotactic radiotherapy using a gamma-knife or Cyber-knife (‘radiosurgery’) is used to optimize the tumor dose and minimize radiation to other areas by delivering a single high dose (average dose of 20-25Gy) to a small tumor. This approach seeks to avoid the complications of optic neuritis and cortical necrosis associated with larger total and fractional doses ( 302 ), not to mention convenience for the patient receiving therapy in one treatment. It has been less well investigated so far, but has a number of theoretical advantages, including a possible reduction in risk of cerebrovascular disease. It is hard to make a direct comparison in effectiveness between methods because of the difference in size of the treated tumors ( 302 , 303 ). Most patients still develop endocrine deficiencies in the years after treatment ( 304 - 306 ). Because of the high dose of delivered radiation, it is not suitable for large lesions because of the large volume of exposed tissue, or for lesions near to radiosensitive tissues, such as the optic chiasm or optic nerves (recommended at least 3-5mm distance), because of the potential for visual damage. Otherwise, if the adenoma is not close to the optic pathway, it may be superior to conventional fractionated therapy. Gamma knife radiosurgery is probably the most widely used of these techniques. As adjunctive therapy after failed transsphenoidal surgery it achieves biochemical remission in about 48-55%, although follow-up times have not been as long as for conventional radiotherapy ( 296 , 306
