Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


As adjunctive therapy after failed transsphenoidal surgery it achieves biochemical remission in about 48-55%, although follow-up times have not been as long as for conventional radiotherapy ( 296 , 306 , 307 ). It can also be used as salvage therapy in difficult tumors ( 307 , 308 ). Radiosurgery of the pituitary gland using proton beams has similar efficacy as second-line therapy ( 309 ), and while possibly more precise is not widely available. Cyber-knife radiotherapy for Cushing’s disease is less well described, but there are reports of some success in a small number of patients ( 310 ). As with other forms of radiotherapy, new hormone deficiencies are the major side-effect. It should be emphasized again that stereotactic radiotherapy cannot be used when the tumor is close to the optic chiasm. There is a difference in tolerance of radiation between cranial nerves, with optic nerves most sensitive. A dose above 8Gy should be avoided and a clearance of 3-5mm from the optic nerves is required, while for other cranial nerves doses of 19-23Gy are acceptable ( 311 ). Data on the use of proton beam therapy are sparse, but in time this may come to replace other forms of radiosurgery ( 312 ). Treatment for the Ectopic ACTH Syndrome If the ectopic ACTH-secreting tumor is non-metastatic and amenable to surgical excision, such as in a lobectomy for a bronchial carcinoid tumor, the chance of cure of Cushing’s syndrome is high. Local radiotherapy following surgical resection of an ectopic ACTH-secreting source, may also be beneficial, particularly in non-metastatic thoracic carcinoid tumors ( 313 , 314 ), but is not usually required. The course of the disease is mainly determined by the type of tumor, the presence of metastases, and degree of hypercortisolism. The lowest survival rate comes with small cell lung cancer, medullary thyroid cancer, and gastrinomas ( 17 , 18 ). In patients with metastases solely in the liver, cryoablation, resection, or even liver transplantation can be curable. Prognosis is the best in patients younger than 50 years of age, with primary bowel or lung carcinoids ( 19 , 315 , 316 ). However, if significant metastatic disease is present, surgery is not curative, although it may still be of benefit in selected cases. Therapy for residual or metastatic disease should be based on current guidelines for neuroendocrine tumors ( 317 ). Regardless of the prognosis, control of
