Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


be of benefit in selected cases. Therapy for residual or metastatic disease should be based on current guidelines for neuroendocrine tumors ( 317 ). Regardless of the prognosis, control of the hypercortisolism should be established medically by inhibiting steroidogenesis. If medical management fails, surgical bilateral adrenalectomy may be an option, but should be at least considered in the majority of cases where long-term treatment of the neuroendocrine tumor is considered. Patients in whom control over hypercortisolism is established can develop thymic hyperplasia ( 318 ), which should be distinguished from tumor metastases or a primary thymic tumor. In cases where primary tumor origin remains unknown, adrenal inhibitor therapy can be maintained as long as the patient undergoes to periodic re-examination for tumor localization ( 17 , 18 ). The ectopic CRH syndrome is rare and usually is associated with pulmonary carcinoid tumors, following the same therapeutic principles as ACTH-secreting tumors ( 319 ). Treatment of ACTH-Independent Cushing’s Syndrome Adrenalectomy is the treatment of choice for all cases of ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome. This is either unilateral in the case of an adrenal adenoma or carcinoma, or bilateral in cases of bilateral hyperplasia, either micronodular or macronodular. The only exception can be the case of milder hypercortisolism in macronodular hyperplasia, when unilateral adrenalectomy may provide hormonal control, at least temporarily ( 320 , 321 ). Pre-operatively, adrenal enzyme inhibitor therapy can be used such that the clinical state of the patient is improved thus reducing the risk of complications. In cases where macronodular hyperplasia comes as a consequence of aberrant hormonal receptor expression, eucortisolemia can be achieved by using the appropriate receptor blockade ( 322 , 323 ), but this is unlikely to be useful in the long-term. In adrenal adenomas, cure following surgery in skilled hands approaches 100% ( 324 ), and is associated with low morbidity and mortality ( 325 ). Laparoscopic adrenalectomy, both unilateral and bilateral, has been shown in experienced hands to be a safe procedure and in most centers has become the approach of choice for non-malignant disease. Its complication rate is lower than with the open approach, and the in-patient stay is significantly reduced ( 326 , 327 ). A study comparing three surgical techniques (anterior laparoscopic, posterior laparoscopic, and robotic surgery) for bilateral adrenalectomy for Cushing’s syndrome showed similar morbidity in all approaches ( 328 ). When the adrenal lesion is more than 6cm and
