Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


laparoscopic, posterior laparoscopic, and robotic surgery) for bilateral adrenalectomy for Cushing’s syndrome showed similar morbidity in all approaches ( 328 ). When the adrenal lesion is more than 6cm and suggestive of malignancy, open adrenalectomy remains the gold standard ( 329 ). In adrenal cancer, more aggressive surgical approaches probably account for the increase in life span reported in this disease ( 330 ). This approach may require multiple operations to resect primary lesions, local recurrences, and hepatic, thoracic, and, occasionally, intracranial metastases, and is usually accompanied by adjuvant mitotane, as discussed below. Overall, there is no significant evidence that radiotherapy improves survival in adrenocortical carcinoma, although in the literature there are sporadic reports that it may be helpful adjuvant treatment to radical surgery in selected cases and may decrease local recurrence ( 331 - 333 ). Medical Therapy of Cushing’s Syndrome Although the primary therapy of hypercortisolism in Cushing’s disease is surgical, medical therapy can be required in cases when surgery is delayed, contraindicated, or unsuccessful. The most common therapy is the use of adrenal enzyme inhibitors, less frequently somatostatin and dopamine receptor agonists and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. The role of medical treatment of Cushing’s syndrome is an important one. It is practice of many groups to pre-treat Cushing's syndrome patients with severe disease prior to surgical treatment to reverse the hypercortisolemia and its metabolic sequelae, and to hopefully reduce the complications of the definitive procedure. However, it is not routine practice for most patients with Cushing’s disease. Similarly, medical treatment is desirable in patients with Cushing's disease whilst awaiting for pituitary radiotherapy to take effect. In patients where surgery and/or radiotherapy have failed, medical management is often essential prior to (or long-term as an alternative to) bilateral adrenalectomy. Sometimes, in the occult ectopic ACTH syndrome, it may not always be possible to identify the source of secretion, and therefore medical management is desirable pending re-investigation. Finally, medical therapy is helpful as a palliative modality in patients with metastatic disease-causing Cushing's syndrome, at least in the short-term. The most commonly used agents are adrenal enzyme inhibitors, but adrenolytic agents, pituitary-targeted therapies, or glucocorticoid-receptor antagonists are also used ( Table 4 ). Drugs can be used in combinations in lower doses, aiming for side effect reduction with synergistic effects. When determining the approach to treatment, the first step is to determine whether the final goal is reducing the level of
