Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


doses, aiming for side effect reduction with synergistic effects. When determining the approach to treatment, the first step is to determine whether the final goal is reducing the level of serum cortisol to normal values or complete cortisol secretion blockade. The latter approach is convenient for patients with more variable secretion, while patients showing less variability can benefit more from lowering the values to the normal range and therefore avoiding the necessity of steroid replacement therapy, as well as a possibility of side effects connected to the higher dosages required with that strategy. A meta-analysis of 35 studies including 1520 patients reported pooled effectiveness of most commonly used medical agents in treatment of Cushing's syndrome, with mitotane being most effective in normalizing cortisol levels in 81.8% of patients and cabergoline (see below) being least effective and normalizing cortisol in 35.7% ( 334 ). However, as noted below, mitotane is not a simple drug to use or monitor, and generally it is reserved for adrenocortical carcinoma. The use of multiple agents achieved normalization of cortisol in 65.7% of patients. ADRENAL ENZYME INHIBITORS These agents are primarily used as inhibitors of steroid biosynthesis in the adrenal cortex ( Figure 5 ), and thus can be utilized in all cases of hypercortisolemia regardless of cause, but most commonly in ACTH-dependent forms, often with rapid improvement in the clinical features of Cushing's syndrome. The most commonly used agents are metyrapone, ketoconazole, and in certain circumstances etomidate. In the UK ketoconazole and metyrapone are licensed for the treatment of Cushing's syndrome, while mitotane is licensed for the treatment of hypercortisolemia due to adrenocortical carcinoma. The use of etomidate or mifepristone in Cushing's syndrome is off-license. Osilodrostat has also been approved for treatment of Cushing’s syndrome in USA and in Europe in 2020 and NICE-approved it in UK in 2021. However, the regulations could differ in different countries. When used in combinations, they have a synergistic therapeutic effect, lowering the rate of side effects. Figure 5. Steroidogenesis with main adrenal enzyme inhibitors point of action marked; SCCE – side-chain cleavage enzyme, HSD – hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, OH – hydroxylase, DHEA – dehydroepiandrosterone, AR – aromatase, AS – aldosterone synthetase. Metyrapone Metyrapone acts primarily to inhibit the enzyme 11β-hydroxylase, thus blocking the production of cortisol from 11-deoxycortisol in the adrenal gland ( 335 ) ( Figure 5 ). As a consequence of the blockade of cortisol synthesis, levels
