Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


11β-hydroxylase, thus blocking the production of cortisol from 11-deoxycortisol in the adrenal gland ( 335 ) ( Figure 5 ). As a consequence of the blockade of cortisol synthesis, levels of adrenal androgens and deoxycorticosterone rise. The subsequent elevation of 11-deoxycortisol can be monitored in the serum of patients treated with metyrapone. It should be noted that there may be cross-reactivity from 11-deoxycortisol with some cortisol radioimmunoassays: this may result in an unnecessary increase in the metyrapone dose and subsequent clinical hypoadrenalism ( 336 ). It is preferable to measure the serum cortisol via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in patients treated with metyrapone ( 337 ). The fall in cortisol is rapid, with trough levels at 2 hours post-dose, and sometimes administration of a test dose of 750 mg with hourly cortisol estimation for 4 hours is performed, although not strictly necessary in our opinion ( 338 ). Maintenance therapy is usually in the range 750-6000 mg/day in 3-4 divided doses daily. Metyrapone has been used to good effect to reduce the hypercortisolemia in patients with Cushing's syndrome from adrenal tumors, the ectopic ACTH syndrome, and Cushing's disease. In the former, patients can be very sensitive to low doses of this agent, whilst in Cushing’s disease higher doses are often required. In Cushing's disease this can be due to the compensatory rise in ACTH in patients not having received pituitary radiotherapy. During short-term follow-up (1-16 weeks) of 54 patients with Cushing’s disease, cortisol normalized on the metyrapone treatment in 75% of participants and in 81% of 16 patients with adrenocortical carcinoma or adenoma ( 338 ). A subsequent multicenter study on 164 patients with Cushing’s disease reported that 43% achieved control of hypercortisolism at the mean of 8 months of treatment ( 339 ).A meta-analysis of 18 retrospective studies including patients with CD showed an average remission rate of 75.9% (31.3-83.2%) ( 334 ). The recent prospective study PROMPT including 50 patients with Cushing’s syndrome reported remission in 47% participants ( 340 ). There have not been serious maternal or perinatal complications connected with the use of metyrapone in pregnant women, but the question of safety remains open ( 341 - 343 ). However, metyrapone and ketoconazole are the medications most commonly used in the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome in pregnancy ( 344 ). The principal side effects with metyrapone are hirsutism and acne (as predicted by the rise in
