Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


most commonly used in the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome in pregnancy ( 344 ). The principal side effects with metyrapone are hirsutism and acne (as predicted by the rise in adrenal androgens) and reported by 70-83% of women. Dizziness and gastrointestinal upset occurring in 5% and 15% respectively. Because of the androgen effect the drug is not considered appropriate for the first-line therapy of long-term treatment in women ( 345 , 346 ). However, it is hypoadrenalism that remains the most important potential problem, and careful monitoring of treatment and education of the patient is required. If there is uncertainty as to whether the measured cortisol is valid, and not over-estimated by cross-reactivity, it may be appropriate to consider a ‘block-and-replace’ regimen. Hypokalemia, edema, and hypertension due to salt retention because of mineralocorticoid activity of raised levels of 11-deoxycorticosterone are infrequent ( 338 ), but may require cessation of therapy ( 347 ). Ketoconazole Ketoconazole is an imidazole derivative originally developed as an oral anti-fungal agent. It is a potent inhibitor of sex steroids (androstendione and testosterone) production by its action on C17-20 lyase, and cortisol secretion by 11β-hydroxylase inhibition ( 348 - 350 ). It also inhibits 17-hydroxylase and 18-hydroxylase activity, amongst other enzymes ( 351 ). It has also been reported to have a direct effect on ectopic ACTH secretion from a thymic carcinoid tumor ( 352 ), and possibly corticotroph ACTH release. The treatment for Cushing's syndrome is usually started at a dose of 200 mg twice daily, with an onset of action that is probably slower than metyrapone. The usual maximum dose is 400 mg three times a day. It has been used successfully to lower cortisol levels in patients with Cushing's syndrome of various etiologies including adrenal carcinoma, the ectopic ACTH syndrome, and invasive ACTH-producing pituitary carcinoma, with doses required between 200-1200 mg/day in up to 4 divided daily doses ( 353 , 354 ), although 2-3 times daily is more usual. Although there have not been consequences on human fetuses, considering animal teratogenicity and toxicity the drug is not recommend for use during pregnancy ( 343 , 355 , 356 ). The normalization of cortisol levels was achieved in 71.1% of patients in pooled meta-analysis of all causes of Cushing's syndrome including 220 individuals and in 49% of patients with Cushing’s disease ( 334 ). A subsequent meta-analysis of 270 patients with CD treated
