Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


meta-analysis of all causes of Cushing's syndrome including 220 individuals and in 49% of patients with Cushing’s disease ( 334 ). A subsequent meta-analysis of 270 patients with CD treated with ketoconazole after failed transsphenoidal surgery included in 10 studies (all but 1 retrospective) reported control of hypercortisolism in 63% of individuals (95% CI 50-74%) ( 357 ). The principal side effect of ketoconazole is hepatotoxicity ( 358 , 359 ). A reversible elevation of hepatic serum transaminases occurs in approximately 5-20% of patients, with the incidence of serious hepatic injury at around 1 in 15,000 patients ( 360 , 361 ). The hepatotoxicity appears to be idiosyncratic, but has been reported within first 4 weeks of the initiation of treatment in a patient with Cushing's syndrome and resolves within 2-12 weeks after dose reduction or discontinuation of treatment ( 361 , 362 ). Prior to the start of therapy liver function tests should be performed. The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level should be monitored weekly within the first month of therapy, then once a month in the following trimester and afterwards sporadically or when the dose is changed. If levels reach 3-times above the upper normal range, therapy should be discontinued. Other adverse reactions of ketoconazole include skin rashes and gastrointestinal upset, and one must always be wary of causing adrenal insufficiency ( 362 - 364 ). Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and increases the availability of medications metabolized by that enzyme. Hence, the reduction of the dose of affected medications maybe required. Ketoconazole is a mixture of levo- and dextro- enantiomeric forms. Currently, the levo-enantiomer of ketoconazole is less likely to be hepatotoxic than the racemic mixture (see below). Due to its C17-20 lyase inhibition and consequent anti-androgenic properties, ketoconazole is particularly useful in female patients where hirsutism is an issue, which may be worsened with metyrapone. Conversely, gynecomastia and reduced libido in male patients may be unacceptable as a first-line long-term treatment and require alternative agents. However, replacement therapy is an option. On the other hand, women having lower levels of estradiol and testosterone do not experience clinically manifest disorder because of the usually present menstrual irregularity. Ketoconazole requires gastric acid for absorption, so should not be given with proton-pump inhibitors. One further advantage of ketoconazole is its inhibition of cholesterol synthesis, particularly LDL cholesterol ( 365 ), and in 34 patients with Cushing's syndrome the mean total
