Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


). At higher concentrations it also appears to have an effect on cholesterol side-chain cleavage ( 378 , 379 ). Following their initial report in 1983, Allolio and colleagues showed that intravenous non-hypnotic etomidate dose (2.5 mg/hour) normalized cortisol levels in 5 patients with Cushing's syndrome of various etiologies ( 380 ). Since then, there have been a number of case reports on the use of etomidate in successfully reducing hypercortisolemia in seriously-ill patients with either Cushing's disease or the ectopic ACTH syndrome ( 381 - 384 ). It is usually given at a dose of 2.5-3.0 mg/hour, which is adjusted based on the serum cortisol levels. It usually takes several hours for cortisol to be lowered to within the normal range ( 385 ). Etomidate is an effective agent that acts rapidly, but is limited in its use by the fact it has to be given parenterally and requires intensive care settings to safely manage and monitor cortisol and potassium levels 4-6 hours to adjust the infusion rate ( 386 ). Similar to metyrapone and osilodrostat, high levels 11-deoxycortisol may cross-react with many assays. A simultaneous infusion of hydrocortisone of 0.5-2 mg/h may be required to maintain normal cortisol levels. However, in this situation it may be lifesaving. The preparation available in the USA contains the vehicle propylene glycol with the potential for nephrotoxicity and lactic acidosis, as opposed to the preparation available in Europe which contains alcohol. Mitotane Mitotane (o’p'DDD), an isomer of DDD (belonging to the same family of chemicals as the insecticide DDT), was developed following the observation of adrenal atrophy in dogs administered DDD. Mitotane inhibits steroidogenesis by reducing cortisol and aldosterone production by blocking cholesterol side-chain cleavage and 11β-hydroxylase in the adrenal gland ( 387 ). It also acts as an adrenolytic drug, causing medical adrenalectomy, after being metabolized into an acyl chloride that binds in mitochondria and causes necrosis of adrenocortical cells ( 388 ). Mitotane is used as a treatment for adrenocortical carcinoma and causes tumor regression and improved survival in some patients ( 389 , 390 ). It has a beneficial effect on endocrine hypersecretion in approximately 75% of patients ( 391 ). It is also utilized in Cushing's syndrome of non-malignant origin, and in this regard lower doses can be utilized (up to 4 g/day), thus reducing the incidence of side effects, particularly gastrointestinal ( 392 ). At these lower
