Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


non-malignant origin, and in this regard lower doses can be utilized (up to 4 g/day), thus reducing the incidence of side effects, particularly gastrointestinal ( 392 ). At these lower doses the onset of the cortisol-lowering effect takes longer (6-8 weeks) than with higher doses. Mitotane should not be used in pregnant women, and reproductively active women must use reliable contraception while on therapy ( 393 ). A pooled meta-analysis of all causes of Cushing's syndrome in 173 patients reported the normalization of cortisol levels on mitotane treatment in 79.8% of all patients and in 81.8% of participants with Cushing’s disease ( 334 ). The main side effect of mitotane treatment include nausea, vomiting and lethargy. One problem even with low-dose mitotane is the hypercholesterolemia (principally an increase in LDL-cholesterol), which appears to be due to the impairment of hepatic production of oxysteroids, normally a brake on the enzyme HMG CoA reductase ( 394 ). However, simvastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, can reverse the hypercholesterolemia, and it or a similar agent should be used, if necessary, in patients treated with mitotane. Other side effects of mitotane include neurological disturbances; elevation of hepatic enzymes; hypouricemia; gynecomastia in men; and a prolonged bleeding time ( 391 , 395 ). Most importantly, it elevates cortisol-binding globulin, such that levels of total serum cortisol are misleading. Control should be titrated using urinary free cortisol or salivary cortisol. Monitoring of serum levels of mitotane should be undertaken due to its narrow therapeutic window and the risk of toxicity. In the long-term, measurement of blood levels can allow dose titration and reduction as appropriate. A therapeutic level of 14-20 mg/L has been recommended for adrenocortical carcinoma, but lower levels can be sought for simple control of elevated cortisol levels. Mitotane is taken up by fatty tissues, sometimes being released gradually several months after discontinuing therapy, therefore requiring adjustments in glucocorticoid therapy dosage ( 396 ). Mitotane shows cytotoxic activity on both normal and tumorous tissue causing primary adrenal insufficiency and therefore requiring glucocorticoid replacement therapy. It tends to spare the zona glomerulosa, but in long-term use mineralocorticoid replacement is also needed ( 397 ). In general, despite effective in other forms of Cushing’s syndrome, its use has been limited outside of adrenocortical carcinoma, in which cases it has been shown to prolong life ( 390 ). Table 4. Currently Available Medical Therapy for Cushing’s Syndrome
