Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


bd po Headache, oedema, GI symptoms, increased liver enzymes, adrenal insufficiency Liver impairment, pregnancy/ breast-feeding, porphyria FDA & EMA orphan drug status CBG – cortisol binding globulin, CD – Cushing’s disease, tds – 3 times a day; qds – 4 times a day, LFTs – liver function tests, TFTs – thyroid function tests, PPI – proton pump inhibitor, K+ - potassium, ACTH – adrenocorticotrophin hormone, po – orally, iv- intravenous, sc – subcutaneous, ITU – intensive care unit, FDA – Food and Drug Administration (USA), EMA – European Medicines Agency. MODULATORS OF ACTH RELEASE Pasireotide Somatostatin receptors have been demonstrated on both corticotroph adenomas, and some ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors. However, although octreotide has been helpful in reducing ACTH and cortisol levels in selected case reports of ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors there has been much more limited success in patients with Cushing's syndrome probably through down-regulation of receptor sub-type 2 in these tumors by hypercortisolemia ( 398 ). There has been renewed interest with the introduction of pasireotide, a somatostatin analogue with a broader spectrum of activity for somatostatin receptor subtypes, including type 5, which is not down-regulated during hypercortisolemia. Ever since this agent was shown in vitro to reduce human corticotroph proliferation and ACTH secretion ( 399 , 400 ), there have now been a number of clinical trials published. In an initial phase II trial, pasireotide 600µg injected twice daily for 15 days reduced urinary free cortisol (UFC) levels in 76% of 29 patients and normalized levels in 17% ( 401 ). A multicenter phase III dose-randomized trial in 162 patients with either new, persistent, or recurrent Cushing's disease has shown at six months a reduction in UFC levels in 91 of 103 evaluable patients, with a median UFC reduction of 48%. Normalization of UFC levels were achieved in 14.6% of patients on the 600µg dose twice daily, and 26% of patients on the 900µg twice-daily dose. Patients who showed <50% reduction in UFC levels from baseline by month two were unlikely to show improvement by month 6 or 12. The most clinically relevant adverse events were hyperglycemia (73%), with 46% developing frank diabetes mellitus related to decreases in both insulin and incretin secretion, and hypocortisolemia (8%) ( 401 , 402 ). Other side effects included elevated liver enzymes, cholelithiasis, nausea and diarrhea at the rate expected from experience with other somatostatin analogues ( 402 ). There is now also
