Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


402 ). Other side effects included elevated liver enzymes, cholelithiasis, nausea and diarrhea at the rate expected from experience with other somatostatin analogues ( 402 ). There is now also experience with pasireotide long-acting repeatable (pasireotide LAR), a monthly injection of 10 or 30mg, reporting around 41% of patients achieving normal UFC levels at 7 months of treatment and a similar safety profile to the subcutaneous form ( 403 ). More than a 20% reduction in size of the pituitary adenoma was described in 45% of patients and an increase by more than 20% in 10% of individuals ( 403 ). Long-term extension studies of monthly pasireotide showed improvement of cortisol levels up to 5 years ( 404 ). Pasireotide LAR decreased median volume of the corticotroph adenoma by 16.3-17.8% in 43-47% of patients ( 403 ). Pasireotide is not recommended as a first-line treatment but can be considered as add-on therapy or second-line treatment if other medications are not tolerated. In cases where there is no clinical response, it should be discontinued. Pasireotide at a lower dose of 250 µg three times daily has also been used in stepwise combination therapy with the dopamine agonist cabergoline (previously been demonstrated to have modest but variable efficacy as monotherapy in Cushing's disease ( 405 ), and ketoconazole. Pasireotide monotherapy induced normalization of UFC levels in 5 of 17 patients (29%). The addition of cabergoline normalized UFC levels in an additional 4 patients (24%). The further addition of ketoconazole in the remaining 8 patients induced normalization of UFC levels in 6 of these. Thus, in total, remission was achieved in 88% of patients using combination therapy out to 80 days of treatment ( 405 ). Therefore, pasireotide represents a potential new treatment for mild Cushing's disease or in combination therapy for individuals with higher hypercortisolemia, although the frequency of hyperglycemia is of major concern. Corticotroph adenomas with USP8 mutations had been reported to have higher SST5 receptor expression which may suggest higher response rate to pasireotide treatment in this subgroup ( 406 , 407 ). Cabergoline The presence of dopamine receptors (D2) on around 80% of corticotroph adenomas supported the use of cabergoline in patients with Cushing’s disease ( 408 ). Cabergoline at a dose of 1-7mg weekly was reported to control hypercortisolemia due to Cushing’s disease in 25-40% of patients in small case series ( 409 ). A multicenter retrospective study
