Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


at a dose of 1-7mg weekly was reported to control hypercortisolemia due to Cushing’s disease in 25-40% of patients in small case series ( 409 ). A multicenter retrospective study of 53 patients treated with a median dose of 2.3mg/week normalized UFC in 40% of individuals in the first year of treatment, which was reduced to 23% at 32.5 months ( 410 ). It is usually well tolerated and the most common side effects include nausea and dizziness. At the doses used for the treatment of pituitary tumors, the incidence of cardiac valve sclerosis and subsequent regurgitation was not increased in one large study, and therefore echocardiograms are not routinely needed unless high, long-term treatment is required ( 411 ). However, escape is seen in some patients, so the percentage of patients with long-term control is low. Another side effect is an impulse control disorder for which patients should be counselled before initiation of treatment ( 412 ). Temozolomide Temozolomide is an oral alkylating prodrug that is converted in vivo to the DNA repair inhibitor, dacarbazine. Traditionally, this chemotherapy agent has been used in the treatment of malignant gliomas, but recent evidence suggests it is also useful in selected aggressive pituitary tumors including corticotroph pituitary carcinomas ( 413 , 414 ). Although, some reports suggested that the response to temozolomide in pituitary tumors can be predicted by low expression of the DNA repair enzyme O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT), possibly related to MGMT gene promotor methylation ( 415 , 416 ), not all studies have confirmed this ( 417 , 418 ). However, the therapeutic response can usually be determined after 3 cycles of chemotherapy. Reported partial or complete response from case reports is around 80%, with improvement seen after 2 months with tumor size reduction from stable to 50% ( 419 ). Side effects include cytopenia, GI symptoms, headaches, hearing loss and dizziness. OTHER AGENTS Retinoic Acid Retinoic acid has been found to inhibit ACTH-secretion and cell proliferation both in vitro in ACTH-producing tumor cell lines and cultured human corticotroph adenomas, and in vivo in nude mice ( 420 ). However, clinical trials in man are limited, and it is unlikely to be a major contributor to control. Rosiglitazone The thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone, a PPAR-γ agonist, was shown in supra-pharmacological doses to suppress ACTH secretion in human and murine corticotroph tumor cells. In addition, the development of murine corticotroph tumors, generated by subcutaneous
