Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


a PPAR-γ agonist, was shown in supra-pharmacological doses to suppress ACTH secretion in human and murine corticotroph tumor cells. In addition, the development of murine corticotroph tumors, generated by subcutaneous injection of ACTH-secreting AtT20 cells, were prevented ( 421 ). It appears this is not specific to corticotroph adenomas, but also applies to other forms of pituitary tumor ( 422 ). However, the results in human subjects with Cushing's disease have been disappointing ( 423 - 425 ). This may be because doses used in the animal studies were much higher than the equivalent licensed dose in humans. Its use cannot be recommended. Receptor Antagonists to GIP, β-adrenergic and LH/hCG Receptors In the rare causes of Cushing’s syndrome due to bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (BMAD) and aberrant receptor expression of GIP, β-adrenergic and LH/hCG receptors, specific receptor antagonists may prove to be useful ( 426 ). Although octreotide has been shown to have a therapeutic response in GIP-related BMAD as mentioned above ( 31 ), others have found neither this somatostatin analogue nor pasireotide to be helpful in inducing a sustained response ( 427 ). Glucocorticoid Receptor Antagonist(s) Mifepristone (RU 486), is a potent antagonist of glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors that blocks the peripheral actions of glucocorticoids and progestogens ( 428 , 429 ). As a consequence it also blocks glucocorticoid-induced negative feedback at the hypothalamo-pituitary level, inducing a rise in ACTH, arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and hence cortisol ( 430 ). It has occasionally been given to patients with all forms of Cushing's syndrome ( 431 , 432 ), showing effectiveness in rapidly reducing symptoms of cortisol-induced psychosis ( 433 , 434 ), and improving glycemic control and hypertension ( 432 ). Although, it has been proven to be effective in the treatment of hypercortisolemia-related symptoms and signs ( 431 , 435 ), the major drawback is the lack of biochemical markers to assess either therapeutical effectiveness or possible hypoadrenalism. Adrenal insufficiency is challenging to treat, because the drug, besides blocking endogenous cortisol, also blocks the action of synthetic steroids as replacement therapy. Hypokalemia is a frequent problem due to the saturation of 11β-HSD type 2 and cortisol action on the mineralocorticoid receptor, although it responds well to spironolactone. The daily dose of mifepristone ranges between 300 and 1200mg. It showed a significant improvement of glucose and HbA1c in 60% of patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes ( 432 ).
