Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


dose of mifepristone ranges between 300 and 1200mg. It showed a significant improvement of glucose and HbA1c in 60% of patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes ( 432 ). Mifepristone could be used as add-on therapy for Cushing’s syndrome with associated hyperglycemia. Endometrial thickening and vaginal bleeding secondary to the anti-progestin effect are likely to be seen in women. However, a new derivative of mifepristone with less anti-progestogen blocking activity, relacorilant, is currently under trial. Relacorilant (CORT125134) Relacorilant is a glucocorticoid receptor inhibitor with no effect on the progesterone receptor. A phase II study (GRACE) included 130 patients with Cushing’s syndrome and type 2 diabetes and/or hypertension. Half of the patients receiving higher doses (range of 100mg-400mg daily) of relacorilant for 16 weeks and the HbA1c was reduced by ≥0.5% or the dose of insulin/sulfonylurea reduced by ≥25%. A reduction of systolic BP by at least 5mmHg was reported in 64% of participants receiving a higher dose of medication. A Phase III multicenter, placebo-controlled randomized withdrawal trial is still on-going and expected to be completed in 2024 ( clinicaltrials.gov code: NCT03697109 ). It should be noted that the use of all these novel agents may be limited by their expense and availability. MONITORING TREATMENT It is important to monitor all patients on medical therapy for Cushing’s syndrome in order to assess the effectiveness of treatment, and in particular to avoid adrenal insufficiency. Serum cortisol level and/or urine cortisol level are used in order to estimate steroid inhibitor therapy. One way is to assess the mean of 5 serum cortisol measurements across the day, although others favor measurement of urinary free cortisol (UFC). A mean serum cortisol between 150 and 300 nmol/L (5.5-11 μg/dL) corresponded to a normal cortisol production rate ( 436 ), and this range should be the aim of therapy, although this figure may be an overestimate as it is based on older cortisol assays. As mentioned above, a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrography cortisol assay is preferable in patients on metyrapone, osilodrostat and etomidate. When mitotane is used, only measurement of 24-hour urinary free cortisol reflects therapy effectiveness and concentration of serum free cortisol, because mitotane reduces 17-OHCS excretion. Because it raises the level of cortisol binding globulin (CBG), the level of total serum cortisol is inappropriate for monitoring of cortisol secretion, as it can be two to threefold elevated ( 437 , 438 ). The
