Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


binding globulin (CBG), the level of total serum cortisol is inappropriate for monitoring of cortisol secretion, as it can be two to threefold elevated ( 437 , 438 ). The high level of CBG explains why replacement dosage of steroids needs to be increased in cases of adrenal insufficiency, although there is also a contribution from increased hepatic steroid metabolism. CUSHING’S SYNDROME IN SPECIFIC GROUPS Chronic Renal Failure Cushing’s syndrome in the setting of chronic renal failure is poorly described, but may pose diagnostic difficulties. In chronic renal failure serum levels of cortisol are generally normal but with some radioimmunoassays may be increased ( 439 , 440 ). ACTH levels are increased ( 441 ). Glomerular filtration rates of less than 30 mL/min result in decreased cortisol excretion and spuriously low UFC values ( 442 ). The ACTH and cortisol responses to CRH may be suppressed in patients with renal failure, except for those undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( 443 ). The metabolism of dexamethasone is normal in chronic renal failure, but the oral absorption can be altered in some patients. There is a reduced degree of suppression of cortisol by dexamethasone suggesting a prolonged half-life of cortisol. Normal suppression during the overnight 1-mg LDDST is uncommon, and the 2-day LDDST is better in this regard ( 439 , 444 ). Pediatric Cushing’s Syndrome The most common presentation of Cushing’s syndrome in children is growth retardation, with weight increases ( 445 ). However, one proviso is that patients with virilizing adrenal tumors may show growth acceleration ( 446 ). Other virilizing signs such as acne and hirsutism are seen in approximately 50% of patients regardless of etiology ( 445 ). Hypertension and striae are seen in approximately 50% of cases ( 447 ). Muscle weakness may be less common in the pediatric patient due to increased exercise ( 448 ). Psychiatric and cognitive changes may affect school performance; however, children may show “compulsive diligence” and actually do quite well academically ( 449 ). Headaches and fatigue are common ( 445 ). Cushing’s disease accounts for the between 75% and 80% of Cushing’s syndrome in older children, but before the age of 10 years ACTH-independent causes of Cushing’s syndrome are more common ( 450 ). Cushing’s disease has a male predominance in pre-pubertal children. Two causes of ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome, McCune-Albright syndrome and PPNAD, are typically diseases of childhood or
