Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


more common ( 450 ). Cushing’s disease has a male predominance in pre-pubertal children. Two causes of ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome, McCune-Albright syndrome and PPNAD, are typically diseases of childhood or young adults. Signs of virilization in the very young (<4 years) suggest adrenal carcinoma. Ectopic secretion of ACTH occurs rarely in the pediatric population and is usually due to bronchial or thymic carcinoids ( 2 ). As mentioned previously, late night salivary cortisol measurement has particular logistic benefits in children ( 451 , 452 ). Serum midnight cortisol measurements in in-patients has high sensitivity ( 453 ). UFC should be corrected for body surface area ( 454 ). The standard 2-day LDDST adult protocol can be used in children weighing 40kg or more, otherwise the dexamethasone dose is adjusted to 30µg/kg/day ( 455 ). As in adults, there is a good correlation between the cortisol suppression on the LDDST and the HDDST for the differential diagnosis and thus the latter is unnecessary ( 456 ). Although it can be argued that the ectopic ACTH syndrome is so rare in children that BIPSS is not necessary, it does add reassurance in those with a negative pituitary MRI, which is the case in more than 50% of cases. In addition, BIPSS has arguably better accuracy in lateralization of the pituitary tumor ( 385 ). MRI is at least as useful as CT in the evaluation of adrenal causes ( 457 ). Transsphenoidal surgery is the treatment of choice in children with Cushing's disease, with similar rates of remission as in adults in expert hands ( 458 ). Conventional radiotherapy after non-curative transsphenoidal surgery performs even better than in adults, with reported remission rates as high as 100%, with remission usually occurring within 12 months ( 459 ). Following pituitary surgery, plus or minus radiotherapy, the incidence of growth hormone deficiency is high, but prompt diagnosis and treatment with human growth hormone ensure acceptable growth acceleration and catch-up growth, although an abnormal body composition often persists ( 460 ). Normalization of reduced bone mineral density can also be achieved ( 384 ). Adrenalectomy is first-line therapy in ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome. Cushing’s Syndrome in Pregnancy Cushing’s syndrome in pregnancy is fortunately rare, because ovulatory disorders and consequently infertility constitute the clinical picture in 75% of untreated patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 341 , 342 ). The epidemiology in pregnant women is different to that
