Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


disorders and consequently infertility constitute the clinical picture in 75% of untreated patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 341 , 342 ). The epidemiology in pregnant women is different to that in the non-pregnant population, in that pregnant patients show a 60% prevalence of ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome (48% adenoma and 10% carcinoma) followed by Cushing’s disease and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia, and rarely ectopic disease ( 342 , 343 , 461 ). The onset of adrenal-dependent Cushing’s syndrome may relate to the aberrant expression of LH receptors on the tumor, cross-reacting with hCG. The diagnosis is challenging because of the symptoms and signs common to both Cushing’s syndrome and normal physiological changes in pregnancy; such as weight gain, fatigue, striae, hypertension, and glucose intolerance. In addition, the hormonal changes, which occur during pregnancy may confuse the interpretation of the biochemical test procedures ( 343 ). Total serum cortisol levels increase in pregnancy, as a result of induced production of corticosteroid-binding globulin by estrogens, beginning in the first trimester and peaking at 6 months, with a decrease only after delivery. Levels of free cortisol are also raised. Late night salivary cortisol levels are 2-fold higher in normal pregnancy. In contrast to patients with pathologic hypercortisolism, levels of urinary 17-OH-corticosteroid excretion are within the normal range and the cortisol diurnal rhythm is maintained, but with a higher nadir ( 461 ). UFC excretion is normal in the first trimester and then rises up to three-fold by term ( 462 ). Suppression to dexamethasone testing is blunted, especially after the first trimester ( 135 ). Plasma ACTH levels are slightly decreased in the beginning of the pregnancy, but later tends to rise, partially because of placental ACTH and CRH secretion. The circadian rhythm of cortisol is usually maintained in the first 2 trimesters of pregnancy and becomes blunted in the 3 rd trimester. In general, biochemical evaluation follows the same principles as with the non-pregnant patients. However, there are no agreed guidelines in interpreting results of hormonal measurements in pregnant Cushing’s patients, considering normal physiological deflection of cortisol metabolism in pregnant women. As mentioned above, UFC excretion is normally increased, so if there is less than a 3-fold rise it cannot be diagnostic, and the dexamethasone response is blunted therefore cannot be used as screening test because of the possibility of a false positive result. Late night salivary cortisol is an alternative screening test for
