Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


dexamethasone response is blunted therefore cannot be used as screening test because of the possibility of a false positive result. Late night salivary cortisol is an alternative screening test for pregnant women and probably the most reliable investigation ( 463 , 464 ). In pregnant women with Cushing’s syndrome, higher cut-offs for LNSC are suggested, depending on the trimester, of 7, 7.2 and 7.9nmol/L for the 1 st , 2 nd and 3 rd trimester respectively ( 465 ). Therefore, the differential diagnosis regarding the possible etiology of Cushing’s syndrome can be quite demanding. If suppressed, levels of ACTH can point to adrenal origin, but lack of suppression does not eliminate the possibility of ACTH-independent cause. The high-dose dexamethasone test may be useful to distinguish an adrenal cause, because women with adrenal causes tend not to suppress, while those with Cushing’s disease do ( 461 , 466 , 467 ). As an initial evaluation the basal levels of ACTH and the high-dose dexamethasone test may be performed. Furthermore, due to the high prevalence of primary adrenal disease, it is reasonable to perform an abdominal ultrasound at an early stage. The CRH test has also been used to identify patients with Cushing's disease, and there is no evidence of harm both in animal studies and the small number of pregnant patients studied with CRH. There are 2 case reports of desmopressin test being carried out in pregnancy with significant ACTH increment suggesting Cushing’s disease, later confirmed on post-TSS histology ( 468 , 469 ). MRI without gadolinium enhancement is considered safe in the third trimester, and its use in combination with the non-invasive tests above should be able to resolve most diagnostic issues. Current guidelines allow use of contrast only if it is going to change fetal or maternal outcomes ( 470 ). BIPSS with appropriate additional radiation protection for the fetus should be reserved only for the rare cases where diagnostic uncertainty remains. Ultrasound of the adrenals can be used as a first-line imaging in ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome. Maternal hypercortisolism is associated with 40-70% hypertension, 14-26% preeclampsia, 25-37% diabetes mellitus, 5% osteoporosis and fractures, 3% cardiac failure, 4% mental health disorders and rarely (2%) death ( 471 , 472 ). Although the fetus is partially protected from maternal hypercortisolism by placental 11-B-hydroxisteroid dehydrogenase type 2, which converts 85% of cortisol to inactive cortisone ( 405 ), the untreated condition is
