Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


Although the fetus is partially protected from maternal hypercortisolism by placental 11-B-hydroxisteroid dehydrogenase type 2, which converts 85% of cortisol to inactive cortisone ( 405 ), the untreated condition is associated with miscarriage, premature delivery, and neonatal adrenal insufficiency ( 472 ). Because of both maternal and neonatal risk, definitive surgical treatment of adrenal or pituitary disease is recommended to achieve eucortisolemia. The second trimester is probably the safest time for adrenal surgery or transsphenoidal operation, although adverse fetal outcomes after the successful treatment may still persist, such as intrauterine growth restriction and premature birth, but it does appear to prevent stillborn deliveries ( 472 ) ( 396 ). Medical treatment carries potential risks to the fetus and should be considered only as second-line therapy when the benefit outweighs the risk, and generally only as an interim measure to operation or awaiting the pre-pregnancy pituitary radiation effect. Metyrapone is probably the adrenolytic agent of choice, although an association with pre-eclampsia has been reported ( 343 ). Ketoconazole has been utilized successfully in a small number of patients but is teratogenic in animals, and therefore should be used with caution. Cabergoline is probably a safe potential treatment option for mild hypercortisolism during pregnancy. Pseudo-Cushing’s Syndrome Pseudo-Cushing’s states (PCS) or more recently called non-neoplastic hypercortisolism are conditions which cause increased cortisol production, manifest with some features of Cushing’s syndrome but are reversible by resolution of the causal state. Distinguishing pseudo-Cushing’s state from a true Cushing’s syndrome could often be challenging even for the endocrinologist. The detailed history taking is the key in diagnosis of PCS. The states causing PCS could be physiological or related to other disorders. The physiological ones include severe persistent stress (emotional or related to severe illness), major surgery, persistent strenuous exercise or prolonged fasting/eating disorders. Non-physiological causes of PCS are alcoholism, severe depression or anxiety, poorly controlled diabetes, polycystic ovaries syndrome or obesity ( 473 ). In alcoholism the majority of individuals have facial plethora, proximal weakness, central obesity or hypertension but rarely have purple striae ( 474 ). The hypercortisolism results from the elevation of CRH and stimulation of the HPA axis, an increased activity of 11B-HSD type 1, and reduced cortisol clearance due to liver disease ( 475 ). The abstinence from alcohol for more than 1 month resolves hypercortisolism. In severe depression hypercortisolism is seen in 20-30% of patients but clinical features of Cushing’s syndrome
