Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


pooled sensitivity of 88% and specificity of 94% ( 143 - 145 ). However, there was high patient selection bias and low certainty of evidence in that meta-analysis ( 145 ). PROGNOSIS AND COURSE AFTER EFFECTIVE TREATMENT Before treatment was readily available, the mortality rate for Cushing’s syndrome was 50% after the first symptoms appeared, mainly due to cardiovascular, thromboembolic, infectious or hypertensive complications ( 478 ). Even today, patients with severe hypercortisolism have a raised mortality rate due to increased coagulability and it’s the consequences or opportunistic infections ( 112 , 479 , 480 ), emphasizing the need for controlling the hormonal situation as soon as possible. The prognosis is mainly a reflection of the underlying condition. The life expectancy of patients with non-malignant causes of Cushing's syndrome has improved dramatically with effective surgical and medical treatments. Even when cured by strict criteria, Cushing’s disease may often recur over time ( 481 ). From a number of studies in patients with Cushing’s disease treated in the era of transsphenoidal surgery, it initially appeared that after curative transsphenoidal surgery long-term mortality was not significantly different from that in the general population ( 480 , 482 ). However, another population-based study suggested that mortality is marginally increased ( 4 ),while even more recently a very significantly increased mortality was shown even in patients who remained cured. A large European Registry of 1564 patients with Cushing’s syndrome, including 1045 patients with Cushing's disease, reported a 3.1% 90-day mortality in this group generally ( 483 ). The main cause of death was progression of the main disease (36%), infections (31%), and cardio- and cerebro-vascular disease (17%). As expected, the highest mortality was in individuals with ectopic Cushing's syndrome (20.2%), 2.2% in patients with Cushing's disease and 1.6% in those with ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome. However, a large-scale meta-analysis showed that patients with Cushing’s disease who were cured at their first operation showed a normalized standardized mortality ratio, further emphasizing the importance of this modality of treatment and the necessity for an experienced surgeon. Nevertheless, while abdominal obesity may improve, hypertension and insulin resistance leading to increased cardiovascular risk with evidence of atherosclerotic disease persists when measured 5 years after remission of Cushing’s disease ( 96 ). It is therefore important to aggressively treat associated conditions such as hypertension and diabetes, even when the Cushing’s per se has been controlled. Unlike some signs and symptoms
