Cushing’s Syndrome
KEYWORDS: cushing, syndrome, cushing syndrome, patients, cortisol, disease, acth, cushing disease, adrenal, test, treatment, pituitary, levels, ectopic, pubmed


96 ). It is therefore important to aggressively treat associated conditions such as hypertension and diabetes, even when the Cushing’s per se has been controlled. Unlike some signs and symptoms that disappear gradually over the next year after successful treatment, co-morbidities such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension improve, but may not resolve completely, requiring further aggressive treatment. There is also some evidence that the outcome from Cushing's disease may be worse in males ( 53 ). Some of the signs and symptoms of Cushing’s syndrome are expected to disappear gradually over the following year after the treatment; skin thickness improves in weeks, but for some it may take longer, as does muscle strength. The outcome of pediatric Cushing’s disease is excellent if treated at centers with appropriate experience ( 447 , 484 ). Cushing's syndrome results in significant impairment in quality of life ( 485 , 486 ), psychiatric symptoms ( 487 ), and cognitive deficits ( 488 ), as previously noted. However, in general these are only partially improved with treatment, and often do not resolve completely in either children or adults. There is some evidence that deficits in bone mass may be partially reversed after treatment of hypercortisolemia ( 489 , 490 ). Bisphosphonate treatment may induce a more rapid improvement in bone mineral density ( 491 ), and should be considered (along with calcium and vitamin D supplements), but it is unclear whether they are needed for the majority of patients with osteoporosis. Osteoporosis starts to improve after 6 months, with rapid improvement over the next two years, but with the possibility of residual disease to some extent ( 492 ). However, in general the prognosis is good without any specific treatment, and the care should be expectant. The prognosis of the potentially malignant causes of Cushing's syndrome is more variable. Adrenal cancer associated with Cushing's syndrome has an extremely poor prognosis. Tumors that produce ectopic ACTH tend to have a poorer prognosis, compared with tumors from the same tissue that do not produce ACTH. Small cell lung cancer, islet cell tumors, and thymic carcinoids illustrate this phenomenon: up to 82% of patients with small cell lung cancer and Cushing’s syndrome were reported to die within 2 weeks from the start of chemotherapy ( 493 ), although currently a survival in terms of months should be expected. REFERENCES 1. Newell-Price J, Trainer P, Besser M, Grossman A.
