Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


Millennium Development Goals for Health: What Will It Take to Accelerate Progress? Adam Wagstaff, Mariam Claeson, Robert M. Hecht, Pablo Gottret, and Qiu Fang The scale of the diseases and conditions that the Millennium forhouseholds.InVietnam,theyareestimatedtohavepushed Development Goals (MDGs) address is staggering: 3 million people into poverty in 1993 (Wagstaff and van Doorslaer2003). • Almost 11 million children died before their fifth birthday Beyond the direct impact ofill health on households’living in 2000 .Less than 1 percent ofthese 11 mil- standards through out-of-pocket expenditures, it indirectly lion deaths (79,000) occurred in high-income countries, affects labor income through productivity and the number of compared with 42 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa,35 percent hours that people can work.The effects of illness on income, in South Asia,and 13 percent in East Asia. which may take time to appear, are often long lasting. Mal- • In 1998, an estimated 843 million people were considered nourishedchildrenarelesslikelytoattendschoolandlesslikely undernourished on the basis of their food intake (FAO 2000).Ofthe estimated 140 million children under the age later life.The devastating economic consequences ofillness and offive who were underweight,almost half(65 million) were death are evident at the macroeconomic level as well.The AIDS in South Asia. epidemic alone has been estimated to reduce rates of eco- • Of the 3.1 million people who died from HIV/AIDS in nomic growth by 0.3 to 1.5 percentage points annually (Bell, 2003, almost all (99 percent) were in the developing Devarajan,and Gersbach 2003). world—74 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa alone (UNAIDS In the 1990s, the international community recognized the 2004). Tuberculosis and malaria together killed an equal importance ofhealth in development.In a period when overall number;most ofthese deaths were among the poor. official development assistance declined, development assis- • In 1995, 515,000 women died during pregnancy or child- tance to health rose in real terms. World Bank lending for birth:1,000 in the industrial world,contrasted with 252,000 in Sub-Saharan Africa . Development Association disbursements going to health Thisburdenofdeathandsufferingisheavilyconcentratedin (OECD Development Assistance Committee 2000).The 1990s the world’s poorest countries (Wagstaff and Claeson 2004). saw an increased global concern over the debt in the develop- Deathanddiseasematterintheirownright,buttheyalsoactasa ing world,fueled in part by a perception that interest payments brakeonpovertyreduction.NobellaureateAmartyaSen(2002) were constraining government health expenditures in hasdescribedhealthasoneof“themostimportantconditions developing countries. The enhanced Highly Indebted Poor ofhumanlifeandacriticallysignificantconstituentofhuman Country Initiative,spearheaded by the International Monetary capabilitieswhichwehavereasontovalue.”Healthalsomatters Fund and World Bank in response to the unsustainable debt because it influences the living standards of both households burden ofthe poorest
