Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


the 1990s,well short aspects ofhealth—directly or indirectly (box 9.1).Several other ofthe target of4.3 percent. Box 9.1 The Health-Related Millennium Development Goals Goal 1—eradicating extreme poverty and hunger.This goal mortality ratio,equivalent to an annual rate ofreduction of includes as a target the halving between 1990 and 2015 of 5.4 percent. the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, with Goal 6—combating HIV/AIDS,malaria,and other diseases. progress to be measured in terms of the prevalence of The target is to halt and begin to reverse the spread ofthese underweight children under five years of age. The target diseases by 2015. implies an average annual rate ofreduction of2.7 percent. Goal 7—ensuring environmental sustainability. This goal Goal4—reducingchildmortality.Thetargetistoreduceby includes as a target the halving by 2015 of the proportion two-thirdsbetween1990and2015theunder-fivemortality ofpeople without sustainable access to safe drinking water. rate,equivalenttoanannualrateofreductionof4.3percent. Goal 8—developing a global partnership for development. Goal 5—improving maternal health.The target is to reduce This goal includes as a target the provision of access to by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015 the maternal affordable essential drugs in developing countries. Source:United Nations Millennium Declaration, the United Nations Millennium Summit 2000. 182 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adam Wagstaff, Mariam Claeson, Robert M. Hecht, and others • Regional differences are also pronounced,with Sub-Saharan faster in 2000–15, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa (Wagstaff Africa faring worse than other regions.In Africa,trends in and Claeson 2004). Gender equality in school and access to reducing under-five mortality and underweight in children clean water will have a positive effect on progress toward the tality fell on average by just 1.6 percent a year compared on these nonhealth goals,however,many regions will still miss with the annual target rate of5.4 percent. many of the health targets.The picture is bleakest for under- • Evidence on how the poor are faring within countries is five mortality—and for Sub-Saharan Africa. mixed.For malnutrition,the poorest 20 percent ofthe pop- The Goals Matter for All Countries. These goals need to be ulation within countries appears,on average,to have been taken seriously for three main reasons: experiencing broadly similar rates of reduction to the pop- ulation as a whole. However, for under-five mortality, the • Fasterprogressisimportanteveniftargetsaremissed.Akey rate has been falling more slowly among the poor, while message of this chapter is that progress can be accelerated better-offfamilies are seeing faster rates ofprogress. inallcountriesthroughajudiciousmixofspendingandpol- icyandinstitutionalreform. Will the Second Half Go Better? • Thegoalsfacilitatebenchmarkingandmonitoringofresults. As a comparison ofthe child mortality experiences in the
