Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


the other targets are and deaths from diarrhea,pneumonia,and HIV/AIDS could be would need to grow nearly sixfold over the coming decade,tak- reduced dramatically. If coverage rates of the key maternal ing the share to 12.2 percent of GDP in 2015.This percentage mortality interventions were increased from current levels to compares with a 2000 figure of1.8 percent and a 2015 forecast 99 percent, an estimated 391,000 maternal deaths worldwide of 2.2 percent based on the 1990s annual growth in govern- . One intervention stands out as especially not be able to reach the MDGs simply by multiplying their more than halfthe maternal deaths averted. terns,because the multiples required are beyond any realistic expectation ofwhat these governments will be able to do dur- ing the next 10 years. WHAT DO COUNTRIES NEED TO DO? What Are the Implications? Ifthe lack ofinterventions is not holding countries back from Poorly governed countries cannot expect to make much progress toward the MDGs simply by scaling up their expendi- make progress toward the MDGs? tures on existing programs in proportion to current alloca- In countries with good governance,additional government tions. Although well-governed countries could, in principle, health spending does reduce child mortality (Rajkumar and simply scale up existing spending to reach the targets, this Swaroop 2002).Development assistance has a stronger effect in option is unlikely to be affordable for them or their donors. countries with strong policies and institutions than in coun- This situation has two implications: tries with only average-quality policies and institutions—and an insignificant effect in countries where policies and institu- tions are weak.This assertion is also consistent with the find- • First,targeting additional government spending to activities ings of a study undertaken by the World Bank for the MDG that will have the largest effect on the MDGs is important the Challenges (Wagstaffand Claeson 2004).The study includes • Second,building good policies and institutions is important other outcomes with child mortality and uses the World Bank’s for all countries:doing so increases the productivity not just Country Policy and Institutional Assessment index to measure of additional spending but also of existing spending com- the quality ofpolicies and institutions. mitments.What do better policies and institutions entail in institutions could achieve the goals simply by scaling up their policies and institutions can arise at several points along Millennium Development Goals for Health: What Will It Take to Accelerate Progress? | 185 outcomes (Claeson and others 2001). Countries
