Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


their policies and institutions can arise at several points along Millennium Development Goals for Health: What Will It Take to Accelerate Progress? | 185 outcomes (Claeson and others 2001). Countries can do a Targeting Specific Population Groups. Many countries subsi- policies and institutions. subsidy schemes not only fail to target interventions that give rise to externalities but also fail to disproportionately benefit the poor—despite the stronger equity case for subsidizing their Improving Expenditure Allocations and Targeting care and the fact that they tend to bear a disproportionate In most countries,government spending gets stuck in the cities burden ofmalnutrition as well as child and maternal mortality. and disproportionately accrues—in a financial sense—to There are many proven ways to target the poor—for example, people who are better off. by delivering essential services in clinics or health posts that only poor families attend or by promoting and delivering serv- Geographic Targeting. Resource allocation formulas can be ices in a way that segments the market and appeals to those in used to reduce government spending gaps across regions and low-income households. ideally to favor geographic zones that are furthest behind. These formulas have been used,for example,as part ofBolivia’s Targeting Spending to Remove Bottlenecks. A planning and decentralization efforts since 1994 and have been associated budgeting approach is to assess—for a country—the health with some large—and pro-poor—improvements in maternal sector impediments to faster progress, to identify ways of and child health indicators.Targeting resources to poor regions removing them, and to estimate both the costs of removing and provinces may be most effectively implemented through them and the likely effects oftheir removal on MDG outcomes nontraditional mechanisms for priority setting and implemen- (Soucat and others 2002). MDG analysis along these lines— tation, such as social investment funds. In Bolivia, a recent referred to sometimes as marginal budgeting for bottlenecks impact evaluation concluded that such funds were responsible (MBB)—has begun in several African countries and in some for a decline in under-five mortality from 88.5 to 65.6 per 1,000 states of India (UNICEF and World Bank 2003).In Mali,key live births over a five-year period (Newman and others 2002). bottlenecks were identified for supporting home-based prac- tices and delivering periodic and continual professional care. Changing the Allocation of Spending across Care Levels. They included low access to affordable commodities and the Spending on health in developing countries is characterized by need for community-based support for home-based care;low a
