Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


Spending across Care Levels. They included low access to affordable commodities and the Spending on health in developing countries is characterized by need for community-based support for home-based care;low a high concentration of spending on secondary and tertiary geographical access to preventive professional care (immuniza- infrastructure and personnel.Some governments have tried to tion,vitamin A supplementation,and prenatal care);shortages of qualified nurses and midwives; and an absence of effective ple,reduced the share ofhospital spending from 60 percent in third-party payment mechanisms for the poor for professional 2000 to 43 percent in 2002.Chapter 3 deals with the issue of how to couple expenditure reallocations across levels of care with measures to improve performance at each level of the ment,are discussed in chapters 71–73. health care system. Targeting Specific Programs. Programs such as those deliver- Improving Policies toward Households as Producers ing directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) for tuber- andDemanders of Care culosis or integrated management of infant and childhood Households are at the center ofany efforts to scale up;they not illness (IMCI) for child health are good examples ofprograms only demand and consume care, but they are also important that may yield high returns to government spending at the producers ofprevention and care.Policies to increase coverage margin.A recent World Bank study in India provides further support for the idea that the way government spending is allo- fore,need to identify and influence the key constraints to both cated across programs makes a difference to its effect on the the production and the demand for those services at the Millennium Development Indicators (World Bank 2003a). household and community levels. Successful public health programs—large-scale programs with a measurable health effect over at least a five-year period—are further discussed in chapter 8. All successful programs have Lowering Financial Barriers. Low income is a barrier to the holder consensus, strong political leadership, coordination important weapon in the war against malnutrition and mor- across agencies and management,effective use of information tality.However,social protection programs are also important. and financial resources, and participation of the beneficiary Successful schemes aimed at households and communities are community. discussed in chapter 56. 186 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adam Wagstaff, Mariam Claeson, Robert M. Hecht, and others One part ofthe affordability equation is price.User charges numeracy and literacy skills learned at school to acquire health- for MDG interventions are to be discouraged.Why? Many of specific knowledge later in life.Although better-educated
