Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


considerable effect on use and theuse ofhealth services.Malaysia and Sri Lanka provide free out-of-pocket expenditures (Yip and Berman 2001).However, or subsidized transportation to hospitals in emergencies insurance in the developing world is very limited, and those (Pathmanathan and others 2003). Other options for tackling who are least able to smooth consumption without insurance inaccessibility include using outreach and establishing partner- are the least likely to have insurance coverage (Musgrove, ships between government and nongovernmental organiza- Zeramdini,and Carrin 2002).Another problem is that many of tions (NGOs),private providers,or community organizations. the schemes are small scale,and evaluations of these schemes resulting in limited evidence (Palmer and others 2004). adequate supplies of water and improved sanitation is associ- Providing Information—Enhancing Knowledge. Lack of among the better educated, even after controlling for other knowledge is a major factor behind poor health. It results in influences.This result is not altogether surprising.Hand wash- people not seeking care when needed, despite the absence of ing is easier if the household has piped water that provides price barriers, and it also results in people—especially poor readily available quantities of safe water. The safe disposal of people—wasting limited resources on inappropriate care. feces is easier ifthe household has an improved form ofsanita- Ignorance may also result in people not getting the maximum tion. The developing world lags well behind the industrial health gain out of inputs they have available to them and use. world in both;the poorer people fare especially badly.They are the health benefit ofpiped water (see chapter 41).Not surpris- rely on tend to be more costly per liter than the networked serv- ingly,piped water has a much greater effect on the prevalence ices used by the better off. of diarrhea among the children of the better off and better The challenge from a health perspective is to get maximum educated. Better-educated women—especially those with a health benefits from investments in access to water and sanita- secondary education—achieve better health outcomes for tion infrastructure.Efforts to work across sectors on water and knowledge that they acquire at school, but by using general Ethiopia,Peru,and Rwanda. Millennium Development Goals for Health: What Will It Take to Accelerate Progress? | 187 of primary health care clinics with and without community participationingovernancesuggesteddecreasesinstaffabsen- in both formal and informal sectors—should deliver interven- teeismandwaitingtimesandsuggestedincreasesinperceived tions ofrelevance to the MDGs.Many are efficient,deliver high quality by patients . The approach probably quality services, and are responsive to their patients.
