Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


formal and informal sectors—should deliver interven- teeismandwaitingtimesandsuggestedincreasesinperceived tions ofrelevance to the MDGs.Many are efficient,deliver high quality by patients . The approach probably quality services, and are responsive to their patients. Many, worksbestforprimarycareandinsituationsinwhichstrong however,are not;many are not even there to deliver any serv- technicalandadvisorysupportisprovidedtocommunityrep- ices at all.As a result,resources—public and private—are often resentativeswhoareclosetotheservicebeingdelivered. nonexistent,underused,or wasted. Two things can make a difference. One is the quality of Contracting. Evidence on the effect ofcontracting within the management.Better management means a clearer delineation public sector is mixed, and the experiences are mainly based of responsibilities and accountabilities inside organizations, on lessons learned from middle-income countries. In several a clearer link between performance and reward, and so on. countries in Europe and Central Asia,evidence shows a positive Management means getting accountabilities right within an effect from performance-based payment,but that is not neces- organization.The other thing that can make a difference is get- sarily the same as contracting, which can occur without ting accountabilities right between the organization and the performance-related pay.The best evidence relates to the use public (World Bank 2003d). of target payments for the attainment of a given level of coverage—for example,for immunization or cervical cytology Improving Management—Increasing Accountability within at the primary care level .In Argentina Provider Organizations. Management styles in government- and Nicaragua, social security institutes have increased pro- funded and government-implemented health schemes have ductivity by establishing capitation-based payments for an recently begun to change, focusing on performance—that is, integrated package of inpatient and ambulatory services on outputs and outcomes—rather than on inputs and pro- .Key influences on the success ofcontracts with- cesses.Good performance is rewarded,financially or in some in the public sector include whether the provider has the abil- other way. The focus is on clients and on the belief that an ity to respond, whether service commitments are congruent organization is ultimately accountable to its clients.A client- with funding levels, whether output and key components of oriented strategy emphasizes customer choice and satisfaction. performance expectations are easily measurable, and how far Business techniques enhance performance and are a standard capacity strengthening ofthe payer or funder is addressed. part ofstrategic planning. Contracting with nonprofit organizationsis most common This new approach is evident in several countries,and ele- in low-income countries (see chapter 12, which contains a ments of the approach are visible in successful nutrition and longer discussion ofcontracting with NGOs).Most cases have had positive effects on target outcome or
