Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


combined with other strategies,such as women’s education and order to reach the MDGs. The substantial range of estimates behavior change (Johnson-Welch 1999; Quisumbing 1995). between US$20 billion and US$75 billion per year to achieve The MDG agenda highlights the need not only to prioritize the MDGs at a global level has led to debates over the most better inform priority setting in resource allocations between to the development of new costing methodologies for obtain- sectors,identifying intersectoral synergies and finding ways to ing consistent and reliable estimates to use for policy dialogue maximize benefits for health. and decision making at the country levels.Some of the meth- ods are summarized in box 9.2. COSTING AND FINANCING ADDITIONAL SPENDING FOR THE MDGS Preliminary Country Cost Estimates. Table 9.2 provides a set of preliminary country-level estimates for the cost of Additional health spending will be required in many countries removing bottlenecks and accelerating progress toward the to accelerate progress toward the health goals (see chapter 12). health MDGs (MBB method) and for the cost of achieving 190 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adam Wagstaff, Mariam Claeson, Robert M. Hecht, and others countries. The estimates are presented for illustration of Encouraging Risk Pooling Rather Than Out-of-Pocket ordersofmagnitudeandshouldnotbeusedforintercountry Spending. Health spending can be broken down into three comparison. categories: Financing Extra Health Spending The additional resources needed to reach the MDGs are large • private (out-of-pocket expenditures and private insurance) at both country and global levels,as discussed in the previous • public (financing from general revenues and social insur- section.The key question is how to finance the extra spending ance contributions) that is needed. • external sources (development assistance). Box 9.2 Estimating the Cost of Scaling Up to Achieve the MDGs The following are the country-specific models for MDG removal ofbottlenecks are discussed,and the inputs are cost analysis: identified for improving coverage,for example,in a vil- lage.Cost estimates are based on these inputs by scaling • The MDG Needs Assessments Model developed by the up the cost to cover the district,province,or nation. United Nations Millennium Project, (Millennium • Elasticityestimatesthrougheconometricmodelingdevel- Project 2004). The Millennium Project model yields oped by the World Bank staff (Wagstaff and Claeson total cost estimates for full coverage of the needs of a 2004).Afewstudieshaveusedeconometrictechniques defined population with a comprehensive set of health toanalyzetheeffectonMDGoutcomesofcertaincross- interventions in a given year.It uses unit cost ofcover- sector determinants (such as economic growth, water ing one
