Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


Models Country Model used Cost estimate (US$ per capita per year) Ethiopia MBB 3.56 Madagascar (Toamasina) MBB 2.38 Mali (one region) MBB 3.97 Millennium Project 32.00 Bangladesh Millennium Project 20.60 Cambodia Millennium Project 22.50 Ghana Millennium Project 24.70 Tanzania Millennium Project 34.70 Uganda Millennium Project 32.10 Source:Authors. Private spending absorbs a larger share ofincome in poorer than they are in richer countries. However, differences exist countries.In low-income countries,it absorbs a larger share of across countries that cannot be explained by per capita income GDP,on average,than domestically financed public spending. alone. In low-income and lower-middle-income countries,it invari- Countries need to ascertain whether their low spending ably means out-of-pocket expenditures rather than private is caused by unduly low general revenues or by unduly low ation leaves many near-poor households heavily exposed to the adjustments.Bolivia managed to raise its general revenue share risk of impoverishing health expenses. The risk is clearly consistently in the 1990s as the result of a sustained reform on average,to have larger shares of poor people (World Bank the beneficiaries of this growth of tax revenues: government 2000).Governments thus have a major role to play in helping health spending as a share of GDP grew at an annual rate of shape effective risk-pooling mechanisms, in addition to nearly 10 percent in the 1990s. increasing their own spending and targeting it to services for Although raising domestic resources takes time, countries the poor that will have a large positive effect on the MDGs. that can apparently afford to spend more out of their own resources should be encouraged to start the process. Development agencies have a role here—in providing technical Getting Governments to Spend What They Can Afford support of tax reform, in helping develop government com- the issue is how much they can afford.Unlike private spending, giving financial assistance, both to ease the adjustment costs government spending as a share of GDP is higher in richer and to provide support while the gap is being closed between countries.However,at any given per capita income,a surpris- current and affordable spending. ing amount ofvariation occurs across countries in the share of GDP allocated to government health programs.Countries that Recognizing the Limits of Development Assistance. Official appear able to spend similar shares of GDP on government development assistance tends to account for a larger share of health programs end up spending quite different amounts. government health spending in poorer countries.Development How can extra
