Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, development, spending, mdgs, world, interventions, millennium, percent, mortality, progress, government, care, developing, poor


GDP on government development assistance tends to account for a larger share of health programs end up spending quite different amounts. government health spending in poorer countries.Development How can extra domestic resources be mobilized ifcountries assistance for health is especially important in Sub-Saharan are spending less than they can afford? Domestically financed Africa. Twelve countries in Sub-Saharan Africa had external social insurance contributions,or both.The amount ofgeneral 2000 (World Bank 1998). revenues flowing into the health sector is the product of the Increased development assistance is needed to achieve the amount of general (tax and nontax) revenues collected by MDGs. Development assistance, however, is not without its the government (the general revenue share) and the share of drawbacks. Many donors require that assistance be kept in of government spending) . Low government health undermining government efforts to appropriately plan and spending could be attributable to either share or both shares target expenditures. Such off-budget expenditures make it being low.In poorer countries,both shares are typically lower difficult in some countries to properly target resources to 192 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Adam Wagstaff, Mariam Claeson, Robert M. Hecht, and others particular interventions, geographic locations, or population Bourguignon, F., M. Bussolo, H. Lofgren, H. Timmer, and D. van der groups, even though such targeting may be essential for Mensbrugghe. 2004. “Towards Achieving the Millennium Development Goals in Ethiopia: An Economywide Analysis of improving the effect of expenditures on outcomes and the Alternative Scenarios.”World Bank,Washington,DC. probability of reaching the health goals.Donors often require Claeson,M.,C.Griffin,T.Johnston,M.McLachan,A.Soucat,A.Wagstaff, recipient governments to maintain separate accounts and to and A.Yazbeck 2001.“Poverty-Reduction and the Health-Sector.”In provide separate progress reports, thereby increasing the Poverty Reduction Strategy Sourcebook.Washington,DC:World Bank. for Mobilizing New Research behind the Health Millennium Development Goals.”In Global Forum Update on Research for Health term, whereas the needs are permanent. Thus, any external 2005,73–75.Geneva:Global Forum. financing must at some point be substituted with additional Commission on Macroeconomics and Health. 2001.“Macroeconomics domestic revenues or expenditure reallocations.This substitu- and Health:Investing in Health for Economic Development—Report been difficult to achieve, leading to a dropoff in effort in Development Department (Latin America and the Caribbean Human Consensus on how to improve aid effectiveness is grow- Development Committee. 2003. “Supporting Sound Policies with ing among development partners, and partners at the High Adequate and Appropriate Financing.”Discussion paper,World Bank, Washington DC. Level Forum on Health MDGs ( org).This agenda includes supporting countries in developing
