NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


Author Manuscript Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. Published in final edited form as: Biochemistry. 2014 January 14; 53(1): 202–213. doi:. A Noncompetitive Inhibitor for Mycobacterium tuberculosis's Class IIa Fructose 1,6-Bisphosphate Aldolase Glenn C. Capodagli†, Wafik G. Sedhom†, Mary Jackson‡, Kateri A. Ahrendt*,§, and Scott D. Pegan*,†,∥ United States Abstract Class II fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA) is an enzyme critical for bacterial, fungal, and protozoan glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Importantly, humans lack this type of aldolase, having instead a class I FBA that is structurally and mechanistically distinct from class II FBAs. As such, class II FBA is considered a putative pharmacological target for the development of novel antibiotics against pathogenic bacteria such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent for tuberculosis (TB). To date, several competitive class II FBA substrate mimic-styled inhibitors have been developed; however, they lack either specificity, potency, or properties that limit their potential as possible therapeutics. Recently, through the use of enzymatic and structure-based assisted screening, we identified 8-hydroxyquinoline carboxylic acid (HCA) that has an IC of 10 50 © 2013 American Chemical Society E. Iliff Ave., Olin 202, Denver, CO 80208. . Telephone: (303) 871-2533.. Supporting Information Omit maps and B factors of atoms near HCA (Figure S1). This material is available free of charge via the Internet at Accession Codes The atomic coordinates and structure factors have been deposited as Protein Data Bank entry 4LV4. The authors declare the following competing financial interest(s): A provisional U.S. Patent Application, 61/821,184, has been filed. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript ± 1 μM for the class II FBA present in M. tuberculosis (MtFBA). As opposed to previous inhibitors, HCA behaves in a noncompetitive manner, shows no inhibitory properties toward human and rabbit class I FBAs, and possesses anti-TB properties. Furthermore, we were able to determine the crystal structure of HCA bound to MtFBA to 2.1 Å. HCA also demonstrates inhibitory effects for other class II FBAs, including pathogenic bacteria such as methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus aureus. With its broad-spectrum potential, unique inhibitory characteristics, and flexibility of functionalization, the HCA scaffold likely represents an important advancement in the development of class II FBA inhibitors that can serve as viable preclinical candidates. Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the most prevalent infections in the world and a leading cause of mortality in developing countries.1 Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent for TB new cases during 2011, with 1.4
