NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


catalyze the reversible aldol condensation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (G3P) to form fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FBP).18 However, the two enzyme classes differ in their mechanism of catalysis and prevalence among species, which has made class II FBAs a Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript highly sought after bacterial target for pharmacological development. Specifically, class I FBAs utilize a lysine residue to generate a nucleophilic enamine from DHAP, whereas class II aldolases utilize a Zn(II) cation to stabilize the DHAP enolate intermediate involved in the aldol condensation reaction.19 Also, the location of a key amino acid side chain responsible for proton extraction and addition significantly differs.19–21 Beyond the differences in their reaction mechanisms, the two classes of FBAs distinctly differ in their distribution among species. Higher organisms such as humans possess only class I FBAs, whereas protozoa, bacteria, fungi, and blue-green algae primarily have class II FBAs, with a few possessing both.22–24 In other words, selective inhibitors developed for class II FBAs are unlikely to generate toxic effects through disruption of the human class I FBA. Additionally, the essentiality of class II FBAs within bacteria has been illustrated via knockout studies of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, including M. tuberculosis, Escherichia coli, Streptomyces galbus, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Candida albicans.11,15,25–33 Although bacteria such as E. coli and other autotrophic prokaryotes possess both class I and class II FBAs, class I FBAs are only conditionally expressed, with class II FBAs being essential.11,16,34,35 Beyond knockout studies and MtFBA being the only FBA in M. tuberculosis, MtFBA has been observed to be more abundantly produced and/or secreted by M. tuberculosis when placed in hypoxic conditions similar to those found within necrotic pulmonary lesions where M. tuberculosis resides.7,17 A p-blast search also illustrates that MtFBA is 100% conserved across all sequenced strains of M. tuberculosis, including XDR-TB strain KZN605 as well as MDR-TB strain KZN1435. Taken together, the essentiality of class II FBAs and the absence of a human homologue have placed class II FBAs among the top potential bacterial drug targets currently lacking a viable preclinical drug candidate. Naturally, as the essentiality of class II FBAs in bacteria was revealed in 2003, efforts began in earnest to develop class II FBA inhibitors for use as treatments related to TB and other bacterial and protozoan infections.11 The first
