NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


bacteria was revealed in 2003, efforts began in earnest to develop class II FBA inhibitors for use as treatments related to TB and other bacterial and protozoan infections.11 The first generation of these inhibitors began with the candidacy of a DHAP analogue, phosphoglycolohydroxymate (PGH) which was first reported in 1974.9 Although PGH inhibits class II FBAs through competitive inhibition by mimicking DHAP, PGH is extremely promiscuous, inhibiting several mammalian enzymes, including class I FBAs.8,36,37 Recent attempts to follow up on the competitive substrate mimicry approach utilized the chemical skeleton of FBP and focused on zinc–inhibitor interactions to gain greater specificity. Although low-micromolar, selective competitive inhibitors were observed for MtFBA and other bacterial class II FBAs, all of the inhibitors relied on the presence of one or two phosphate groups for selectivity and affinity.6,8,9,12,13,23,38 Not surprisingly, with the presence of the highly charged phosphate moiety that likely interferes with transport across the cell membrane, only one of these substrate mimic-styled inhibitors has a measurable minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) despite them being assessed up to 1 mM.6,8,9,12,13,23,38 This sole exception is FBP analogue TD3 that possesses a 40 nM affinity for MtFBA. However, despite a recent attempt to validate or optimize TD3, no inhibitory effect on M. tuberculosis growth was observed, illustrating the limits of these types of inhibitors.6,8 Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Recently, we identified a chemical scaffold, 8-hydroxyquinoline-2-carboxylic acid (HCA), through the use of enzymatic and structure-based assisted screening that allows for selective, druglike, low-micromolar, noncompetitive inhibition of M. tuberculosis class IIa FBA as well as those from other pathogenic bacteria. To elucidate the in vitro characteristics of the interaction between HCA and MtFBA, the ability of HCA to inhibit MtFBA at multiple concentrations was examined, and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) was performed. Finally, an X-ray crystal structure of HCA bound with MtFBA was elucidated to 2.1 Å and compared to the apo and substrate-bound forms of MtFBA. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES Materials Chemicals, biochemicals, buffers, and solvents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO), Fischer Scientific, Inc. (Pittsburgh, PA), Acros Organics (Morris Plains, NJ), or Worthington Biochemical Corp. (Lakewood, NJ) unless otherwise indicated. 8-Hydroxyquinoline-2-carboxylic acid (HCA) was purchased from Acros Organics (catalog no. 347620010). Enzymatic assay reagents, including bovine serum albumin (BSA, catalog no. A3059-50G), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrate (NAD+, catalog no. 43407-25G), rabbit glyceraldehyde
