NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


drops included 2 μL of a 16 mg/mL MtFBA protein solution containing buffer B mixed in a 1:1 ratio with 26% PEG 300, 0.1 M sodium acetate (pH 4.5), and 2% DMSO. After 4 weeks, the holo crystal was removed from the hanging drop, placed in 5 μL of a soaking solution containing 2.5 mM HCA, 26% PEG 300, 0.1 M sodium acetate (pH 4.5), and 2% DMSO for 1 h, and then flash- cooled in liquid nitrogen. X-ray Structure of the the MtFBA–HCA Complex An X-ray data set was collected using a crystal mounted onto a nylon loop flash-cooled in liquid nitrogen. The crystal was mounted under a stream of dry N at 100 K. An MtFBA– HCA complex data set with resolution to 2.10 Å was collected at Advance Light Source (ALS) beamline 4.2.2 using a monochromic X-ray beam of 1.00 Å with a NOIR-1 MBC detector. X-ray images were indexed, processed, integrated, and scaled using HKL2000.42 An initial phase solution was elucidated using holo-MtFBA [Protein Data Bank (PDB) entry 4DEF] as a starting model for molecular replacement using Phaser.43 The structure was refined using iterative cycles of model building and refinement using COOT and phenix.refine, respectively.44,45 Water molecules were added to 2F – F density peaks of o c >1σ using the Find Water COOT program function. The final model was checked for structural quality using the CCP4 suite programs Procheck and Sfcheck. The data refinement statistics are listed in Table 1. Modeling Missing Loops into the Structure of the MtFBA–HCA Complex Residues 167–177 and 210–223, which were unresolved in the X-ray crystal structure of MtFBA bound to HCA, were modeled in using MODELER 9v11 under default settings and the known sequence of MtFBA.46 Five models were generated and inspected in PyMOL, and the final model was chosen by molpdf score. RESULTS Identification of HCA as an Inhibitor of MtFBA Seeking an alternative to the substrate mimic-styled inhibitors that lack several qualities limiting their potential as viable preclinical leads for MtFBA and other class II FBAs, we adopted a fragment-based strategy. This strategy focused on enzymatically screening chemical moieties that would simulate the enolate transition state's hydroxamic acid of PGH with MtFBA's active site Zn(II) but be devoid of groups that would interfere with Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript pharmaceutical development. This set of
