NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


devoid of groups that would interfere with Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript pharmaceutical development. This set of compounds included several heterocyclic zinc binding groups that were used to screen for matrix metalloprotease inhibitors.47–52 Utilizing an assay that coupled MtFBA activity with M. tuberculosis's triosephosphate isomerase (TPI), rabbit glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and diaphorase for a fluorescent output, 60 small molecules were screened in duplicate at a concentration of 1 mM. In addition to using a fluorophore that excited and emitted at wavelengths of >500 nm to prevent false positives, the assay also included DTT as well as BSA to ward off promiscuous inhibition.53,54 This small, low-throughput screening campaign revealed that 8- hydroxyquinoline-2-carboxylic acid (HCA) reduced MtFBA activity more than 95% at a concentration of 1 mM. Although several measures were taken to ward off promiscuous inhibition within the screening assay and reduce false positives, additional validation steps were conducted to further support HCA as a MtFBA inhibitor. Addition of Triton X-100, a known disruptor of aggregation-based inhibition, was introduced to test for any promiscuous inhibition, with no alteration in potency observed (Figure 1a).54 Despite the coupling enzymes already being in >40-fold excess, to further rule out the possibility that HCA was inhibiting a coupling enzyme instead of MtFBA, a 160-fold excess of each coupling enzyme was added and assessed at a HCA concentration of 25 μM (Figure 1a). No ablation of HCA inhibition was observed, suggesting HCA's effect on the assay was linked specifically to MtFBA inhibition. Also, as expected, no HCA-facilitated inhibition of the assay was detected when MtFBA's assay products DHAP and G3P were substituted for MtFBA. Understandably, there have been numerous reports of compounds possessing 8-hydroxyquinoline moieties acting as promiscuous chelating agents.49,55,56 To test this possibility, a 2-fold increase in the level of Zn(II) was used to determine if HCA was indirectly inhibiting MtFBA activity by sequestering Zn(II) in solution. If HCA was limiting MtFBA's access to Zn(II), or stripping MtFBA of Zn(II), an increase in the level of Zn(II) should reduce the inhibitory effects of HCA on MtFBA activity. Unexpectedly, the potency of HCA for MtFBA slightly increased (Figure 1a). A dose–response relationship of HCA and MtFBA conducted under these conditions yielded an IC of 10 ± 1 μM (Figure 1b). Importantly, HCA inhibited the growth of M. tuberculosis in 7H9-OADC broth at a
