NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


HCA and MtFBA conducted under these conditions yielded an IC of 10 ± 1 μM (Figure 1b). Importantly, HCA inhibited the growth of M. tuberculosis in 7H9-OADC broth at a concentration of 0.6–1.2 mM. Biochemical and Biophysical Properties of the MtFBA–HCA Interaction To characterize the nature of the inhibition of MtFBA by HCA, kinetic studies and ITC experiments were conducted. To understand the mechanism of inhibition of MtFBA activity by HCA, five different FBP concentrations and six different HCA concentrations were utilized to determine the kinetic response of MtFBA to varying concentrations of substrate and inhibitor. Surprisingly, only the V of MtFBA was significantly affected over a 20- max fold increase in inhibitor concentration, whereas the K remained constant (Figure 1c). This M along with using nonlinear regression analysis indicated that HCA acts in a noncompetitive manner against FBP with a K of 12 ± 1 μM, instead of a competitive manner like previously i characterized class II FBA inhibitors. Next, as HCA is known to bind to zinc (II), the biophysical binding characteristics of HCA and free zinc (II) in solution were analyzed via ITC. This revealed an exothermic binding event with the following values: K = 9.39 ± 0.79 d Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript μM, Δ H = −26.8 ± 0.3 kJ/mol, ΔS = 6.9 ± 0.9 J mol −1 K−1, and n = 1.86 ± 0.10 (Figure 2a). The binding stoichiometry of HCA and free zinc (II) in solution determined by ITC matches current X-ray crystallography data for the structure of HCA bound to free zinc (II), which also showed HCA and zinc (II) interacting in a ratio of 2:1.55 Intriguingly, the data from the enzymatic assay showed that HCA's inhibitory effects against MtFBA are not reduced in the presence of a 2-fold excess of ZnCl . Therefore, to assess the thermodynamic factors that may favor HCA's interaction with MtFBA versus free zinc (II), HCA was first combined with a 3-fold excess of ZnCl required for the formation of the HCA–free zinc (II) complex and then titrated into MtFBA. As Pegan et al. and de la Paz Santangelo et al. recently reported that zinc (II) has to be in solution for the active site of MtFBA to be fully occupied, the presence of excess zinc (II) ensured full occupancy.7,14 In addition, the excess
