NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


in coordinating the active site Zn(II) ion and can be considered the zinc binding loop [Z-loop (Figure 4c)].14 Subsequently, closer inspection of the region where the Z-loop would typically reside, as well as the active site, readily revealed F – F density of HCA coordinating the MtFBA's o c active site Zn(II) in a trident manner (Figure 5a and Figure S1 of the Supporting Information). Intriguingly, instead of accessing the active site Zn(II) through the highly polar and narrow substrate pocket of MtFBA, HCA appears to alter the active site. Specifically, it displaces the His212's imidazole side chain for the bound Zn(II). This creates Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript a hydrophobic pocket that accommodates the bicyclic structure of HCA (Figure 5b). In addition to the displacement of His212, Val165, which is located on the flexible active site β5α5 loop, is also supplanted by HCA (Figure 5b).14 Although the X-ray data showed clear density for Val165, its position was shifted away from the active site. Beyond these alterations with the MtFBA active site, HCA forms three coordination bonds with Zn(II). As observed in previous MtFBA structures, two additional coordination bonds are formed between Zn(II) and histidine residues located at positions 96 and 252. Together, these interactions yield a coordination number of 5 (T ) for the active site Zn similar to that of the PGH bound and different from the T coordination found in the FBP structure (Figure 5a– 6 c).15 In addition to the Zn(II)–HCA interactions, HCA forms a hydrogen bond (H-bond) with Glu161 of MtFBA as well as a network of H-bonds through water to Asp95 that further drives HCA stabilization within the altered active site (Figure 5a). Examining HCA's Specificity for Class I and II FBAs As class II FBAs share considerable sequence similarity (Figure 3a), HCA's potential as a class II FBA broad-spectrum inhibitor was examined. A single concentration of HCA of 25 μM was tested for the inhibition of class II FBAs isolated from E. coli and methicillin- resistant S. aureus (MRSA). HCA demonstrated 42.2 ± 2.8% inhibition against E. coli and 64.3 ± 0.6% inhibition against MRSA (Figure 6). Conversely, class I FBAs are markedly different in sequence from class II FBAs and do not utilize a zinc (II) ion to perform their mechanistic function. Therefore, to investigate HCA's specificity for class
