NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


FBAs are markedly different in sequence from class II FBAs and do not utilize a zinc (II) ion to perform their mechanistic function. Therefore, to investigate HCA's specificity for class II FBAs over class I FBAs, the class I FBAs isolated from both rabbit and human muscle were tested against HCA. Unlike class II FBAs, HCA showed no inhibitory effects against either class I FBA even at concentrations as high as 1 mM (Figure 6). DISCUSSION HCA as a Noncompetitive MtFBA Inhibitor The alignment of the MtFBA–HCA structure with those of MtFBA bound with FBP, or PGH, illustrates that HCA does not intrude into the substrate pocket itself (Figure 5b,c). Instead, incorporation of HCA into MtFBA appears to displace the Z-loop and in doing so blocks access of MtFBA substrates to an empty pocket (Figure 5b,c). The proximity of a noncompetitive inhibitor to a substrate pocket has been previously observed with a noncompetitive inhibitor, PD184352, of MAP kinase kinase 1 (MEK1).57 The noncompetitive nature of inhibition outlined by the mode of inhibition experiments combined with the structural data suggests that the MtFBA–HCA structure may be reflective of an EI complex found in the third model for noncompetitive inhibition (Figure 7a).58 In this model, the inhibitor binds next to the substrate binding site with or without the substrate bound. When the substrate is absent, the inhibitor sterically hinders access of substrates to an empty site comparable to that observed in the structure of the MtFBA–HCA complex (Figure 7a). Also, the myriad of coordination bonds and H-bonds that HCA forms with MtFBA pulls the Zn(II) away from the substrate binding pocket. This would likely eliminate its availability for catalysis in an ESI complex in line with the third model of noncompetitive inhibition. Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Use of HCA as a Scaffold for Future MtFBA Inhibitor Development The persistence of tuberculosis along with the rise of many forms of drug resistant bacteria has supported the interest in identifying inhibitors for class II FBAs that may serve as viable preclinical candidates for further development as antibiotic and antiparasitic treatments.6–9,12–14,38 Although previous class II FBA inhibitor development efforts have been able to deliver potent substrate-based analogs selective for class II over class I FBAs, the recurring theme throughout studies utilizing class II FBA substrates as a scaffold is the necessity
