NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


able to deliver potent substrate-based analogs selective for class II over class I FBAs, the recurring theme throughout studies utilizing class II FBA substrates as a scaffold is the necessity of these inhibitors to possess highly charged phosphate groups.8,13,38 As phosphorylation of glycolytic intermediates is a method for cells to retain these intermediates within the cytosol, their inclusion into class II FBA inhibitors has been problematic.59 In addition, the active site of class II FBA, which has evolved to interact with class II FBA's highly polar substrates, is itself highly polar, lacking appreciable potential for hydrophobic interactions. As this form of interaction typically dominates protein–drug interactions, targeting the class II FBA active site has proved to be daunting. HCA sidesteps both of these issues through its distinct low-micromolar noncompetitive mode of inhibiting MtFBA. Specifically, HCA appears to take advantage of the previously overlooked fragility of the coordination of His212 of MtFBA with Zn(II) along with the structural dependence of the Z-loop on that interaction to facilitate hydrophobic and hydrophilic contacts. At first glance, the substrate- and Zn(II)-bound MtFBA structures of Pegan et al.,15 as well as the Zn(II)-bound holo-MFBA structure of Pegan et al.,14 might have suggested that a stable interaction between His212 and an active site Zn(II) potentially existed. In addition, a zinc-less MtFBA apo structure of de la Paz Santangelo et al.7 illustrates that the ordered structure of the Z-loop depends on the presence of Zn(II) within the active site. However, the MtFBA–HCA structure suggests that even when Zn(II) is bound to the MtFBA active site, the interaction between His212 and the bound Zn(II) is still in flux. This flux allows HCA to supplant His212 with a trident coordination of the metal or a HCA–Zn(II) complex to replace the active site Zn(II). Naturally, additional experiments will likely be necessary to tease out which event is more likely. However, the MtFBA–HCA structure along with the biochemical and biophysical experiments illustrates that HCA prefers to be bound to MtFBA's active site Zn(II) and that this Zn(II) prefers HCA over His212. From the MtFBA–HCA structure, this preference appears to be driven by not only a H-bond network formed by bonds from HCA to Asp95 and Glu161 of MtFBA that pulls Zn(II) away from the active site, but also hydrophobic interactions caused by the creation of a hydrophobic pocket that accommodates HCA's bicyclic ring structure (Figure 5b). As hydrophobic interactions are usually
