NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hca, mtfba, class, author, author manuscript, manuscript, fbas, class fbas, nih-pa author, nih-pa, fba, active, site, figure, using


away from the active site, but also hydrophobic interactions caused by the creation of a hydrophobic pocket that accommodates HCA's bicyclic ring structure (Figure 5b). As hydrophobic interactions are usually sought for protein–drug interactions and are a largely insignificant factor in the affinity of previous inhibitors for class II FBAs, the presence of this feature in MtFBA–HCA interactions is particularly noteworthy. In addition to HCA's distinct mode of inhibition, HCA possesses several features that make the compound attractive from a medicinal chemistry perspective. First, the compound has a low molecular mass of 189 Da and contains minimal structural features. Furthermore, functionality can be added at a variety of places on HCA while still likely maintaining druglike properties.53,60,61 Also, HCA appears via the MtFBA–HCA structure to capitalize on the unique mechanistic Biochemistry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 January 14. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript difference between class I and class II FBAs by interacting with MtFBA active site zinc and residues immediately surrounding it. These residues along with Zn2+ do not exist in class I FBAs. This combined with the lack of measurable inhibition of mammalian class I FBAs suggests the HCA scaffold could represent a significant leap forward in class II FBA preclinical inhibitor development. Broad-Spectrum Potential of HCA Interestingly, class II FBAs can be broken down into two families (a and b) whose distribution among bacterium is independent of Gram staining-determined phylogenetic groups. Naturally, all class II FBAs have an evolutionary need to maintain an effective active site that binds Zn(II) and a common set of substrates. As a result, the structural differences between these two subfamilies are predominantly distal from their respective active sites and are involved in determining the diverse oligomeric states adopted by class II FBAs.15 This phenomenon is well-represented upon comparison of residues that comprise the HCA-induced pocket (Figure 7b). Structural alignments of class IIa FBAs from M. tuberculosis and E. coli along with that of B. anthracis's class IIb FBA reinforce the potentially conserved nature of the HCA-induced pocket (Figure 7b). The ability of HCA to significantly inhibit both the class IIa FBA from E. coli and a class IIb FBA from MRSA further supports the potential use of the HCA scaffold for these bacteria. Of course, additional experiments with these or other class II FBAs will have to be conducted to fully confirm HCA is acting in a
