iii1
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, patients, etal, acute pancreatitis, recommendation, necrosis, evidence, severe, treatment, pancreatic, complications, used, grade, severity


iii1 GUIDELINES UK guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis UK Working Party on Acute Pancreatitis ............................................................................................................................... Gut2005;54(SupplIII):iii1–iii9.doi: 1.0 REVISED RECOMMENDATIONS AND dation grade B). Further studies are needed AUDIT STANDARDS N (recommendationgradeC). 1.1 Recommendations 2003 (*Unchanged The evidence is not conclusive to support the from the 1998 recommendations) use of enteral nutrition in all patients with Diagnosis severe acute pancreatitis. However, if nutri- N tional support is required, the enteral route *The correct diagnosis of acute pancreatitis should be used if that can be tolerated should be made in all patients within (recommendationgradeA). 48 hours of admission (recommendation N gradeC). Thenasogastricrouteforfeedingcanbeused N as it appears to be effective in 80% of cases The aetiology of acute pancreatitis should be (recommendationgradeB). determined in at least 80% of cases and no more than 20% should be classified as idio- pathic(recommendationgradeB). N Treatment of gall stones N Although amylase is widely available and Urgent therapeutic endoscopic retrograde provides acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) should be where lipase estimation is available it is performed in patients with acute pancreatitis preferred for the diagnosis of acute pancrea- of suspected or proven gall stone aetiology titis(recommendationgradeA). N whosatisfythecriteriaforpredictedoractual Where doubt exists, imaging may be used: severe pancreatitis, or when there is cholan- ultrasonography is often unhelpful and pan- gitis,jaundice,oradilatedcommonbileduct. creatic imaging by contrast enhanced com- The procedure is best carried out within the putedtomographyprovidesgoodevidencefor first 72hours after the onset of pain. All the presence or absence of pancreatitis patientsundergoingearlyERCPforseveregall (recommendationgradeC). stone pancreatitis require endoscopic sphinc- terotomy whether or not stones are found in the bile duct (recommendation grades B and A N ssessment N C). Thedefinitionsofseverity,asproposedinthe Patients with signs of cholangitis require Atlanta criteria, should be used. However, endoscopic sphincterotomy or duct drainage organ failure present within the first week, bystentingtoensurereliefofbiliaryobstruc- whichresolveswithin48hours,shouldnotbe tion(recommendationgradeA). N considered an indicator of a severe attack of All patients with biliary pancreatitis should N acutepancreatitis(recommendationgradeB). undergodefinitivemanagementofgallstones Available prognostic features which predict duringthesamehospitaladmission,unless a complicationsinacutepancreatitisareclinical clear plan has been made for definitive impression of severity, obesity, or APACHE treatmentwithinthenexttwoweeks(recom- II.8inthefirst24hoursofadmission,andC mendationgradeC). reactive protein .150mg/l, Glasgow score 3 or more, or persisting organ failure after 48hours in hospital (recommendation grade M N anagement of necrosis B). *All patients with severe acute pancreatitis N Patientswithpersistingorganfailure,signsof shouldbemanagedinahighdependencyunit 10daysafteradmissionwillrequirecomputed and systems support (recommendation grade tomography(recommendationgradeB). N B). All patients with persistent symptoms and greater than 30% pancreatic necrosis, and Prevention of complications those with
