iii1
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, patients, etal, acute pancreatitis, recommendation, necrosis, evidence, severe, treatment, pancreatic, complications, used, grade, severity


reference is made to inatleast80%ofcasesandnomorethan20%shouldbe clinicalevidencewhereappropriate,tosupportdifferencesof N classifiedasidiopathic. opinion or to update the evidence base. These guidelines Severity stratification should be made in all patients shouldbereviewedafternomorethanfiveyearsandshould N within48hoursofdiagnosis. be applied with appropriate consideration of changes in the Patients with persisting organ failure, signs of sepsis, or evidencebase. deterioration in clinical status 6–10days after admission should have computed tomography using a dedicated 3.0 EPIDEMIOLOGY pancreasprotocol. N The incidence of acute pancreatitis in the UK appears to be All patients with severe acute pancreatitis should be rising.ThisiscertainlytrueinScotland5andappearsalsoto managed in a high dependency unit or intensive therapy be the case in the South of England.67 Incidence ranges in N unitwithfullmonitoringandsystemssupport. theUKfrom150to420casespermillionpopulation.57 Antibiotic prophylaxis against infection of the necrosis shouldnotbegivenformorethan14daysintheabsence 4.0 DEFINITION OF SEVERITY ofpositivecultures. N The Atlanta criteria for severity are widely accepted.8 The All patients with biliary pancreatitis should undergo summaryofthesecriteriaintheWorldAssociationguidelines definitive management of gall stones during the same is inadequate and the reader is referred to the original pub- N treatmentwithinthenexttwoweekshasbeenmade. distinction between severe acute pancreatitis defined by Patients with extensive necrotising pancreatitis or with the presence of a complication, and predicted severe acute other complications who may require ITU care, or pancreatitis as determined by multifactor scoring systems interventional radiological, endoscopic, or surgical proce- or other predictive tests. Secondly, the definition of acute N unit. weeks,arisingfromanattackofacutepancreatitis. Radiological facilities should be available to permit The Santorini consensus conference highlighted the diffi- ultrasound examination of the gall bladder within culty of distinguishing pseudocyst from other peripancrea- 24hours of diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. Specialist tic collections using computed tomography (CT) alone. It is units will have access at any time to contrast enhanced recommended that definite imaging evidence of fluid (as helical or multislice computed tomography or magnetic opposed to necrotic tissue) be obtained using ultrasound or resonanceimaging,percutaneousimageguidedaspiration magneticresonance(MR)beforethisdiagnosisisconsidered. assessment and treatment of abdominal and other tionsfollowingnecrotisingpancreatitistobelocalisednecro- complications. sisuntilprovedotherwise(evidencecategoryC). www.gutjnl.com Guidelinesforthemanagementofacutepancreatitis iii3 A further modification to the Atlanta criteria is proposed Table1 Investigationshelpfultodeterminethecauseof in a recent publication from Glasgow.9 In a prospective acutepancreatitis observational study it was found that patients with organ failure that had persisted for more than 48hours had a History Previousgallstones mortality rate in excess of 50%; by contrast, patients with Alcoholintake Familyhistory* organ failure that resolved within 48hours had a mortality Drugintake rateofzero.Thisobservationhasbeenconfirmedinalarger Exposuretoknownviralcausesor groupofpatientsrecruitedacrosstheUK.10 prodromalsymptoms Initialinvestigations Pancreaticenzymesinplasma Recommendation (acutephase) Liverfunctiontests Ultrasoundofgallbladder N The definitions of severity, as proposed in the Atlanta Followupinvestigations Fastingplasmalipids (recoveryphase) Fastingplasmacalcium criteria, should be
