iii1
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, patients, etal, acute pancreatitis, recommendation, necrosis, evidence, severe, treatment, pancreatic, complications, used, grade, severity


shorter than that of Careful patient selection is required to identify those who lipase.Becauseitpersistslongeraftertheonsetoftheattack maybenefitfrommanometryandsubsequenttreatment.14 and because the pancreas is the only source of lipase, Fasting blood lipids and calcium concentrations should estimation of plasma lipase has slightly superior sensitivity be determined. Early and convalescent viral antibody titres andspecificityandgreateroverallaccuracythanamylase. (mumps, Coxsackie B4, and others) may identify a possible Plainradiographscontributelittletothediagnosisofacute causealthoughnospecifictherapywillresult.Thepossibility pancreatitis. Ultrasound may show pancreatic swelling but ofanunderlyingneoplasmorchronicpancreatitisshouldbe the pancreas is visualised in only 25–50% of patients with consideredandinvestigatedasappropriate. acute pancreatitis. The value of ultrasonography lies in its The previous UK guidelines recommended that no more ability to demonstrate gall bladder stones and dilatation of than 20–25% of patients should be classified as idiopathic. thecommonbileduct,aswellasotherpathologyunrelatedto Some authors report values as low as 10%.15–18 However, it the pancreas such as abdominal aortic aneurysm. CT is seemsthatsuchalowvalueisunrealisticingeneralclinical occasionallyindicatedfordiagnosis,ifclinicalandbiochem- practiceintheUK. ical findings are inconclusive, especially when abdominal Table1showsasuggestedplanofinvestigationofpatients signs raise the possibility of an alternative abdominal withacutepancreatitis,todeterminethecause. emergency,suchasaperforationorinfarctionofthebowel. www.gutjnl.com iii4 UKWorkingPartyonAcutePancreatitis Subsequent monitoring of progress depends on repeated N levels (twice weekly) and CT when indicated. There is no Although amylase is widely available and provides evidencetosupporttheuseofrepeatedAPACHEIIscoresfor acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, where lipase is monitoringprogress. available it is preferred for the diagnosis of acute N pancreatitis (recommendation grade A). Recommendation Where doubt exists, imaging may be used: ultrason- N ographyisoftenunhelpfulandpancreaticimagingby Available prognostic features which predict complica- contrast enhanced CT provides good evidence for the tions in acute pancreatitis are clinical impression of presence or absence of pancreatitis (recommendation severity,obesity,orAPACHEII.8inthefirst24 hours grade C). ofadmission,andCreactiveproteinlevels.150mg/l, Glasgow score 3 or more, or persisting organ failure after 48 hoursinhospital (recommendation gradeB). 7.0 PREDICTION OF SEVERITY Table2outlinesfeaturesthatpredictasevereattackofacute pancreatitis.Thereisagreementthatthereisstillaneedfor 8.0 CT IN ACUTE PANCREATITIS an early objective measure of severity (recommendation 8.1 Initial assessment by CT grade C). Clinical examination in the first 24hours of IntheUKitisnotcurrentpracticetoperformearlyCTforthe admission although specific lacks sensitivity and hence is detection and staging of severe cases of acute pancreatitis. unreliable and should be supported by objective measures Despiteastudythatshowed nogreatermortalityafterearly (recommendationgradeA). CT,2324 anxieties persist over the potential for extension of It is clear that C reactive protein is a useful indicator of necrosisandexacerbationofrenalimpairmentfollowingthe severity, more than 48hours after onset of symptoms. The use of intravenous contrast media. Furthermore, it is not Santorini consensus and the World Association guidelines clear how soon the full extent of the necrotic process will recommend a cut off of 150mg/l and this value should occur,butitisatleastfourdaysaftertheonsetofsymptoms25 replacethelevelrecommendedinthe1998guidelines. and early CT may therefore
