iii1
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, patients, etal, acute pancreatitis, recommendation, necrosis, evidence, severe, treatment, pancreatic, complications, used, grade, severity


pancreatitis should undergo culture 7–14days after the onset of the pancreatitis definitive management of gall stones during the same (recommendation gradeB). N hospitaladmission,unlessaclearplanhasbeenmade Patients with infected necrosis will require intervention for definitive treatment within the next two weeks to completely debride all cavities containing necrotic (recommendation grade C). material (recommendation grade B). 15.0 CRITICAL CARE MANAGEMENT 16.2 Choice of interventional or surgical procedure Patientswithsevereacutepancreatitishaveanincreasedrisk There is controversy over the roles of radiological drainage of death. Patients who die usually have evidence of organ and surgical necrosectomy in the management of infected failure.Thegroupatgreatestriskisthosepatientswithorgan pancreatic and peripancreatic necrosis. Standard surgical failure persisting for more than 48hours during the first practice is that all patients with infected necrosis should www.gutjnl.com iii8 UKWorkingPartyonAcutePancreatitis undergo necrosectomy. This has been challenged by retro- 17.0 OTHER LOCAL COMPLICATIONS spective studies from referral centres describing good out- Local complications of pancreatic necrosis, such as pseudo- comeinpatientsmanagedbypercutaneousdrains. cyst and pancreatic abscess, often require surgical, endo- scopic, or radiological intervention. It is difficult to give 16.2.1 Radiological drainage precise guidance in this area because of the variations in In one report, 31 patients with pancreatic abscess were patients, anatomical disturbance, and local expertise. managed by percutaneous drainage. There was a 31% Reported results of surgical and endoscopic drainage are primarysuccessrate.56Freenyetalalsoreportedencouraging similar,24 and percutaneous techniques may be successful results57:in34patientsnearlyhalfhadsuccessfultreatment in appropriate cases. Each case should be managed in an by catheter drainage and only nine required surgical individualisedway,byamultidisciplinaryspecialistpancrea- drainage.Thissuggeststhatpercutaneouswideboredrainage ticteam,takingaccountofthesefeatures. may be sufficient for the treatment of infected necrosis. However, many surgeons are sceptical that solid necrotic 18.0 SPECIALIST TREATMENT AND THE PROVISION tissuecanbeevacuatedalongadrainofanysize,unlessthe OF SERVICES necrotic tissue has already softened and liquefied, as in The requirement for specialist care for patients with severe pancreaticabscess. (table 5), are unchanged from the 1998 guidelines. Every 16.2.2 Surgical debridement hospitalthatreceivesacuteadmissionsshouldhaveasingle Thorough debridement of necrotic tissue is essential during nominated clinical team to manage all patients with acute any surgical intervention. Following this, the abdomen may pancreatitis. If the full range of specialist services is not be closed over drains, packed and left open, or closed over drains and the pancreatic cavity irrigated. There is no clear coordinate local management where possible, and referral evidencetosupportoneorotherofthesetechniquesoverthe toaspecialistunitwhereappropriate.Thepresenceof.30% others. Indeed, the available evidence suggests that overall necrosis is a useful marker of the most severe cases and mortality rate is similar with all three approaches but the shouldpromptdiscussionwithorreferraltoaspecialistunit. postoperativemortalityratedependsonselectioncriteriafor early because more complications were seen with
