Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


ABSTRACT In the U.S. alone, more than one million people are living with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and approximately 50,000 individuals per year are newly diagnosed ( 1 ) ( 2 ). Recent epidemiological studies demonstrate that the global T1D incidence is increasing at a rate of approximately 3-4% per year, notably among younger children and among non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic individuals ( 3 ) ( 4 ). Despite improvements in insulins, insulin delivery methods, and home glucose monitoring, the vast majority of those with T1D do not achieve recommended levels of glycemic control. This is particularly true in childhood and adolescence, as reported by the T1D Exchange Quality Improvement Collaborative, which surveys people living with T1D from US adult and pediatric centers. Its most recent analysis of 2021-2022 glycemic trends reported a mean HbA1c of 8.6% in both the 1-15 and 16-25 age groups ( 5 ). In addition to the increased risk of morbidity and mortality, T1D places significant emotional and financial burdens on individuals, families, and society. These realities highlight the need for both better T1D therapies and the continued push towards the prevention of T1D. In recent decades, research efforts have described the natural history of T1D and expanded the ability to identify individuals at risk for the disease even before clinical onset, via the recognition of genetic markers or T1D-specific autoantibodies. The increasing ability to identify the at-risk population affords researchers the opportunity to intervene at progressively earlier stages in the disease. With the understanding that established islet autoimmunity, confirmed by the presence of multiple T1D autoantibodies, inevitably leads to symptomatic T1D, investigative efforts are shifting towards the delay or prevention of disease progression. Furthermore, with the mounting evidence that any amount of residual C-peptide improves long term clinical outcomes in T1D, some therapies aim to preserve remaining beta cell function in those with symptomatic disease. In this chapter, we review the epidemiology of T1D, genetic and environmental risk factors, the scientific underpinnings of previous and current approaches towards disease- modifying therapy, and future directions of clinical trials. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CASE STUDY 1 Jordan Smith, a 17-year-old male, is in your office for an annual check-up. He tells you that his best friend was diagnosed with T1D last month. Jordan has heard that diabetes is increasing around the world, and
