Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


that both genes and environment contribute to risk. Curiously, the risk of T1D in offspring is higher if the father has T1D (~6%) as compared to if the mother has T1D (~2%) ( 9 ) ( 10 ). Moreover, the risk to a dizygotic twin is slightly higher (~10%) than is the risk to a non-twin sibling with similar HLA risk genes (~6%) ( 11 ) ( 12 ) suggesting that the intrauterine environment and/or similar early life exposures may be important. Lastly, the risk to a monozygotic twin is upwards of ~50%; surprisingly the second twin’s diagnosis may occur many decades after the index twin, highlighting the complexities of gene and environmental interactions that underlie the disease ( 13 ). CASE STUDY 2 ANSWER While you can tell Cindy that her children have a 2-5% (2-5/100) chance of developing type 1 diabetes by age 20; this risk is 6-15 times greater than the T1D risk of a child with no family history of T1D. A person with no family history of T1D has a ~0.3% (1/300) chance of developing T1D by age 20. CASE STUDY 3 Cindy wants to know if there is any way she can learn more about her child’s individual risk of getting type 1 diabetes after he is born. She asks you if genetic testing for T1D is available. She also read online that there is a blood test available to relatives of individuals with T1D that can help identify those at risk for the disease. She wonders if her four nieces should also be screened for their personal risk of T1D. How do you counsel her? What do you tell her about her options for screening her child and her nieces for diabetes risk markers? THE NATURAL HISTORY TYPE 1 DIABETES T1D is an immune-mediated disease that begins in the setting of genetic predisposition and then progresses along a predictable path: early islet autoimmunity (one autoantibody), established islet autoimmunity (two or more autoantibodies), abnormal glucose tolerance, symptomatic T1D with some remaining beta cell function, and finally, little or no remaining beta cell function. This understanding comes from decades of effort by multiple investigators and from participation by thousands of patients with T1D and their family members. George Eisenbarth’s description of T1D as a chronic autoimmune disease, manifested by autoimmunity and a gradual linear fall in beta cell function until there is insufficient beta cell
