Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


family members. George Eisenbarth’s description of T1D as a chronic autoimmune disease, manifested by autoimmunity and a gradual linear fall in beta cell function until there is insufficient beta cell mass to suppress symptomatic hyperglycemia, has served for decades as the T1D natural history paradigm ( 14 ). The “Eisenbarth” model has undergone refinements in recent years; namely, although autoimmunity and beta cell dysfunction do appear prior to diagnosis, these changes are often step-wise and non-linear. Furthermore, beta cell destruction may not be absolute. Nonetheless, the paradigm is largely correct and serves as the underlying rationale for T1D trials. The long pre-symptomatic natural history of T1D presents an opportunity to intervene earlier than is done currently. Diabetes-specific autoantibodies can appear many years before clinical diagnosis and may reliably be used to predict disease progression. In 2015, JDRF (renamed Breakthrough T1D), the Endocrine Society, and the American Diabetes Association proposed a new T1D staging system which underscores that T1D begins with islet autoimmunity rather than with symptomatic hyperglycemia ( 15 ). Stage 1 T1D is defined as the presence of 2 or more autoantibodies with normoglycemia; stage 2 T1D is 2 or more autoantibodies, impaired glucose tolerance and no symptoms; stage 3 T1D is symptomatic disease. The staging system is depicted in figure 3 . Figure 3. Current staging classification of Type 1 diabetes. Stages of Type 1 Diabetes. Adapted from internet image. Modified from https://www.trialnet.org/events-news/blog/type-1-diabetes-staging-classification-opens-door-intervention . Used with permission. HOW TO DETERMINE RISK OF T1D Risk of T1D may be determined by the identification of autoantibodies, usually in those identified as having genetic risk through HLA testing or by family history. Autoantibodies are detectable years before the onset of clinical T1D. Determining Risk: Genes With the knowledge that T1D runs in families and with advances in technology, investigators have described the genetic risk of T1D. T1D risk is strongly linked to HLA class II DR3 and DR4 haplotypes, with the highest risk in those with the DR3/DR4 genotype. The importance of HLA genes to T1D risk highlights the role of the adaptive immune system in the development of autoimmunity. Newer studies have discovered multiple other genes that also contribute to T1D risk ( 16 ). They are largely genes also known to impact immune function; however, their contribution is dwarfed by the impact of HLA genes. Interestingly, recent work suggests that HLA genes primarily contribute to development of autoantibodies, while
