Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


known to impact immune function; however, their contribution is dwarfed by the impact of HLA genes. Interestingly, recent work suggests that HLA genes primarily contribute to development of autoantibodies, while non-HLA genes and environmental factors may be more important in the progression from autoantibodies to clinically overt disease ( 17 ) ( 18 ). The description of non-HLA risk genes (such as the genes for insulin, a major T1D autoantigen) highlights other potential pathways to disease and potential therapies. Although the contribution of HLA class II risk genes overwhelms the contribution of non-HLA risk genes, the HLA contribution may be decreasing as the overall incidence of T1D increases. This suggests that in a population with non-HLA genetic susceptibility, the environment may have become more conducive to the development of T1D. This was reported in a 2004 Lancet article by Gillespie, et al., in which the investigators compared the frequency of HLA class II haplotypes in a UK cohort of 194 individuals diagnosed with T1D between 1922-1946 (the Golden Years cohort) to a cohort of 582 individuals diagnosed between 1985-2002 (the BOX cohort) ( 19 ). In this comparison, shown in Figure 4 , 47% of individuals in the Golden Years cohort were positive for the highest risk genotype DR3-DQ2/DR4-DQ8, compared to 35% of individuals in the BOX cohort. Figure 4. Decreased contribution of high-risk HLA haplotypes over time. HLA class II haplotypes in Golden Years and BOX cohorts, adapted from Gillespie et.al Lancet 2004 ( 19 ). Determining Risk: Family History and Islet Cell Autoantibodies Natural history studies of relatives such as Diabetes Prevention Trial (DPT-1) and Diabetes TrialNet Pathway to Prevention have helped define the risk of T1D in those with a family history of T1D. Since 2000, Diabetes TrialNet has screened over 250,000 relatives of people with T1D, aiming to enroll at-risk individuals in prevention trials. Among relatives of people with T1D, ~5% will have at least one of five islet autoantibodies ( 20 ). TrialNet screens for islet cell antibodies (ICA), autoantibodies to insulin (IAA or mIAA), antibodies to a tyrosine phosphatase (IA-2; previously ICA512), antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), and antibodies to a zinc transporter (ZnT8). With each additional autoantibody, the risk of T1D increases predictably. Unsurprisingly, those with islet autoimmunity and abnormal glucose tolerance are at an even further increased risk of symptomatic T1D. The TrialNet strategy to identify islet autoimmunity among relatives of
