Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


predictably. Unsurprisingly, those with islet autoimmunity and abnormal glucose tolerance are at an even further increased risk of symptomatic T1D. The TrialNet strategy to identify islet autoimmunity among relatives of individuals with T1D is shown in Figure 5 . There are other screening programs ongoing outside of TrialNet in both the US and outside the US, including some general population screening efforts.( 21 ) ( 22 ) ( 23 ). Figure 5. Diabetes TrialNet process for identifying relatives with islet autoimmunity. Natural history studies have shown not only that islet autoimmunity predicts T1D risk, but also that islet autoantibodies usually appear early in life; 64% of babies destined to develop T1D before puberty will have antibodies by age 2 and 95% by age 5 ( 24 ). Furthermore, the data from both prospective birth cohort studies ( 25 ) and cross-sectional studies ( 26 ) ( 27 ) ( 28 ) ( 29 ) are remarkably consistent and suggest that the risk of progression from established autoimmunity to clinical T1D is in the range of 40% after 5 years, 70% after 10 years, and 85% after 15 years. This risk overtime is depicted in Figure 6 . The key understanding from natural history studies is that essentially all individuals with confirmed islet autoimmunity will eventually develop clinical T1D at a rate of 11% per year. Figure 6. Established islet autoimmunity inevitably progresses to clinical T1D. Extrapolated data from multiple studies in genetically at-risk individuals ( 27 ) ( 29 ) ( 26 ) ( 28 ). Identifying individuals with islet autoimmunity has three potential benefits; namely, the opportunity to monitor closely for disease progression, conferring a reduced risk of morbidity and mortality at the time of T1D diagnosis, the opportunity to receive therapy to delay disease progression (currently teplizumab is the only FDA approved therapy, see section below), and the identification of individuals who may be eligible for clinical trials. It is perhaps underappreciated that there is potentially a direct clinical benefit to identifying those with islet autoimmunity. Individuals with islet autoimmunity followed regularly until symptomatic diagnosis present with lower HbA1c and experience less DKA than those diagnosed in the community ( Table 2 ) ( 30 ) ( 31 ) ( 32 ) ( 33 ) ( 34 ). In addition to reduced acute DKA-associated morbidity and mortality, avoidance of DKA at the time of diagnosis may have longer
