Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


negative, stress levels declined after 12 months of follow-up. In 2023 Fr1da investigators reported that ~170,000 children had been screened to date, 473 (0.3%) children had tested positive with multiple islet autoantibodies, and 128 children had progressed to symptomatic T1D. They found that children with pre-symptomatic T1D enrolled in Fr1da had “milder” diabetes at the time of symptomatic diagnosis compared to a cohort of 736 children diagnosed without pre-symptomatic screening, from the German DiMelli study, a cohort and biobank study of incident diagnosis of childhood and adolescent T1D ( 45 ). Unsurprisingly, children who were enrolled in Fr1da at the time of symptomatic diagnosis had lower HbA1c and fasting blood glucose levels, higher fasting C-peptide levels, less ketonuria, a lower prevalence of DKA and less weight loss compared to children diagnosed without pre-symptomatic screening from the DiMelli cohort. ( 46 ). An important unanswered question is the ideal age(s) to screen. A 2022 analysis of data from five prospective cohorts suggested that ages two and six might be optimal, with a sensitivity of 82% and a positive predictive value of 79% for diagnosis by age 15, but this approach would miss those who are diagnosed in adulthood, which represents up to 50% of all T1D diagnoses, and those diagnosed prior to age two ( 47 ). CASE STUDY 3 ANSWER Cindy’s children and other family members can be screened for risk of T1D through TrialNet ( https://www.trialnet.org/ ) or through standard clinical care, as recommended in the 2025 ADA Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes: “Autoantibody-based screening for presymptomatic type 1 diabetes should be offered to those with a family history of type 1 diabetes or otherwise known elevated genetic risk.” The following groups are eligible for screening through Diabetes TrialNet: Age 2-45 with a sibling, child, or parent with T1D Age 2-20 with a cousin, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, grandparent, or half sibling with T1D Age 2 - 45 and have tested positive for at least one T1D related autoantibody outside of TrialNet Source: ( 39 ) CASE STUDY 4 Cindy asks you if there is anything known about exposures during pregnancy that may affect her baby’s future risk of T1D. What do you tell her? PRENATAL INFLUENCES The prenatal environment can have profound effects on the developing fetus. With the recognition that antibodies often develop early in life and that essentially all those with established islet autoimmunity (two
