Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


) ( 69 ) Maternal omega 3 fatty acid supplementation No association ( 65 ) ( 70 ) ( 71 ) CASE STUDY 4 ANSWER Your primary message to Cindy could be that we don’t fully understand what prenatal factors influence future T1D risk. Moreover, an expectant mother has little or no ability to influence most of the exposures listed in Table 3 . Currently, there is insufficient data to recommend any specific behavioral changes or supplements during pregnancy, aside from a daily vitamin D supplement, 600 iu/day, which is the amount recommended for general health by the Institute of Medicine. Source: ( 72 ) CASE STUDY 5 Next, Cindy asks you if there are any factors that might influence her child’s risk of getting T1D after he is born. What do you tell her? Investigators also have studied the early childhood period for clues to the causes of islet autoimmunity and T1D; these have included both observational studies and randomized clinical trials. Such influences might be divided into early nutritional exposures and early microbial/infectious exposures, both of which can affect development of the normal immune system. The inconsistent findings relating to environmental factors reported from observational studies and clinical trials led to the design and implementation of a large international comprehensive evaluation of genetically at-risk babies using cutting edge technologies to study genetics, genomics (gene function), metabolomics, and the microbiome. The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY) is an international prospective birth cohort study that recruited almost 8,000 babies at increased risk for T1D (based on HLA and family history) from Finland, Germany, Sweden, and the US from 2004- 2010. Information on environmental exposures such as diet (including breastfeeding history), infections, vaccinations, and psychosocial stressors were collected. Participants are followed until the age of 15 for the development of islet autoimmunity or T1D and data collection will be finalized in 2025 ( 73 ). A 2024 review described key TEDDY findings to date, including the description of two islet autoimmunity phenotypes (“IAA-first” and “GADA-first”) and that environmental exposures such as enterovirus infection and gastroenteritis may affect the phenotypes differently ( 74 ). This observation was detailed in a 2023 paper that reported gastrointestinal infections prior to 1 year of age were associated with increased IAA risk whereas gastrointestinal infections during the second year of life were associated with a decreased IAA risk ( 75 ). EARLY NUTRITIONAL
