Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


year of age were associated with increased IAA risk whereas gastrointestinal infections during the second year of life were associated with a decreased IAA risk ( 75 ). EARLY NUTRITIONAL EXPOSURES Breastfeeding The hypothesis that human breastmilk may protect against future T1D development was presented as early as 1984 ( 76 ). Since then, there have been several prospective cohort studies to suggest that breastmilk lowers the risk of islet autoimmunity and T1D, including the German BABYDIAB/BABYDIET study ( 77 ), the Colorado-based DAISY study ( 78 ), and the Norwegian MIDIA study ( 79 ), but others show no effect ( 80 ). Although the data on whether breastmilk is protective against T1D isn’t clear, it certainly isn’t harmful. Given the well-established general benefits of breastfeeding, patients may safely be advised to follow the American Academy of Pediatrics’ guidelines related to infant feeding. The mechanism by which breastmilk may lower the risk of T1D is uncertain, but one theory suggests that breastmilk has positive effects on the infant microbiome. The microbiome is discussed in greater detail below. Cow’s Milk and Bovine Insulin Exposure In contrast to considering breastfeeding as potentially beneficial in protecting against autoimmunity, it was hypothesized that early introduction of cow’s milk or cow protein might accelerate disease. This concept was tested in the Trial to Reduce IDDM in the Genetically at Risk (TRIGR) which asked whether weaning to hydrolyzed casein (which is free of bovine proteins including insulin) formula (n=1081) instead of regular cow’s milk formula (n=1078) in genetically at- risk infants could prevent or delay T1D. Though the TRIGR pilot study suggested benefit, no benefit was seen in the fully powered study ( 81 , 82 ). Similarly, The Finnish Dietary Intervention Trial for the Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes of (FINDIA) suggested that weaning to hydrolyzed cow’s milk formula was not effective in reducing the appearance of autoantibodies, though they did report that a patented cow’s milk formula specifically removing bovine insulin appeared to be beneficial in this pilot study ( 83 ). While additional studies may be informative, current data does not support that weaning to hydrolyzed cow’s milk formula is protective against islet autoimmunity. Gluten Exposure BABYDIAB ( 84 ), DAISY ( 85 ), and TEDDY ( 86 ) suggested an association between introduction of gluten and islet autoimmunity. However, these studies had different results as to the timing of gluten introduction,
