Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


85 ), and TEDDY ( 86 ) suggested an association between introduction of gluten and islet autoimmunity. However, these studies had different results as to the timing of gluten introduction, highlighting the complex relationship between environmental exposures and immune response. Similarly, no effect was found in the BABYDIET study; a randomized controlled trial that asked whether delayed introduction of gluten to 6 vs 12 months would affect the risk of diabetes autoimmunity ( 87 ) ( 88 ). Vitamin D and/or Omega 3 Fatty Acid Vitamin D is an important component of a normal immune response; moreover, the higher incidence of T1D in northern climates suggests that vitamin D deficiency could contribute to autoimmunity and T1D. However, data from observational studies is mixed on whether vitamin D and/or omega 3 supplementation is beneficial or not ( 65 ) ( 89 ) ( 90 ) ( 91 ) ( 92 ) ( 93 ) ( 94 ). A pilot randomized trial of omega 3 supplementation to pregnant mothers and infants failed to demonstrate a profound immunologic effect of treatment ( 95 ). With routine vitamin D supplementation recommended for infants ( 96 ), it is unlikely that a fully powered randomized trial would be feasible to assess the impact on autoimmunity. MICROBIAL EXPOSURES The Hygiene Hypothesis Parallel to the rising incidence of T1D and other autoimmune diseases, there has been a worldwide trend towards urbanization, increased standard of living, smaller family sizes, less crowded living conditions, safer water and food supplies, less cohabitation with animals, wide use of antibiotics, childhood vaccination, etc. While these trends are generally considered improvements in human existence, the so-called “hygiene hypothesis,” proposed by Strachan in 1989 ( 97 ) suggests a possible downside; that is, that early microbial exposures might have a protective effect via the early education of the immune system and the development of normal tolerance to self-antigens. Data cited in support of the hygiene hypothesis comes from comparisons between eastern Finland and Russian Karelia ( Figure 7 ) ( 98 ) ( 99 ) ( 100 ). Figure 7. Border between Finland and Russian Karelia, with a 6-fold difference in the incidence of T1D, from “Karelia today”. The countries share a common border and ancestry and thus have similar geography, climate, vitamin D levels, and prevalence of HLA risk haplotypes. However, Finland has 6- fold higher incidence of T1D. This markedly higher rate
