Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


and ancestry and thus have similar geography, climate, vitamin D levels, and prevalence of HLA risk haplotypes. However, Finland has 6- fold higher incidence of T1D. This markedly higher rate of T1D is accompanied by a much lower rate of infectious disease. In Finland as compared to Karelia 2% vs 24% had hepatitis A; 5% vs 24% had toxoplasma gondii; and 5% vs. 73% for helicobacter pylori. There is an ongoing study aiming to better understand the mechanisms that may underlie these differences. The Microbiome Another possible interface between microbial exposure and human disease is through the microbiome; that is the complex community of microorganisms and their metabolites that live on and inside us. The human microbiome largely is established within the first 3 years of life ( 101 ). It has been hypothesized that perturbations in normal early microbiome development might pre-dispose to disease whether through direct modulation of innate immunity or via alteration of intestinal permeability and the downstream effects on adaptive immunity. Interestingly, it appears that the gut microbiome is less diverse and less “protective” in individuals with islet autoimmunity or recent onset T1D ( 102 ) ( 103 ) ( 104 ). Whether this difference is cause, effect, or correlation isn’t known. Nonetheless, multiple factors might affect the early intestinal microbiome, some of which also have been shown to correlate with risk of islet autoimmunity and T1D. For example, breastfeeding can alter the intestinal microbiome of the infant by increasing the number and diversity of beneficial microbiota ( 105 ) ( 106 ). As previously discussed, multiple prospective observational studies suggest that breastfeeding protects against future development of islet autoimmunity and T1D, but there’s no evidence to connect this directly to the infant microbiome. Viral Infections A viral etiology for initiation of autoimmunity is an attractive idea; a beta cell trophic virus could contribute to disease by directly killing beta cells, by leading to a chronic infection which triggers an immune response, or by molecular mimicry in which self-antigens are erroneously recognized as viral epitopes targeted for destruction. Notably, these possible mechanisms would not necessarily point to a particular virus; any virus widespread in a population could theoretically lead to autoimmunity in genetically susceptible individuals if encountered at a vulnerable time in immune system or beta cell development. With the notable exception of congenital rubella which is associated with type 1 diabetes ( 107 ), other
