Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


encountered at a vulnerable time in immune system or beta cell development. With the notable exception of congenital rubella which is associated with type 1 diabetes ( 107 ), other data relating viruses to initiation of autoimmunity is less conclusive. While some studies have reported viral “footprints” in islets from individuals who have died from T1D, these have not been consistently confirmed. Similarly, many studies have focused on enteroviruses, including coxsackie B, due to observations suggesting seasonal variation in antibody development that is reminiscent of the timing of such infections ( 108 ) ( 109 ), yet this remains controversial. A 2019 TEDDY study (see earlier description) analysis evaluated DNA and RNA viral shedding in stool and subsequent development of islet autoimmunity and T1D. Investigators found that prolonged Enterovirus B viral shedding rather than multiple short duration infections may contribute to the development of islet autoimmunity in some young children. Furthermore, they reported that fewer early life (prior to 6 months) adenovirus infections positively correlated with subsequent islet autoimmunity ( 110 ). Aside from a viral role in the initiation of autoimmunity, others have proposed that acute viral infections may impact the transition from islet autoimmunity to symptomatic T1D due to increased insulin demand during infections. Patients commonly report an acute viral illness preceding the diagnosis of T1D, and the symptomatic onset of T1D more commonly presents in the fall and winter months in both the northern and southern hemispheres ( 111 ); but this does not imply a causal relationship. Vaccinations In recent decades, an increasing number of parents in Western countries have declined routine childhood vaccination of their children, which has created a situation with significant personal and public health consequences. Multiple high-quality studies have thoroughly investigated vaccinations (including COVID-19 vaccination) ( 112 ) and T1D, and none have found any association with islet autoimmunity or T1D ( 113 ) ( 114 ) ( 115 ) ( 116 ) ( 117 ). CASE STUDY 5 ANSWER Available evidence suggests only that Cindy should be advised to follow the same current guidelines regarding infant feeding, vitamin D supplementation, and vaccinations as all mothers. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that infants should be fed breast milk exclusively for the first 6 months of life and between 6 and 12 months, the mother should continue breastfeeding while gradually introducing solid foods into the infant’s diet. This group also recommends vitamin
