Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


first 6 months of life and between 6 and 12 months, the mother should continue breastfeeding while gradually introducing solid foods into the infant’s diet. This group also recommends vitamin D supplementation to begin soon after birth, 400 IU daily for most infants and children. Routine childhood vaccinations are strongly recommended. As stated above, there is no evidence to support a correlation between vaccination and risk of islet autoimmunity and/or T1D. Sources: ( 96 ) ( 113 ) ( 114 ) ( 115 ) ( 116 , 117 ) ( 118 ) CASE STUDY 6 When Cindy’s child is 2 years old, she has him screened for diabetes autoantibodies through TrialNet and learns that he is positive for GAD 65 and IA-2. She is very concerned because she knows that this means that her son now has islet autoimmunity or stage 1 T1D. She asks you if there is anything that she can do for her son to prevent him from progressing from autoimmunity to symptomatic T1D. What do you tell her? DISEASE-MODIFYING THERAPY FOR PRE SYMPTOMATIC T1D As previously discussed, the ability to recognize autoimmunity (via the detection of autoantibodies) in subjects before the symptomatic onset of T1D affords the possibility of designing trials specifically for the high-risk population. As codified by T1D stages, pre-symptomatic T1D is a disease that warrants treatment to delay symptomatic T1D, just as hypertension warrants treatment to prevent stroke and myocardial infarction.. Some potential strategies are discussed in the following section. Many T1D studies have tested antigen-based therapies. With this type of therapy, the concept is that administration of a specific antigen could shift the immune response towards tolerance of the antigen. For example, in allergy desensitization therapy, small amounts of antigen are repeatedly administered to ‘teach’ the immune system to be tolerant of the foreign protein so that the immune system no longer reacts. In T1D, the aim is to administer self-antigens in order to tolerize the immune system to beta-cell-derived proteins and downregulate the immune attack. Theoretically this can be done through oral, nasal, subcutaneous, or parenteral administration of antigen, with or without repeated dosing. Conceptually, antigen therapy should be more effective early in the disease process (i.e., to prevent progression from islet immunity to symptomatic disease rather than in those already clinically diagnosed) and thus most studies have targeted the at-risk population. Perhaps the most rigorously tested antigen therapy for pre-symptomatic
