Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


islet immunity to symptomatic disease rather than in those already clinically diagnosed) and thus most studies have targeted the at-risk population. Perhaps the most rigorously tested antigen therapy for pre-symptomatic T1D is insulin, as in the GGAP-03 POInt, DPT-1, TrialNet oral insulin, DIPP, and INIT II trials, described next. The Breakthrough T1D (formerly known as JDRF)-funded GGAP-03 POInT Trial, a primary intervention dose-finding study, is evaluating whether or not early exposure to oral insulin, even before those with high genetic risk develop autoantibodies, may confer greater benefit ( 119 ). Preliminary results from the pre-POINT pilot trial suggest that higher doses of oral insulin may elicit greater immunologic response ( 120 ). In the Diabetes Prevention Trial (DPT-1), 372 family members of T1D probands who were positive for both ICA and mIAA were assigned to receive either daily oral insulin or placebo ( 121 ). While this trial did not meet its primary endpoint, post-hoc analysis showed a delay in disease onset in participants with the highest levels of insulin autoantibodies. Specifically, those with a mIAA titer≥80 nU/ml showed a 4.5-year delay in disease onset and those with a mIAA titer ≥300nU/ml showed a 10-year delay in disease onset ( 122 ) ( 123 ). In response to these intriguing findings, Diabetes TrialNet launched a larger study to determine whether or not these results could be replicated. While the fully-powered TrialNet study showed no benefit to oral insulin in the primary cohort of more than 300 individuals, an independently- randomized cohort of 55 positive antibody individuals who had low first phase insulin response at baseline had a significant delay in disease progression in those treated with oral insulin ( 124 ). This finding raised the possibility that oral insulin may benefit those who are closer to symptomatic diagnosis; that is, those with more active disease. In addition to studying oral insulin, the DPT-1 evaluated the effect of parenteral insulin on individuals who were considered to have the highest risk for T1D. These participants were ICA positive with abnormal beta-cell function (dysglycemia on an OGTT or low first phase insulin response on IVGTT). These 339 high risk participants were assigned to either close observation or low dose subcutaneous ultra-Lente insulin in addition to annual four-day continuous insulin infusions. While the therapy was found to be ineffective in preventing the progression to T1D, there was no excessive hypoglycemia, and a subset analysis
