Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


addition to annual four-day continuous insulin infusions. While the therapy was found to be ineffective in preventing the progression to T1D, there was no excessive hypoglycemia, and a subset analysis found a temporary decrease in the immune response to beta cell proteins ( 125 ). To date, trials with intranasal insulin have proven safe but ineffective in preserving insulin secretion. The Type 1 Diabetes Prediction and Prevention Study (DIPP), a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effects of intranasal insulin in children with high-risk genotypes and autoantibody positivity, was negative. When intranasal insulin was administered soon after the detection of autoantibodies, there was no delay in the progression to T1D ( 126 ). Similarly, the Intranasal Insulin Trial II (INIT II), which tested a different dose and dosing schedule of nasal insulin in a phase II prevention trial, showed that intranasal insulin was safe and induced an immune response, but this did not alter the progression to T1D. Participants were first- degree relatives of T1D probands with autoantibody positivity ( 127 ). Another approach to antigen therapy is to use a plasmid to transfer DNA into cells, where it encodes for a given antigen, a technique that should decrease the anti-inflammatory response from intravenous, subcutaneous, oral, or nasal antigen delivery. This technique was tested in the TrialNet TOPPLE T1D Study, a phase 1 trial to evaluate the safety of a plasmid therapy called NNC0361-0041 in adults with recent-onset T1D. NNC0361-0041 encodes for four different human proteins: pre- proinsulin (PPI), transforming growth factor β1 (TGF- β1), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-2 (IL-2) ( 128 ). Results of this trial are expected in 2025. Antigen therapy may be more effective in both new- onset and at-risk populations when combined with other immune-modulating agents. For example, a phase 1b/2a study tested the safety and tolerability of different doses of an oral therapy called AG019 administered alone or in association with teplizumab infusions (see below) in individuals with recent-onset T1D. AG019 consists of live Lactococcus lactis bacteria, genetically modified to secrete human proinsulin and human interleukin 10. AG019 was shown to be safe and well tolerated both as monotherapy and in combination with teplizumab; for the combination group changes in pre-proinsulin specific CD8+ T cells were seen ( 129 ). While some trials have tested antigen-based therapies to treat islet immunity and prevent progression to symptomatic disease, others are building on successful studies of immunomodulating therapy
