Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


seen ( 129 ). While some trials have tested antigen-based therapies to treat islet immunity and prevent progression to symptomatic disease, others are building on successful studies of immunomodulating therapy in individuals with recently diagnosed T1D. Examples include abatacept (Orencia; CTLA4 Ig) and teplizumab (Anti-CD3), both of which have been shown to slow loss of beta cell function post diagnosis. (See Recent Clinical Trials with Compelling Results and Figure 8 ). Abatacept was tested in a trial of 212 participants with stage 1 T1D who received monthly infusions of abatacept or placebo for 12 months. The primary endpoint was progression to stage 2 or 3 T1D. Although abatacept treatment did not delay disease progression, immune cell subsets were impacted, and C-pepT1De secretion was preserved in abatacept treated individuals while on treatment ( 130 ). In 2019, TrialNet published results of its placebo-controlled trial testing teplizumab in 76 individuals with Stage 2 T1D. The trial demonstrated that a two-week course of teplizumab delayed the onset of clinical T1D by two years and halved the rate of clinical diagnoses ( 131 ). This trial was highly significant in that it was the first ever to show that clinical T1D can be delayed in children and adults at high risk. The latest findings from this trial, published in March of 2021, show ongoing delay of clinical disease in the teplizumab treated group, with a median time to diagnosis of approximately 60 months (5 years) vs. approximately 27 months (2.3 years) in the placebo group ( 132 ). FDA approval for use of teplizumab in individuals with stage 2 T1D aged 8 years and older was granted in 2022—the first approved therapy to delay the symptomatic diagnosis of any autoimmune condition. Efforts are underway to lower the teplizumab approval age. CASE STUDY 6 ANSWER Cindy’s son is eligible to participate in TrialNet’s Pathway to Prevention Study. This study will provide ongoing monitoring of her son’s glucose tolerance, autoantibody status and HbA1c. This monitoring can provide significant benefits including reduced DKA incidence, decreased morbidity and fewer hospitalizations at the time of clinical diagnosis. More information about TrialNet can be found here: https://www.trialnet.org/ . When Cindy’s son turns 8, if he has progressed to stage 2 T1D, he might be eligible for teplizumab therapy to delay clinical diagnosis. CASE STUDY 7 Clark Martin, a 14-year-old obese male who was diagnosed with T1D last month after experiencing
