Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


these individuals may have a monogenic form of diabetes ( http: ​//monogenicdiabetes.uchicago.edu ), it is also possible they have autoimmunity not detectable with current antibody measurements. Sources: ( 133 ) ( 134 ) ( 135 ). IMPORTANCE OF BETA CELL PRESERVATION IN LIGHT OF RISKS OF THERAPY The preservation of residual beta cell function, as measured by C-peptide, has repeatedly been demonstrated to be clinically important in those with T1D, warranting ongoing efforts to develop therapies to prevent beta cell destruction both in individuals with islet autoimmunity and in those with new-onset disease. In addition to its primary finding that intensive insulin therapy results in better outcomes ( 136 ) ( 137 ) ( 138 ), the landmark Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) showed that among intensively treated subjects, those who had ≥ 0.20 nmol/L stimulated C- peptide initially or sustained over a year had fewer complications, including 79% risk reduction in progression of retinopathy ( 139 ) ( 140 ). Importantly, these benefits were seen in the face of markedly less severe hypoglycemia. Subjects in the intensive insulin therapy group with ≥ 0.20 nmol/L C-peptide had about the same frequency of severe hypoglycemia as those in the standard care group; a 62% relative reduction as compared to those who received intensive therapy without this level of C-peptide. Subsequent analyses have demonstrated that even lower levels of preserved beta cell function in DCCT subjects were protective against complications ( 141 ). Importantly, a beneficial effect of preserved insulin secretion was also recently reported in those with type 2 diabetes. Endogenous insulin deficiency was strongly associated with hypoglycemia and a limited ability to control HbA1c in Type 2 subjects in the ACCORD study ( 142 ). Together, these data strongly support the concept that preserved insulin secretion coupled with intensive insulin therapy can reduce diabetes complications while averting severe hypoglycemia that has been a limiting factor in meeting glycemic targets ( 143 ) ( 144 ). Islet transplant studies confirm a positive association between C-peptide secretion and a lower risk of hypoglycemia. Subjects eligible for islet transplantation are largely individuals suffering from severe hypoglycemic unawareness. Vantyghem et al. showed that while significant beta cell function was required to improve mean glucose, lower glucose excursions, and result in insulin independence in transplant patients, only minimal beta cell function was needed to abrogate severe hypoglycemic events ( 145 ). Additionally, post islet-cell
