Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


glucose, lower glucose excursions, and result in insulin independence in transplant patients, only minimal beta cell function was needed to abrogate severe hypoglycemic events ( 145 ). Additionally, post islet-cell transplant patients with higher as compared to absent or minimal C-peptide levels are more likely to maintain fasting blood glucose values in the 60-140mg/dL (3.3 – 7.8 mmol/l) range, HbA1c values <6.5% (47.4 mmol/mol), and insulin independence after transplantation ( 146 ). The DCCT showed similar metabolic benefits in those with residual C-peptide. In this trial, patients with C-peptide ≥ 0.2nmol/L had lower fasting glucose and HbA1c values. A 9-year longitudinal analysis showed that for every 1 nmol/L increase in baseline stimulated C- peptide, there was an associated 1% reduction in HbA1c among intensively treated DCCT participants ( 147 ). Such positive clinical outcomes in those with preserved C-peptide reinforce the significance of efforts to protect beta cell function. Of course, the benefits of beta cell preservation must be weighed against the intrinsic risks of therapies used to preserve C-peptide. Two therapies in particular highlight the challenges of balancing benefits with risk. First, one of the initial immunomodulatory therapies used in T1D was cyclosporine, a general immunosuppressant. Treatment with cyclosporine induced remission from insulin dependence in children with recently diagnosed T1D, with half of participants not requiring insulin after a full year of treatment ( 148 ). Unfortunately, the risks of using this drug were deemed to outweigh the benefits. Continuous effectiveness required continuous therapy, which induced nephrotoxicity ( 148 ). More recently, studies with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in the new onset population have further highlighted the risks of more aggressive approaches to treatment. Although the pooled data from HSCT trials suggests that this therapy imparts a high diabetes remission rate, the remission is not durable, and there are significant risks associated with the treatment, including neutropenic fever, serious infection, gonadal failure, and even death ( 149 ). Importantly, there are dozens of immunotherapeutic agents or combinations of agents that are safely used in current clinical practice in other autoimmune diseases. For example, adults and children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) are routinely treated with immunotherapy, an approach that has markedly transformed the lives of many living with this disease. Similarly, the aim for T1D is to use disease modifying therapies prudently and safely to improve the lives of those living with T1D. Possible approaches may include
