Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


with this disease. Similarly, the aim for T1D is to use disease modifying therapies prudently and safely to improve the lives of those living with T1D. Possible approaches may include short term therapy aimed at inducing a long-term effect (tolerance), intermittent therapy, or limited doses of chronic therapy. Some of these methodologies are described below. CLINICAL TRIALS WITH COMPELLING RESULTS IN NEW-ONSET T1D Selecting therapies for clinical trials is based on multiple factors. We can now take advantage of the tremendous advances in understanding the disease process and basic and applied immunology. As illustrated in Figure 8 , there are multiple therapies that target different specific mechanisms underlying disease. Trials are considered in the context of what is known about safety of the therapy and efficacy in animal models, pilot studies, and other autoimmune diseases. Using these approaches, we have succeeded in altering disease course without the excessive risk previously described. Figure 8. Major pathways leading to beta cell destruction and potential mechanisms underlying the use of selected therapies. Both CD4 and CD8 T effector cells infiltrate and impair/destroy beta cells along with inflammatory cytokines such as IL-21, IL-1 and IL12/23. Anti-IL21/LiragluT1De, Golimumab, Ustekinumab, Anakinra, Baracitinib, and Canakinumab are aimed at blocking these inflammatory pathways. Activation of Teff cells depends upon presentation of antigen to naïve T cells which result in both Teff turning the immune response “on” and Treg cells turning the immune response “off”. Rituximab decreases B cells and therefore decreases the presentation of antigen to the immune system. Abatacept blocks co-stimulation and oral insulin (and other antigen therapy including the use of antigen specific dendritic cells) alters the response to self-antigen. Frexalimab interrupts both B and T cell activation. The effect of these therapies is to deviate the response to Treg cells or keep Teff cells from fully activating. ATG and anti-CD3 agents modulate and/or deplete activated T cells. Alefacept has a similar mechanism although primarily aimed at memory T cells. By blocking IL-6, Tocilizumab should change the balance of immune activation towards T regulatory cells. Similarly, GSCF, IL-2 (at the “right dose”), and infusion of Treg cells should preferentially increase Treg cells. It is well established that T1D is the result of an immune cell mediated destruction of the pancreatic beta cells. Many research efforts have thus targeted T-cells as well as the cells with which they interact. As in secondary prevention trials, anti-inflammatory agents, antigen
