Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


destruction of the pancreatic beta cells. Many research efforts have thus targeted T-cells as well as the cells with which they interact. As in secondary prevention trials, anti-inflammatory agents, antigen therapies, and immunomodulatory drugs have all been used in tertiary prevention studies, which are designed to stop further beta cell destruction in the new onset population, therefore preventing complications. In addition, cellular therapies have been tested in this population. Excitingly, several therapies have now been shown to safely alter the disease course, particularly in the period soon after drug administration, allowing treated subjects to retain more C-peptide than controls 1-4 years later ( Figure 9 ). Thus, while not yet ready for clinical use by endocrinologists, it is likely that immunotherapy with these or other agents will become a part of T1D new onset clinical care in the future. Otelixizumab and Teplizumab (anti-CD3) Some success in beta cell preservation has been shown with Teplizumab (hOKT3gl Ala-Ala) and Otelixizumab (ChAglyCD3), both of which are humanized Anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies directed against the CD3 portion of the T-cell receptor. These drugs are distinct from OKT3, an anti-T cell agent with significant short term adverse effects. A study with Otelixizumab showed preserved insulin secretion for up to four years after 80 new-onset participants were treated with a single 6-day course of drug ( 150 ) ( 151 ). At 6, 12, and 18 months, the treatment group showed more residual beta cell function and a delay in the rise in insulin requirements as compared to the placebo group. Similarly, in 2002, Herold et al. reported that a single 14-day course of Teplizumab given within the first 2 months of diagnosis resulted in more residual beta cell function at 12 months as compared to untreated Individuals ( 152 ). While the effect of the therapy appeared most pronounced early on, follow-up of study participants continued to show differences in insulin production between treated and control subjects at 2 and 5 years after drug administration ( 153 ). In the AbATE Trial, a second course of Teplizumab was given 12 months after the first. In this study, C-peptide loss was delayed by an average of 15.9 months in treated subjects versus control subjects at 2 years ( 154 ). Finally, the Protégé Trial was a large phase III, placebo controlled randomized trial. While this study failed to meet its primary endpoint, post-hoc analysis found preserved beta
