Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


( 154 ). Finally, the Protégé Trial was a large phase III, placebo controlled randomized trial. While this study failed to meet its primary endpoint, post-hoc analysis found preserved beta cell function in a subset of the recent onset individuals who received Teplizumab as compared with placebo ( 155 ). As previously discussed, TrialNet found that 14 consecutive daily infusions of Teplizumab successfully delayed the progression from stage 2 T1D to stage 3 T1D in family members by up to 2 years ( 131 ) ( 132 ) and teplizumab received FDA approval in 2022. A phase 3 trial, Recent- Onset Type 1 Diabetes Trial Evaluating Efficacy and Safety of Teplizumab (PROTECT), compared two courses of 12 daily infusions of teplizumab (n=217) or placebo (n=111) in individuals aged 8-17 with T1D diagnosed within 6 weeks of randomization. The two courses were administered six months apart. As with previous new onset trials testing teplizumab, the drug was shown to be effective to preserve C-peptide secretion at 78 weeks after treatment, but clinical secondary endpoints were not met, including a difference in mean daily insulin and mean glycated hemoglobin level ( 156 ). Improvement in clinical endpoints may be required for FDA approval for use of teplizumab in new onset T1D. Rituximab (anti-CD20) In addition to anti-T cell therapies, investigators have studied anti-B-cell agents. A placebo controlled, double masked, randomized trial with Rituximab (anti- CD20) found that a single course of drug preserved C- peptide for 8.2 months in the drug-treated group compared to the placebo-treated group ( 157 ). The precise mechanism of action of Rituximab remains unclear, although it is believed that this therapy may reduce the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines or inhibit B lymphocyte antigen presentation, thus inhibiting the cascade of events leading to T-lymphocyte activation. In follow up to this trial, and a second trial testing the CTLA4 Ig agent abatacept (see below), TrialNet recently completed enrollment of a trial of open label rituximab followed by placebo randomized abatacept therapy. The rationale behind sequential treatment with these agents is the finding that among rituximab-treated participants, those with high CD4 T-cell activity 6 months after rituximab treatment had lower C-peptide levels at 1 year. Abatacept blocks T-cell co-stimulation and blunts T cell responses; therefore, sequential treatment with rituximab followed by abatacept is hypothesized to have more durable treatment effects compared to monotherapy with either agent ( 158 ). ATG-GCSF
