Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


blunts T cell responses; therefore, sequential treatment with rituximab followed by abatacept is hypothesized to have more durable treatment effects compared to monotherapy with either agent ( 158 ). ATG-GCSF In 2019, TrialNet completed a 3-arm study (n=82) of ATG compared to ATG and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (GCSF) compared to placebo. GCSF was combined with ATG to test whether GCSF may facilitate the return of T-regs following ATG- induced lymphocyte depletion. The 2-year C-peptide AUC was significantly higher in ATG treated subjects compared to placebo treated. Interestingly, GCSF did not provide additional benefit compared to ATG alone ( 159 ). Given the demonstrated benefit of low-dose ATG in stage 3 T1D, TrialNet may study this therapy in those with earlier stage disease. Abatacept (CTLA4 Ig) Abatacept works through co-stimulatory blockade; that is, the interruption of the interactions between different components of the immune system that propagate an immune response. A placebo-controlled, double- masked, randomized trial in the new onset population showed that when Abatacept therapy was provided continuously over 2 years, treated individuals benefited from a 9.6-month delay in beta cell destruction ( 160 ). Like the anti-B cell and anti-T cell therapies, the effect of abatacept therapy on insulin secretion was most pronounced soon after initiation of drug. Importantly, while continued loss of beta cell function occurred over the remaining treatment period, when the drug was withdrawn, no acceleration of disease progression was seen ( 161 ). As described earlier, these findings set the stage for a trial testing whether a shorter course of therapy could delay disease progression in those with early stage T1D which was unfortunately negative. Alefacept (LFA-3 Ig) The T1Dal study assessed the use of Alefacept (LFA- 3 Ig) in the new onset population in a placebo- controlled, double-masked, randomized trial. It was expected that Alefacept would target the memory cells of the immune response and mechanistic studies indicated that this was the case. Unfortunately, there was insufficient drug available to fully complete the study. As such, while there was a trend, the difference in C-peptide secretion measured at 2h between treated and control subjects was not statistically significant at 1 year. However, Alefacept therapy did preserve the 4h C-peptide AUC at 1 year with lower insulin use, and also reduced hypoglycemic events, suggesting at least some efficacy ( 162 )( 146 ). Moreover, further data found a positive effect of therapy 2 years
