Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


with lower insulin use, and also reduced hypoglycemic events, suggesting at least some efficacy ( 162 )( 146 ). Moreover, further data found a positive effect of therapy 2 years after randomization ( 163 )( 147 ). Frexalimab (CD40L antagonist) Interaction of CD40 with its ligand is required for B-cell and T-cell activation; therefore, interruption of this pathway should interfere with autoreactive CD4+ T cell and CD8+ responses that drive beta cell destruction. Frexalimab is a humanized mouse monoclonal Ab which binds to CD40 ligand (CD40L) and blocks CD40 pathway signaling. A phase 2 placebo-controlled trial is enrolling adolescents and adults (n=192) with new-onset T1D. Individuals will be sequentially randomized 2:1 to three escalating doses of frexalimab or placebo treatment for at least 52 weeks, with a blinded 52 week extension for participants with residual C-peptide secretion. The primary outcome is the difference in mean stimulated C-peptide level between treatment groups at 52 weeks ( 164 ). Cytokine and Anti-cytokine Therapies IL-1: It has been recognized for many years that the cytokine IL-1, a key factor in the inflammatory response, can injure beta cells. However, in recently diagnosed patients, two Phase 2 trials with different anti-IL-1 therapies (Anakinra and Canakinumab) failed to preserve beta cell function ( 165 ). IL-2: IL-2 is necessary for immune cell proliferation, but the amount of IL-2 needed to promote T regulatory cells differs from that needed to promote T effector cells. A pilot study using IL-2 in T1D subjects aimed to exploit this difference and even exaggerate it by combining the therapy with Rapamycin, which selectively blocks T effector cells, thus resulting in an augmentation of T regulatory cells. Indeed, a marked increase in T regulatory cells was seen. Unfortunately, a transient decrease in beta cell function was also observed, leading to the trial’s early termination ( 166 ). It was hypothesized that the decrease in beta cell function may have been due to IL-2 simulation of eosinophils and natural killer cells and it has thus been postulated that giving a lower dose or alternative form of IL-2 may more selectively augment Tregs. This was suggested by a small (n=24) study which defined an IL-2 dose range that was both safe and able to induce Treg expansion ( 167 ). IL-6: IL-6 is another important cytokine in the immune cascade. It promotes a particular type of T effector cell (Th17 cells), and some patients
