Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


a pilot study ( 176 ). Other investigators have infused participants with T- regulatory cells (Tregs). These cells, which can come from saved umbilical cord blood or by expanding the patient’s own cells should increase the number of Tregs, thereby altering the immune balance with T- effector cells and preventing further beta cell injury. Small studies to date have had conflicting results ( 177 ) ( 178 ) ( 179 ) ( 180 ). Therapies Directed at Components of the Innate Immune System General anti-inflammatory agents have been tested as single agents in stage 3 T1D and may be used in combination with other therapies in the future. For example, alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT) is a serum protease inhibitor that broadly suppresses pro- inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, TNF-α, and IL-6. It has been tested in stage 3 T1D, where it appears safe and well-tolerated ( 181 ). Bacillus Calmette- Guerin (BCG) has been proposed as a “vaccine” for those with T1D, citing the concept that BCG stimulation of innate immunity would alter the cytokine attack on beta cells. Notably, BCG is widely used, particularly in Europe, as a vaccine to prevent tuberculosis. Despite this broad usage, there is no epidemiological evidence that BCG administration has impacted the incidence of T1D. Moreover, a large, placebo controlled randomized trial demonstrated that BCG has no effect on insulin secretion, insulin requirements, or HbA1c in individuals with new onset T1D ( 182 ). Finally, the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib (Gleevac), developed to treat leukemia, has several effects supporting its use in autoimmunity and T1D. The initial proposed mechanism of action is that the therapy reduces innate inflammation ( 183 ). However, other studies suggest it may also directly improve beta cell secretion ( 184 ). In a recent multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled study, 64 newly diagnosed adults were treated with either a 26-week course of imatinib or placebo in a 2:1 ratio. The study met its primary endpoint, showing preserved c-peptide secretion in the treatment group at 12 months. However, this effect was not sustained at 24 months. Additionally, during the 24-month follow-up, 71% of participants who received imatinib had a grade 2 severity or worse adverse event. Imatinib might offer a novel means to alter the course of type 1 diabetes, but care must be taken to monitor for toxicities. Further trials to define an ideal dose and duration of therapy and to
