Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


to alter the course of type 1 diabetes, but care must be taken to monitor for toxicities. Further trials to define an ideal dose and duration of therapy and to evaluate safety and efficacy in children or the at-risk population should be considered ( 185 ). LESSONS FROM TRIALS WITH DISEASE MODIFYING THERAPIES The trials that have successfully altered the course of disease by changing the rate of loss of C-peptide, even for a brief period of time, have taught us much about the immune system and the natural history of T1D. First, it appears that the time of administration in the course of T1D may determine the effectiveness of a therapy as there appears to be a window during which agents may elicit the greatest effect upon the autoimmune process. Interestingly, in the cases of rituximab, otelixizumab/teplizumab, alefacept, ATG, golimumab, anti-IL-21, ustekinumab, abatacept, and baricitinib, each of which has a different mechanism of action, treatment effected a marked delay in beta cell destruction/dysfunction initially, but thereafter, rates of decline in C-peptide paralleled those of the placebo groups ( 150 ) ( 154 ) ( 157 ) ( 159 ) ( 160 ) ( 172 ) ( 185 ) ( 157 ) ( 169 ) ( 186 ) ( 173 ). Collectively, these observations suggest a difference in immune activity soon after diagnosis as compared with later on in the disease course (see Figure 9 ). Figure 9. Stylized representation of selected new onset clinical trial results. Studies with positive outcomes ( 150 ) ( 154 ) ( 157 ) ( 160 ) ( 159 ) ( 169 ) ( 186 ) ( 173 ) appeared to have the most pronounced effects early after treatment started. See text for details. Because of the time-dependent nature of the therapeutic response, the traditional approach of testing therapies in those with new-onset T1D before moving them “upstream” for use in treating autoimmunity may not be optimal. Several medications or combinations of medications are more likely to be effective earlier in disease. Thus, demonstration of efficacy in new onset trials should not be required before testing whether therapies can effectively treat islet autoimmunity. The results of several trials have demonstrated that not all T1D patients are alike, and they vary in their response to therapy. For instance, in the Abate trial, 45% of subjects treated with teplizumab appeared to respond to the drug, showing
