Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


patients are alike, and they vary in their response to therapy. For instance, in the Abate trial, 45% of subjects treated with teplizumab appeared to respond to the drug, showing almost no change in C- peptide secretion at two years, whereas 55% were deemed “non-responders” as their C-peptide secretion was not distinguishable from controls. Post-hoc analysis suggests that responders had lower A1C levels, less exogenous insulin use, and fewer Th-1-like T cells than non-responders ( 154 ). Next, post-hoc analysis from the Protégé trial revealed that C-peptide preservation was better in teplizumab treated patients who were aged 8-17, randomized within 6 weeks of diagnosis, had mean C-peptide AUC > 0.2nmol/L, A1c< 7.5%, and insulin dose < 0.4 units/kg/day ( 187 ). Last, as previously discussed, upon initial analysis of DPT-1 data, oral insulin did not appear to prevent T1D in the at-risk population. However, subsequent analysis showed a marked delay in diabetes development among those participants who had high titer anti-insulin autoantibodies ( 122 ). These results suggest that individualized therapies, which take into account a patient’s unique characteristics, are not only a possibility, but may be a necessity. Participant age also appears to play a role in response to therapy, suggesting that optimal disease modifying agents may differ between pediatric and adult populations. Pre-teen children have less C-peptide at diagnosis than older children and adults. All age groups of children have a markedly different rate of fall of C-peptide than adults in the first year after diagnosis ( 188 ). Additionally, prior to diagnosis, children progress much faster through the pre symptomatic stages of disease. Specifically, children with early autoimmunity (1 antibody) are more likely to develop established autoimmunity (2+antibodies) than adults; and children with established autoimmunity with or without abnormal glucose tolerance progress more rapidly to symptomatic diabetes than adults ( 189 ). Historically, the FDA has required that therapies first be tested in the adult population before they may be approved for use in the pediatric population. However, this approach may prevent identification of therapies that may be viable only in pediatric populations. Changing this paradigm was the focus of a key American Diabetes Association consensus conference on disease modifying therapy ( 189 ). In the next few years, not only will new agents be tested, but the community will build on these results by using them in selected individuals (personalized medicine), in combination trials, and at
