Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


few years, not only will new agents be tested, but the community will build on these results by using them in selected individuals (personalized medicine), in combination trials, and at different stages of disease. Each step takes us closer to clinical use of a disease modifying agent. CASE STUDY 7 ANSWER Several therapies have been shown to modify the course of T1D by delaying beta cell destruction after symptomatic diagnosis. However, none are in clinical use. Rather, clinical trials are available. Most studies for those with newly diagnosed T1D require participants to be within a few months of diagnosis. Since Clark was diagnosed with T1D only a month ago, he likely will qualify for study participation. It is important to note that at any given point in time, several trials aiming to preserve beta cells soon after diagnosis may be offered across the country. To find out which trials he might qualify for, Gabriel and Clark should be referred to the websites listed in Table 5 . CASE STUDY 8 Abigail Andrews, a 54-year-old female, is in your office today to establish care. She tells you that she was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when she was 4 years old. She wants to know how likely it is that she is still making insulin. How do you counsel her? RESIDUAL INSULIN SECRETION Traditional teaching holds that all subjects with T1D will eventually lose all of their beta cells. This statement is no longer true; multiple lines of research demonstrate that a proportion of those even with longstanding T1D may have residual beta cell function. The Joslin Medalist study showed that 67% of 411 T1D subjects at least 50 years from diagnosis had at least minimal (0.03 nmol/L) random serum C- peptide levels. Of these individuals, 2.6% had random serum C-peptide ≥ 0.20 nmol/L. Post-mortem analysis of pancreata from these same subjects revealed that insulin positive cells were noted in 9/9 pancreases studied ( 190 ). Since many of the Joslin Medalists were diagnosed at a time when life expectancy was markedly reduced in those with T1D, it was felt that this was a unique population, not representative of the majority of people with T1D and that the preservation of C-peptide itself may have contributed to their long- term survival. However, multiple studies have now confirmed that C-peptide is present in a significant proportion of individuals with T1D. At the time
