Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


itself may have contributed to their long- term survival. However, multiple studies have now confirmed that C-peptide is present in a significant proportion of individuals with T1D. At the time of diagnosis, essentially all individuals (both youth and adults) have clinically significant levels of C-peptide ( 134 ) ( 188 ) ( 191 ). Two years after diagnosis, more than 66% of individuals retain these high levels ( 188 ). Unfortunately, with increasing duration of disease, the proportion of those with detectable C-peptide falls ( 135 ) ( 188 ) ( 190 ). However, as recently reported by Davis et al.( 135 ), about 6-7% of those even more than 40 years from diagnosis have measurable C-peptide and more sensitive assays can actually detect C- peptide in a greater proportion of individuals. Moreover, like the pancreata from the Joslin cohort, studies from those who have had T1D for at least 4 years have shown that residual (insulin-positive) β- cells can be found in ~ 40% of T1D pancreases upon autopsy ( 192 ). Careful studies of post-mortem samples using new technologies have suggested that insulin-positive cells may be scattered in the exocrine tissue, raising the tantalizing possibility that new beta cells could emerge. Longitudinal studies of those long from diagnosis with low levels of C-peptide are underway to better understand variation over time. There are important take-aways from this new data. First, the presence of C-peptide does NOT rule out a T1D diagnosis. Yet, this data should not be over-interpreted; most individuals will eventually lose essentially all of their C-peptide secretion. The Davis study showed that 93% of those diagnosed as children had absent or extremely low levels of C-peptide >20 years from diagnosis ( 135 ). To date, there are no therapies that have regenerated beta cells in humans but replacement of dead or dysfunctional beta cells is an area of active investigation. Beta cell replacement is currently done through either whole pancreas or islet transplantation in conjunction with immune therapies to suppress the alloimmune (tissue rejection) and recurrent autoimmune response. Historically, these therapies have been constrained by a limited supply of cadaveric donors and the need for lifelong immunosuppression in the recipient. Pancreas transplantation is usually performed simultaneously with a kidney transplant, to restore both kidney and islet function and to justify the need for lifelong immunosuppression ( 193 ). Islet cell transplants are reserved for those with
