Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


with a kidney transplant, to restore both kidney and islet function and to justify the need for lifelong immunosuppression ( 193 ). Islet cell transplants are reserved for those with severe hypoglycemia or hypoglycemia unawareness where it can reverse these life-threatening conditions even without restoring insulin independence ( 194 ). More recent work using pluripotent embryonic stem cells and engineered induced pluripotent stem cells has led to the potential for an unlimited supply of islet cells, hence removing one of the primary barriers to islet cell transplant; that is, the limited supply of donors ( 195 ) ( 196 ) ( 197 ). However, recipients of this therapy would still require immunosuppression. To eliminate the need for immunosuppression, transplanted cells would need to be edited with tools such as Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) to enhance tolerance to antigens ( 198 ), or “encapsulated” using technology that allows transfer of nutrients and insulin while masking transplanted cells to the immune system ( 199 ). CASE STUDY 8 ANSWER You can tell Abigail that more individuals with T1D than previously thought do have at least some amount of residual beta cell function. Thus, the presence of C-peptide does not exclude T1D. However, most individuals with longstanding disease have no detectable C-peptide or very low levels. This is particularly true in those diagnosed as children. Islet transplantation is a reasonable option for those with hypoglycemic unawareness. FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS Despite advances in glucose monitoring and insulin delivery, T1D management exacts a daily psychological, cognitive, and financial burden on individuals, families, and society. A minority of people living with T1D are able to sustain the therapeutic targets associated with a lower risk of complications. More than 100 years after insulin was first used to treat hyperglycemia, a different approach is needed; one that addresses the underlying pathophysiology of T1D. In 2025, we know much about the natural history of disease. We know that T1D specific autoantibodies can develop early in life and that essentially all of those with established islet autoimmunity will develop clinically overt disease. We also know that identifying these individuals is of significant clinical benefit including a reduced risk of DKA at the time of symptomatic diagnosis, the option to consider teplizumab to delay symptomatic disease, and referral to clinical trials Those with islet autoimmunity followed carefully until symptomatic diagnosis have markedly less morbidity at the time of diagnosis
