Changing the Course of Disease in Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, study, risk, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, autoimmunity, insulin, islet


to consider teplizumab to delay symptomatic disease, and referral to clinical trials Those with islet autoimmunity followed carefully until symptomatic diagnosis have markedly less morbidity at the time of diagnosis and lower HbA1c values. As per current ADA Standards of Care, family members of people with T1D should be made aware of their disease risk and should be offered autoantibody screening. Broader population T1D risk screening and glycemic monitoring is not yet standard of care in 2025 but is anticipated in the future. While the interaction of humans with their environment must contribute to disease; how this occurs is still being elucidated. It is likely that there are many different pathways by which individual gene/environment interactions result in T1D; suggesting that dissecting this heterogeneity will provide better insights and therapies. Whatever the primary cause, we know that the immune system is involved in disease progression. There have been successes in delaying beta cell destruction before and after clinical diagnosis, and in beta cell replacement. Looking ahead, we will see the development of more targeted immunotherapies to personalize therapy for those most likely to benefit from a particular treatment. We anticipate more trials to test combination, sequential, or chronic immunotherapy aiming to preserve beta cell function, similar to how immunotherapy is used in other autoimmune conditions. Yet, there are non-scientific barriers to the use of disease modifying therapies for either islet cell autoimmunity or new-onset T1D. One barrier is the lack of familiarity with these therapies amongst clinicians. Immune-modulating medications are used routinely by rheumatologists; whereas endocrinologists and others who care for people with T1D are generally less comfortable with these therapies. This lack of familiarity exaggerates the risks and minimizes the benefits of immune- modulating medications. However, with a shift in mindset and training, and in anticipation of successful clinical trials, one can envision a not-too- distant future in which endocrinologists might use immune modulating therapies to treat their patients in all stages of T1D, before and after clinical diagnosis. Table 5. How to Keep Informed About Research Opportunities View in own window TrialNet https://www ​.trialnet.org/ Offers free autoantibody screening to relatives of individuals with type 1 diabetes. If autoantibody positive, participants may be eligible for glycemic monitoring and/or a clinical trial. Offers New-onset trials to preserve beta cell function in those with new onset T1D (typically within 100 days of diagnosis) ClinicalTrials.gov https: ​//clinicaltrials.gov/ Offers a complete registry of
