Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


chronic pancreatitis and advise people with chronic pancreatitis to stop smoking in line with the NICE guideline on stop smoking interventions and services. 11..22 AAccuuttee ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss People with acute pancreatitis usually present with sudden-onset abdominal pain. Nausea and vomiting are often present and there may be a history of gallstones or excessive alcohol intake. Typical physical signs include epigastric tenderness, fever and tachycardia. Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is confirmed by testing blood lipase or amylase levels, which are usually raised. If raised levels are not found, abdominal CT may confirm pancreatic inflammation. Pancreatitis (NG104) IIddeennttiiffyyiinngg tthhee ccaauussee 1.2.1 Do not assume that a person's acute pancreatitis is alcohol-related just because they drink alcohol. 1.2.2 If gallstones and alcohol have been excluded as potential causes of a person's acute pancreatitis, investigate other possible causes such as: • metabolic causes (such as hypercalcaemia or hyperlipidaemia) • prescription drugs • microlithiasis • hereditary causes • autoimmune pancreatitis • ampullary or pancreatic tumours • anatomical anomalies (pancreas divisum). PPrreevveennttiinngg iinnffeeccttiioonn 1.2.3 Do not offer prophylactic antimicrobials to people with acute pancreatitis. FFlluuiidd rreessuusscciittaattiioonn 1.2.4 For guidance on fluid resuscitation, see the NICE guidelines on intravenous fluid therapy in adults in hospital and in children and young people in hospital. NNuuttrriittiioonn ssuuppppoorrtt 1.2.5 Ensure that people with acute pancreatitis are not made 'nil-by-mouth' and do not have food withheld unless there is a clear reason for this (for example, vomiting). 1.2.6 Offer enteral nutrition to anyone with severe or moderately severe acute pancreatitis. Start within 72 hours of presentation and aim to meet their nutritional requirements as soon as possible. Pancreatitis (NG104) 1.2.7 Offer anyone with severe or moderately severe acute pancreatitis parenteral nutrition only if enteral nutrition has failed or is contraindicated. MMaannaaggiinngg ccoommpplliiccaattiioonnss IInnffeecctteedd nneeccrroossiiss 1.2.8 Offer people with acute pancreatitis an endoscopic approach for managing infected or suspected infected pancreatic necrosis when anatomically possible. 1.2.9 Offer a percutaneous approach when an endoscopic approach is not anatomically possible. 1.2.10 When deciding on how to manage infected pancreatic necrosis, balance the need to debride promptly against the advantages of delaying intervention. PPsseeuuddooccyyssttss 1.2.11 For guidance on managing pseudocysts, see the recommendations in the section on pseudocysts in managing complications of chronic pancreatitis. PPaannccrreeaattiicc aasscciitteess aanndd pplleeuurraall eeffffuussiioonn 1.2.12 For guidance on managing pancreatic ascites and pleural effusion secondary to pancreatitis, see the recommendation in the section on pancreatic ascites and pleural effusion in managing
