Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


aanndd pplleeuurraall eeffffuussiioonn 1.2.12 For guidance on managing pancreatic ascites and pleural effusion secondary to pancreatitis, see the recommendation in the section on pancreatic ascites and pleural effusion in managing complications of chronic pancreatitis. TTyyppee 33cc ddiiaabbeetteess 1.2.13 For guidance on managing type 3c diabetes secondary to pancreatitis, see the recommendations in the section on type 3c diabetes in managing complications of chronic pancreatitis. RReeffeerrrraall ffoorr ssppeecciiaalliisstt ttrreeaattmmeenntt 1.2.14 If a person develops necrotic, infective, haemorrhagic or systemic complications of acute pancreatitis: • seek advice from a specialist pancreatic centre within the referral network aanndd Pancreatitis (NG104) • discuss whether to move the person to the specialist centre for treatment of the complications. 1.2.15 When managing acute pancreatitis in children: • seek advice from a paediatric gastroenterology or hepatology unit and a specialist pancreatic centre aanndd • discuss whether to move the child to the specialist centre. 11..33 CChhrroonniicc ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss People with chronic pancreatitis usually present with chronic or recurrent abdominal pain. This guideline assumes that people with chronic abdominal pain will already have been investigated using CT scan, ultrasound scan or upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to determine a cause for their symptoms. The guideline committee looked at evidence on diagnosing chronic pancreatitis, and the evidence review can be found in the full guideline. We have made a research recommendation on the most accurate diagnostic test to identify whether chronic pancreatitis is present in the absence of a clear diagnosis following these tests. IInnvveessttiiggaattiinngg uuppppeerr aabbddoommiinnaall ppaaiinn 1.3.1 Think about chronic pancreatitis as a possible diagnosis for people presenting with chronic or recurrent episodes of upper abdominal pain and refer accordingly. IIddeennttiiffyyiinngg tthhee ccaauussee 1.3.2 Do not assume that a person's chronic pancreatitis is alcohol-related just because they drink alcohol. Other causes include: • genetic factors • autoimmune disease, in particular IgG4 disease • metabolic causes • structural or anatomical factors. Pancreatitis (NG104) NNuuttrriittiioonn ssuuppppoorrtt 1.3.3 Be aware that all people with chronic pancreatitis are at high risk of malabsorption, malnutrition and a deterioration in their quality of life. 1.3.4 Use protocols agreed with the specialist pancreatic centre to identify when supplements and long-term pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, and when to start these interventions. 1.3.5 Consider assessment by a dietitian for anyone diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis. 1.3.6 For guidance on nutrition support for people with chronic alcohol-related pancreatitis, see the section on alcohol-related pancreatitis in the NICE guideline on alcohol-use disorders.
