Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


anyone diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis. 1.3.6 For guidance on nutrition support for people with chronic alcohol-related pancreatitis, see the section on alcohol-related pancreatitis in the NICE guideline on alcohol-use disorders. 1.3.7 For guidance on nutrition support, see the NICE guideline on nutrition support for adults. MMaannaaggiinngg ccoommpplliiccaattiioonnss PPaannccrreeaattiicc dduucctt oobbssttrruuccttiioonn 1.3.8 Consider surgery (open or minimally invasive) as first-line treatment in adults with painful chronic pancreatitis that is causing obstruction of the main pancreatic duct. 1.3.9 Consider extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for adults with pancreatic duct obstruction caused by a dominant stone if surgery is unsuitable. PPsseeuuddooccyyssttss 1.3.10 Offer endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided drainage, or endoscopic transpapillary drainage for pancreatic head pseudocysts, to people with symptomatic pseudocysts (for example, those with pain, vomiting or weight loss). 1.3.11 Consider EUS-guided drainage, or endoscopic transpapillary drainage for Pancreatitis (NG104) pancreatic head pseudocysts, for people with non-symptomatic pseudocysts that meet 1 or more of the following criteria: • they are associated with pancreatic duct disruption • they are creating pressure on large vessels or the diaphragm • they are at risk of rupture • there is suspicion of infection. 1.3.12 Consider surgical (laparoscopic or open) drainage of pseudocysts that need intervention if endoscopic therapy is unsuitable or has failed. NNeeuurrooppaatthhiicc ppaaiinn 1.3.13 For adults with neuropathic pain related to chronic pancreatitis, follow the recommendations in the NICE guideline on neuropathic pain in adults. PPaannccrreeaattiicc aasscciitteess aanndd pplleeuurraall eeffffuussiioonn 1.3.14 Consider referring a person with pancreatic ascites and pleural effusion for management in a specialist pancreatic centre. TTyyppee 33cc ddiiaabbeetteess 1.3.15 Assess people with type 3c diabetes every 6 months for potential benefit of insulin therapy. 1.3.16 For guidance on managing type 3c diabetes for people who are not using insulin therapy, see the NICE guidelines on type 2 diabetes in adults and diagnosing and managing diabetes in children and young people. 1.3.17 For guidance on managing type 3c diabetes for people who need insulin, see: • the recommendations on insulin therapy and insulin delivery (including rotating injection sites within the same body region) in the NICE guidelines on type 1 diabetes in adults and diagnosing and managing diabetes in children and young people • NICE's technology appraisal guidance on continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. [[22001188,, aammeennddeedd 22002200]] Pancreatitis (NG104) 1.3.18 For guidance on education and information for people with pancreatitis and type 3c diabetes requiring insulin, see the recommendations on
