Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


treatment of diabetes mellitus. [[22001188,, aammeennddeedd 22002200]] Pancreatitis (NG104) 1.3.18 For guidance on education and information for people with pancreatitis and type 3c diabetes requiring insulin, see the recommendations on education and information in the NICE guideline on diagnosing and managing type 1 diabetes in adults, and diagnosing and managing diabetes in children and young people. 1.3.19 For guidance on self-monitoring blood glucose for people with pancreatitis and type 3c diabetes requiring insulin, see the recommendations on blood glucose management in the NICE guideline on diagnosing and managing type 1 diabetes in adults, and blood glucose monitoring in the NICE guideline on diagnosing and managing diabetes in children and young people. FFoollllooww--uupp iinnvveessttiiggaattiioonn FFoollllooww--uupp ooff ppaannccrreeaattiicc eexxooccrriinnee ffuunnccttiioonn 1.3.20 Offer people with chronic pancreatitis monitoring by clinical and biochemical insufficiency and malnutrition at least every 12 months (every 6 months in under 16s). Adjust the treatment of vitamin and mineral deficiencies accordingly. 1.3.21 Offer adults with chronic pancreatitis a bone density assessment every 2 years. FFoollllooww--uupp ttoo iiddeennttiiffyy ppaannccrreeaattiicc ccaanncceerr 1.3.22 Be aware that people with chronic pancreatitis have an increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer. The lifetime risk is highest, around 40%, in those with hereditary pancreatitis. 1.3.23 Consider annual monitoring for pancreatic cancer in people with hereditary pancreatitis. FFoollllooww--uupp ttoo iiddeennttiiffyy ddiiaabbeetteess 1.3.24 Be aware that people with chronic pancreatitis have a greatly increased risk of developing diabetes, with a lifetime risk as high as 80%. The risk increases with duration of pancreatitis and presence of calcific pancreatitis. 1.3.25 Offer people with chronic pancreatitis monitoring of HbA1c for diabetes at Pancreatitis (NG104) least every 6 months. TTeerrmmss uusseedd iinn tthhiiss gguuiiddeelliinnee MMooddeerraatteellyy sseevveerree aaccuuttee ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Moderately severe acute pancreatitis is characterised by organ failure that resolves within 48 hours (transient organ failure), or local or systemic complications in the absence of persistent organ failure (as defined by the revised Atlanta classification published in GUT). SSeevveerree aaccuuttee ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Severe acute pancreatitis is characterised by single or multiple organ failure that persists for more than 48 hours (persistent organ failure; as defined by the revised Atlanta classification). TTyyppee 33cc ddiiaabbeetteess Diabetes mellitus secondary to pancreatic disease. When this is associated with pancreatitis, the primary endocrine defect is insufficient insulin secretion (the abnormality in type 1 diabetes) rather than insulin resistance (which is characteristic of type 2 diabetes). Pancreatitis (NG104) PPuuttttiinngg tthhiiss gguuiiddeelliinnee iinnttoo pprraaccttiiccee We have produced NICE tools and
