Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


(the abnormality in type 1 diabetes) rather than insulin resistance (which is characteristic of type 2 diabetes). Pancreatitis (NG104) PPuuttttiinngg tthhiiss gguuiiddeelliinnee iinnttoo pprraaccttiiccee We have produced NICE tools and resources to help you put this guideline into practice. Some issues were highlighted that might need specific thought when implementing the recommendations. These were raised during the development of this guideline. They are: • Models where local centres interact and collaborate with a regional specialist centre for acute pancreatitis are only currently established in some regions. Therefore, this model will need to be implemented across the country to enable the recommendations on specialist referral to be followed. • Networks of dietitians and specialist dietitians need to be established to support the production and dissemination of protocols to identify when advice from a specialist dietitian is needed. Putting recommendations into practice can take time. How long may vary from guideline to guideline, and depends on how much change in practice or services is needed. Implementing change is most effective when aligned with local priorities. Changes recommended for clinical practice that can be done quickly – like changes in prescribing practice – should be shared quickly. This is because healthcare professionals should use guidelines to guide their work – as is required by professional regulating bodies such as the General Medical and Nursing and Midwifery Councils. Changes should be implemented as soon as possible, unless there is a good reason for not doing so (for example, if it would be better value for money if a package of recommendations were all implemented at once). Different organisations may need different approaches to implementation, depending on their size and function. Sometimes individual practitioners may be able to respond to recommendations to improve their practice more quickly than large organisations. Here are some pointers to help organisations put NICE guidelines into practice: 1. RRaaiissee aawwaarreenneessss through routine communication channels, such as email or newsletters, regular meetings, internal staff briefings and other communications with all relevant partner organisations. Pancreatitis (NG104) Identify things staff can include in their own practice straight away. 2. IIddeennttiiffyy aa lleeaadd with an interest in the topic to champion the guideline and motivate others to support its use and make service changes, and to find out any significant issues locally. 3. CCaarrrryy oouutt aa bbaasseelliinnee aasssseessssmmeenntt against the recommendations to find out whether there are gaps in current service provision. 4. TThhiinnkk
