Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


and to find out any significant issues locally. 3. CCaarrrryy oouutt aa bbaasseelliinnee aasssseessssmmeenntt against the recommendations to find out whether there are gaps in current service provision. 4. TThhiinnkk aabboouutt wwhhaatt ddaattaa yyoouu nneeeedd ttoo mmeeaassuurree iimmpprroovveemmeenntt and plan how you will collect it. You may want to work with other health and social care organisations and specialist groups to compare current practice with the recommendations. This may also help identify local issues that will slow or prevent implementation. 5. DDeevveelloopp aann aaccttiioonn ppllaann, with the steps needed to put the guideline into practice, and make sure it is ready as soon as possible. Big, complex changes may take longer to implement, but some may be quick and easy to do. An action plan will help in both cases. 6. FFoorr vveerryy bbiigg cchhaannggeess include milestones and a business case, which will set out additional costs, savings and possible areas for disinvestment. A small project group could develop the action plan. The group might include the guideline champion, a senior organisational sponsor, staff involved in the associated services, finance and information professionals. 7. IImmpplleemmeenntt tthhee aaccttiioonn ppllaann with oversight from the lead and the project group. Big projects may also need project management support. 8. RReevviieeww aanndd mmoonniittoorr how well the guideline is being implemented through the project group. Share progress with those involved in making improvements, as well as relevant boards and local partners. NICE provides a comprehensive programme of support and resources to maximise uptake and use of evidence and guidance. See NICE's into practice pages for more information. Also see Leng G, Moore V, Abraham S, editors (2014) Achieving high quality care – practical experience from NICE. Chichester: Wiley. Pancreatitis (NG104) CCoonntteexxtt AAccuuttee ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Acute pancreatitis is acute inflammation of the pancreas and is a common cause of acute abdominal pain. The incidence in the UK is approximately 56 cases per 100,000 people per year. Around 50% of cases are caused by gallstones, 25% by alcohol and 25% by other factors. In 25% of cases, acute pancreatitis is severe and associated with complications such as respiratory or kidney failure, or the development of abdominal fluid collections. In these more severe cases, people often need in acute pancreatitis is approximately 5%. CChhrroonniicc ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Chronic pancreatitis is a continuous prolonged inflammatory process of the pancreas that results in fibrosis, cyst formation and stricturing of the pancreatic duct. It
