Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


pancreatitis is approximately 5%. CChhrroonniicc ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Chronic pancreatitis is a continuous prolonged inflammatory process of the pancreas that results in fibrosis, cyst formation and stricturing of the pancreatic duct. It usually presents with chronic abdominal pain but it can sometimes be painless. The clinical course is variable but most people with chronic pancreatitis have had 1 or more attacks of acute pancreatitis that has resulted in inflammatory change and fibrosis. In some people, however, chronic pancreatitis has a more insidious onset. The intensity of pain can range from mild to severe, even in people with little evidence of pancreatic disease on imaging. The annual incidence of chronic pancreatitis in western Europe is about 5 new cases per 100,000 people, although this is probably an underestimate. The male to female ratio is 7:1 and the average age of onset is between 36 and 55 years. Alcohol is responsible for 70–80% of cases of chronic pancreatitis. Although cigarette smoking is not thought to be a primary cause in itself, it is strongly associated with chronic pancreatitis and is thought to exacerbate the condition. Chronic pancreatitis may be idiopathic or, in about 5% of cases, caused by hereditary factors (in these cases there is usually a positive family history). Other causes include hypercalcaemia, hyperlipidaemia or autoimmune disease. Chronic pancreatitis causes a significant reduction in pancreatic function and the majority of people have reduced exocrine (digestive) function and reduced endocrine function (diabetes). They usually need expert dietary advice and medication. Chronic pancreatitis can also give rise to specific complications including painful inflammatory mass and obstructed pancreatic duct, biliary or duodenal obstruction, haemorrhage, or accumulation of fluid in the abdomen (ascites) or chest Pancreatitis (NG104) (pleural effusion). Managing these complications may be difficult because of ongoing comorbidities and social problems such as alcohol or opiate dependence. Chronic pancreatitis significantly increases the risk of pancreatic cancer. This risk is much higher in people with hereditary pancreatitis. Pancreatitis (NG104) RReeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss ffoorr rreesseeaarrcchh The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. The committee's full set of research recommendations is detailed in the full guideline. 11 DDiiaaggnnoossiiss ooff cchhrroonniicc ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss In people with suspected (or under investigation for) chronic pancreatitis, whose diagnosis has not been confirmed by the use of 'first-line' tests (for example, CT scan, ultrasound scan, upper gastrointestinal [GI] endoscopy or combinations of these), what is the accuracy of magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) with or
