Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


the use of 'first-line' tests (for example, CT scan, ultrasound scan, upper gastrointestinal [GI] endoscopy or combinations of these), what is the accuracy of magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) with or without secretin and endoscopic ultrasound to identify whether chronic pancreatitis is present? WWhhyy tthhiiss iiss iimmppoorrttaanntt People with chronic pancreatitis usually present with chronic abdominal pain. However, there are many other causes of chronic abdominal pain (for example, peptic ulcer disease, gallstone disease, gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer and abdominal aortic aneurysm). First-line tests to exclude these other causes include abdominal ultrasound, upper GI endoscopy and abdominal CT scan. Where the diagnosis has still not been confirmed following these first-line tests, it is important to have a clinical algorithm of specialist tests to be able to identify people with chronic pancreatitis. Appropriate management options can then be offered. A diagnostic cohort study is needed to determine the accuracy of MRCP with or without secretin and endoscopic ultrasound in diagnosing chronic pancreatitis. 22 SSppeeeedd ooff iinnttrraavveennoouuss flfluuiidd rreessuusscciittaattiioonn ffoorr ppeeooppllee wwiitthh aaccuuttee ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss What is the most clinically effective and cost-effective speed of administration of intravenous fluid for resuscitation in people with acute pancreatitis? WWhhyy tthhiiss iiss iimmppoorrttaanntt There is clinical uncertainty about the optimal rate of fluid for resuscitation in severe acute pancreatitis. Severe acute pancreatitis causes the depletion of body fluids and reduction of the intravascular volume severe enough to cause hypotension, acute renal failure and pancreatic hypoperfusion, aggravating the damage to the pancreas. In addition, there is conflicting evidence Pancreatitis (NG104) about the effect of aggressive or conservative fluid management on outcomes in other conditions with a pathophysiology. recommend a particular type of fluid. A randomised controlled trial is needed to determine whether aggressive rates of intravenous fluid administration for the initial period of fluid resuscitation are more clinically or cost effective than conservative rates in people with acute pancreatitis. 33 PPaaiinn mmaannaaggeemmeenntt:: cchhrroonniicc ppaannccrreeaattiittiiss Is the long-term use of opioids more clinically effective and cost effective than non-opioid analgesia (including non-pharmacological analgesia) in people with chronic pain due to chronic pancreatitis? WWhhyy tthhiiss iiss iimmppoorrttaanntt Chronic pancreatitis is a complex condition needing biopsychosocial management. The pain is varied in nature, intensity, duration and severity, along with acute exacerbations. It is also multifactorial, making it difficult to have a standard regimen that can work for everyone. Some people also develop psychosocial factors such as reduction in quality of life,
