Pancreatitis
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, people, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, acute, guideline, pancreatic, nice, diabetes, acute pancreatitis, insulin, recommendations, type, managing, guidance


It is also multifactorial, making it difficult to have a standard regimen that can work for everyone. Some people also develop psychosocial factors such as reduction in quality of life, relationship issues, addiction to painkillers and financial difficulties. Chronic pancreatitis is usually managed pharmacologically with a combination of opioids and other interventions. However, the use of opioids in managing chronic pancreatitis is known to cause serious side-effects – including tolerance, addiction, tiredness and constipation. These side-effects are frequently worse than the disease itself. Therefore, the whole rationale for the use of opioids in chronic pancreatitis is questionable. A cohort study is needed to determine how effective long- term opioid use is in this population compared with non-opiate pain management strategies, including analgesia and psychological therapies. 44 PPaaiinn mmaannaaggeemmeenntt:: ssmmaallll dduucctt ddiisseeaassee What is the most clinically effective and cost-effective intervention for managing small duct disease (in the absence of pancreatic duct obstruction, inflammatory mass or pseudocyst) in people with chronic pancreatitis presenting with pain? WWhhyy tthhiiss iiss iimmppoorrttaanntt Chronic pancreatitis with small duct disease is more difficult to treat than without the disease Pancreatitis (NG104) because there is no anatomically correctable pancreatic abnormality – for example, pancreatic duct obstruction, inflammatory mass or pseudocysts. A randomised controlled trial study is needed to determine what the most effective intervention is for treating small duct disease. The following interventions should be compared with each other and with no treatment: surgery (partial resection, total resection with or without islet transplant, or drainage), endoscopic treatment, or standard care (for example, pharmacological treatment only, enzyme replacement therapy, nerve blocks). 55 MMaannaaggeemmeenntt ooff ttyyppee 33cc ddiiaabbeetteess What is the most clinically effective and cost-effective insulin regimen to minimise hypo- and hyperglycaemia for type 3c diabetes secondary to pancreatitis? WWhhyy tthhiiss iiss iimmppoorrttaanntt Type 3c diabetes is associated with metabolic instability and risk of decompensation leading to severe hypoglycaemia and ketoacidosis, in addition to poor quality of life. However, there is no evidence available in this population to inform practice. Therefore, research specifically on type 3c diabetes is essential to inform future updates of key recommendations in this guideline. National adoption of evidence-based insulin management in type 3c diabetes has the potential to cost complications of poorly controlled glucose levels in chronic pancreatitis. A randomised controlled trial is needed to determine the most effective insulin therapy regimen in this population, comparing twice daily insulin injections, an insulin analogue
