Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


19–1 CHAPTER 19 STROKE AND DIABETES Aleksandra Pikula, MD, Barbara V. Howard, PhD, and Sudha Seshadri, MD Dr. Aleksandra Pikula is Assistant Professor of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Barbara V. Howard is Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, DC, and Senior Scientist, MedStar Health Research Institute, Hyattsville, MD. Dr. Sudha Seshadri is Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology, Boston University, and Senior Investigator, Framingham Heart Study, Boston, MA. Received in final form September 15, 2015. SUMMARY In the total population, stroke is the fifth most common cause of death and the leading neurological cause of long-term disability in the United States, accounting in 2011 for $34 billion in health care costs. With the advent of sensitive brain imaging techniques, it is common to observe magnetic resonance imaging evidence of subclinical vascular brain injury, such as covert brain infarcts (CBI) and white matter hyperintensities (WMH). In an unselected sample of persons age >65 years without a history of clinical events, 10%–15% had CBI and 95% had WMH. The subclinical findings do not cause abrupt clinical symptoms but are often associated with cognitive decline and with an increased risk of subsequent stroke. Therefore, the clinical and public health burden of cerebrovascular disease is far greater than that of overt clinical disease. This burden is higher in persons with diabetes. Diabetes, a risk equivalent for cardiovascular disease, has been recognized as one of the major risk factors for stroke and subclinical vascular brain injury, such as CBI, WMH, and vascular cognitive impairment. Stroke is clinically defined as an acute-onset focal neurological deficit persisting for more than 24 hours. About 85% of all strokes are ischemic, and the other 15% are hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke is caused by an abrupt blockage of the artery, either by an embolus from the heart or from a more proximal artery, or from an in situ thrombus growing to occlude a cerebral artery affected by an atheroscle­ rotic plaque, leading to an acute blockage of blood supply to the brain. Hemorrhagic stroke can result in accumulation of blood in the substrate of the brain, which is called intracerebral hemorrhage, in the cerebrospinal fluid around the brain, or in the cerebrospinal fluid spaces within the brain. The etiology of stroke in persons with diabetes is comparable to the etiologies in other populations.
