Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


cerebrospinal fluid around the brain, or in the cerebrospinal fluid spaces within the brain. The etiology of stroke in persons with diabetes is comparable to the etiologies in other populations. However, multiple underlying patho­ physiological processes in diabetes lead to a high prevalence of small vessel and/or large vessel atherosclerosis in persons with diabetes. Persons with diabetes have about twice the risk for stroke, particularly of ischemic stroke. Diabetic individuals after stroke have about a 25% reduction in a favorable outcome, such as being able to function independently in activities of daily living, and are more likely to die from the stroke. Those who survive are more likely to have recurrent strokes and to develop vascular cognitive impairment than persons without diabetes. Diabetes is more common in nonwhite populations, and stroke risk has been assessed in various racial/ethnic subgroups. Diabetes is at least as important a risk factor for stroke in blacks, Japanese Americans, and Native Americans as it is in whites, with a 40%–100% higher risk in racial/ethnic minorities. Coexistence of various risk factors, such as hypertension and hyperlipidemia, and concomitant coronary or peripheral vascular disease are common problems in persons with type 2 diabetes and are also independent risk factors for stroke and its serious complications. Impaired glucose tolerance and the metabolic syndrome, as well as microalbuminuria, are other stroke risk factors in persons with diabetes, with the metabolic syndrome increasing risk by 20%–40% and microalbuminuria increasing risk by approxi­ mately 80%. Strict control of hyperglycemia has not been shown to reduce stroke incidence in persons with diabetes. Vigorous management of primary disease (diabetes) and careful identification and treatment of the concomitant vascular risk factors, especially hypertension, along with lifestyle modifications remain the fundamental approach for stroke prevention in this vulnerable population. Statins and low-dose aspirin may also be beneficial in preventing stroke or attenuating its adverse impact. Studies of oral hypoglycemic drugs and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-γ) inhibitors have not, so far, shown a convincing effect on altering stroke risk among persons with diabetes. 19–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION In the total population, stroke is the fifth most common cause of death and the leading neurological cause of long-term disability in the United States, accounting in 2011 for $34 billion in health care costs; the mean lifetime cost to care for a single patient with an ischemic stroke was estimated at $140,048 (1). In 2014,
