Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


in 2011 for $34 billion in health care costs; the mean lifetime cost to care for a single patient with an ischemic stroke was estimated at $140,048 (1). In 2014, there were an estimated 795,000 strokes, approximately 610,000 being new or incident strokes and around 185,000 being recurrent strokes (1). Persons with diabetes have about twice the risk for stroke compared to those without diabetes, particularly for ischemic stroke. Yet, the etiology of stroke in persons with diabetes is comparable to etiologies in nondiabetic populations. Multiple underlying pathophysiological processes in diabetes, however, lead to a high prevalence of small vessel and/or large vessel atherosclerosis in individuals with diabetes. This chapter describes the measurement and classification of stroke and stroke subtypes, and in persons with diabetes, the pathophysiology of stroke, the epide­ miology of stroke, predictors of stroke risk, control of risk factors for stroke, and the disease course and prognosis after a stroke. DESCRIPTION, MEASUREMENTS, AND CLASSIFICATION OF STROKE IN DIABETES DEFINITIONS, MEASUREMENTS, AND CLASSIFICATIONS Traditionally, stroke is defined as an acute- onset focal neurological deficit persisting for more than 24 hours. Ischemic stroke (due to insufficient blood supply to a portion of the brain) accounts for approx­ imately 85% of all strokes, and the other 15% are of hemorrhagic type (Figure 19.1) (2,3). Ischemic strokes are classified further based on presumed etiology; a commonly utilized classification of stroke subtypes is the TOAST classification, named for the Trial of Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment, the clinical trial in which this system was initially developed (3). An alternative, more automated system used in genetic analyses is the Causative Classification of Stroke System (4). In these classification systems, ischemic strokes are subdivided into five categories as being due to: (1) large artery atheroscle­ rosis, (2) cardioembolism, (3) small artery occlusion (or lacunar strokes), (4) stroke of other determined etiology, and (5) stroke of undetermined etiology. Hemorrhagic strokes are categorized as subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhages. Subarachnoid hemorrhages are due to rupture of an aneurysm, typically in the large intracra­ nial arteries, into the subarachnoid space. Intracerebral hemorrhages are further categorized as lobar (in the cerebral hemispheres) or deep (in the basal ganglia, thalami, brainstem, or cerebellum). A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a brief episode of neurologic dysfunction lasting <24 hours, resulting from focal but transient brain ischemia without acute infarction on brain imaging. TIA is a risk factor for sub se­
