Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


a brief episode of neurologic dysfunction lasting <24 hours, resulting from focal but transient brain ischemia without acute infarction on brain imaging. TIA is a risk factor for sub se­ quent stroke. The 90-day risk of stroke after a TIA is as high as 17%, with the greatest risk apparent in the first week. Whereas the common clinical definitions of stroke and TIA are based on the clinical presenta­ tion, a diagnosis of stroke and TIA can be confirmed with brain imaging techniques. Non-contrast computed tomography (CT) detects most hemorrhagic and some ischemic strokes, and brain magnetic reso­ nance imaging (MRI) utilizes a sophisticated diffuse weighted imaging (DWI) technique for sensitive detection of acute ischemic brain injury in both TIAs and stroke (5). Approximately 30%–50% of persons presenting with a TIA episode, with clinical symptoms lasting <24 hours, have abnor­ malities on DWI suggesting acute brain infarction; thus, a new tissue-based TIA definition has been proposed to differen­ tiate TIA episodes with and without positive imaging (6). Pending further study, the short- and long-term management of indi­ viduals with clinical TIA remains unchanged by whether or not they have concomitant MRI DWI abnormalities (5). Covert brain infarcts (CBI) and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) are subclinical lesions identified only by brain FIGURE 19.1. Stroke Types SOURCE: Original figure constructed by A. Pikula. Stroke and Diabetes 19–3 imaging (CT or MRI) (5), and this has been an area of growing research interest, as the morbidity associated with these lesions is increasingly recognized (7,8). This chapter focuses largely on clinical ischemic stroke in persons with diabetes. The frequency of hemorrhagic stroke in person with diabetes is the same as that in the general population (about 15%) (2,3,9), but this chapter does not consider hemor­ rhagic strokes in detail. Unless otherwise noted, diabetes refers to type 2 diabetes. CLINICAL PRESENTATIONS AND STROKE TOPOGRAPHY Most ischemic strokes present with symptoms of (a) an anterior cerebral circulation (carotid artery territory) involvement, such as an acute loss of motor power and sensory deficits on one side of the body (face, arm, and leg), associated with aphasia, visual deficits, or sensory neglect or (b) a posterior cerebral circulation (vertebrobasilar) involvement with presenting symptoms of dizziness or vertigo, double vision, balance, gait dysfunction or weakness, and sensory deficits (2). CBI or WMH lesions are not accompanied by obvious clinical symp­ toms, but their accumulation over time is associated with
