Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


vision, balance, gait dysfunction or weakness, and sensory deficits (2). CBI or WMH lesions are not accompanied by obvious clinical symp­ toms, but their accumulation over time is associated with motor and/or cognitive impairment and with increased risk for subsequent clinical stroke and vascular dementia (10). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF STROKE IN DIABETES Diabetes adversely affects the extracra­ nial and intracranial arterial circulation, including small perforating vessels within deep brain structures. Several possible mechanisms underlying the acceleration of macrovascular and microvascular injury in persons with diabetes could contribute to the development of cerebrovascular disease (11). One postulated mechanism is that atherosclerosis is the result of the oxidative modification of low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) by reactive oxygen species (ROS), which triggers a cascade of atherosclerotic processes within the arterial wall. Diabetes itself increases the production of free ROS, which in turn is thought to promote endothelial dysfunction, arteriosclerosis/lipohyalinosis of penetrating end-arteries, and accel­ erated atherosclerosis of large arteries, explaining higher prevalence of small and large vessel disease stroke types among persons with diabetes. Additionally, hyperglycemia independently promotes proinflammatory processes, smooth muscle cell dysfunction, overproduction of growth factors, and activation of protein kinase C pathways, which may influence overall fibrinolytic capacities; all of these processes lead to an increased risk of thrombus formation, atheroscle­ rosis progression, and plaque rupture (11). Diabetes is also an acknowledged risk factor for coronary heart disease, atrial fibrillation, and heart failure, each of which predisposes to cardioembolic stroke. Finally, diabetes is associated with increased rates of hypertension, which contributes to stroke risk. Prolonged hyperglycemia may result in renal dysfunction. Microalbuminuria, an early clinical sign of diabetic nephropathy, is a risk marker for vascular disease in both persons with and without diabetes (12,13). When present at the time of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, microalbuminuria may reflect the burden of underlying vascular risk factors and indicate the presence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) (14). If not effectively treated, microalbuminuria is followed by slowly progressive decline in renal function manifesting as macroalbuminuria or decreases in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (15). A meta-analysis of 12 studies, with a total of 48,596 participants and 1,263 stroke events in an analysis adjusted for established cardiovascular risk factors, confirmed that presence of microalbuminuria was associated with greater stroke risk (relative risk [RR] 1.92, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.61–2.28, p<0.001) (12). A similar trend was seen in studies (n=5) including only persons with type 2 diabetes (RR
