Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


factors (46). PREDICTORS OF STROKE RISK IN PERSONS WITH DIABETES Vascular risk factors may modify the risk of stroke among subjects with diabetes just as they alter stroke risk among those without diabetes (2,4,34,38). These risk factors include hypertension, smoking, hyperlipidemia, and atrial fibrillation. Hypertension is the most important of these comorbidities: the single most effective strategy to prevent stroke among persons with diabetes is to ensure optimal blood pressure control. Attention has shifted to the evaluation of diabetes-spe­ cific risk factors in modifying stroke risk among persons with diabetes (47). HYPERGLYCEMIA AS A STROKE RISK FACTOR Hyperglycemia is an independent risk factor for stroke and stroke-related mortality. Boden-Albala et al. evaluated the effect of glycemic control in subjects with diabetes on stroke risk over 6 years of follow-up in the NOMAS (48). Of 3,298 participants, approximately 18% had diabetes and were being treated with diet control, oral medications, or insulin therapies. More than half of all persons with diabetes did not achieve adequate glycemic control (defined as blood glucose ≤126 mg/dL). Persons with elevated fasting blood glucose levels had a higher risk of stroke than those with a fasting blood glucose value within the target range (HR 2.7, 95% CI 2.0–3.8) (48). In adjusted analyses, however, when controlled for age, race/ethnicity, sex, insurance status, education, hypertension, coronary artery disease, lipids, obesity, physical activity, alcohol intake, and smoking, this association was not statis­ tically significant. In addition, the authors failed to observe any dose-response effect among persons with hyperglycemia; the risk of developing an ischemic stroke was not significantly different in persons with blood glucose level <150 mg/dL (<8.33 mmol/L) compared to subjects with blood glucose level ≥150 mg/dL. In a systematic review, higher blood glucose levels in the first 12–48 hours after an acute stroke predicted poorer stroke outcomes. Even in persons without a prior diagnosis of diabetes, an admission glucose level of 121–144 mg/ dL (6.72–7.99 mmol/L) was associated with a greater risk of poor functional recovery (RR 1.41, 95% CI 1.16–1.73) after stroke compared to persons with lower glucose levels (49). The most common explanation is that persons with large stroke could develop so-called “stress” hyperglycemia, unmasking an underlying propensity to diabetes. Hyperglycemia per se has a neurotoxic effect on brain cells that causes cellular acidosis in the ischemic penumbra. This acidosis results in a greater infarct volume and/ or makes the infarcted tissue more susceptible to
