Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


neurotoxic effect on brain cells that causes cellular acidosis in the ischemic penumbra. This acidosis results in a greater infarct volume and/ or makes the infarcted tissue more susceptible to hemorrhagic conversion, each of which leads to poorer motor and cognitive outcomes and higher rates of stroke-related morbidity and mortality. This effect was demonstrated in the European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study (ECASS)-II trial, in which hyperglycemia at 24 hours after stroke onset (but not baseline hyperglycemia) increased the risk of death sixfold among 748 participants (50). Since the degree of hyperglycemia is strongly correlated with diabetes duration, the observed relation between diabetes control and stroke risk could be confounded by duration, which is not generally controlled in analyses. While intensive insulin therapy appears to safely reduce blood glucose levels in persons with acute stroke, the effect of such intervention on mortality and functional outcomes remains uncertain (51). INSULIN RESISTANCE AND STROKE RISK Insulin resistance, a metabolic condi­ tion that is characterized by reduced peripheral response to insulin, is a major determinant of type 2 diabetes and is present in most diabetic persons. Insulin resistance is associated with dyslipidemia, endothelial dysfunction, a proinflammatory state, and hypertension, all known vascular risk factors. Whereas insulin resistance can be assessed by several methods and fasting insulin is a reasonable reflection of insulin resistance in persons without diabetes, the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) is the most commonly used measure of insulin resistance in epidemiologic studies (52); however, fasting insulin and HOMA-IR are not reliable reflections of insulin resis­ tance in persons with diabetes compared to persons without diabetes. In the Third NHANES (1988–1994), after adjusting for age, hypertension, myocar­ dial infarction, claudication, physical activity, and glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) values, higher HOMA-IR levels in persons without diabetes were inde­ pendently associated with increased risk of stroke (odds ratio [OR] 1.06, 95% CI 1.01–1.12, for each HOMA-IR unit) (53). Among 1,509 nondiabetic, mostly Hispanic NOMAS participants mean 19–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition age±standard deviation 68±10 years; 64% women), those in the top quartile of HOMA-IR values had a higher risk for ischemic stroke (adjusted HR 2.83, 95% CI 1.34–5.99) than those in the lowest quartiles during a mean follow-up of 8.5 years. This effect was independent of sex, race/ethnicity, and traditional vascular risk factors, as well as the metabolic syndrome and its components (54). THE METABOLIC SYNDROME AND STROKE RISK The metabolic syndrome
