Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


effect was independent of sex, race/ethnicity, and traditional vascular risk factors, as well as the metabolic syndrome and its components (54). THE METABOLIC SYNDROME AND STROKE RISK The metabolic syndrome may increase the risk of stroke even in euglycemic persons (55). The metabolic syndrome is a constellation of clinical and metabolic components that are typically a reflection of insulin resistance, including elevated blood pressure and blood glucose, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and high triglycerides as separate components, and abdominal obesity (52). Each component of the metabolic syndrome is individually recognized as a risk factor for stroke, but due to a synergistic relationship among these components, the collective entity of the metabolic syndrome provides better stroke risk estimates (56). Among 15,792 middle-aged and elderly ARIC participants, the adjusted incidence rate of ischemic stroke was higher in participants with the metabolic syndrome compared to those without the metabolic syndrome (HR 1.42, 95% CI 0.96–2.11 in men, and HR 1.96, 95% CI 1.28–3.00 in women) (57). In the NOMAS, 44% of 3,300 subjects met criteria for the metabolic syndrome, and women with the meta­ bolic syndrome had a twofold increase in ischemic stroke risk compared to those without the metabolic syndrome, while the metabolic syndrome did not have an effect on risk of stroke in men (58). The metabolic syndrome is also a significant predictor of carotid atherosclerosis, with a 36% higher prevalence of internal carotid artery plaque among subjects with the metabolic syndrome (59). Elevated blood glucose is a component of the metabolic syndrome; although the metabolic syndrome was defined for use in persons without diabetes, it is sometimes used in persons with diabetes. Several studies have examined whether persons with both diabetes and the metabolic syndrome are at higher risk of stroke than those with diabetes but no other metabolic features of the metabolic syndrome (55). In the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), 14% (480) of 3,367 subjects with diabetes and baseline data available met diagnostic criteria for the metabolic syndrome. Over a median 10-year follow-up, participants with both diabetes and the metabolic syndrome had a higher risk of incident stroke compared to those without the metabolic syndrome, with the relative risk ranging from 1.2 to 1.4, depending on what definition of the metabolic syndrome was applied in the analysis (60). Among 2,097 participants of the Framingham Offspring Study who were age 50–81 years and free of stroke, age-adjusted
