Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


RISK FACTORS IN DIABETES The risk of stroke in persons with diabetes can be estimated based on their vascular risk factor profiles; the algorithm is similar to those used for a general population sample. In 2008, the UKPDS published a risk estimation model that can be used to predict 10-year stroke risk in persons with type 2 diabetes, based on age, presence or absence of hyperglycemia (A1c >6.3% [>45 mmol/mol] and fasting plasma insulin >9.8 μIU/mL [>58.8 pmol/L]), presence of elevated blood pressure (SBP >140 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure >80 mmHg), dyslipidemia, and history of smoking (81). The UKPDS developed a model for cardiovascular risk assessment. The UKPDS Risk Engine provides risk estimates for nonfatal and fatal stroke in individuals with type 2 diabetes. These estimates can be calculated for any given duration of type 2 diabetes based on current age, sex, ethnicity, smoking status, presence or absence of atrial fibrillation and levels of A1c, SBP, total cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol (81,82). LIFESTYLE INTERVENTIONS All persons with or without diabetes should be routinely counseled on the importance of lifestyle modifications, such as healthy dietary habits, smoking cessation, moderate alcohol consump­ tion, and regular exercise, for primary and secondary stroke prevention. As a part of the lifestyle changes and risk factor intervention, a weight loss program should be included to help reduce the risk associated with the metabolic syndrome and obesity. The 2011 American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines advise all persons to participate in moderate phys­ ical activity for at least 30 minutes at least three times per week (5,83). HYPERTENSION AND SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE Hypertension is the major risk factor for ischemic stroke in persons with diabetes and the most frequently targeted modi­ fiable factor for stroke prevention in this population. In the Systolic Hypertension 19–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition in the Elderly Program Cooperative Research Group (SHEP) trial, elderly persons with diabetes had >20% reduction of stroke events with control of isolated systolic hypertension (84). In the UKPDS, every 10 mmHg reduction in SBP in persons with type 2 diabetes decreased the risk of ischemic stroke by 19% (85). Although blood pressure control that is overly stringent in persons with diabetes could also be associated with adverse events (postural hypotension, dehydra­ tion, and hypo- or hyperkalemia related to medication use), such intervention is a well-established approach for prevention of cerebrovascular events in all persons (86). Based on the
