Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


(postural hypotension, dehydra­ tion, and hypo- or hyperkalemia related to medication use), such intervention is a well-established approach for prevention of cerebrovascular events in all persons (86). Based on the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8) and 2016 American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines, a blood pressure of <140/90 mmHg for persons with type 2 diabetes is consid­ ered optimal (87,88). Blood Pressure Management A range of antihypertensive therapies is effective in reducing cardiovascular events, and the choice of such therapies depends on associated comorbidities in persons with diabetes. Based on experimental and clinical evidence suggestive of an effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) on endothelial and renal function, the AHA recommends that hypertensive persons with diabetes be treated with ACEIs and ARBs to slow progression of diabetic nephropathy (83). In the subset of the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (MICRO-HOPE) study of 3,577 persons with diabetes and prevalent CVD events or additional cardiovascular risk factors, researchers compared the addition of an ACEI (ramipril) to the current medical regimen in this high-risk population. The results showed a 25% reduction (95% CI 12%–36%, p=0.0004) in the primary combined outcomes (myocardial infarc­ tion, stroke, and cardiovascular death) and a 33% reduction (95% CI 10%–50%, p=0.0074) in stroke. In addition, the number of diabetic complications, such as overt nephropathy, need for dialysis, or need for laser retinal therapy, was lower in persons on ramipril (89). The Losartan Intervention for Endpoint Reduction in Hypertension (LIFE) diabetes substudy of 11,935 persons with diabetes, hyperten­ sion (160–200/95–115 mmHg), and left ventricular hypertrophy compared an ARB (losartan) to a beta blocker (atenolol). After 4 years of follow-up, the effect on blood pressure reduction was similar between losartan and atenolol. In addition, there was a 24% reduction of major vascular events with losartan, while the reduction of stroke alone (21%) was nonsignificant (90). The effect of combination of an ACEI (perindopril) and thiazide diuretic (indapamide) versus placebo for preven­ tion of microvascular and macrovascular outcomes, defined as a composite outcome of cardiovascular death, nonfatal stroke or myocardial infarction, and new or worsening renal disease or diabetic retinal disease in 11,140 persons with type 2 diabetes was assessed in the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial. After a mean of 4.3 years of follow-up, the relative risk of microvascular and macrovascular events was reduced by 9% (HR
