Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


regimen had experienced serious hypogly­ cemia that additionally explained the high rate of death due to CVD. Nevertheless, the intensive intervention regimen did not significantly reduce stroke risk, perhaps because of the small numbers (98). The ADVANCE trial was launched in 2001 to evaluate the effect of lowering glucose to near-normal levels (comparing standard and intensive glucose-lowering targets) on microvascular and macrovascular outcomes, including stroke. A total of 11,140 participants with type 2 diabetes (mean age 66 years; mean duration of diabetes 8 years; mean A1c 7.2% [55 mmol/mol]) were randomized to two arms: a standard-control group with an A1c goal of 7.0% and an intensive-control group with an A1c goal of 6.3%. No significant difference was observed between the two arms with regard to macrovascular outcomes (including stroke) and all-cause mortality, but the intensive-control arm had more episodes of severe hypogly­ cemia (2.7% vs. 1.5%, p<0.001) (99). In the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT), 1,791 military veterans (mean age 60.3 years) with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes and a mean A1c level of 9.5% (80 mmol/mol) at the start of the trial were randomly assigned to receive either inten­ sive or standard glucose control. After a mean follow-up of 6.5 years, despite an average reduction in SBP and decrease in LDL, triglyceride, and A1c levels, no signif­ icant differences were found in the rates of major cardiovascular events (including stroke), death, or microvascular complica­ tions, with the exception of progression of albuminuria (p=0.01) (100). The UKPDS is the largest primary prevention study in persons with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes and the first study to design a model to estimate the risk of a first stroke in persons with diabetes. Among 4,549 participants, 188 persons experienced a stroke. Age, dura­ tion of diabetes, sex, smoking status, SBP, total cholesterol/HDL ratio, and presence of atrial fibrillation were the most frequent variables associated with the risk of stroke in this population (81). Intensive glucose control with sulfonylureas or insulin compared to diet therapy did not reduce the number of cardiovascular events in the same population (101). In the UKPDS substudy, despite equivalent glycemic control, fewer stroke events occurred in the metformin group compared to the sulfonylureas or insulin group (102). The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) involved a young cohort (age 13–39 years) with type 1 diabetes and compared the effects of conventional treatment versus intensive blood glucose control on
