Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


diabetes mellitus (Class I; Level of Evidence A). Based on ADA 2016 recommendations: Lower systolic targets, such as SBP <130 mmHg or DBP <80 mmHg, may be appropriate for certain individuals with diabetes, such as younger patients, those with albuminuria, and/or those with hypertension and one or more additional atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk factors, if they can be achieved without undue treatment burden. Dyslipidemia In addition to therapeutic lifestyle changes, treatment with an HMG coenzyme-A reductase inhibitor (statin) medication is recommended for primary prevention of ischemic stroke in patients estimated to have a high 10-year risk for cardiovascular events, as recommended in the 2013 “ACC/AHA Guideline on the Treatment of Blood Cholesterol to Reduce Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Risk in Adults” (Class I; Level of Evidence A). Based on AHA/ASA 2014 recommendations: Treatment of adults with diabetes mellitus with a statin, especially those with additional risk factors, is recommended to lower the risk of first stroke (Class I; Level of Evidence A). Adding a fibrate to a statin in people with diabetes mellitus is not useful for decreasing stroke risk (Class III; Level of Evidence B). Based on ADA 2016 recommendations: For patients of all ages with diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, high-intensity statin therapy should be added to lifestyle therapy (Level of Evidence A). For patients with diabetes age 40–75 years without additional atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk factors, consider using moderate-intensity statin and lifestyle therapy (Level of Evidence A). The addition of ezetimibe to moderate-intensity statin therapy has been shown to provide additional cardiovascular benefit compared with moderate-intensity statin therapy alone and may be considered for patients with a recent acute coronary syndrome with LDL cholesterol ≥50 mg/dL (≥1.3 mmol/L) or for those patients who cannot tolerate high-intensity statin therapy. Table 19.3 continues on the next page. Stroke and Diabetes 19–15 TABLE 19.3. (continued) RISK FACTOR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE GENERAL POPULATION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PERSONS WITH DIABETES Atrial fibrillation For patients with valvular AF at high risk for stroke, defined as a CHA2DS2-VASc score* of ≥2 and acceptably low risk for hemorrhagic complications, long-term oral anticoagulant therapy with warfarin at a target INR of 2.0–3.0 is recommended (Class I; Level of Evidence A). For patients with nonvalvular AF, a CHA2DS2-VASc score* of ≥2, and acceptably low risk for hemorrhagic complications, oral anticoagulants are recommended (Class I). Options include warfarin (INR 2.0–3.0) (Level of Evidence A), dabigatran (Level of Evidence B), apixaban (Level
