Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


≥2, and acceptably low risk for hemorrhagic complications, oral anticoagulants are recommended (Class I). Options include warfarin (INR 2.0–3.0) (Level of Evidence A), dabigatran (Level of Evidence B), apixaban (Level of Evidence B), and rivaroxaban (Level of Evidence B). The selection of antithrombotic agent should be individualized on the basis of patient risk factors (particularly risk for intracranial hemorrhage), cost, tolerability, patient preference, potential for drug interactions, and other clinical characteristics, including the time that the INR is in therapeutic range for patients taking warfarin. Not different Smoking Counseling, in combination with drug therapy using nicotine replacement, bupropion, or varenicline, is recommended for active smokers to assist in quitting smoking (Class I; Level of Evidence A). Abstention from cigarette smoking is recommended for patients who have never smoked on the basis of epidemiologic studies showing a consistent and overwhelming relationship between smoking and both ischemic stroke and SAH (Class I; Level of Evidence B). Not different Obesity/diet Among overweight (BMI 25–29 kg/m2) and obese (BMI ≥30 kg/m2) individuals, weight reduction is recommended for lowering blood pressure (Class I; Level of Evidence A). Among overweight (BMI 25–29 kg/m2) and obese (BMI ≥30 kg/m2) individuals, weight reduction is recommended for reducing the risk of stroke (Class I; Level of Evidence B). Not different Physical inactivity Healthy adults should perform at least moderate- to vigorous- intensity aerobic physical activity at least 40 minutes per day, 3–4 days per week (Class I; Level of Evidence B). Not different Evidence class and level as defined by the American Heart Association: Class I, Evidence and/or general agreement that treatment is useful and effective; Class II, Conflicting evidence and/or a divergence of opinion about the usefulness/efficacy of treatment; Class IIa, Weight of evidence or opinion in favor of treatment; Class IIb, Usefulness/efficacy less well established by evidence or opinion; Class III, Evidence and/or general agreement that treatment is not useful/effective and may be harmful. Level A, Data from multiple randomized clinical trials; Level B, Data from a single randomized trial or nonrandomized studies; Level C, Expert opinion or case studies. ACC, American College of Cardiology; ADA, American Diabetes Association; AF, atrial fibrillation; AHA, American Heart Association; ASA; American Stroke Association; BMI, body mass index; CCB, calcium channel blocker; DBP, diastolic blood pressure; INR, international normalized ratio; JNC 8, Eighth Joint National Committee; LDL, low-density lipoprotein; SAH, subarachnoid hemorrhage; SBP, systolic blood pressure. * CHADS2 risk score assigns
