Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


Atorvastatin 80 mg/day or placebo for secondary stroke prevention Atorvastatin did not show any effect on reduction of vascular events. Insulin Resistance Intervention after Stroke trial (IRIS), 2005–2013 (107) Patients with recent stroke/transient ischemic attack plus insulin resistance, but no diabetes Pioglitazone 45 mg/day or placebo for secondary stroke prevention Stroke reduction of 24% SOURCE: References are listed within the table. and asymptomatic ECVD. Whereas the efficacy of intensive glucose-lowering therapy to A1c <7.0% for reducing risk of stroke has not been established, aggressive management of elevated LDL cholesterol levels is recommended to lower risk of all CVD with the target LDL cholesterol ≤70 mg/dL (≤1.81 mmol/L) for persons with diabetes. Selection of carotid revascularization via carotid endarterectomy (CEA) or carotid artery stenting (CAS) for asymp­ tomatic and symptomatic carotid artery disease should be guided by the degree of stenosis, assessment of comorbid conditions, life expectancy, and individual surgical/procedural risk and should include a thorough discussion of the risks and benefits of the procedure and medical management with an understanding of patient preferences. Asymptomatic carotid disease with <70% stenosis is uniformly treated with aggressive medical management and close surveil­ lance with carotid ultrasound for disease progression. In selected patients with asymptomatic carotid disease with ≥70% stenosis and low perioperative risk for stroke, myocardial infarction, or death (<6%), CEA is readily offered, but mostly to patients with progression of carotid stenosis from mild-moderate to severe despite aggres­ sive medical management. In the past Stroke and Diabetes 19–17 decade, this practice is becoming more controversial, and carotid revasculariza­ tion in patients with asymptomatic high grade stenosis (>70%) is center-based and personalized based on response to aggressive medical management. Persons who experience nondisabling ischemic stroke or TIA due to carotid artery disease are defined as symptomatic patients. Carotid revascularization is gener­ ally considered beneficial for symptomatic carotid disease with ≥70% artery stenosis as detected by carotid ultrasound or >50% as detected by catheter angiography. If perioperative risk for stroke, cardiac compli­ cations, and death is low (<6%), these patients should undergo CEA within 2–4 weeks of diagnosis, as most events occur early and the relative benefit from surgery continues to drop after this time. However, if the perioperative risk is high (≥6%), these patients should be considered for CAS. Medical management and antiplatelet therapy are recommended before and after carotid recanalization. Noninvasive imaging at 1 month, 6 months, and annually to evaluate for
