Chapter 19: Stroke and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: stroke, diabetes, risk, persons, study, type, type diabetes, persons diabetes, years, disease, ischemic, age, vascular, american, heart


patients should be considered for CAS. Medical management and antiplatelet therapy are recommended before and after carotid recanalization. Noninvasive imaging at 1 month, 6 months, and annually to evaluate for restenosis is recommended for all patients who undergo CEA or CAS. Once patients are no longer candidates for revascularization, noninvasive surveillance of carotid artery can be terminated. OTHER VASCULAR RISK FACTORS Atrial fibrillation, peripheral vascular disease, and coronary artery disease are well-established risk factors for stroke in persons with and without diabetes, and each should be adequately treated (5,83). DISEASE COURSE AND PROGNOSIS AFTER STROKE IN PERSONS WITH DIABETES Diabetes is a common risk factor for incident stroke, as well as an independent risk factor for stroke recurrence. Diabetes adversely impacts stroke severity, survival (case-fatality) after stroke, cognitive func­ tion, and disability after stroke. The Get With the Guidelines-Stroke program found a significant difference in stroke-related outcomes between persons with and without diabetes. Patients with diabetes had worse outcomes; they were less able to ambu­ late at discharge and were more likely to be discharged to a skilled nursing facility or an inpatient acute rehabilitation. The length of hospital stay for persons with diabetes was longer compared to patients without diabetes. The adjusted odds of in-hospital mortality were also elevated in persons with diabetes (OR 1.12, 95% CI 1.08–1.15). In a study of health-related quality of life, diabetes was found to be an independent risk factor for worse quality of life at 1-year post-stroke (110). Using data from the Vitamin Intervention in Stroke Prevention Study, Newman et al. evaluated >3,000 subjects over 1 year post-stroke; a sole diagnosis of diabetes was associated with worse outcomes on both the Mini Mental Status Examination (a measure of cognitive status) and modi­ fied Rankin Score (a measure of disability), suggesting that diabetes impacts cognitive and motor recovery in stroke survivors (111). CONCLUSION Diabetes is an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke. Persons with diabetes are equally at risk of having a small or large vessel ischemic stroke, and risks are higher among American Indian, black, and Hispanic persons compared to whites. Persons with diabetes who suffer a stroke have a higher risk of recurrent stroke and of mortality and morbidity. Stroke risk among persons with diabetes can be reduced through comprehensive control of cardiovascular risk factors and carefully monitored lifestyle interventions. Health care providers are encouraged to be vigi­ lant in monitoring and
