doi:
KEYWORDS: bleeding, duodenal, cases, ddb, case, tae, reported, patient, fig, egd, diverticular, treated, hemostasis, hemostatic, duodenal diverticular


doi: InternMed62:3565-3569,2023 【 REVIEW ARTICLE 】 Duodenal Diverticular Bleeding Treated with Endoscopy or Transcatheter Arterial Embolization: A Report of Two Cases and a Literature Review Kosuke Kojima1, Kazuki Natsui1,2, Takeki Sato1, Moeno Sugita3, Ryo Goto1, Nao Nakajima2, Masaki Maruyama1, Osamu Isokawa1 and Shuji Terai2 Abstract: Duodenal diverticular bleeding (DDB) is extremely rare. We herein report 2 life-threatening cases of DDB successfully treated with endoscopy or transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) and review 13 cases of DDB reported from Japan. When upper gastrointestinal bleeding of unknown origin is encountered in middle-aged or older adults, DDB should be included in the differential diagnosis. DDB often causes massive bleeding. It is therefore important to judge which is safer and more effective, endoscopy or TAE, based on the general condition of the patient. In addition, it is critical to attempt hemostasis via various strategies, including differ- ent gastroscopes and hemostatic devices. Key words: duodenal diverticular bleeding, duodenal diverticulum, endoscopy, transcatheter arterial embolization, hemostasis (Intern Med 62: 3565-3569, 2023) (DOI: ) Introduction Case Reports Duodenal diverticulum (DD) was first reported by Case 1 Chomel in 1710 (1), and its incidence is estimated to be be- tween 0.16% and 22% (2), most cases of which are asymp- An 84-year-old woman with a medical history of hyper- tomatic. Patterson and Bromberg were the first to report tension and osteoporosis was brought to our emergency de- DDB in a surgically treated case (3), finding an extremely partment with hematemesis and dizziness. Her vital signs on low prevalence (only 0.14% of patients with upper gastroin- arrival were a heart rate (HR) of 79 bpm and blood pressure testinal bleeding) (4). (BP) of 96/69 mmHg. Laboratory tests revealed mild anemia In this novel report, we describe two life-threatening cases (hemoglobin 11.0 g/dL, reference range, 12-16 g/dL), de- of DDB with varied states of shock. While the origins of the creased serum albumin, 3.7 g/dL (reference range, 3.9-4.9 g/ bleeding were difficult to identify and diagnose, the patients dL), increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 32.4 mg/dL (ref- were successfully treated with endoscopy in one and tran- erence range, 8-23 mg/dL) and slightly increased serum cre- scatheter arterial embolization (TAE) in the other. In addi- atinine, 0.96 mg/dL (reference range, 0.4-0.7 mg/dL). tion, we review 13 cases of DDB reported from Japan (in- On initial urgent esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), we cluding our 2 cases). observed the duodenum up to the second portion of the
