doi:
KEYWORDS: bleeding, duodenal, cases, ddb, case, tae, reported, patient, fig, egd, diverticular, treated, hemostasis, hemostatic, duodenal diverticular


we review 13 cases of DDB reported from Japan (in- On initial urgent esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), we cluding our 2 cases). observed the duodenum up to the second portion of the duo- denum (D2), and there were no significant findings within the observation. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography pital,Japan CorrespondencetoDr.KazukiNatsui, Intern Med 62: 3565-3569, 2023 DOI: doaneurysm with clots or duodenal bleeding from the tumor was suspected (Fig. 3a, b). As the vital signs and general condition of the patient were unstable after RBC transfusion, and perfoming endo- scopy was considered to carry a high risk, TAE was the treatment of choice for urgent hemostasis. Superior mesen- teric arteriography revealed extravasation from the branched artery of the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (IPDA) (Fig. 3c). The responsible artery was isolated with coil em- bolization, and extravasation disappeared (Fig. 3d). Subse- quently, 10 units of RBC were administered. On day 6, dynamic contrast-enhanced CT showed no ex- travasation but a DD, which was suspected to be a pseu- doaneurysm with clots or a tumor (Fig. 4a). The upper gas- trointestinal series and EGD also revealed a DD in the lesser curvature of D3 (Fig. 4b, c) with erosion inside, which was considered to be the origin of the bleeding (Fig. 4d). Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with DDB. On day 15, the patient was discharged without re-bleeding and continued to take an antacid, a mucoprotective agent, and a proteolytic enzyme inhibitor prophylactically. The medication regimen was later changed from loxoprofen to another analgesic, such as a COX-2 inhibitor or aceta- minophen. Figure 1. Computed tomography (CT) findings. (a, b) Hori- Discussion zontal and coronary sections. Yellow arrows show the duode- nal diverticulum (DD). In Case 1, although initial EGD failed to detect the origin of bleeding, it was estimated to be in the DD following (CT) showed a DD 5.2 cm×4.2 cm×4.1 cm in size contrast-enhanced CT. The vital signs and general condition (Fig. 1a, b) in the D3 with no obvious extravasation. That of the patient were well maintained and we could therefore night on the same day, the patient developed hematemesis, safely perform EGD at the time of re-bleeding. In this case, melena, and a state of shock. Urgent EGD showed DD in a forward-viewing gastroscope was used to observe the the lesser curvature of the D3 and spurting bleeding within bleeding site. When a forward-viewing gastroscope has diffi- it (Fig.
