doi:
KEYWORDS: bleeding, duodenal, cases, ddb, case, tae, reported, patient, fig, egd, diverticular, treated, hemostasis, hemostatic, duodenal diverticular


DD in a forward-viewing gastroscope was used to observe the the lesser curvature of the D3 and spurting bleeding within bleeding site. When a forward-viewing gastroscope has diffi- it (Fig. 2a). While the systolic BP temporarily dropped to culty detecting the bleeding site, Soudagar et al. reported the 50 s, hemostasis was achieved by deploying hemostatic that exchanging it for a side-viewing gastroscope is effective clips to the bleeding site (Fig. 2b). Four units of red blood in treating DDB (5). We deployed hemostatic clips for the cell (RBC) were administered. hemostatic method because of the risk of perforation; how- On day 5, EGD showed the remaining hemostatic clips ever, Zimmer et al. reported a case of DDB successfully (Fig. 2c); on day 20, the patient was discharged without re- treated with endoscopic band ligation and without complica- bleeding. The patient continued to take an antacid and a mu- tions (6).Various strategies are available for achieving endo- coprotective agent prophylactically and had not experienced scopic hemostasis. re-bleeding for approximately five years. In Case 2, CT on admission revealed what appeared to be an irregular marginal mass which was filled with clots, had Case 2 no air, and thus was not suspected of DD. Bleeding from a A 60-year-old woman taking loxoprofen at 180 mg/day duodenal fistula of a pseudoaneurysm or a tumor with ne- was brought to our emergency room with complaints of loss crosis, such as a gastrointestinal stromal tumor or neuroen- of consciousness and dark-red melena lasting two days. The docrine tumor, was therefore considered instead. Initially, patient presented with shock (HR, 138 bpm; BP, 85/51 endoscopic observation of the lumen of D3 was considered. mmHg). In addition, laboratory tests revealed serious anemia However, given that a state of shock continued even after (hemoglobin, 6.6 g/dL), decreased serum albumin (2.8 g/ RBC transfusion, and because endoscopy-requiring proce- dL), increased BUN (41.9 mg/dL), and serum creatinine dures in the D3 were considered to carry a high risk, TAE within the normal range (0.66 mg/dL). was selected as the first-line therapy. Sanda et al. reported a Dynamic contrast-enhanced CT showed an irregular mar- case of DDB from the branched artery of an IPDA that was ginal mass with internal extravasation on D3 that was 5.0 successfully treated with TAE using N-butyl cm×4.0 cm×2.5 cm in size. Duodenal fistula of a pseu- cyanoacrylate (7). Intern Med 62: 3565-3569, 2023 DOI: Figure
