Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


ABSTRACT There are currently several different classes of drugs available for lowering cholesterol levels. There are currently seven HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) approved for lowering cholesterol levels and they are the first line drugs for treating cholesterol disorders and can lower LDL-C levels by as much as 60%. Statins also are effective in reducing triglyceride levels in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Statins lower LDL levels by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase activity leading to decreases in hepatic cholesterol content resulting in an up-regulation of hepatic LDL receptors, which increases the clearance of LDL. The major side effects are muscle complications and an increased risk of diabetes. The different statins have varying drug interactions. Ezetimibe lowers LDL-C levels by approximately 20% by inhibiting cholesterol absorption by the intestines leading to the decreased delivery of cholesterol to the liver, a decrease in hepatic cholesterol content, and an up-regulation of hepatic LDL receptors. Ezetimibe is very useful as add on therapy when statin therapy is not sufficient or in statin intolerant patients. Ezetimibe has few side effects. Bile acid sequestrants lower LDL-C by10-30% by decreasing the absorption of bile acids in the intestine which decreases the bile acid pool consequently stimulating the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol leading to a decrease in hepatic cholesterol content and an up-regulation of hepatic LDL receptors. Bile acid sequestrants can be difficult to use as they decrease the absorption of multiple drugs, may increase triglyceride levels, and cause constipation and other GI side effects. They do improve glycemic control in patients with diabetes, which is an additional benefit. PCSK9 inhibitors, either monoclonal antibodies or small interfering RNA, lower LDL-C by 50-60% by decreasing PCSK9, which decreases the degradation of LDL receptors. PCSK9 inhibitors also decrease Lp(a) levels. PCSK9 inhibitors are very useful when maximally tolerated statin therapy do not reduce LDL sufficiently and in statin intolerant patients. PCSK9 inhibitors have very few side effects. Bempedoic acid lowers LDL-C by 15-25% by inhibiting hepatic ATP citrate lyase activity resulting in a decrease in cholesterol synthesis in the liver, a decrease in hepatic cholesterol content, and an up-regulation of LDL receptors. Bempedoic acid is employed in patients who do not reach their LDL-C goals on maximally tolerated statin therapy or in patients who do not tolerate statins. Bempedoic acid is associated with elevations in uric acid levels and gouty attacks. Lomitapide and evinacumab are approved for lowering LDL levels in patients
