Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


patients who do not tolerate statins. Bempedoic acid is associated with elevations in uric acid levels and gouty attacks. Lomitapide and evinacumab are approved for lowering LDL levels in patients with homozygous familiar hypercholesterolemia, as they are not dependent on LDL receptors for decreasing LDL levels. Lomitapide inhibits microsomal triglyceride transfer protein decreasing the formation of chylomicrons in the intestine and VLDL in the liver. Lomitapide has the potential to cause liver toxicity and therefore they were approved with a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) to reduce risk. Evinacumab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits the activity of angiopoietin-like protein 3 resulting in the increased activity of lipoprotein lipase and endothelial cell lipase resulting in a decrease in LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglyceride levels. Mipomersen, which is no longer available, is a second-generation apolipoprotein anti-sense oligonucleotide that decreases apolipoprotein B synthesis resulting in a reduction in the formation and synthesis of VLDL and was approved for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION This chapter will discuss the currently available drugs for lowering total cholesterol levels, especially LDL-C: statins, ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrants, PCSK9 inhibitors, bempedoic acid, lomitapide, mipomersen, and evinacumab. We will not discuss the effect of lifestyle changes or food additives, such as phytosterols, on LDL-C as this is addressed in the chapter entitled “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” ( 1 ). Additionally, we will not discuss guidelines for determining who to treat, how aggressively to treat, or targets of treatment as these issues are discussed in detail in the chapters entitled “Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol” and “Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia” ( 2 , 3 ). STATINS Introduction In the 1970s Dr. Akira Endo, working at Sankyo, discovered that compounds isolated from fungi inhibited the activity of HMG-CoA reductase, a key enzyme in the synthesis of cholesterol ( 4 ). Further studies at Merck led to the development of the first HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, lovastatin, approved in 1987 for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia ( 5 ). There are currently seven HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) approved in the United States for lowering cholesterol levels. Three statins are derived from fungi (lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin) and four statins are synthesized (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin, and pitavastatin). Most of these statins are
