Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


States for lowering cholesterol levels. Three statins are derived from fungi (lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin) and four statins are synthesized (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin, and pitavastatin). Most of these statins are now generic drugs and therefore they are relatively inexpensive. Which particular statin one elects to use may depend on the degree of cholesterol lowering needed and the potential of drug-drug interactions. Statins are the first line drugs for treating elevated cholesterol levels and therefore one of the most widely utilized class of drugs. Statins have revolutionized the field of preventive cardiology and made an important contribution to the reduction in atherosclerotic cardiovascular events. Effect on Statins on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels The major effect of statins is lowering LDL-C levels. The effect of the various statins at different doses on LDL-C levels is shown in Table 1 . As can be seen in Table 1 different statins have varying abilities to lower LDL-C with maximal reductions of approximately 60% seen with rosuvastatin 40mg. Doubling the dose of a statin results in an approximate 6% further decrease in LDL-C levels. The percent reduction in LDL-C levels is similar in patients with high and low starting LDL-C levels but the absolute decrease is greater if the starting LDL-C is high. Because of this profound ability of statins to lower LDL-C levels, treatment with these drugs as monotherapy is often sufficient to lower LDL-C below target levels. Table 1. Approximate Effect of Different Doses of Statins on LDL-C Levels View in own window % LDL Reduction Simvastatin (Zocor) Atorvastatin (Lipitor) Lovastatin (Mevacor) Pravastatin (Pravachol) Fluvastatin (Lescol) Rosuvastatin (Crestor) Pitavastatin (Livalo) 27 10mg - 20mg 20mg 40mg - - 34 20mg 10mg 40mg 40mg 80mg - 1mg 41 40mg 20mg 80mg 80mg - - 2mg 48 80mg 40mg - - - 10mg 4mg 54 - 80mg - - - 20mg - 60 - - - - - 40mg - Data modified from package inserts. As would be predicted from the effect of statins on LDL-C levels, statins are also very effective in lowering non-HDL-C levels (LDL-C is the major contributor to non-HDL-C levels) ( 6 , 7 ). In addition, statins also lower plasma triglyceride levels ( 8 , 9 ). The ability of statins to lower triglyceride levels correlates with the reduction in LDL-C ( 9 ). Statins that are most efficacious in lowering LDL-C are also most efficacious in lowering plasma triglyceride
