Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


statins to lower triglyceride levels correlates with the reduction in LDL-C ( 9 ). Statins that are most efficacious in lowering LDL-C are also most efficacious in lowering plasma triglyceride and VLDL-C levels. Notably the percent reduction in plasma triglyceride levels is dependent on the baseline triglyceride levels ( 9 ). For example, in patients with normal triglyceride levels (<150mg/dL), simvastatin 80mg per day lowered plasma triglyceride levels by 11%. In contrast, if plasma triglyceride levels were elevated (> 250mg/dL), simvastatin 80mg per day lowered triglyceride levels by 40% ( 9 ). In patients with both elevated LDL-C and triglyceride levels statin therapy can be very effective in improving the lipid profile and are therefore the first line class of drugs to treat patients with mixed hyperlipidemia unless the triglyceride levels are markedly elevated (>500-1000mg/dL). As expected, given the ability of statins to lower LDL-C and triglyceride/VLDL levels, statin therapy is very effective in lowering apolipoprotein B levels ( 6 , 7 ). Of note despite the ability of statins to lower LDL-C, non-HDL-C, and apolipoprotein B levels, statins do not lower Lp(a) levels and may even increase levels ( 10 , 11 ). Finally, statins modestly increase HDL-C levels ( 8 , 12 , 13 ). In most studies HDL-C levels increase between 5-10% with statin therapy. Interestingly, while low dose atorvastatin increases HDL levels similar to other statins at high doses the effect of atorvastatin is blunted with either very modest increases or no change observed ( 12 ). Table 2. Effect of Statins on Lipid/Lipoprotein Levels View in own window LDL-C Decrease Non-HDL-C Decrease Apolipoprotein B Decrease Triglycerides Variable. If TG levels increased will decrease HDL-C Small Increase Lp(a) No change or small increase Non-Lipid Effects of Statins In addition to effects on lipid metabolism statins also have pleiotropic effects that may not be directly related to alterations in lipid metabolism ( 14 ). For example, statins are anti-inflammatory and consistently decrease CRP levels ( 15 ). Other pleiotropic effects of statins include anti-proliferative effects, antioxidant properties, anti-thrombosis, improving endothelial dysfunction, and attenuating vascular remodeling ( 14 ). Whether these pleiotropic effects contribute to the beneficial effects of statins in preventing cardiovascular disease is uncertain and much of the beneficial effect of statins on cardiovascular disease can be attributed to reductions in lipid levels. Mechanism Accounting for the Statin Induced Lipid Effects Statins are competitive inhibitors of
