Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


of the beneficial effect of statins on cardiovascular disease can be attributed to reductions in lipid levels. Mechanism Accounting for the Statin Induced Lipid Effects Statins are competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, which leads to a decrease in cholesterol synthesis in the liver. This inhibition of hepatic cholesterol synthesis results in a decrease in cholesterol in the endoplasmic reticulum resulting in the movement of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi where they are cleaved by proteases into active transcription factors ( 16 ). The SREBPs then translocate to the nucleus where they increase the expression of a number of genes including HMG-CoA reductase and, most importantly, the LDL receptor ( 16 ). The increased expression of HMG-CoA reductase restores hepatic cholesterol synthesis towards normal while the increased expression of the LDL receptor results in an increase in the number of LDL receptors on the plasma membrane of hepatocytes leading to the accelerated clearance of LDL ( Figure 1 ) ( 16 ). The increased clearance of LDL accounts for the reduction in plasma LDL-C levels. In patients with a total absence of LDL receptors (Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia) statin therapy is not very effective in lowering LDL-C levels. Figure 1. Mechanism for the Decrease in LDL Levels. In addition to lowering LDL and VLDL levels by accelerating the clearance of lipoproteins some studies have also shown that statins reduce the production and secretion of VLDL particles by the liver ( 17 ). This could contribute to the decrease in triglyceride levels. The mechanism by which statins increase HDL-C levels is not clear. The small increase in Lp(a) may be due to increased production as studies have shown that incubating HepG2 hepatocytes with a statin increased the expression of LPA mRNA and apolipoprotein(a) protein ( 18 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Statins have different pharmacokinetic properties which can explain clinically important differences in safety and drug interactions ( 19-22 ). Most statins are lipophilic except for pravastatin and rosuvastatin, which are hydrophilic. Lipophilic statins can enter cells more easily but the clinical significance of this difference is not clear. Most of the clearance of statins is via the liver and GI tract ( 19-21 ). Renal clearance of statins in general is low with atorvastatin having a very low renal clearance making this particular drug the statin of choice in patients with significant renal disease.
