Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Renal clearance of statins in general is low with atorvastatin having a very low renal clearance making this particular drug the statin of choice in patients with significant renal disease. The half-life of statins varies greatly with lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin, and fluvastatin having a short half-life (1-3 hours) while atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, and pitavastatin having a long half-life ( 19-22 ). In patient’s intolerant of statins, the use of a long-acting statin every other day or 2 times per week has been employed. Short acting statins are most effective when administered in the evening when HMG-CoA reductase activity is maximal while the efficacy of long-acting statins is equivalent whether given in the AM or PM ( 23 ). In patients who prefer to take their statin in the morning one should use a long-acting statin. A key difference between statins is their pathway of metabolism. Simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin are metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzymes and drugs that affect the CYP3A4 pathway can alter the metabolism of these statins ( 19-22 , 24 ). Fluvastatin is metabolized mainly by CYP2C9 with a small contribution by CYP2C8 ( 19-21 , 24 ). Pitavastatin and rosuvastatin are minimally metabolized by the CYP2C9 pathway ( 19-21 , 24 ). Pravastatin is not metabolized at all via the CYP enzyme system ( 19-21 ). Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 can impede the metabolism of simvastatin, lovastatin, and to a smaller extent atorvastatin resulting in high serum levels of these drugs ( 19-22 , 24 ). These higher levels are associated with adverse effects particularly muscle toxicity. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 include intraconazole, ketoconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors (amprenavir, darunavir, fosamprenavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and saquinavir), amiodarone, diltiazem, verapamil, and cyclosporine ( 19-22 , 24 ). It should be noted that grapefruit juice contains compounds that inhibit CYP3A4 and the consumption of grapefruit juice can significantly increase statin blood levels ( 25 ). The inhibition of CYP3A4 by grapefruit juice is dose dependent and increases with the concentration and volume of grapefruit juice ingested. One glass of grapefruit juice everyday can influence the metabolism of statins that are metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway ( 25 ). If a patient requires treatment with a drug that inhibits CYP3A4 the clinician has a number of options to avoid potential drug interactions. One could use a statin that is not metabolized via the CYP3A4 system such as pravastatin or
