Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


CYP3A4 the clinician has a number of options to avoid potential drug interactions. One could use a statin that is not metabolized via the CYP3A4 system such as pravastatin or rosuvastatin, one could use an alternative drug to the CYP3A4 inhibitor (for example instead of using erythromycin use azithromycin), or one could temporarily suspend for a short period of time the use of the statin that is metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway (this is particularly useful when a short course of treatment with an antifungal, antiviral, or antibiotic is required). Drugs that inhibit CYP2C9 do not seem to increase the toxicity of fluvastatin, pitavastatin, or rosuvastatin probably because metabolism via the CYP2C9 pathway is not a dominant pathway. Most statins are transported into the liver and other tissues by organic anion transporting polypeptides, particularly OATP1B1 ( 19-21 , 24 ). Drugs, such as clarithromycin, ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, and cyclosporine that inhibit OATP1B1 can increase serum statin levels thereby increasing the risk of statin muscle toxicity ( 19-21 , 24 ). Fluvastatin is the statin that is least affected by OATP1B1 inhibitors. In fact, fluvastatin 40mg per day has been studied in patients receiving renal transplants concomitantly treated with cyclosporine and over a five year study period the risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis was not increased in the fluvastatin treated patients compared to those treated with placebo ( 26 ). Gemfibrozil inhibits the glucuronidation of statins, which accounts for a significant portion of the metabolism of most statins ( 24 ). This can lead to the reduced clearance of statins and elevated blood levels increasing the risk of muscle toxicity ( 24 ). The only statin whose metabolism is not altered by gemfibrozil is fluvastatin ( 24 ). Notably, fenofibrate, another fibrate that has very similar effects on lipid and lipoprotein levels as gemfibrozil, does not inhibit statin glucuronidation ( 24 ). Therefore, in patients on statin therapy who also need treatment with a fibrate one should use fenofibrate and not gemfibrozil in combination with statin therapy. Studies have shown that fenofibrate combined with statins does not significantly increase toxicity ( 27 ). There are other drug interactions with statins whose mechanisms are unknown. For example, the lopinavir/ritonavir combination used to treat HIV increases rosuvastatin levels by 2-5-fold and atazanavir/ritonavir increases rosuvastatin levels by 2-6-fold ( 28-32 ). Similarly, the tipranavir/ritonavir combination increases rosuvastatin levels 2-fold and atorvastatin levels 8-fold (
