Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


treat HIV increases rosuvastatin levels by 2-5-fold and atazanavir/ritonavir increases rosuvastatin levels by 2-6-fold ( 28-32 ). Similarly, the tipranavir/ritonavir combination increases rosuvastatin levels 2-fold and atorvastatin levels 8-fold ( 31 ). When HIV patients are on these drugs other statins should be used to lower LDL-C levels. The use of statins in patients with HIV is discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter entitled “Lipid Disorders in People with HIV” ( 33 ). Thus, despite the excellent safety record of statins, careful attention must be paid to the potential drug-drug interactions. For additional information see Kellick et al ( 22 , 24 ). Effect of Statin Therapy on Clinical Outcomes A large number of studies using a variety of statins in diverse patient populations have shown that statin therapy reduces atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists have published meta-analyses derived from individual subject data. Their first publication included data from 14 trials with over 90,000 subjects ( 34 ). There was a 12% reduction in all-cause mortality in the statin treated subjects, which was mainly due to a 19% reduction in coronary heart disease deaths. Non-vascular causes of death were similar in the statin and placebo groups indicating that statin therapy and lowering LDL-C did not increase the risk of death from other causes such as cancer, respiratory disease, etc. Of particular note there was a 23% decrease in major coronary events per 1 mmol/L (39mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C. Decreases in other vascular outcomes including non-fatal MI, coronary heart disease death, vascular surgery, and stroke were also reduced by 20-25% per 1 mmol/L (39mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C. Additionally, analysis of these studies demonstrated that the greater the reduction in absolute LDL-C levels the greater the decrease in cardiovascular events. For example, while a 40mg/dL decrease in LDL-C will reduce coronary events by approximately 20%, an 80mg/dL decrease in LDL-C will reduce events by approximately 40%. These results support aggressive lipid lowering with statin therapy. Of note the decrease in the number of events begins to be seen in the first year of therapy indicating that the ability of statins to reduce events occurs relatively quickly and increases over time. The ability of statins to reduce cardiovascular events was seen in a wide diversity of patients including those with and without a history of prior cardiovascular disease, patients over age 65 and younger than age 65, males and females,
