Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


seen in a wide diversity of patients including those with and without a history of prior cardiovascular disease, patients over age 65 and younger than age 65, males and females, and patients with and without a history of diabetes or hypertension. Additionally, the beneficial effects of statins were seen regardless of the baseline lipid levels. Subjects with elevated or low LDL-C, HDL-C, or triglyceride levels all had similar decreases in the relative risk of cardiovascular events. A subsequent publication by the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists has focused on five studies with over 39,000 subjects that have compared usual vs. intensive statin therapy ( 35 ). It was noted that there was a 0.51mmol/L (20mg/dL) further reduction in LDL-C in the intensively treated subjects. This further decrease in LDL-C resulted in a15% reduction in cardiovascular events. The strong numerical relationship between decreases in LDL-C levels and the reduction in cardiovascular events provides evidence indicating that much of the beneficial effect of statins is accounted for by lipid lowering. In addition, the authors added 7 additional trials to their original comparison of statin treatment vs. placebo for a total of 21 trials with over 129,000 subjects. In this larger cohort a 1mmol/L (39mg/dL) decrease in LDL was associated with a 21% reduction in major cardiovascular events. As seen previously the benefits of statin therapy were seen in a wide variety of subjects including patients older than age 75, obese patients, cigarette smokers, patients with decreased renal function, and patients with low and high HDL-C levels. Additionally, a reduction of cardiovascular events with statin therapy was seen regardless of baseline LDL-C levels. A more recent meta-analysis by the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists examined the effect of statins in 27 trials that included 46,675 women and 127,474 men ( 36 ). They found that statin therapy was similarly effective in reducing cardiovascular events in both men and women. Thus, there is an overwhelming database of randomized clinical outcome trials showing the benefits of statin therapy in reducing cardiovascular disease, which, coupled with their excellent safety profile, has resulted in statins becoming a very widely used class of drugs and first line therapy for the prevention of cardiovascular disease. Effect of Statins Therapy on Clinical Outcomes in Specific Patient Groups PRIMARY PREVENTION While there is no doubt that individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular disease require statin therapy, the use of statins for primary prevention was initially debated. There
