Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Specific Patient Groups PRIMARY PREVENTION While there is no doubt that individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular disease require statin therapy, the use of statins for primary prevention was initially debated. There are now a large number of statin primary prevention studies. The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists reported that statin therapy was very effective in reducing cardiovascular events in subjects without a history of vascular disease and the relative risk reduction was similar to subjects with a history of cardiovascular events ( 35 ). Additionally, vascular deaths were reduced by statin treatment even in subjects without a history of vascular disease. As expected, non-vascular deaths were not altered in these subjects without a history of pre-existing vascular disease. Additionally, the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists compared the benefits of statin therapy based on baseline risk of developing cardiovascular disease (<5%, ≥5% to <10%, ≥10% to <20%, ≥20% to <30%, ≥30%) ( 37 ). The proportional reduction in major vascular events was at least as big in the two lowest risk categories as in the higher risk categories indicating that subjects at low-risk benefit from statin therapy. Similar to the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists analysis, a Cochrane review published in 2013 on the effect of statins in primary prevention patients reached the following conclusion: “Reductions in all-cause mortality, major vascular events, and revascularizations were found with no excess adverse events among people without evidence of CVD treated with statins” ( 38 ). An additional study (HOPE-3 trial), not included in the above analyses, has been completed that focused on intermediate risk patients without cardiovascular disease. In this trial 12,705 men and women who had at least one risk factor for cardiovascular disease were randomized to 10mg rosuvastatin vs. placebo ( 39 ). Rosuvastatin treatment resulted in a 27% reduction in LDL-C levels and a 24% decrease in cardiovascular events providing additional evidence that statin treatment can reduce events in primary prevention patients. It is therefore clear that statins are effective in safely reducing events in primary prevention patients. The key issue is “which primary prevention patients should be treated” and this is still controversial. It should be noted that the higher the baseline risk the greater the absolute reduction in events with statin therapy. For example, in a high-risk patient with a 20% risk of developing a vascular event, a 25% risk reduction will result in a 15% risk of an event (absolute decrease of 5%). In
