Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


a high-risk patient with a 20% risk of developing a vascular event, a 25% risk reduction will result in a 15% risk of an event (absolute decrease of 5%). In contrast in a low-risk patient with a 4% risk of developing a vascular event, a 25% risk reduction will result in a 3% risk (absolute decrease of only 1%). Thus, the absolute benefit of statin therapy over the short term will depend on the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Additionally, based on the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists results the reduction in cardiovascular events is dependent on the absolute decrease in LDL-C levels. Thus, the effect of statin treatment will be influenced by baseline LDL-C levels. For example, a 50% decrease in LDL-C is 80mg/dL if the starting LDL is 160mg/dL and only 40mg/dL if the starting LDL-C is 80mg/dL. Based on studies showing that a decrease in LDL-C of 1 mmol/L (40mg/dL) reduces cardiovascular events by ~20% the relative benefit of statin therapy will be greater in the patient with the starting LDL-C of 160mg/dL (40% decrease in events) than in the patient with the starting LDL-C of 80mg/dL (20% decrease in events). Thus, decisions on treatment need to factor in both relative risk and baseline LDL levels. Finally, it should be recognized that clinical trials represent short term reductions in LDL-C levels (typically 2-5 years) in a disorder that begins early in life and progresses over decades. Life-long decreases in LDL-C levels due to genetic polymorphisms are associated with a much greater reduction in cardiovascular events than would be expected based on the clinical trial results ( 40 ). These results suggest that earlier and longer lasting therapy that decreases LDL-C levels will result in a greater reduction in cardiovascular events ( 41 ). An in depth discussion of the benefits of early therapy is discussed in the following reference ( 42 ). ELDERLY Few studies have focused on lowering LDL-C in elderly patients, which we define as individuals greater than 75 years of age (this is based on the ACC/AHA guidelines using age 75 in their decision algorithms) ( 3 ). The Prosper Trial determined the effect of pravastatin 40mg/day (n= 2891) vs. placebo (n= 2913) on cardiovascular events in older subjects ( 70 - 82 ) with pre-existing vascular disease or who were at high risk for vascular disease ( 43 ). The average age in this trial
