Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


placebo in adults ≥ 75 years of age without cardiovascular disease ( 45 , 46 ). WOMEN As noted above a meta-analysis by the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists examined the effect of statins in 27 trials that included 46,675 women and 127,474 men ( 36 ). They found that statin therapy was similarly effective in reducing cardiovascular events in both men and women. ASIANS Pharmacokinetic data have shown that the serum levels of statins are higher in Asians than in Caucasians ( 47 ). Moreover, Asians achieve similar LDL lowering at lower statin doses than Caucasians ( 47 ). Therefore, the statin dose used should be lower in Asians. For example, the starting dose of rosuvastatin is 5mg in Asians as compared to 10mg in Caucasians. Additionally, the maximum recommended dose of statin is lower in Japan vs. the United States ( Table 3 ). In contrast, studies suggest that South Asian patients may be treated with atorvastatin and simvastatin at doses typically applied to white patients ( 48 ). Studies have demonstrated that statins reduce cardiovascular events in Asians ( 49 , 50 ) Table 3. Maximum Statin Dose in Japan and United States View in own window Statin Japan United States Atorvastatin 40 80 Fluvastatin 60 80 Pravastatin 20 80 Rosuvastatin 20 40 Simvastatin 20 40 DIABETES Statin trials, including both primary and secondary prevention trials, have consistently shown the beneficial effect of statins on cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes ( 51 ). The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists analyzed data from 18,686 subjects with diabetes (mostly type 2 diabetes) from 14 randomized trials ( 52 ). In the statin treated group there was a 9% decrease in all-cause mortality, a 13% decrease in vascular mortality, and a 21% decrease in major vascular events per 1mmol/L (39mg/dL) reduction in LDL-C. The beneficial effect of statin therapy was seen in both primary and secondary prevention patients. The effect of statin treatment on cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes was similar to that seen in non-diabetic subjects. It should be noted that while the data for patients with type 2 diabetes is robust, the number of patients with type 1 diabetes in these trials is relatively small and the results less definitive. Also, of note is that information on young patients with diabetes (< age 40) is very limited. Thus, these studies indicate that statins are beneficial in reducing cardiovascular disease in
