Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Also, of note is that information on young patients with diabetes (< age 40) is very limited. Thus, these studies indicate that statins are beneficial in reducing cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. For addition details on the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with diabetes see the chapter entitled “Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes” ( 51 ). RENAL DISEASE The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists examined the effect of renal function on statin effectiveness. They reported that the relative risk reduction for cardiovascular events was similar if the eGFR was < 60ml/min as compared to > 90 or 60-90 ( 35 ). In a follow-up analysis it was reported that the relative risk reduction per 1mMol/l (~39mg/dL) decrease in LDL-C levels with statin therapy was 0·78 for an eGFR ≥60 mL/min, 0·76 for an eGFR 45 to <60 mL/min, 0·85 for an eGFR 30 to <45 mL/min, and 0·85 for an eGFR <30 mL/min in patients not on dialysis ( 53 ). In patients on dialysis the relative risk reduction was 0·94 (99% CI 0·79-1·11). Similarly, a meta-analysis of 57 studies with >143,000 participants with renal disease not on dialysis reported a 31% reduction in major cardiovascular events in statin treated subjects compared to placebo groups ( 54 ). Thus, in patients with renal disease not on dialysis, treatment with statins is beneficial and should be utilized in this population at high risk for vascular disease. In contrast to the above results, studies examining the role of statins in dialysis patients have not found a benefit from statin therapy. The Deutsche Diabetes Dialyse Studie (4D) randomized 1,255 type 2 diabetic subjects on hemodialysis to either 20 mg atorvastatin or placebo ( 55 ). The LDL-cholesterol reduction was similar to that seen in non-dialysis patients but there was no significant reduction in cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke in the atorvastatin treated compared to the placebo group. Similarly, A Study to Evaluate the Use of Rosuvastatin in Subjects on Regular Hemodialysis (AURORA) randomized 2,776 subjects on hemodialysis to rosuvastatin 10 mg or placebo ( 56 ). Again, the LDL-cholesterol lowering in dialysis patients was similar to that seen in other studies but there was no significant effect on the primary endpoint of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke. A meta-analysis of 25 studies involving 8,289 dialysis patients found no benefit of statin therapy on major cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality, all-cause mortality,
