Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke. A meta-analysis of 25 studies involving 8,289 dialysis patients found no benefit of statin therapy on major cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality, all-cause mortality, or myocardial infarction, despite efficacious lipid lowering. The reason for the failure of statins in patients on maintenance dialysis is unclear but could be due to a number of factors including the possibility that the marked severity of atherosclerosis in end stage renal disease may limit reversal, that different mechanisms of atherosclerosis progression occur in dialysis patients (for example an increased role for inflammation, oxidation, or thrombosis), or that cardiovascular events in this patient population may not be due to atherosclerosis. We would recommend continuing statin therapy in patients on dialysis who have been previously treated with statins but not initiating therapy in the rare statin naïve patient beginning dialysis. Statins are primarily metabolized in the liver and therefore the need to adjust the statin dose is not usually needed in patients with renal disease until the eGFR is < 30ml/min. The effect of renal dysfunction on statin clearance varies from statin to statin ( 57 ). For some statins such as atorvastatin, there is no need to adjust the dose in renal disease because there is limited renal clearance ( 57 ). However, for other statins it is recommended to adjust the dose in patients when the eGFR is < 30ml/min. In patients with an eGFR < 30ml/min the maximum dose of rosuvastatin is 10mg, simvastatin 40mg, pitavastatin 2mg, pravastatin 20mg, lovastatin 20mg, and fluvastatin 40mg per day ( 57 ). For additional information on the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with renal disease see the chapter entitled “Dyslipidemia in Chronic Kidney Disease” ( 57 ). CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE In the Corona study 5,011 patients with New York Heart Association class II, III, or IV ischemic, systolic heart failure (most were class III) were randomly assigned to receive 10 mg of rosuvastatin or placebo per day ( 58 ). While rosuvastatin treatment reduced LDL-C levels by 45% compared to placebo, rosuvastatin did not decrease death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke. Similarly, the GISSI-HF trial randomized 4,574 patients with class II, III, of IV congestive heart failure (most were class II) to 10mg of rosuvastatin or placebo ( 59 ). The primary endpoints were time to death, and time to death or admission to hospital for
