Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


failure (most were class II) to 10mg of rosuvastatin or placebo ( 59 ). The primary endpoints were time to death, and time to death or admission to hospital for cardiovascular reasons and these were similar in the statin and placebo groups. Why statin treatment was not beneficial in patients with congestive heart failure is unknown. LIVER DISEASE Many patients with liver disease, particularly those with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), are at high risk for cardiovascular disease and therefore require statin therapy ( 60 ). There have been concerns that these patients would not tolerate statin therapy and that statin therapy would worsen their underlying liver disease. Fortunately, there are now studies of statin therapy in patients with abnormal liver function tests and underlying liver disease at baseline ( 60-62 ). With a variety of statins, studies have demonstrated no significant worsening of liver disease and in fact several studies have suggested improvement in liver function tests with statin therapy ( 62 ). This is true for patients with hepatitis C, NAFLD/NASH, and primary biliary cirrhosis. Additionally, in the GREACE trial, statin treatment reduced cardiovascular events in patients with moderately abnormal liver function tests (transaminases < 3x the upper limit of normal) ( 63 ). Thus, in patients with mild liver disease without elevations in bilirubin or abnormalities in synthetic function, statins are safe and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. For additional information on the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with liver disease see the chapter entitled “Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease” ( 64 ). HIV Patients living with HIV have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 33 ). A trial randomized 7,769 participants with HIV infection with a low-to-moderate risk of cardiovascular disease to either pitavastatin 4 mg or placebo ( 65 ). The primary outcome was the occurrence of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina, stroke, transient ischemic attack, peripheral arterial ischemia, revascularization, or death from an undetermined cause. In the pitavastatin group cardiovascular events were decreased by 35% (HR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.48 to 0.90; P=0.002). For additional information on the use of statins in HIV patients see the Endotext chapter “Lipid Disorders in People with HIV” ( 33 ). Statin Side Effects An umbrella review of meta-analyses of observational studies and randomized controlled trials examined 278 unique non-CVD outcomes from 112 meta-analyses of observational studies and 144 meta-analyses of
