Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Statin Side Effects An umbrella review of meta-analyses of observational studies and randomized controlled trials examined 278 unique non-CVD outcomes from 112 meta-analyses of observational studies and 144 meta-analyses of RCTs and found that the only adverse effects associated with statin therapy were the development of diabetes and muscle disorders ( 66 ). For a detailed discussion of the side effects of statin therapy a scientific statement from the American Heart Association provides a comprehensive review ( 67 ). DIABETES After many years of statin use it was recognized that statins increase the risk of developing diabetes. In a meta-analysis of 13 trials with over 90,000 subjects, there was a 9% increase in the incidence of diabetes during follow-up among subjects receiving statin therapy ( 68 ). All statins appear to increase the risk of developing diabetes. In comparisons of intensive vs. moderate statin therapy, Preiss et al observed that patients treated with intensive statin therapy had a 12% greater risk of developing diabetes compared to subjects treated with moderate dose statin therapy ( 69 ). Older subjects, obese subjects, and subjects with high glucose levels were at a higher risk of developing diabetes while on statin therapy ( 70 ). Thus, statins may be unmasking and accelerating the development of diabetes that would have occurred naturally in these subjects at some point in time. In patients without risk factors for developing diabetes, treatment with statins does not appear to increase the risk of developing diabetes. In patients with diabetes, an analysis of 9 studies with over 9,000 patients with diabetes reported that the patients randomized to statin therapy had a 0.12% higher A1c than the placebo group indicating that statin therapy is associated with only a very small increase in A1c levels in patients with diabetes that is unlikely to be clinically significant ( 71 ). Individual studies, such as CARDS and the Heart Protection Study, have also shown only a very modest effect of statins on A1c levels in patients with diabetes ( 72 , 73 ). The mechanism by which statins increase the risk of developing diabetes is unknown ( 74 ). A study has demonstrated that a polymorphism in the gene for HMG-CoA reductase that results in a decrease in HMG-CoA reductase activity and a small decrease in LDL levels is also associated with an increase in body weight and plasma glucose and insulin levels (
