Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


in a decrease in HMG-CoA reductase activity and a small decrease in LDL levels is also associated with an increase in body weight and plasma glucose and insulin levels ( 75 ). Additionally, a cross sectional study that compared the change in BMI in individuals on statins to individuals not on statins observed an increased BMI in the subjects taking statins (+1.3 in stain users vs. + 0.4 in non-users over a 10 year period; p=0.02) ( 76 ). These observations suggest that the inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase per se may be contributing to the statin induced increased risk of diabetes via weight gain. However, studies have now shown that polymorphisms in different genes (NPC1L1 and PCSK9) that lead to a decrease in LDL-C levels are also associated with an increase in diabetes suggesting that decreases in LDL-C levels per se alter glucose metabolism and increase the risk of diabetes ( 74 , 77 ). How a decrease in LDL-C levels might affect glucose metabolism is unknown. Clearly further studies are required to understand the mechanisms by which statins increase the risk of developing diabetes. In balancing the benefits and risks of statin therapy it is important to recognize that an increase in plasma glucose levels is a surrogate marker for an increased risk of developing micro and macrovascular disease (i.e., an increase in plasma glucose per se is not an event but rather increases the risk of future events). In contrast, statin therapy is preventing actual clinical events that cause morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, it may take many years for an elevated blood glucose to induce diabetic complications while the reduction in cardiovascular events with statin therapy occurs relatively quickly. Finally, the number of patients needed to treat with statins to avoid one cardiovascular event is much lower (10-20 depending on the type of patient) than the number of patients needed to treat to cause one patient to develop diabetes (100–200 for one extra case of diabetes) ( 74 ). Patients on statin therapy, particularly those with risk factors for the development of diabetes, should be periodically screened for the development of diabetes with measurement of fasting glucose or A1c levels. CANCER Analysis of 14 trials with over 90,000 subjects by the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists did not demonstrate an increased risk of cancer or any specific cancer with statin therapy ( 34 ). An update with an analysis of
