Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


subjects by the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists did not demonstrate an increased risk of cancer or any specific cancer with statin therapy ( 34 ). An update with an analysis of 27 trials with over 174,000 participants also did not observe an increase in cancer incidence or death ( 36 ). Additionally, no differences in cancer rates were observed with any particular statin. COGNITIVE DYSFUNCTION Several randomized clinical trials have examined the effect of statin therapy on cognitive function and have not indicated any increased risk ( 78-80 ). The Prosper Trial was designed to determine whether statin therapy will reduce cardiovascular disease in older subjects (age 70-82) ( 43 ). In this trial cognitive function was assessed repeatedly and no difference in cognitive decline was found in subjects treated with pravastatin compared to placebo ( 43 , 81 ). In the Heart Protection Study over 20,000 patients were randomized to simvastatin 40mg or placebo and again no significant differences in cognitive function was observed between the statin vs. placebo group ( 82 ). Additionally, a Cochrane review examined the effect of statin therapy in patients with established dementia and identified 4 studies with 1154 participants ( 83 ). In this analysis no benefit or harm of statin therapy on cognitive function could be demonstrated in this high-risk group of patients. Thus, randomized clinical trials do not indicate a significant association. HEMORRAGIC STROKE In a scientific statement from the American Heart Association on statin safety reached the following conclusions; “The available data in aggregate show no increased risk of brain hemorrhage with statin use in primary stroke prevention populations. An increased risk in secondary stroke prevention populations is possible, but the absolute risk is very small, and the benefit in reducing overall stroke and other vascular events generally outweighs that risk” ( 67 ). LIVER DISEASE It was in initially thought that statins induced liver dysfunction and it was recommended that liver function tests be routinely obtained while patients were taking statins. However, studies have now shown that the risk of liver function test abnormalities in patients taking statins is very small ( 61 ). For example, in a survey of 35 randomized studies involving > 74,000 subjects, elevations in transaminases were seen in 1.4% of statin treated subjects and 1.1% of controls ( 84 ). Similarly, in a meta-analysis of > 49,000 patients from 13 placebo controlled studies, the incidence
