Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


were seen in 1.4% of statin treated subjects and 1.1% of controls ( 84 ). Similarly, in a meta-analysis of > 49,000 patients from 13 placebo controlled studies, the incidence of transaminase elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal was 1.14% in the statin group and 1.05% in the placebo group ( 85 ). Moreover, even when the transaminase levels are elevated, repeat testing often demonstrates a return towards normal levels ( 86 ). The increases in transaminase levels with statin therapy are dose related with high doses of statins leading to more frequent elevations ( 87 ). At this time, routine monitoring of liver function tests in patients taking statins is no longer recommended. However, obtaining baseline liver function tests prior to starting statin therapy is indicated ( 61 ). If liver function tests are obtained during statin treatment, one should not be overly concerned with modestly elevated transaminase levels (less than 3x the upper limit of normal) ( 61 ). If the transaminase is greater than 3x the upper limit of normal the test should be repeated and if it remains > 3x the upper limit of normal, statin therapy should be stopped and the patient evaluated ( 61 ). A more clinically important issue is whether statins lead to an increased risk of liver failure. Studies have suggested that the incidence of liver failure in patients taking statins is very similar to the rate observed in the general population (approx. 1 case per 1 million patient years) ( 88 , 89 ). Thus, statin therapy causing serious liver injury is a very rare event. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is very common and is associates with obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. In patients with NAFLD studies have shown that statins decrease liver enzymes and reduce steatosis ( 90 ). MUSCLE The most common side effect of statin therapy is muscle symptoms. These can range from life threatening rhabdomyolysis to myalgias ( Table 4 ) ( 91 ). Table 4. Spectrum of Statin Induced Muscle Disorders (Adapted from J. Clinical Lipidology 8: S58-71, 2014) View in own window Myalgia- aches, soreness, stiffness, tenderness, cramps with normal CK levels Myopathy- muscle weakness with or without increased CK Myositis- muscle inflammation Myonecrosis- mild (CK >3x ULN); moderate (CK> 10x ULN); severe (CK> 50x ULN) Rhabdomyolysis- myonecrosis with myoglobinuria or acute renal failure Many patients will
