Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


without increased CK Myositis- muscle inflammation Myonecrosis- mild (CK >3x ULN); moderate (CK> 10x ULN); severe (CK> 50x ULN) Rhabdomyolysis- myonecrosis with myoglobinuria or acute renal failure Many patients will discontinue the use of statins due to muscle symptoms. Risk factors associated with an increased incidence of statin associated muscle symptoms are listed in Table 5 ( 92 , 93 ). Table 5. Risk Factors for Statin Myopathy View in own window Medications that alter statin metabolism Older age Female Hypothyroidism Excess alcohol Vitamin D deficiency History of muscle disorders Renal disease Liver disease Personal or family history of statin intolerance Low BMI Polymorphism in SLCO1B1 gene High dose statin Drug-drug interactions The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists analyzed individual participant data on the development of muscle symptoms from 19 double-blind trials of statin versus placebo with 123,940 participants and four double-blind trials of a more intensive vs. a less intensive statin regimen with 30,724 participants ( 94 ). After a median follow-up of 4.3 years 27.1% of the individuals taking a statin vs. 26.6% on placebo reported muscle pain or weakness representing a 3% increase greater than placebo (risk ratio- 1.03; 95% CI 1.01-1.06) ( Table 6 ). The specific muscle symptoms caused by statin therapy, myalgia, muscle cramps or spasm, limb pain, other musculoskeletal pain, or muscle fatigue or weakness were similar to those caused by placebo. The increase in muscle symptoms in the statin treated individuals was manifest in the first year of therapy but in the later years muscle symptoms were similar in the statin treated and placebo groups. The relative risk of statin induced muscle symptoms was greater in women than men. Intensive statin treatment with 40-80 mg atorvastatin or 20-40 mg rosuvastatin resulted in a higher risk of muscle symptoms than less intensive or moderate-intensity regimens but different statins at equivalent LDL-C lowering doses had similar effects on muscle symptoms. This study demonstrates that there is a small increase in muscle symptoms that primarily manifests in the first year of therapy. Statin therapy caused approximately 11 additional complaints of muscle pain or weakness per 1000 patients during the first year, but little excess in later years. Of particularly note is that 26.6% of patients taking a placebo had muscle symptoms demonstrating a very high frequency of this clinical complaint. Given the high prevalence of muscle complaints and the small increase attributed to statins it is very
