Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


whereas in the placebo group myalgias occur later (average 61 days). In the atorvastatin group the symptoms were predominantly localized to the legs and included aches, cramps, and fatigue, whereas in the placebo group they were more diverse including whole body fatigue, foot cramps, worsening of pain in previous injuries, and groin pain. A number of conclusions can be reached from this study. First, statin treatment does in fact increase the incidence of myalgias. Second, a substantial number of patients treated with placebo will also develop myalgias. Third, clinically differentiating statin induced myalgias from placebo induced myalgias is difficult, as there are no specific symptoms, signs, or biomarkers that clearly distinguish between the two. It should be recognized that the patient population typically treated with statins (patients 50-80 years of age) often have muscle symptoms in the absence of statin therapy and it is therefore difficult to be certain that the muscle symptoms described by the patient are actually due to statin therapy. Additionally, when patients know that they are taking a statin they are more likely to have muscle symptoms (i.e. the nocebo effect). This was nicely demonstrated in the ASCOT-LLA extension trial ( 99 ). In the initial phase of the study the patients were randomly assigned to atorvastatin 10 mg (n= 5101) or matching placebo (n= 5079) in a double-blind fashion. During the 3.3 years of the double blinded phase adverse muscle symptoms were very similar in the atorvastatin and placebo groups (HR 1.03; p=0.72). This double-blind phase was followed by a non-blinded non-randomized extension where 6409 patients were treated with atorvastatin 10mg and 3490 were untreated. During the 2.3 years of this extension study muscle symptoms were significantly increased in the atorvastatin group (HR 1·41; p=0.006). In a very small study in the Annals of Internal Medicine eight patients with “statin related myalgia” were re-challenged with statin or placebo and there were no statistically significant differences in the recurrence of myalgias on the statin or placebo ( 100 ). This approach has been expanded upon in other studies. In 120 patients with “statin induced myalgia” patients were randomized in a double blinded crossover trial to either simvastatin 20mg per day or placebo and the occurrence of muscle symptoms was determined ( 101 ). Only 36% of these patients were confirmed to actually have statin induced myalgia (presence of symptoms on simvastatin without symptoms on placebo). In
