Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


muscle symptoms was determined ( 101 ). Only 36% of these patients were confirmed to actually have statin induced myalgia (presence of symptoms on simvastatin without symptoms on placebo). In a similar study, Nissen and colleagues studied 491 patients with “statin induced myalgia” treating with either atorvastatin 20mg per day or placebo in a double-blind crossover trial ( 102 ). In this trial 42.6% of patients were confirmed to have statin induced muscle symptoms. In a trial of 156 patients with prior statin induced muscle symptoms patients were treated with alternating periods of atorvastatin 20mg or placebo ( 103 ). In this trial no difference in muscle symptoms was found between the statin and placebo treatment periods. A smaller crossover trial in 49 patients who had stopped statin therapy also found no difference in muscle symptoms when patients were taking atorvastatin 20mg or placebo ( 104 ) Thus, while statin induced myalgias are a real entity careful studies have shown that in the majority of patients with “statin induced muscle symptoms” the symptoms are not actually due to statin therapy. In the clinic it is difficult to be certain whether the muscle symptoms are actually due to true statin intolerance or to other factors. The approach to treating these patients will be discussed later in this chapter (Treatment of Stain Intolerant Patients). While some patients will not tolerate statin therapy due to myalgias, this side effect does not appear to result in serious morbidity or long-term consequences. In contrast, studies have found that discontinuing statins increases the risk of myocardial infarctions and death from cardiovascular disease ( 105 , 106 ). Fortunately, the more serious muscle related side effects of statin therapy are rare. In a meta-analysis of 21 statin vs. placebo trials there was an excess risk of rhabdomyolysis of 1.6 patients per 100,000 patient years or a standardized rate of 0.016/patient years ( 86 ). Other studies report a rate of rhabdomyolysis between 0.03- 0.16 per 1,000 patient years ( 107 ). Similarly, the risk of statin induced myositis (muscle symptoms with an increase in CK 10 times the upper limits of normal) is also very low. In an analysis of 21 randomized trials myositis occurred in only 5 patients per 100,000 person years or 0.05/1000 patient years ( 86 ). The higher the dose of statin used the greater the risk of myositis and rhabdomyolysis. In a
