Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


5 patients per 100,000 person years or 0.05/1000 patient years ( 86 ). The higher the dose of statin used the greater the risk of myositis and rhabdomyolysis. In a comparison of five trials that compared high dose statin vs. low dose statin there was an excess risk of rhabdomyolysis of 4 per 10,000 people treated ( 35 ). The likely basis for an increased risk of myositis or rhabdomyolysis is elevated statin blood levels, which are more likely to occur with high doses of statins. In the development of statins, manufacturers have studied higher doses that are not approved for clinical use. For example, simvastatin and pravastatin at 160mg per day were studied but discontinued due to an increased incidence of muscle side effects ( 108 , 109 ). The use of simvastatin 80mg per day, a previously approved dose, was discontinued due to an increased risk of muscle side effects. Similarly, pitavastatin at doses greater than 4mg per day was investigated, but development was abandoned when an increased risk of rhabdomyolysis was observed. Along similar lines, in many of the patients that develop rhabdomyolysis, the etiology can be linked to the use of other drugs that alter statin metabolism thereby increasing statin blood levels ( 93 ). For example, prior to drug interactions being recognized the use of cyclosporine, gemfibrozil, HIV protease inhibitors, and erythromycin in conjunction with certain statins was linked with the development of rhabdomyolysis ( 93 ). Finally, common variants in SLCO1B1, which encodes the organic anion-transporting polypeptide OATP1B1, are strongly associated with an increased risk of statin-induced myopathy ( 110 ). OATP1B1 facilitates the transport of statins into the liver and certain polymorphisms are associated with an increased risk of developing statin induced muscle disorders, due to the decreased transport of statins into the liver resulting in increased blood levels ( 111 ). The exact mechanism by which elevated blood levels induce muscle toxicity remains to be elucidated. Recently it has been recognized that a very small number of patients taking statins develop a progressive autoimmune necrotizing myopathy, which is characterized by progressive symmetric proximal muscle weakness, elevated CK levels (typically >10x the ULN), and antibodies against HMG-CoA reductase ( 112 ). It is estimated that this occurs in 2 or 3 per 100,000 patients treated with a statin ( 112 ). This myopathy may begin soon after initiating statin therapy or develop after
