Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


estimated that this occurs in 2 or 3 per 100,000 patients treated with a statin ( 112 ). This myopathy may begin soon after initiating statin therapy or develop after a patient has been on statins for many years ( 112 ). Muscle biopsy reveals necrotizing myopathy without severe inflammation ( 112 ). In contrast to the typical muscle disorders induced by statin therapy, the autoimmune myopathy progresses despite discontinuing therapy. Spontaneous improvement is not typical and most patients will need to be treated with immunosuppressive therapy (glucocorticoids plus methotrexate, azathioprine, or mycophenolate mofetil) ( 112 ). It should be recognized that this disorder can occur in individuals that have not been exposed to statin therapy ( 113 ). Statins likely potentiate the development of this disorder in susceptible individuals, perhaps by increasing HMG-CoA reductase levels. From the above certain conclusions can be reached. First, the risk of serious muscle disorders due to statin therapy is very small, particularly if one is aware of the potential drug interactions that increase the risk. Second, the muscle toxicity is usually linked to elevated statin blood levels and the higher the dose of the statin the more likely the chance of developing toxicity. Third, myalgias in patients taking statins are very common and can be due to statin treatment. However, in the individual patient, it is very difficult to know if the myalgia is actually secondary to statin therapy and in many, if not most patients, the myalgias are not due to statin therapy. Fourth, the muscle symptoms that occur in association with statin treatment are a major reason why patients discontinue statin use and therefore better diagnostic algorithms and treatments are required to allow patients to better comply with these highly effective treatments to reduce cardiovascular disease. Contraindications Previously statins were contraindicated in pregnant women or lactating women. However, in July 2021 the FDA requested the removal of the strongest recommendation against using statins during pregnancy. They continue to advise against the use of statins in pregnancy given the limited data and quality of information available. The decision of whether to continue a statin during pregnancy requires shared decision-making between the patient and clinician, and healthcare professionals need to discuss the risks versus the benefits in high-risk women, such as those with homozygous FH or prior ASCVD events, that may benefit from statin therapy. For a detailed discussion of the use of
