Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


versus the benefits in high-risk women, such as those with homozygous FH or prior ASCVD events, that may benefit from statin therapy. For a detailed discussion of the use of statins during pregnancy see the Endotext chapter entitled “Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels” ( 114 ). In addition, liver function tests should be obtained prior to initiating statin treatment and moderate to severe liver disease is a contraindication to statin therapy ( 61 ). Summary An enormous data base has accumulated which demonstrates that statins are very effective at reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease and that statins have an excellent safety profile. The risk benefit ratio of treating patients with statins is very favorable and has resulted in this class of drugs being widely utilized to lower serum lipid levels and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. EZETIMBE (ZETIA) Introduction Ezetimibe (Zetia) inhibits the absorption of cholesterol by the intestine thereby resulting in modest decreases in LDL-C levels ( 115 ). Ezetimibe is primarily used in combination with statin therapy when statin treatment alone does not lower LDL-C levels sufficiently or when patients only tolerate a low statin dose. It may also be used as monotherapy or in combination with other lipid lowering drugs to lower LDL-C levels in patients with statin intolerance. Finally, it is the drug of choice in patients with the rare genetic disorder sitosterolemia, which is discussed in detail in the chapter “Sitosterolemia” ( 116 ). Ezetimibe is relatively inexpensive as it is now a generic drug. Effect of Ezetimibe on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Pandor and colleagues have published a meta-analysis of ezetimibe monotherapy that included 8 studies with 2,722 patients ( 117 ). They reported that ezetimibe decreased LDL-C levels by 18.6%, decreased triglyceride levels by 8.1%, and increased HDL-C levels by 3% compared to placebo. In a pooled analysis by Morrone and colleagues of 27 studies with 11, 714 subjects treated with ezetimibe in combination with statin therapy similar results were observed ( 118 ). Specifically, LDL-C levels were decreased by 15.1%, non-HDL-C levels by 13.5%, triglycerides by 4.7%, apolipoprotein B levels by 10.8%, and HDL-C levels were increased by 1.6%. The combination of a high dose potent statin plus ezetimibe can lower LDL-C levels by 70% ( 119 ). A meta-analysis of the effect of ezetimibe on Lp(a) revealed that with either monotherapy or
