Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


high dose potent statin plus ezetimibe can lower LDL-C levels by 70% ( 119 ). A meta-analysis of the effect of ezetimibe on Lp(a) revealed that with either monotherapy or combination with statin there was no change in Lp(a) levels ( 120 ). The effect of ezetimibe on lipid parameters occurs quickly and can be seen after 2 weeks of treatment. In patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia who have marked elevations in LDL-C levels, the addition of ezetimibe to statin therapy resulted in a further 16.5% decrease in LDL-C levels ( 121 ). Thus, in comparison with statins, ezetimibe treatment produces modest decreases in LDL-C levels (15-20%). In addition to these changes in lipid parameters, ezetimibe in combination with a statin decreased hs-CRP by 10-19% compared to statin monotherapy ( 122 , 123 ). However, ezetimibe alone does not decrease hs-CRP levels ( 123 ). Table 7. Effect of Ezetimibe on Lipid/Lipoprotein Levels View in own window LDL-C Decrease Non-HDL-C Decrease Apolipoprotein B Decrease Triglycerides Small decrease HDL-C Small increase Lp(a) No change Mechanisms Accounting for the Ezetimibe Induced Lipid Effects NPC1L1 (Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 protein) is highly expressed in the intestine with the greatest expression in the proximal jejunum, which is the major site of intestinal cholesterol absorption ( 124 , 125 ). Knock out animals deficient in NPC1L1 have been shown to have a decrease in intestinal cholesterol absorption ( 124 ). Ezetimibe binds to NPC1L1 and inhibits cholesterol absorption ( 115 , 124 , 125 ). In animals lacking NPC1L1, ezetimibe has no effect on intestinal cholesterol absorption, demonstrating that ezetimibe’s effect on cholesterol absorption is mediated via NPC1L1 ( 115 , 125 ). Thus, a major site of action of ezetimibe is to block the absorption of cholesterol by the intestine ( 115 , 125 ). Cholesterol in the intestinal lumen is derived from both dietary cholesterol (approximately 25%) and biliary cholesterol (approximately 75%); thus the majority is derived from the bile ( 125 ). As a consequence, even in patients that have very little cholesterol in their diet, ezetimibe will decrease cholesterol absorption. While ezetimibe is very effective in blocking intestinal cholesterol absorption it does not interfere with the absorption of triglycerides, fatty acids, bile acids, or fat-soluble vitamins including vitamin D and K. When intestinal cholesterol absorption is decreased the chylomicrons formed by the intestine contain less cholesterol and thus the delivery of cholesterol
