Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


acids, or fat-soluble vitamins including vitamin D and K. When intestinal cholesterol absorption is decreased the chylomicrons formed by the intestine contain less cholesterol and thus the delivery of cholesterol from the intestine to the liver is diminished ( 126 ). This results in a decrease in the cholesterol content of the liver, leading to the activation of SREBPs, which enhance the expression of LDL receptors resulting in an increase in LDL receptors on the plasma membrane of hepatocytes ( Figure 1 ) ( 126 ). Thus, similar to statins the major mechanism of action of ezetimibe is to decrease the levels of cholesterol in the liver resulting in an increase in the number of LDL receptors leading to the increased clearance of circulating LDL ( 126 ). In addition, the decreased cholesterol delivery to the liver may also decrease the formation and secretion of VLDL ( 126 ). In addition to NPC1L1 expression in the intestine this protein is also expressed in the liver where it mediates the transport of cholesterol from the bile back into the liver ( 127 ). The inhibition of NPC1L1 in the liver will result in the increased secretion of cholesterol in bile and thereby could also contribute to a decrease in the cholesterol content of the liver and an increase in LDL receptor expression and a decrease in VLDL production. Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Following absorption by intestinal cells ezetimibe is rapidly glucuronidated. The glucuronidated ezetimibe is then secreted into the portal circulation and rapidly taken up by the liver where it is secreted into the bile and transported back to the intestine ( 115 ). This enterohepatic circulation repeatedly returns ezetimibe to its site of action (note glucuronidated ezetimibe is a very effective inhibitor of NPC1L1) ( 115 ). Additionally, this enterohepatic circulation accounts for the long duration of action of ezetimibe and limits peripheral tissue exposure ( 115 ). Ezetimibe is not significantly excreted by the kidneys and thus the dose does not need to be adjusted in patients with renal disease. Ezetimibe is not metabolized by the P450 system and does not have many drug interactions ( 115 ). It should be noted that cyclosporine does increase ezetimibe levels. Effect of Ezetimibe Therapy on Clinical Outcomes There have been a limited number of ezetimibe clinical outcome trials. Two have studied the effect of ezetimibe in combination with a statin vs.
