Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


of Ezetimibe Therapy on Clinical Outcomes There have been a limited number of ezetimibe clinical outcome trials. Two have studied the effect of ezetimibe in combination with a statin vs. placebo making it virtually impossible to determine if ezetimibe per se has beneficial effects. However, one study has compared ezetimibe plus a statin vs. a statin alone and one study compared ezetimibe vs. placebo. Finally, a study compared moderate-intensity statin with ezetimibe vs. high-intensity statin monotherapy. SEAS TRIAL The SEAS Trial was a randomized trial of 1,873 patients with mild-to-moderate, asymptomatic aortic stenosis ( 128 ). The patients received either simvastatin 40mg per day in combination with ezetimibe 10mg per day vs. placebo daily. The primary outcome was a composite of major cardiovascular events, including death from cardiovascular causes, aortic-valve replacement, non-fatal myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina pectoris, heart failure, coronary-artery bypass grafting, percutaneous coronary intervention, and non-hemorrhagic stroke. Secondary outcomes were events related to aortic-valve stenosis and ischemic cardiovascular events. Simvastatin plus ezetimibe lowered LDL-C levels by 61% compared to placebo. There were no significant differences in the primary outcome between the treated vs. placebo groups. Similarly, the need for aortic valve replacement was also not different between the treated and placebo groups. However, fewer patients had ischemic cardiovascular events in the simvastatin plus ezetimibe treated group than in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.63 to 0.97; P=0.02), which was primarily accounted for by a decrease in the number of patients who underwent coronary-artery bypass grafting. The design of this study does not allow for one to determine if the beneficial effect on ischemic cardiovascular events typically produced by statin therapy was enhanced by the addition of ezetimibe. SHARP TRIAL The SHARP Trial was a randomized trial of 9,270 patients with chronic kidney disease (3,023 on dialysis and 6,247 not on dialysis) with no known history of myocardial infarction or coronary revascularization ( 129 ). Patients were randomly assigned to simvastatin 20 mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg daily vs. placebo. The primary outcome was first major atherosclerotic event (non-fatal myocardial infarction or coronary death, non-hemorrhagic stroke, or any arterial revascularization procedure). Treatment with simvastatin plus ezetimibe resulted in a decrease in LDL-C of 0.85 mmol/L (~34mg/dL). This decrease in LDL-C was associated with a 17% reduction in major atherosclerotic events. In patients on hemodialysis there was a 5% decrease in cardiovascular events that was not
