Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


The RACING trial was a randomized, open-label trial in patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease carried out in South Korea ( 135 ). Patients were randomly assigned to either rosuvastatin 10 mg with ezetimibe 10 mg (n= 1894) or rosuvastatin 20 mg (n= 1886). The primary endpoint was cardiovascular death, major cardiovascular events, or non-fatal stroke. The median LDL-C level during the study was 58mg/dL in the combination therapy group and 66mg/dL in the statin monotherapy group (p<0·0001). The primary endpoint occurred in 9.1% of the patients in the combination therapy group and 9·9% of the patients in the high-intensity statin monotherapy group (non-inferior). Non-inferiority was observed in patients with LDL-C levels < 100mg/dL and >100mg/dL and in patients greater than 75 years of age ( 136 , 137 ). This study demonstrates that moderate intensity statin with ezetimibe was non-inferior to high-intensity statin therapy with regards to cardiovascular death, major cardiovascular events, or non-fatal stroke. Interestingly a lower prevalence of discontinuation or dose reduction caused by intolerance to the study drug was seen with combination therapy. This indicates that using a moderate intensity dose of a statin with ezetimibe is a useful strategy in patients that do not tolerate high intensity statin therapy. Side Effects Ezetimibe has not demonstrated significant side effects. In monotherapy trials, the effect on liver function tests was similar to placebo. In a meta-analysis by Toth et al. of 27 randomized trials in > 20,000 participants evaluating statin plus ezetimibe vs. statin alone the incidence of liver function test abnormalities was slightly greater in the combination therapy group (statin alone- 0.35% vs. statin plus ezetimibe 0.56%) ( 138 ). In contrast, Luo and colleagues in a meta-analysis of 20 randomized with > 14,000 subjects did not observe a difference in liver function tests in the ezetimibe plus statin vs. statin alone group ( 139 ). With regards to muscle side effects, a meta-analysis of seven randomized trials by Kashani and colleagues found that monotherapy with ezetimibe or ezetimibe in combination with a statin did not increase the risk of myositis compared to placebo or monotherapy with a statin ( 140 ). Similarly, Luo et al also did not observe that combination therapy with ezetimibe and a statin increased the risk of myositis ( 139 ). In a meta-analysis by Savarese et al. of 7 randomized long-term studies including SEAS, SHARP, and IMPROVE-IT, the incidence of cancer
