Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


statin increased the risk of myositis ( 139 ). In a meta-analysis by Savarese et al. of 7 randomized long-term studies including SEAS, SHARP, and IMPROVE-IT, the incidence of cancer was similar in patients treated with ezetimibe vs. patients not treated with ezetimibe ( 141 ). This confirms a previous study that also did not demonstrate an increased cancer risk in the three largest ezetimibe trials ( 142 ). Ezetimibe does not appear to have adverse effects on fasting glucose levels or A1c levels ( 143 ). Thus, over many years of use ezetimibe has been shown to be a very safe drug without major side effects. Contraindications Ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease. The use of ezetimibe during pregnancy and lactation has not been studied. Summary Ezetimibe has a modest ability to lower LDL-C levels and can be a very useful adjunct to statin therapy. When added to statin therapy it will lower the LDL-C by an additional 15-20% which is equivalent to three titrations of the statin dose (for example adding ezetimibe is equivalent to increasing atorvastatin from 10mg to 80mg per day). Additionally, the combination of a high dose of a potent statin (rosuvastatin 40mg per day) with ezetimibe was able to lower the LDL by approximately 70%, which will allow many patients to reach their LDL goal ( 123 ). In patient’s intolerant of statins who either cannot take a statin or can only take low doses of a statin, ezetimibe is extremely useful in further lowering LDL-C. The ease of taking ezetimibe, the lack of serious side effects, and that it is inexpensive as it is now a generic drug make it an obvious second choice drug after statins to lower LDL-C levels. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Introduction There are three bile acid sequestrants approved for use in the United States. The first bile acid sequestrant, cholestyramine (Questran), was developed in the 1950s and was the second drug available to lower cholesterol levels (niacin was the first drug). Colestipol (Colestid) was developed in the 1970s and is very similar to cholestyramine. In 2000, Colesevelam (Welchol) was approved. Colesevelam has enhanced binding and affinity for bile acids compared to cholestyramine and colestipol and therefore can be given in much lower doses reducing some side effects ( 144 ). ​Cholestyramine is available as a powder and the dose ranges from 8-24 grams per day given
