Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


can be given in much lower doses reducing some side effects ( 144 ). ​Cholestyramine is available as a powder and the dose ranges from 8-24 grams per day given with meals. Colestipol is available as a tablet and the dose ranges from 2-16 grams per day given with meals or granules and the dose ranges from 5-30 grams per day given with meals. The dose of colesevelam is 3.75 grams per day and can be given as tablets (​take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily), oral suspension (​take one packet once daily), or chewable bars (take one bar once daily). Because bile acid sequestrants mechanism of action starts with the binding of bile acids in the intestine (see below) these drugs are most effective when administered with meals. Effect of Bile Acid Sequestrants on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels The major effect of bile acid sequestrants is to lower LDL-C levels in a dose dependent fashion. Depending upon the specific drug and dose the decrease in LDL-C ranges from approximately 5 to 30% ( 144-146 ). The effect of monotherapy with bile acid sequestrants on LDL-C levels observed in various studies is shown in table 8 . Table 8. Effect of Bile Acid Sequestrants on LDL-C View in own window Drug LDL lowering Cholestyramine 4g/day 7% decrease Cholestyramine 24g/day 28% decrease Colestipol 4g/day 12% decrease Colestipol 16g/day 24% decrease Colesevelam 3.8g/day 15% decrease Colesevelam 4.3g/day 18% decrease Bile acid sequestrants are typically used in combination with statins and the addition of bile acid sequestrants to statin therapy will result in a further 10% to 25% decrease in LDL-C levels ( 144-146 ). Combination therapy can result in a 60% reduction in LDL-C levels when high doses of potent statins are combined with high doses of bile acid sequestrants. Bile acid sequestrants will also further lower LDL-C levels by as much as 18% when added to statins and ezetimibe ( 147 ). This is particularly useful in patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia who can have very high LDL-C levels at baseline. Additionally, in patients who are statin intolerant, the combination of a bile acid sequestrant and ezetimibe resulted in an additional 10-20% decrease in LDL-C compared to either drug alone ( 148 , 149 ). Thus, both in monotherapy and in combination with other drugs that lower LDL-C levels, bile acid sequestrants are effective in lowering LDL-C levels.
