Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


drug alone ( 148 , 149 ). Thus, both in monotherapy and in combination with other drugs that lower LDL-C levels, bile acid sequestrants are effective in lowering LDL-C levels. Bile acid sequestrants have a very modest effect on HDL-C levels, typically resulting in a 3-9% increase ( 144-146 ). The effect of bile acid sequestrants on triglyceride levels varies ( 144-146 ). In patients with normal triglyceride levels, bile acid sequestrants increase triglyceride levels by a small amount. However, as baseline triglyceride levels increase, the effect of bile acid sequestrants on plasma triglyceride levels becomes greater, and can result in substantial increases in triglyceride levels. In patients with triglycerides > 400mg/dL the use of bile acid sequestrants is contraindicated. Table 9. Effect of Bile Acid Sequestrants on Lipid/Lipoprotein Levels View in own window LDL-C Decrease Non-HDL-C Decrease Apolipoprotein B Decrease Triglycerides Variable. If TG levels elevated will increase significantly HDL-C Small Increase Lp(a) No change Non-Lipid Effects of Bile Acid Sequestrants Bile acid sequestrants have been shown to reduce fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c levels ( 150 ). Colesevelam has been most intensively studied and in a number of different studies colesevelam has decreased A1c levels by approximately 0.5-1.0% in patients also treated with a variety of glucose lowering drugs including metformin, sulfonylureas, and insulin. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved colesevelam for improving glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Bile acid sequestrants decrease CRP. For example, Devaraj et al have shown that colesevelam decreases hs-CRP by 18% compared to placebo ( 151 ). In combination with a statin, colesevelam reduced hs-CRP levels by 23% compared to statin alone ( 152 ). Mechanisms Accounting for Bile Acid Sequestrants Induced Lipid Effects Bile acid sequestrants bind bile acids in the intestine, preventing their reabsorption in the terminal ileum leading to the increased fecal excretion of bile acids ( 153 ). This decrease in bile acid reabsorption reduces the size of the bile acid pool, which stimulates the conversion of cholesterol into bile acids in the liver ( 153 ). This increase in bile acid synthesis decreases hepatic cholesterol levels leading to the activation of SREBPs that up-regulate the expression of the enzymes required for the synthesis of cholesterol and the expression of LDL receptors ( 153 ). The increase in hepatic LDL receptors results in the increased clearance of LDL from the circulation leading to a
