Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


of cholesterol and the expression of LDL receptors ( 153 ). The increase in hepatic LDL receptors results in the increased clearance of LDL from the circulation leading to a decrease in serum LDL-C levels ( Figure 1 ). Thus, similar to statins and ezetimibe, bile acids lower plasma LDL-C levels by decreasing hepatic cholesterol levels, which stimulates LDL receptor production and thereby accelerates the clearance of LDL from the blood. The key regulator of bile acid synthesis is FXR (farnesoid X receptor), a nuclear hormone receptor that forms a heterodimer with RXR to regulate gene transcription ( 154 , 155 ). Bile acids down-regulate cholesterol 7α hydroxylase, the first enzyme in the bile acid synthetic pathway by several FXR mediated mechanisms. In the ileum, bile acids via FXR stimulate the production of FGF19, which is secreted into the portal vein and inhibits cholesterol 7α hydroxylase expression in the liver ( 154 ). Additionally, in the liver, bile acids activate FXR leading to the increased expression of SHP (small heterodimer partner), which inhibits the transcription of cholesterol 7α hydroxylase ( 155 ). Thus, a decrease in bile acids will lead to the decreased activation of FXR in the liver and intestines and thereby result in an increase in cholesterol 7α hydroxylase expression and the increased conversion of cholesterol to bile acids resulting in a decrease in hepatic cholesterol content. Decreased activation of FXR can also explain the adverse effects of bile acid sequestrants on triglyceride levels ( 156 , 157 ). Activation of FXR increases the expression of apolipoprotein C-II, apolipoprotein A-V, and the VLDL receptor, proteins that decrease plasma triglyceride levels while decreasing the expression of apolipoprotein C-III, a protein that is associated with increases in plasma triglycerides ( 156 , 157 ). Thus, activation of FXR would be expected to decrease triglyceride levels as increases in apolipoprotein C-II, apolipoprotein A-V, and the VLDL receptor and decreases in apolipoprotein C-III would reduce plasma triglyceride levels. With bile acid sequestrants the activation of FXR would be reduced and decreases in the expression of apolipoprotein C-II, apolipoprotein A-V, and the VLDL receptor and increased expression of apolipoprotein C-III would increase plasma triglyceride levels. The mechanism by which treatment with bile acid sequestrants improves glycemic control is unclear ( 158 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Bile acid sequestrants are not absorbed and not altered by digestive enzymes and thus their primary effects
