Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


sequestrants improves glycemic control is unclear ( 158 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Bile acid sequestrants are not absorbed and not altered by digestive enzymes and thus their primary effects are localized to the intestine ( 144-146 ). It should be noted that bile acid sequestrants can indirectly have systemic effects by decreasing the reabsorption of bile acids and thereby reducing the exposure of cells to bile acids, which are biologically active compounds. Unfortunately, in the intestine bile acid sequestrants can impede the absorption of many other drugs ( 144-146 ). This is particularly true for cholestyramine and colestipol which are used in large quantities (maximum doses- cholestyramine 24 grams per day; colestipol 30 grams per day). In contrast, colesevelam, which requires a much lower quantity of drug because of its high affinity and binding capacity for bile salts, has less of an effect on the absorption of other drugs (recommended dose of colesevelam 3.75 grams/day). Of particular note colesevelam does not interfere with absorption of statins, fenofibrate, or ezetimibe. A list of some of the drugs whose absorption is affected by cholestyramine or colestipol is shown in table 10 and a list of drugs whose absorption is affected by colesevelam is shown in table 11 . Table 10. Some of the Drugs Affected by Cholestyramine/Colestipol View in own window Statins Ezetimibe Gemfibrozil Fenofibrate Thiazides Furosemide Spironolactone Digoxin Warfarin L-thyroxine Corticosteroids Vitamin K Cyclosporine Raloxifine NSAIDs Sulfonylureas Aspirin Beta blockers Tricyclic Table 11. Some of the Drugs Affected by Colesevelam View in own window L-thyroxine Cyclosporine Glimepiride Glipizide Glyburide Phenytoin Olmesartan Warfarin Oral contraceptives It is currently recommended that medications should be taken either 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking bile acid sequestrants. This is particularly important with drugs that have a narrow toxic/therapeutic window, such as thyroid hormone, digoxin, or warfarin. It can be very difficult for many patients, particularly those on multiple medications, to take bile acid sequestrants given the need to separate pill ingestion. Cholestyramine and colestipol may also interfere with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Taking a multivitamin 4 hours before or after these drugs can reduce the likelihood of a vitamin deficiency. Effect of Bile Acid Sequestrants on Clinical Outcomes The Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial (LRC-CPPT) of cholestyramine vs. placebo was the first large drug study to explore the effect of specifically lowering LDL-C on cardiovascular outcomes ( 159 ).
