Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial (LRC-CPPT) of cholestyramine vs. placebo was the first large drug study to explore the effect of specifically lowering LDL-C on cardiovascular outcomes ( 159 ). LRC-CPPT was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind study in 3,806 asymptomatic middle-aged men with primary hypercholesterolemia. The treatment group received cholestyramine 24 grams per day and the control group received a placebo for an average of 7.4 years. In the cholestyramine group total and LDL-C was decreased by 8.5% and 12.6% as compared to the placebo group. In the cholestyramine group there was a 19% reduction in risk (p < 0.05) of the primary end point accounted for by a 24% reduction in definite CHD death and a 19% reduction in nonfatal myocardial infarction. In addition, the incidence rates for new positive exercise tests, angina, and coronary bypass surgery were reduced by 25%, 20%, and 21%, respectively, in the cholestyramine group. The reduction in events correlated with the decrease in LDL-C levels ( 160 ). Of note, compliance with cholestyramine 24 grams per day was limited with many patients taking much less than the prescribed doses. These results indicate that lowering LDL-C with bile acid sequestrant monotherapy reduces cardiovascular disease. In addition to the LRC-CPPT clinical outcome study, two studies have examined the effect of cholestyramine monotherapy on angiographic changes in the coronary arteries. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Type II Coronary Intervention Study and the St Thomas Atherosclerosis Regression Study reported that cholestyramine decreased the progression of atherosclerosis ( 161 , 162 ). There are a number of studies that have employed bile acid sequestrants in combination with other drugs and have shown a reduction in the progression of atherosclerosis or an increase in the regression of atherosclerosis but given the use of multiple drugs it is difficult to attribute the beneficial effects to the bile acid sequestrants ( 163-165 ). Unfortunately, there are no clinical outcome studies comparing statins alone vs. statins plus bile acid sequestrants. Side Effects Bile acid sequestrants do not have major systemic side effects as they are not absorbed and remain in the intestinal tract. However, they do cause gastrointestinal (GI) side effects ( 144-146 ). Constipation is a very common side effect and can be severe. In addition, patients will often complain of bloating, abdominal discomfort, and aggravation of hemorrhoids. Because of GI distress, a significant number of patients will discontinue therapy
