Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


and can be severe. In addition, patients will often complain of bloating, abdominal discomfort, and aggravation of hemorrhoids. Because of GI distress, a significant number of patients will discontinue therapy with bile acid sequestrants. These GI side effects are much more common with cholestyramine and colestipol compared to colesevelam, which is much better tolerated. One can reduce or ameliorate these GI side effects by increasing hydration, adding fiber to the diet (psyllium), and using stool softeners. Notably, bile acid sequestrants do not cause liver or muscle problems. One should also be aware that bile acid sequestrants can be difficult for many patients to take. Colestipol and colesevelam pills are large and can be difficult for some patients to swallow. Additionally, patients need to take a large number of these pills (colesevelam- 6 pills per day; colestipol- as many as 16 pills per day). The granular forms of cholestyramine and colestipol do not dissolve and are ingested as a suspension in liquid. Many patients find mixing with water leads to an unpalatable mixture that is difficult to take. Sometimes mixing with fruit juice, apple sauce, mash potatoes, etc. make the mixture more palatable. The suspension form of colesevelam with either 1.875 or 3.75 grams is preferred by many patients. As noted, earlier bile acid sequestrants can increase triglyceride levels, particularly in patients with elevated baseline triglyceride levels. Contraindications Bile acid sequestrants usually should be avoided in patients with pre-existing GI disorders. Bile acid sequestrants are contraindicated in patients with recent or repeated intestinal obstruction and patients with plasma triglyceride levels > 400mg/dL. In contradistinction from other lipid lowering drugs, bile acid sequestrants are not contraindicated during pregnancy or lactation (category B) ( 166 ). In women of child bearing age who are planning to become pregnant bile acid sequestrants can be a good choice to lower LDL levels. Summary Bile acid sequestrants are useful secondary drugs for the treatment of elevated LDL-C levels. They are typically used in combination with statin therapy as a second line drug or as an addition to statin plus ezetimibe therapy as a third line drug. In statin intolerant patients the combination of ezetimibe and a bile acid sequestrant is frequently employed. Bile acid sequestrants can be difficult drugs for patients to take due to GI side effects, difficulty taking the medication, and the need to avoid taking these drugs with other medications. To improve compliance
