Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


evolocumab treated subjects. In a study of alirocumab vs. ezetimibe, LDL-C levels were reduced by 47% in the alirocumab group and 16% in the ezetimibe group ( 173 ). In addition, alirocumab decreased non-HDL-C by 41%, apolipoprotein B by 37%, triglycerides by 12%, and Lp(a) by 17% and increased HDL by 6%. Thus, PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies are very effective in lowering pro-atherogenic lipoproteins when used in monotherapy and have a more robust effect than ezetimibe. IN COMBINATION WITH STATINS In the Odyssey Combo I study, patients on maximally tolerated statin therapy were randomized to alirocumab or placebo ( 174 ). Similar to monotherapy results, when alirocumab was added to statin therapy there was a further decrease in LDL-C levels by 46%, non-HDL-C by 38%, apolipoprotein B by 36%, and Lp(a) by 15% with an increase in HDL of 7% and no change in triglyceride levels. In the Odyssey Combo II study, patients on maximally tolerated statin therapy were randomized to alirocumab vs. ezetimibe ( 175 ). Alirocumab reduced LDL levels by 51% while ezetimibe reduced LDL by 21%, demonstrating that even when added to statin therapy, alirocumab has a significantly greater ability to reduce LDL-C levels than ezetimibe. In Odyssey Combo II, non-HDL-C levels were decreased by 42%, apolipoprotein B by 41%, triglycerides by 13%, and Lp(a) by 28% while HDL increased by 9% in the alirocumab treated group. In the Laplace-2 study, evolocumab was added to various statins used at different doses ( 176 ). It didn’t make any difference which statin was being used (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, or simvastatin) or what dose (atorvastatin 10mg or 80mg; rosuvastatin 5mg or 40mg); the addition of evolocumab resulted in an approximately 60% further decrease in LDL-C levels beyond statin alone. Additionally, the Laplace-2 trial also showed that evolocumab was much more potent than ezetimibe when added to statin therapy (evolocumab resulted in an approximately 60% decrease in LDL vs. while ezetimibe resulted in an approximately 20-25% reduction). IN COMBINATION WITH STATINS AND EZETIMIBE When evolocumab was added to patients receiving atorvastatin 80mg and ezetimibe 10mg there was 48% further reduction in LDL-C levels indicating that even in patients on very aggressive lipid lowering therapy the addition of a PCSK9 inhibitor can still result in a marked reduction in LDL-C ( 177 ). In addition to decreasing LDL-C there was also a 41% decrease in non-HDL-C, a 38% decrease in apolipoprotein B, and
