Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


result in a marked reduction in LDL-C ( 177 ). In addition to decreasing LDL-C there was also a 41% decrease in non-HDL-C, a 38% decrease in apolipoprotein B, and a 19% decrease in Lp(a) when evolocumab was added to statin plus ezetimibe therapy. PATIENTS WITH HETEROZYGOUS FAMILIAL HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA Both alirocumab and evolocumab have been tested in patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 178 , 179 ). In the Rutherford-2 trial, evolocumab lowered LDL-C by 60%, non-HDL-C by 56%, apolipoprotein B by 49%, Lp(a) by 31%, and triglycerides by 22% while increasing HDL by 8% ( 178 ). In the Odyssey FH I and FH II studies, alirocumab lowered LDL-C by approximately 55%, non-HDL-C by ~50%, apolipoprotein B by ~43%, Lp(a) by ~19% and triglycerides by ~14% while increasing HDL by ~7% ( 179 ). Thus, in these difficult to treat patients PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies were still very effective at lowering pro-atherogenic lipoproteins. PATIENTS WITH HOMOZYGOUS FAMILIAL HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA Evolocumab resulted in a 21-31% decrease in LDL-C levels compared to placebo in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 180 , 181 ). The response to therapy appears to be dependent on the underlying genetic cause. Patients with mutations in the LDL receptor leading to the expression of defective receptors respond to therapy whereas patients with mutations leading to negative receptors (null variants) have a poor response ( 180-182 ). Given the mechanism by which PCSK9 inhibitors lower LDL-C levels it is not surprising that patients that do not have any functional LDL receptors will not respond to therapy (see section on Mechanism of Lipid Lowering). Alirocumab decreased LDL-C by 35.6%, non-HDL-C by 32.9%, apolipoprotein B by 29.8%, and lipoprotein (a) by 28.4% ( 183 ). Given that PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies decrease LDL-C levels in some patients with Familial Hypercholesterolemia these drugs can be useful in this very difficult to treat patient population. STATIN INTOLERANT PATIENTS A number of studies have examined the effect of PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies in statin intolerant patients (myalgias) and compared the response to ezetimibe treatment ( 102 , 184 , 185 ). As expected, treatment with a PCSK9 inhibitor was more effective in lowering LDL-C levels than ezetimibe. Importantly, muscle symptoms were less frequent in the PCSK9 treated patients than those treated with ezetimibe, indicating that PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies will be an effective treatment choice in statin intolerant patients with myalgias. PATIENTS WITH DIABETES A meta-analysis of
