Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


treated patients than those treated with ezetimibe, indicating that PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies will be an effective treatment choice in statin intolerant patients with myalgias. PATIENTS WITH DIABETES A meta-analysis of three trials with 413 patients with type 2 diabetes found that in patients with type 2 diabetes evolocumab caused a 60% decrease in LDL-C compared to placebo and a 39% decrease in LDL-C compared to ezetimibe treatment ( 186 ). In addition, in patients with type 2 diabetes, evolocumab decreased non-HDL-C 55% vs. placebo and 34% vs. ezetimibe) and Lp(a) (31% vs. placebo and 26% vs. ezetimibe). These beneficial effects were not affected by glycemic control, insulin use, renal function, and cardiovascular disease status. Thus, PCSK9 inhibitors are effective therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes and the beneficial effects on pro-atherogenic lipoproteins is similar to what is observed in non-diabetic patients. PATIENTS WITH HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA There are no studies that have examined the effect of PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies in patients with marked elevations in triglyceride levels (>400mg/dL). Table 12. Effect of PCSK9 Inhibitors on Lipid/Lipoprotein Levels View in own window LDL-C Decrease Non-HDL-C Decrease Apolipoprotein B Decrease Triglycerides No change or small decrease HDL-C Small Increase Lp(a) Decrease Mechanism Accounting for the PCSK9 Inhibitor Induced Lipid Effects The linkage of PCSK9 with lipoprotein metabolism was first identified by Abifadel and colleagues in 2003, when they demonstrated that certain mutations in PCSK9 could result in the phenotypic appearance of Familiar Hypercholesterolemia ( 187 ). Subsequent studies demonstrated that gain of function mutations in PCSK9 are an uncommon cause of Familiar Hypercholesterolemia ( 167 , 168 , 188 ). In 2005 it was shown that loss of function mutations in PCSK9 resulted in lower LDL-C levels and this decrease in LDL-C levels was associated with a reduction in the risk of cardiovascular events ( 189 , 190 ). The main route of clearance of clearance of plasma LDL is via LDL receptors in the liver ( 191 ). When the LDL particle binds to the LDL receptor the LDL particle- LDL receptor complex is taken into the liver by endocytosis ( 191 ). The LDL particle and the LDL receptor then disassociate and the LDL lipoprotein particle is delivered to lysosomes where it is degraded and the LDL receptor returns to the plasma membrane ( Figure 2 ) ( 191 ). After endocytosis LDL receptors recirculate back to the plasma membrane over
