Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


it is degraded and the LDL receptor returns to the plasma membrane ( Figure 2 ) ( 191 ). After endocytosis LDL receptors recirculate back to the plasma membrane over 100 times. PCSK9 is predominantly expressed in the liver and secreted into the circulation. Once extracellular, PCSK9 can bind to the LDL receptor and alter the metabolism of the LDL receptor ( 192 , 193 ). Instead of the LDL receptor recycling to the plasma membrane the LDL receptor bound to PCSK9 remains associated with the LDL particle and is delivered to the lysosomes where it is also degraded ( Figure 4 ) ( 192 , 193 ). This results in a decrease in the number of plasma membrane LDL receptors resulting in the decreased clearance of circulating LDL leading to elevations in plasma LDL-C levels. The PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies bind PCSK9 preventing the PCSK9 from interacting with LDL receptors and thereby preventing PCSK9 from inducing LDL receptor degradation ( 192 , 193 ). The decreased LDL receptor degradation results in an increase in hepatic LDL receptors on the plasma membrane leading to the increased clearance of LDL and decreases in plasma LDL-C levels ( 194 , 195 ). Thus, similar to statins, ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and bile acid sequestrants, PCSK9 inhibitors are reducing plasma LDL-C levels by up-regulating hepatic LDL receptors. The difference is that PCSK9 inhibitors are decreasing the degradation of LDL receptors while statins, ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and bile acid sequestrants stimulate the production of LDL receptors. Figure 4. PCSK9 Directs LDL Receptor to Degradation in Lysosome. The expression of PCSK9 is stimulated by SREBP-2 ( 192 , 193 ). Statins and other drugs that lower hepatic cholesterol levels lead to the activation of SREBP-2 and thereby increase plasma PCSK9 levels ( 192 , 193 ). Inhibition of PCSK9 with monoclonal antibodies is more effective in lowering plasma LDL-C levels in patients on statin therapy due to the higher levels of plasma PCSK9 in these individuals. The mechanism by which PCSK9 inhibitors reduce Lp(a) levels is unclear. Studies have shown that PCSK9 inhibitors increase the catabolism of lipoprotein(a) particles ( 196 , 197 ). In some circumstances PCSK9 inhibitors may also decrease the production rate ( 197 ). It has been postulated that increasing hepatic LDL receptor levels in the setting of marked reductions in circulating LDL levels will result in the clearance of Lp(a) by liver
