Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


). It has been postulated that increasing hepatic LDL receptor levels in the setting of marked reductions in circulating LDL levels will result in the clearance of Lp(a) by liver LDL receptors ( 198 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies are eliminated primarily by cellular endocytosis, phagocytosis, and target-mediated clearance. They are not metabolized or cleared by the liver or kidneys and therefore there is no need to adjust the dose in patients with either liver or kidney disease. There are no interactions with the cytochrome P450 system or transport proteins and thus the risk of drug-drug interactions is minimal. Currently there are no reported drug-drug interactions with PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies. Effect of PCSK9 Inhibitors on Clinical Outcomes FOURIER TRIAL The FOURIER trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of evolocumab vs. placebo in 27,564 patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and an LDL-C level of 70 mg/dL or higher who were on statin therapy ( 199 ). The primary end point was cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina, or coronary revascularization and the key secondary end point was cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke. The median duration of follow-up was 2.2 years. Baseline LDL-C levels were 92mg/dL and evolocumab resulted in a 59% decrease in LDL levels (LDL-C level on treatment approximately 30mg/dL). Evolocumab treatment significantly reduced the risk of the primary end point (hazard ratio, 0.85; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.79 to 0.92; P<0.001) and the key secondary end point (hazard ratio, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.73 to 0.88; P<0.001). The results were consistent across key subgroups, including the subgroup of patients in the lowest quartile for baseline LDL-C levels (median, 74 mg/dL). Of note, a similar decrease in cardiovascular events occurred in patients with diabetes treated with evolocumab and glycemic control was not altered ( 200 ). Additionally, in patients with peripheral arterial disease evolocumab also reduced cardiovascular events ( 201 ). Further analysis has shown that in the small number of patients with a baseline LDL-C level less than 70mg/dL, evolocumab reduced cardiovascular events to a similar degree as in the patients with an LDL-C greater than 70mg/dL ( 202 ). The lower the on-treatment LDL-C levels (down to levels below 20mg/dL), the lower the cardiovascular event rate, suggesting that greater reductions in LDL-C levels will result in greater reductions in cardiovascular disease ( 203 ). Finally, the relative risk reductions with evolocumab
