Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


(mean difference 0.032%) and did not observe an increased risk of developing diabetes ( 211 ). It should be recognized that the duration of these trials was relatively short (median follow-up 78 weeks) and therefore further long-term studies are required. In the large outcome trials (ODYSSEY and FOURIER) there was no significant difference between the PCSK9 treated group vs. the placebo group with regard to adverse events (including new-onset diabetes and neurocognitive events). The only exception was the expected increase in injection-site reactions in the patients treated with a PCSK9 inhibitor. Additionally, in a subgroup of patients from the FOURIER trial a prospective study of cognitive function (EBBINGHAUS Study) was carried out and no significant differences in cognitive function was observed over a median of 19 months in the PCSK9 treated vs. placebo group ( 212 ). It should be recognized that while short-term treatment with PCSK9 inhibitors have not demonstrated any significant side effects it is possible that long-term use could lead to unexpected side-effects. An issue of concern is whether lowering LDL-C to very low levels has the potential to cause toxicity. In a number of the PCSK9 studies a significant number of patients had LDL-C levels < 25mg/dL. For example, in the Odyssey long term study 37% of patients on alirocumab had two consecutive LDL-C levels below 25mg/dL and in the Osler long term study in patients treated with evolocumab 13% had values below 25mg/dL ( 213 , 214 ). In these short term PCSK9 studies, toxicity from very low LDL-C levels has not been observed. Additionally, in patients with Familial Hypobetalipoproteinemia LDL levels can be very low and these patients do not have any major disorders other than hepatic steatosis, which is not mechanistically due to low LDL-C levels ( 215 ). Similarly, there are rare individuals who are homozygous for loss of function mutations in the PCSK9 gene and they also do not appear to have major medical issues ( 168 ). Finally, in a number of statin trials there have been patients with very low LDL-C levels and an increased risk of side effects has not been consistently observed in those patients ( 216-218 ). Thus, with the limited data available there does not appear to be a major risk of markedly lowering LDL-C levels. Contraindications Other than a history of a hypersensitivity to these drugs there are currently no contraindications. There are no
