Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


appear to be a major risk of markedly lowering LDL-C levels. Contraindications Other than a history of a hypersensitivity to these drugs there are currently no contraindications. There are no studies during pregnancy or lactation. Summary PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies robustly reduce LDL-C levels when used as monotherapy, in combination with statins, or when added to the combination of statins + ezetimibe. In distinction to most other cholesterol lowering drugs the PCSK9 inhibitors also decrease Lp(a) levels. Outcome studies have clearly demonstrated that decreasing LDL-C levels with PCSK9 inhibitors reduces cardiovascular events. The side effect profile appears to be very favorable and there are no drug-drug interactions. The major limitation is the high expense of these drugs, which has limited their widespread use. INCLISIRAN (LEQVIO) Introduction Inclisiran (Leqvio) is a double-stranded, siRNA (small interfering RNA) conjugated on the sense strand with triantennary N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) to facilitate uptake into hepatocytes ( 219 ). In hepatocytes, inclisiran stimulates the catalytic breakdown of PCSK9 mRNA thereby reducing the hepatic synthesis of PCSK9 and markedly decreasing plasma PCSK9 levels ( 219 , 220 ). The recommended dose of inclisiran is 284 mg by subcutaneous injection, followed with a repeat injection at 3 months, and then every 6 months (package insert). If a dose is missed by more than 3 months it is recommended to repeat the dosage schedule described above (package insert). It is recommended that inclisiran be administered by a healthcare professional. Effect on Inclisiran on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels There have been several large trials examining the efficacy of inclisiran. The ORION-10 trial was conducted in the United States and included adults with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease on a maximally tolerated statin with an LDL-C > 70mg/dL ( 220 ). Patients were randomized to inclisiran 284mg (n=781) at initial visit, 3 months, 9 months, and 15 months or placebo (n=780) and followed for 540 days. After 3 months the LDL-C was reduced by approximately 50% and this reduction was sustained throughout the duration of the trial (at 540 days the LDL-c was reduced by 52.3% (P<0.001)). As expected, total cholesterol (-33%), non-HDL-C (-47%), and apolipoprotein B (-43%) were also decreased. Additionally, triglyceride (-13%) and Lp(a) (-26%) levels were decreased while HDL-C levels (+5.1%) and hsCRP (+8.8%) were slightly increased. ORION-11 was a very similar trial with an identical protocol conducted in Europe and South Africa and included adults with ASCVD or an ASCVD risk
