Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


due to differences in genetic variants. Individuals with null-null LDL receptor variants (i.e. no functioning LDL receptors) are unlikely to respond to inclisiran due to the absence of LDL receptors and the group treated with inclisiran in this study was enriched in patients with this genotype, which could explain the absence of a significant reduction in LDL-C. Mechanisms Accounting for Inclisiran Induced Lipid Effects The mechanism of action of inclisiran is the same as for PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies ( 219 ). Briefly, decreasing the production of PCSK9 in the liver, the primary source of circulating PCSK9, leads to a decrease in plasma PCSK9 levels resulting in a decrease in LDL receptor degradation ( 219 ). An increase in the number of hepatic LDL receptors increases the clearance of LDL leading to a decrease in LDL-C levels ( 219 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions There are no drug interactions. The reduction in LDL-C occurs within 14 days after drug administration and persists for an extended period of time allowing for administration every 6 months. Effect of Inclisiran on Clinical Outcomes No outcome studies are currently available. A cardiovascular outcome study (ORION-4) is ongoing and includes 15,000 patients with established ASCVD. The trial duration is five years and completion is expected in 2024 ( NCT03705234 ) (ClinicalTrials.gov, 2020a). Side Effects The only adverse reactions associated with inclisiran were injection site reactions including rash, pain, and erythema ( 220 ). In an analysis of 7 studies with 3,576 patients treated with inclisiran for up to 6 years and 1,968 patients treated with placebo for up to 1.5 years, hepatic, muscle, and kidney events; incident diabetes; and elevations of creatine kinase or creatinine were not increased in patients treated with inclisiran ( 226 ). Contraindications In patients with severe hepatic or renal impairment inclisiran should be used with caution as there is limited data and experience in these patients. There are no studies during pregnancy or lactation. Summary Inclisiran very effectively lowers LDL-C levels. The major advantage of this drug compared to PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies is the ability to administer inclisiran every 6 months, which may improve compliance. BEMPEDOIC ACID (NEXLETOL) Introduction Bempedoic acid was approved in the US in February 2020 and is an adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL) inhibitor. It is administered orally once daily with or without food at a dose of 180mg (Nexletol). It is also available as a combination tablet
