Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


an adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL) inhibitor. It is administered orally once daily with or without food at a dose of 180mg (Nexletol). It is also available as a combination tablet containing 180 mg of bempedoic acid and 10 mg of ezetimibe (Nexlizet). Effect on Bempedoic on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels EFFECT WITHOUT STATINS In a study that randomized 345 patients with hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C 158mg/dL) and a history of intolerance to statin to either bempedoic acid or placebo (2:1), bempedoic acid decreased LDL-C by 21.4%, non-HDL-C by 17.9%, and apolipoprotein B by 15% ( 227 ). One third of patients were on background non-statin therapy most commonly ezetimibe and fish oil. Triglyceride levels were not altered but there was a small decrease in HDL-C levels that was statistically significant (-4.5%). IN COMBINATION WITH STATINS There have been two large trials that determined the effect of adding bempedoic acid to statin therapy. In a study that randomized 779 patients on maximally tolerated statin therapy +/- ezetimibe (only a small number on ezetimibe) with an LDL-C level greater than 70mg/dL (baseline LDL-C 120mg/dL) to either bempedoic acid or placebo it was observed that bempedoic acid decreased LDL-C levels by 17.4% compared to placebo (p<0.001) ( 228 ). In addition, non-HDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels were decreased by 13% compared to placebo while there was no significant change in triglyceride levels. Bempedoic acid decreased HDL-C levels by approximately 6%. In a similar study, patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, or both with an LDL-C level greater than 70 mg/dL (baseline LDL-C 103mg/dL) while on maximally tolerated statin therapy with or without additional lipid-lowering therapy (only a small number on ezetimibe) were randomized to bempedoic acid (n= 1,488) or placebo (n= 742) ( 229 ). Compared to placebo, treatment with bempedoic acid decreased LDL-C by 18.1%, non-HDL-C by 13.5%, and apolipoprotein B by 11.9%. Triglyceride levels were unchanged but HDL-C decreased by 5.92%. Of note in both of the above studies the decrease in LDL-C was maintained over 52 weeks. Notably, the addition of bempedoic acid to atorvastatin 80mg per day was still capable of significantly decreasing LDL-C (22%), non-HDL-C (13%), and apolipoprotein B (-15%) compared to placebo ( 230 ). The addition of bempedoic acid to high dose atorvastatin therapy did not cause meaningful changes in atorvastatin pharmacokinetics. IN COMBINATION WITH EZETIMIBE Patients on maximally tolerated statin therapy with LDL-C levels greater
