Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


433 of 3749, 11·5% with placebo; HR 0.95; 95% CI 0.83-1.09) ( 234 ). Additionally, during the study HbA1c concentrations and fasting glucose levels were similar between the bempedoic acid and placebo groups in patients who had either prediabetes or normoglycemia. In the CLEAR Outcome study in patients with diabetes the prevalence of worsening diabetes was similar in the bempedoic acid and placebo group ( 235 , 236 ) Mechanisms Accounting for Bempedoic Acid Induced Lipid Effects Bempedoic acid is a potent inhibitor of ATP-citrate lyase, which catalyzes the formation of acetyl-CoA in the cytoplasm ( 237 ). Acetyl-CoA is a precursor for the synthesis of cholesterol ( figure 5 ). The inhibition of ATP-citrate lyase by bempedoic acid decreases cholesterol synthesis in liver reducing hepatic intracellular cholesterol levels ( 237 ). Of note, bempedoic acid is a pro-drug and conversion to its CoA-derivative by very-long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase-1 is required for inhibition of cholesterol synthesis ( 237 ). Very-long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase-1 is highly expressed in the liver but is not expressed in adipose tissue, kidney, intestine or skeletal muscle ( 237 ). The inability of bempedoic acid to be activated in muscle and inhibit cholesterol synthesis suggests that bempedoic acid is unlikely result in muscle toxicity. Figure 5. Inhibition of Cholesterol Synthesis by Bempedoic Acid. The decrease in plasma LDL-C levels in patients treated with bempedoic acid is primarily due to an increase in hepatic LDL receptors secondary to the inhibition of cholesterol synthesis resulting in a reduction in hepatic cholesterol levels ( 237 ). It should be noted that bempedoic acid also decreases circulating LDL-C levels in LDL receptor deficient mice and LDL receptor deficient miniature pigs indicating that mechanisms in addition to up-regulation of hepatic LDL receptors may contribute to the decrease in LDL-C levels ( 237 ). The inhibition of hepatic cholesterol synthesis may decrease the production and secretion of VLDL, which could contribute to a decrease in LDL-C. Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions No dose adjustments are required in patients with mild or moderate renal or hepatic impairment or in the elderly (package insert). Concomitant use of bempedoic acid with simvastatin or pravastatin causes an increase in the concentrations of these drugs and therefore may increase the risk of myopathy (package insert). This drug interaction may be secondary to bempedoic acid inhibiting organic anion-transporting polypeptide OATP1B1. It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of bempedoic acid with
