Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


risk of myopathy (package insert). This drug interaction may be secondary to bempedoic acid inhibiting organic anion-transporting polypeptide OATP1B1. It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of bempedoic acid with simvastatin greater than 20 mg/day or pravastatin 40mg/day. While concomitant administration of bempedoic acid with atorvastatin or rosuvastatin elevated the area under the curve by 1.7-fold these elevations were generally within the individual statin exposures and do not impact dosing recommendations (package insert). Effect of Bempedoic Acid on Clinical Outcomes In animal models of atherosclerosis, treatment with bempedoic acid had favorable effects on atherosclerosis ( 237 ). Moreover, genetic variants of ATP citrate lyase that lower LDL-C levels are associated with a decrease in cardiovascular disease suggesting that bempedoic acid will have favorable effects on reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease ( 238 ). The CLEAR Outcome trial was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial involving patients with cardiovascular disease or at high risk of cardiovascular disease who were unable or unwilling to take statins ("statin-intolerant" patients) ( 239 ). The patients were randomized to bempedoic acid 180 mg (n= 6992) or placebo (n= 6978) and the median duration of follow-up was 40.6 months. As expected, LDL-C levels were decreased by 21% in the bempedoic group compared to placebo (29mg/dL difference). The primary endpoint, death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or coronary revascularization, was reduced by 13% in the bempedoic acid group (HR 0.87; 95% CI 0.79 to 0.96; P = 0.004). Bempedoic acid also decreased fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarctions and coronary revascularization but had no significant effects on fatal or nonfatal stroke, death from cardiovascular causes, and death from any cause. In the patients who were at high risk for cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), 66% had diabetes, and the primary endpoint was reduced by 30% in the bempedoic acid group (HR 0.70; 95% CI, 0.55-0.89; P = .002) ( 235 ). In patients with diabetes with or without cardiovascular disease the primary endpoint was reduced by 17% in the bempedoic acid group (HR 0.83; 95% CI 0.72-0.95) ( 234 ). This study clearly demonstrates that treatment with bempedoic acid reduces the risk cardiovascular events. Side Effects HYPERURICEMIA In clinical trials, 26% of bempedoic acid-treated patients with normal baseline uric acid values experienced hyperuricemia one or more times versus 9.5% in the placebo group (package insert). In the CLEAR Outcomes trial elevated uric acid levels occurred in
