Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


in the placebo group (package insert). Renal function returned to baseline when bempedoic acid was discontinued. In the CLEAR Outcomes trial renal impairment was increased in the bempedoic acid group (11.5% vs.8.6%) as was the change from baseline creatinine (0.05±0.2 mg/dL vs. 0.01±0.2 mg/dL) ( 239 ). CHOLELITHIASIS In the CLEAR Outcomes trial cholelithiasis was increased in the bempedoic acid group (2.2 vs 1.2) ( 239 ). BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA Bempedoic acid was associated with an increased risk of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with no reported history of BPH, occurring in 1.3% of NEXLETOL-treated patients versus 0.1% of placebo-treated patients (package insert). MISCELLANEOUS LABORATORY ABNORMALITIES Approximately 5.1% of patients on bempedoic acid vs. 2.3% on placebo had decreases in hemoglobin levels of 2 or more g/dL and below the lower limit of normal on one or more occasion. Anemia was reported in 2.8% of patients treated with bempedoic acid and 1.9% of patients treated with placebo. Hemoglobin decrease was generally asymptomatic and did not require medical intervention (package insert). Approximately 9.0% of bempedoic acid treated patients with a normal baseline leukocyte count decreased leukocyte count to less than the lower limit of normal on one or more occasions vs. 6.7% in the placebo group. The leukocyte decrease was generally asymptomatic and did not require medical intervention (package insert). Approximately 10.1% of bempedoic acid treated patients vs. 4.7% in the placebo group had increases in platelet counts of 100× 109/L or more on one or more occasion. The platelet count increase was asymptomatic, did not result in an increased risk for thromboembolic events, and did not require medical intervention (package insert). Increases to more than 3× the upper limit of normal (ULN) in AST occurred in 1.4% of patients treated with bempedoic acid vs. 0.4% of placebo patients, and increases to more than 5× ULN occurred in 0.4% of bempedoic acid treated patients vs. 0.2% of placebo-treated patients. Increases in ALT were similar in bempedoic acid treated patients and placebo-treated patients. Elevations in transaminases were generally asymptomatic and not associated with elevations ≥2× ULN in bilirubin or with cholestasis. In most cases, the elevations were transient and resolved or improved with continued therapy or after discontinuation of therapy (package insert). Contraindications The use of bempedoic acid during pregnancy and lactation has not been studied (package insert). Summary In patients on statins and ezetimibe with an LDL-C that is not
