Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


insert). Contraindications The use of bempedoic acid during pregnancy and lactation has not been studied (package insert). Summary In patients on statins and ezetimibe with an LDL-C that is not at goal the addition of bempedoic acid is a reasonable third drug. In addition, in patients that cannot tolerate statin therapy the combination of ezetimibe and bempedoic acid may allow for the lowering of LDL-C to goal. One can expect a reduction in LDL-C of approximately 15-25% with bempedoic acid monotherapy therapy or when used in combination with other LDL-C lowering drugs. LOMITAPID (JUXTAPID) Introduction Lomitapide (Juxtapid), a selective microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitor, was approved in December 2012 for lowering LDL-C levels in adults with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 240-242 ). As will be discussed below it lowers LDL-C levels by an LDL receptor independent mechanism. Effect on Lomitapide on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels The effect of lomitapide on lipid and lipoprotein levels has been studied in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia. The pivotal study was a 78-week single arm open label study in 29 patients receiving treatment for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 243 ). Lomitapide was initiated at 5mg per day and was up-titrated to 60mg per day based on tolerability and liver function tests. On an intention to treat basis, LDL-C was decreased by 40% and apolipoprotein B by 39%. In patients who were actually taking lomitapide, LDL-C levels were reduced by 50%. In addition to decreasing LDL-C levels, non-HDL-C levels were decreased by 50%, Lp(a) by 15%, and triglycerides by 45%. Interestingly HDL and apolipoprotein A-I levels were decreased by 12% and 14% respectively in this study. Follow-up revealed that the decrease in LDL-C could be sustained for a prolonged period of time (294 weeks) ( 244 ). The effect of lomitapide has also been studied in patients without Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia. A study by Samaha and colleagues compared the effect of ezetimibe and lomitapide in patients with elevated cholesterol levels ( 245 ). Patients were treated with ezetimibe alone, lomitapide alone, or the combination of ezetimibe and lomitapide. Ezetimibe monotherapy led to a 20–22% decrease in LDL-C levels, lomitapide monotherapy led to a dose dependent decrease in LDL-cholesterol levels (19% at 5.0 mg, 26% at 7.5 mg and 30% at 10 mg). Combined therapy produced a larger dose-dependent decrease in LDL-C levels (35%, 38% and 46%, respectively). Additionally, lomitapide decreased triglycerides by 10%, non-HDL-C by
