Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


7.5 mg and 30% at 10 mg). Combined therapy produced a larger dose-dependent decrease in LDL-C levels (35%, 38% and 46%, respectively). Additionally, lomitapide decreased triglycerides by 10%, non-HDL-C by 27%, apolipoprotein B by 24%, and Lp(a) by 17%. The above studies demonstrate that lomitapide decreases LDL-C, non-HDL-C, triglycerides, and Lp(a) levels. Mechanism Accounting for the Lomitapide Induced Lipid Effects Lomitapide is a selective inhibitor of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) ( 240-242 ). MTTP is located in the endoplasmic reticulum of hepatocytes and enterocytes where it plays a key role in transferring triglycerides onto newly synthesized apolipoprotein B leading to the formation of VLDL and chylomicrons ( 246 ). Loss of function mutations in both alleles of MTTP results in abetalipoproteinemia, which is characterized by the virtual absence of apolipoprotein B, VLDL, chylomicrons, and LDL in the plasma due to the failure of the liver and intestine to produce VLDL and chylomicrons ( 215 ). Lomitapide by inhibiting MTTP activity reduces the secretion of chylomicrons by the intestine and VLDL by the liver leading to a decrease in LDL, apolipoprotein B, triglycerides, non-HDL-C, and Lp(a) ( 240-242 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Lomitapide is extensively metabolized in the liver by the CYP3A4 pathway ( 240 , 241 ). Therefore, lomitapide is contraindicated in patients on strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and lower doses should be used in patients on weak inhibitors. Of particular note, in patients on atorvastatin the maximal dose of lomitapide is 30mg per day and lomitapide should not be used in patients taking more than 20mg of simvastatin ( 240 , 241 ). Lomitapide can increase warfarin levels and therefore close monitoring is required. Finally, given the risk of liver abnormalities (see side effect section) the avoidance of alcohol or a reduction in alcohol intake is prudent. Effect of Lomitapide on Clinical Outcomes There are no clinical outcome trials but it is presumed that lowering LDL-C levels in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia will reduce cardiovascular events. After initiating lomitapide therapy 1.7 cardiovascular events per 1000 patient months on treatment was observed vs. 26.1 cardiovascular events per 1000 patient months in a comparison cohort ( 247 ). Side Effects As expected from its mechanism of action lomitapide causes side effects in the GI tract and liver. In the GI tract diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dyspepsia occur very commonly ( 240-242 ). In the pivotal study in patients with
