Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


side effects in the GI tract and liver. In the GI tract diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dyspepsia occur very commonly ( 240-242 ). In the pivotal study in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia, 90% of the patients developed GI symptoms during drug titration ( 243 ). GI side effects are potentiated by high fat meals and it is therefore recommended that dietary fat be limited. Approximately 10% of patients will discontinue lomitapide, mostly from diarrhea. Lomitapide also reduces the absorption of fat soluble vitamins and therefore patients need to take vitamin supplements ( 240 , 241 ). Additionally, it may also block the absorption of essential fatty acids and it is therefore recommended that supplements of essential fatty acids also be provided (at least 200 mg linoleic acid, 210 mg alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), 110 mg eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and 80 mg docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) ( 240 , 241 ). Blocking the formation of VLDL in the liver can lead to fatty liver with elevated liver enzymes ( 240-242 ). Approximately 30% of patients will develop increased transaminase levels but in the small number of patients studied this has not resulted in liver failure. After stopping the drug, the transaminases have returned to normal. Whether long term treatment with lomitapide will lead to an increase in liver disease is unknown. There is a single case of a patient with lipoprotein lipase deficiency who was treated for 13 years with lomitapide who developed steatohepatitis and fibrosis ( 248 ). In an observational study of a small number of patients on lomitapide for > 5 years liver failure or cirrhosis was not noted ( 249 ). In another study in Italy, 34 patients were treated with lomitapide for more than 9 years and elevations in hepatic fat were mild-to-moderate, hepatic stiffness remained normal, and the mean FIB-4 score remained below the fibrosis threshold ( 250 ). The studies suggest that in most patients’ severe liver disease will not develop. To reduce the risk of liver dysfunction it is important that patients avoid or limit alcohol intake and avoid drugs that inhibit Cyp3A4 activity. Because of the high potential risk of serious complications the FDA has mandated several measures to ensure that patients are closely followed and monitored for liver toxicity ((Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Program) ( 240 , 241 ). ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin should be measured before
