Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


closely followed and monitored for liver toxicity ((Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Program) ( 240 , 241 ). ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin should be measured before initiating treatment. During the first year, liver function tests should be measured prior to each increase in dose or monthly, whichever occurs first. After the first year, liver function tests should be measured at least every 3 months and before any increase in dose. Contraindications Lomitapide should not be used during pregnancy and in patients with moderate or severe liver disease. In addition, it should not be used in patients on strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Summary Lomitapide is approved only for the treatment of lipid disorders in patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia. The frequent GI side effects and the potential risk of serious liver disease greatly limit the use of this drug and it should be reserved for the patients in which more benign therapies are not sufficient in lowering LDL-C into a reasonable range. It is used as an adjunct to other lipid lowering therapies and lipoprotein apheresis in patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia. MIPOMERSEN (KYNAMRO) Introduction Mipomersen (Kynamro) is a second generation apolipoprotein B antisense oligonucleotide that was approved in January 2013 for the treatment of patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). It is administered as a 200mg subcutaneous injection once a week ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). As will be discussed below, it lowers LDL-C levels by an LDL receptor independent mechanism. In May 2018 sales were discontinued due to safety concerns related to increased liver transaminases and fatty liver. Effect on Mipomersen on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels In the pivotal trial, 51 patients with Homozygote Familial Hypercholesterolemia on treatment were randomized to additional treatment with mipomersen (n= 34) or placebo (n=17) and followed for 26 weeks ( 252 ). Mipomersen lowered LDL-C levels by 21% and apolipoprotein B levels by 24% compared to placebo. In addition, non-HDL-C was decreased by 21.6%, triglycerides by 17%, and Lp(a) by 23% while HDL and apolipoprotein A-I were increased by 11.2% and 3.9% respectively. Mipomersen has also been studied in patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial, patients on maximally tolerated statin therapy were treated weekly with subcutaneous mipomersen 200 mg or placebo for 26 weeks ( 253 ). LDL-C levels decreased by 33% in the mipomersen group compared
