Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


maximally tolerated statin therapy were treated weekly with subcutaneous mipomersen 200 mg or placebo for 26 weeks ( 253 ). LDL-C levels decreased by 33% in the mipomersen group compared to placebo. Additionally, mipomersen significantly reduced apolipoprotein B by 26%, triglycerides by 14%, and Lp(a) by 21% compared to placebo with no significant changes in HDL-C levels. In an extension follow-up study the beneficial effects of mipomersen were maintained for at least 2 years ( 254 ). In a meta-analysis of 8 randomized studies with 462 subjects with either non-specified hypercholesterolemia or Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia, Panta and colleagues reported that mipomersen decreased LDL-C levels by 32% compared to placebo ( 255 ). Additionally, non-HDL-C was decreased by 31%, apolipoprotein B by 33%, triglycerides by 36%, and Lp(a) by 26% with no effect on HDL-C levels. Mechanism Accounting for the Mipomersen Induced Lipid Effects Apolipoprotein B 100 is the main structural protein of VLDL and LDL and is required for the formation of VLDL and LDL ( 191 ). Familiar Hypobetalipoproteinemia is a genetic disorder due to a mutation of one apolipoprotein B allele that is characterized by very low concentrations of LDL and apolipoprotein B due to the decreased production of lipoproteins by the liver ( 215 ). Mipomersen, an apolipoprotein B antisense oligonucleotide, mimics Familiar Hypobetalipoproteinemia by inhibiting apolipoprotein B 100 production in the liver by pairing with apolipoprotein B mRNA preventing its translation ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). This decrease in apolipoprotein B synthesis results in a decrease in hepatic VLDL production leading to a decrease in LDL levels. Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions No significant drug interactions have been reported. Given the risk of liver abnormalities (see side effect section) the avoidance of alcohol or a reduction in alcohol intake would be prudent. Effect of Mipomersen on Clinical Outcomes There are no clinical outcome trials but it is presumed that lowering LDL-C levels in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia will reduce cardiovascular events. In a study comparing cardiovascular events in patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia in the 24 months prior to initiating mipomersen therapy and after initiating mipomersen revealed a decrease in events (prior to treatment 61.5% of patients had an event vs. 9.6% after initiating mipomersen; P < .0001) ( 256 ). In this trial mipomersen resulted in a mean absolute reduction in LDL-C of 70 mg/dL (-28%), non-HDL cholesterol of 74 mg/dL (-26%), and
