Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


mipomersen; P < .0001) ( 256 ). In this trial mipomersen resulted in a mean absolute reduction in LDL-C of 70 mg/dL (-28%), non-HDL cholesterol of 74 mg/dL (-26%), and Lp(a) of 11 mg/dL (-17%). Side Effects The most common side effect is injection site reactions, which occur in 75-98% of patients and typically consist of one or more of the following: erythema, pain, tenderness, pruritus, and local swelling ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). Additional, influenza like symptoms, which typically occur within 2 days after an injection, occur in 30-50% of patients and include one or more of the following: influenza-like illness, pyrexia, chills, myalgia, arthralgia, malaise or fatigue which result in a substantial percentage of patients discontinuing therapy ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). A major safety concern is liver toxicity ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). By inhibiting VLDL formation and secretion the risk of fatty liver is increased. Fatty liver has been observed in 5-20% of patients treated with mipomersen ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). In 10-15% of patients treated with mipomersen increases in transaminases occur ( 241 , 242 , 251 ). Additionally, liver biopsies from 7 patients after a minimum of 6 months of mipomersen therapy have demonstrated the presence of fatty liver although there was no inflammation despite elevations in liver enzymes ( 257 ). Liver function should be measured prior to initiating therapy and monthly during the first year and every 3 months after the first year. Fortunately, when treatment is discontinued liver function tests and fatty liver return to normal. Because of the potential for liver toxicity this drug is no longer available. Contraindications Mipomersen is contraindicated in patients in patients with liver disease or severe renal disease. Mipomersen is not recommended for use during pregnancy or lactation. In animal studies mipomersen has not resulted in fetal abnormalities. Summary Mipomersen was approved only for the treatment of lipid disorders in patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia. The potential risk of serious liver disease greatly limits the use of this drug and therefore it was reserved for patients in which more benign therapies were not sufficient in lowering LDL-C into a reasonable range. It was used as an adjunct to other lipid lowering therapies in patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia but because of safety concerns is no longer available. EVINACUMAB (EVKEEZA) Introduction Evinacumab is a human monoclonal antibody
