Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


a PCSK9 inhibitor and a statin at a maximum tolerated dose, with or without ezetimibe. In this trial a number of different treatment regimens of evinacumab were employed (intravenous or subcutaneous; different doses) and in this summary only the results of intravenous evinacumab 15 mg/kg every 4 weeks (39 patients) vs. placebo (34 patients) will be presented. Baseline LDL-C levels were approximately 145mg/dL. After 16 weeks of treatment the LDL-C level was decreased by 50% with evinacumab administration vs. a 0.6% decrease with placebo. An extension of this trial for 72 weeks found that the reduction in LDL-C were sustained ( 260 ). The decrease in LDL-C was observed after 2 weeks of treatment. As expected, total cholesterol, non-HDL-C, and apo B levels also decreased in the evinacumab group. Evinacumab administration decreased triglyceride levels by 53% and HDL-C levels by 31%. In contrast to the results in the homozygous familiar hypercholesterolemia study described above in this study evinacumab decreased Lp(a) levels by 16%. The effect of the subcutaneous administration of evinacumab on lipid levels was similar to that observed with intravenous administration. The effect of evinacumab on triglyceride levels in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia is described in the Endotext chapter “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 261 ). Mechanism Accounting for the Evinacumab Induced Lipid Effects ANGPTL3 inhibits lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity thereby slowing the clearance of VLDL and chylomicrons resulting in an increase in plasma triglyceride levels ( 262 , 263 ). Mice deficient in ANGPTL3 have lower plasma triglyceride levels while mice overexpressing ANGPTL3 have elevated plasma triglyceride levels ( 263 ). Evinacumab by inhibiting the ability of ANGPTL3 to inhibit LPL activity will accelerate the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins decreasing plasma triglyceride levels ( 263 ). Furthermore, ANGPTL3 has also been shown to reduce endothelial lipase activity ( 263 ). Endothelial lipase is a phospholipase that catabolizes phospholipids on HDL and accelerates HDL clearance ( 264 , 265 ). Evinacumab by inhibiting the ability of ANGPTL3 to inhibit endothelial lipase activity will lead to a decrease in HDL levels ( 266 ). The mechanism(s) that explain the decrease in LDL-C levels with evinacumab administration is not completely understood. A study has demonstrated that the increase in endothelial lipase activity induced by evinacumab leads to VLDL remodeling and lipid depletion that increases VLDL clearance when the LDL receptor is absent ( 267 ). This decrease in VLDL, the precursor
