Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


activity induced by evinacumab leads to VLDL remodeling and lipid depletion that increases VLDL clearance when the LDL receptor is absent ( 267 ). This decrease in VLDL, the precursor of LDL, limits LDL particle production resulting in a reduction in plasma LDL-C levels ( 267 ). Kinetic studies in four patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia observed that evinacumab markedly increased the fractional catabolic rate of IDL (intermediate-density lipoprotein) and LDL apoB ( 268 ). Whether decreases in VLDL production also plays a role in the decrease in LDL-C levels with evinacumab treatment requires additional studies. It should be noted that inhibition of ANGPTL3 decreases LDL-C levels independent of LDL receptor activity ( 269 ). Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions There are no significant drug interactions. Effect of Evinacumab on Clinical Outcomes There are no cardiovascular outcome studies. In two patients with homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia evinacumab therapy markedly reduced LDL-C levels with a concomitant decrease in plaque volume determined by coronary computed tomography angiography ( 268 ). Homozygosity for loss-of-function mutations in ANGPTL3 is associated with significantly lower plasma levels of LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides (familial combined hypolipidemia) ( 215 , 263 , 270 ) . Heterozygous carriers of loss-of-function mutations in ANGPTL3, which occur at a frequency of about 1:300, have significantly lower total cholesterol, LDL-C, and triglyceride levels than noncarriers ( 263 ). Moreover, patients carrying loss-of-function variants in ANGPTL3 have a significantly lower risk of coronary artery disease ( 271 , 272 ). Additionally, in an animal model of atherosclerosis treatment with evinacumab decreased atherosclerotic lesion area and necrotic content ( 271 ). Taken together these observations suggest that inhibiting ANGPTL3 with evinacumab will reduce cardiovascular disease. Side Effects Serious hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with evinacumab. In clinical trials, 1 (1%) of evinacumab treated patients experienced anaphylaxis vs. 0% of patients who received placebo (package insert). Contraindications Based on animal studies, evinacumab may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant patients (package insert). Patients should be advised of the potential risks to the fetus of pregnancy. Patients who may become pregnant should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment with evinacumab and for at least 5 months following the last dose. Summary In patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia the ability of evinacumab to lower LDL-C levels independent of LDL receptor activity makes this agent very useful in these patients. Most patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia do not
