Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


Hypercholesterolemia the ability of evinacumab to lower LDL-C levels independent of LDL receptor activity makes this agent very useful in these patients. Most patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia do not achieve goal LDL-C levels with triple drug therapy with maximally tolerated statin therapy, ezetimibe, and a PCSK9 inhibitor and therefore the addition of evinacumab will be needed in many of these patients. Evinacumab is also effective in patients with refractory hypercholesterolemia but the drug is not yet FDA approved in this situation. Nevertheless, one can foresee in patients with refractory hypercholesterolemia at high risk for cardiovascular events the use of evinacumab. In addition to lowering LDL-C levels evinacumab also lowers triglyceride levels and could be useful in selected patients with very severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 261 , 273 ). APPROACH TO TREATING PATIENTS WITH HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA Introduction The issues of deciding who to treat, how aggressive to treat, and the goals of therapy are discussed in detail in the chapter “Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol” and therefore will not be addressed in this chapter ( 3 ). Additionally, the role of life style changes to lower LDL-C is discussed in great depth in chapter “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” and therefore will also not be addressed here ( 1 ). Rather we will focus on how to use the drugs discussed in this chapter to treat various categories of patients. The factors to consider when deciding which drugs are appropriate to use for lowering plasma LDL-C levels are; the efficacy in lowering LDL-C levels, the effect on other lipid and lipoprotein levels, the ability to reduce cardiovascular events, the side effects of drug therapy, the ease of complying with the drug regimen, and the cost of the drugs. Many statins and ezetimibe are generic drugs and therefore they are relatively inexpensive. Isolated Hypercholesterolemia with Cardiovascular Disease In patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia and cardiovascular disease, initial drug therapy should be high intensity statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg or rosuvastatin 20-40mg). In patients with cardiovascular disease, one should aim to lower the LDL-C to below 70mg/dL. Many experts, based on studies comparing statin alone vs. statin + ezetimibe or statin + a PCSK9 inhibitor, would recommend a more aggressive LDL-C goal in high-risk patients (LDL-C <55mg/dL). If statin therapy alone is not sufficient adding ezetimibe, is a reasonable next step. Because a considerable amount of
