Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


recommend a more aggressive LDL-C goal in high-risk patients (LDL-C <55mg/dL). If statin therapy alone is not sufficient adding ezetimibe, is a reasonable next step. Because a considerable amount of data indicates that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in cardiovascular events many experts would use a combination of high intensity statin therapy plus ezetimibe in all high-risk patients to maximize LDL-C reduction. Ezetimibe is inexpensive, easy to take, has few side effects, will modestly lower LDL-C, and has been shown in combination with statins to further reduce cardiovascular events. High dose statin and ezetimibe will lower LDL-C by as much as 70%, which will lower LDL-C to goal in a large number of patients who do not have a genetic basis for their elevated LDL-C levels. If the combination of statin plus ezetimibe does not lower the LDL to goal one can add a third drug. If the LDL is close to goal, one could add a bile acid sequestrant such as colesevelam or bempedoic acid. If the LDL is not very close to goal one could instead use a statin +/- ezetimibe plus a PCSK9 inhibitor, which will result in marked reductions in LDL-C levels. If the patient has diabetes with a moderately elevated A1c level using a bile acid sequestrant such as colesevelam instead of ezetimibe or in combination with ezetimibe could improve both glycemic control and further lower LDL levels. If the cost of PCSK9 inhibitors decrease the earlier use of these drugs will become feasible. Isolated Hypercholesterolemia in Primary Prevention In patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C < 190mg/dL) without cardiovascular disease initial drug therapy is with a statin. The statin dose should be chosen based on the percent reduction in LDL-C required to lower the LDL-C level to below the target goal (typically < 100mg/dL but if multiple risk factors with a high risk for cardiovascular events is present many experts would aim for <70mg/dL). As discussed earlier, the side effects of statin therapy increase with higher doses so one should not automatically start with high doses, but instead should choose a dose balancing the benefits and risks. Generic statins are inexpensive drugs and are very effective in both lowering LDL-C levels and reducing cardiovascular events. Additionally, they have an excellent safety profile. If the initial statin dose does not lower LCL-C sufficiently, one can then increase the dose or add ezetimibe. If
