Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


reducing cardiovascular events. Additionally, they have an excellent safety profile. If the initial statin dose does not lower LCL-C sufficiently, one can then increase the dose or add ezetimibe. If the maximal statin dose does not lower LDL-C sufficiently adding ezetimibe is a reasonable next step if the LDL-C level is in a reasonable range and an additional 20-25% reduction in LDL will be sufficient. High dose statin and ezetimibe will lower LDL-C by as much as 70%, which will lower LDL-C to goal in the majority of patients who do not have a genetic basis for their elevated LDL-C levels. If the combination of statin plus ezetimibe does not lower the LDL-C to goal one can add a third drug, such as bempedoic acid or colesevelam. If the patient has diabetes with a moderately elevated A1c level using colesevelam instead of ezetimibe or in combination with ezetimibe could improve both glycemic control and further lower LDL-C levels. Mixed Hyperlipidemia In patients with mixed hyperlipidemia (elevated LDL-C and triglyceride levels) Initial drug therapy should also be a generic statin unless triglyceride levels are greater than 500-1000mg/dL. If triglycerides are > 500-1000mg/dL initial therapy is directed at lowering triglyceride levels ( 261 ). In addition to lowering LDL-C levels, statins are also effective in lowering triglyceride levels particularly when the triglycerides are elevated. If LDL-C is not lowered sufficiently ezetimibe is a reasonable next step. Bile acid sequestrants are not appropriate drugs in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. The approach to the patient whose LDL-C levels are at goal but the triglycerides and non-HDL-C are still elevated is discussed in the chapter on triglyceride lowering drugs ( 261 ). Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia In patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia or other disorders with very elevated LDL-C levels (>190mg/dL), high doses of a potent statin such as atorvastatin 40-80mg or rosuvastatin 20-40mg are the first step to lower LDL-C levels. In many patients this will not be sufficient. If the LDL-C levels are above goal then adding ezetimibe is a reasonable next step. If after ezetimibe the LDL-C is still slightly above goal triple drug therapy with bempedoic acid or a bile acid sequestrant can be employed. If on statin alone or with the combination of statin and ezetimibe the LDL-C still needs to be markedly reduced a PCSK9 inhibitor may be a better choice as these drugs can markedly lower LDL-C levels. Homozygous Familiar
