Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


of statin and ezetimibe the LDL-C still needs to be markedly reduced a PCSK9 inhibitor may be a better choice as these drugs can markedly lower LDL-C levels. Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia In patients with Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia initial therapy with a maximally tolerated statin and ezetimibe can be instituted. This will likely not result in an acceptable LDL-C level and then one can add a PCSK9 inhibitor. Because these therapies depend on LDL receptor activity to lower LDL-C a high percentage of patients will not reach goal and then one can add lomitapide and/or evinacumab, drugs that lower LDL-C levels independent of LDL receptor activity. Because side effects are fewer with evinacumab this is the preferred initial drug in most patients. Studies have shown that with the addition of evinacumab many patients will reach acceptable LDL-C levels. If LDL-C levels are still not acceptable one could then initiate lipoprotein apheresis ( 274 ). Statin Intolerance Statin intolerance is frequently due to myalgias but on occasion can be due other issues, such as increased liver or muscle enzymes, cognitive dysfunction, or other neurological disorders. The percentage of patients who are “statin intolerant” varies greatly but in clinical practice a significant number of patients have difficulty taking statins. As discussed earlier it can be difficult to determine if the muscle symptoms that occur when a patient is taking a statin are actually due to the statin or are unrelated to statin use. The first step in a “statin intolerant patient” is to take a careful history of the nature and location of the muscle symptoms and the timing of onset in relation to statin use to determine whether the presentation fits the typical picture for statin induced myalgias. The characteristic findings with a statin induced myalgia are shown in table 18 and findings that are not typical for statin induced myalgia are shown in table 19 . The disappearance of symptoms within a few weeks of stopping statins and the reappearance after restarting statins is very suggestive of the symptoms being due to true statin intolerance. An on-line tool (htpp://tools.acc.org/statinintolerance/#!/) and an app produced by the ACC/AHA are available. This tool characterizes patients based on 8 criteria into possible vs. unlikely to have statin induced muscle symptoms ( table 20 ) Table 18. Characteristic Findings with Statin Induced Myalgia View in own window Symmetric Proximal muscles Muscle pain, tenderness, weakness, cramps Symptom
