Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


have statin induced muscle symptoms ( table 20 ) Table 18. Characteristic Findings with Statin Induced Myalgia View in own window Symmetric Proximal muscles Muscle pain, tenderness, weakness, cramps Symptom onset < 4 weeks after starting statin or dose increase Improves within 2-4 weeks of stopping statin Cramping is unilateral and involves small muscles of hands and feet Same symptoms occur with re-challenge within 4 weeks Table 19. Symptoms Atypical in Statin Induced Myalgia View in own window Unilateral Asymmetric Small muscles Joint or tendon pain Shooting pain, muscle twitching or tingling Symptom onset > 12 weeks No improvement after discontinuing statin Table 20. Diagnosis of Statin Associated Muscle Symptoms View in own window Symptom timing Symptom type Symptom location Sex Age Race/ethnicity CK elevation > 5 times the upper limit of normal Known risk factors for statin induced muscle symptoms and non-statin causes of muscle symptoms One should also check a CK level but this is almost always in the normal range. If the CK is not elevated and the symptoms do not suggest a statin induced myalgia one can often reassure the patient and continue statin therapy. This is often successful and studies have shown that many patients that stop taking statins due to “statin induced myalgia” can be successfully treated with a statin. If the CK is elevated it should be repeated after instructing the patient to avoid exercise for 48 hours. Also, the CK levels should be compared to CK levels prior to starting therapy. If the CK remains elevated (3x upper limit of normal) the statin should be discontinued. Similarly, if the CK is normal but the symptoms are suggestive of a statin induced myalgia the statin should also be discontinued. The next step is to determine if one can identify reversible factors that could be increasing statin toxicity (hypothyroidism, drug interactions). If none are identified the next step after the myalgias have resolved is to try a low dose of a different statin that is metabolized by a different pathway (for example instead of atorvastatin, which is metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway, rosuvastatin, which has a different pathway of metabolism). Because statin side effects are dose related, a low dose of a statin may often be tolerated. One can also try several different statins as sometimes a patient may tolerate one statin and not others. A meta-analysis has shown that every other day administration
