Cholesterol Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: patients, levels, statin, ldl-c, therapy, statins, acid, ezetimibe, cardiovascular, ldl-c levels, decrease, placebo, ldl, risk, statin therapy


often be tolerated. One can also try several different statins as sometimes a patient may tolerate one statin and not others. A meta-analysis has shown that every other day administration of statins is as effective as daily administration in lowering lipid levels and therefore is a very reasonable strategy ( 275 ). In some instances, using a long-acting statin (rosuvastatin or atorvastatin) 1-3 times per week can work (we usually start with once per week and then slowly increase frequency as tolerated) ( 276 ). In these circumstances (low doses or 1-3 times per week) the reduction in LDL-C may not be sufficient but one can use combination therapy with other drugs such as ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, bile acid sequestrants, or PCSK9 inhibitors to achieve LDL target goals. Many providers have combined Coenzyme Q10 with statins to prevent statin induced myalgias. However, randomized trials with Coenzyme Q10 supplementation have not consistently shown benefit ( 277-282 ). A trial, which carefully screened patients to make sure they actually had statin induced myalgias, failed to show a benefit from Coenzyme Q10 supplementation ( 101 ). It has also been recommended that vitamin D supplementation be used to prevent statin induced myalgias but a large randomized trial failed to show a reduction in muscle symptoms with vitamin D therapy ( 283 ). If after trying various approaches a patient still has myalgias and is unable to tolerate statin therapy one needs to utilize other approaches to lower LDL levels. Similarly, if there are other reasons why a patient cannot take a statin, such as developing muscle pathology, one will also need to utilize other approaches to lower LDL levels. These patients can be treated with ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, bile acid sequestrants, or PCSK 9 inhibitors either as monotherapy or in combination to achieve LDL goals. There are patients who will refuse statins and other drug therapy because they do not believe in taking pharmaceuticals but will take natural products. In these patients we have employed red yeast rice, which decreases LDL-C because it contains a form of lovastatin ( 284 , 285 ). It is effective but one should recognize that the quality control is not similar to the standards of pharmaceutical products and that there can be batch to batch variations. Furthermore, there is a risk of drug-drug interactions if used with inhibitors of CYP3A4. However, in this particular patient population, who
