Severe Thyrotoxicosis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyrotoxicosis, daily, thyroid hormone, hormone, hyperthyroidism, thyroiditis, treatment, disease, elevated, cases, levels, toxic, com, uptake


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Thyrotoxicosis in the elderly may elude detection by manifesting only fatigue, weakness, and relative apathy. More commonly it presents with any of a range of symptoms including fatigue, weight loss, heat intolerance, palpitations, weakness, insomnia, irritability, confusion, and agitation. Clinical findings that may raise suspicion include tachycardia, proptosis, goitrous enlargement of the thyroid, palpable thyroid nodules, warm moist skin, brisk deep tendon reflexes, and a resting tremor. A newly detected atrial arrhythmia may be the first manifestation identified. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY See http://www.thyroidmanager.org DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Endogenous thyrotoxicosis may be caused by disorders that increase thyroid hormone production in functional thyroid tissue, or by disorders associated with inflammation of the thyroid that cause leakage of preformed thyroid hormone. The distinction between these classifications helps to dictate treatment. Increased thyroid hormone production may be caused by autoimmune stimulation of the thyroid, or by the growth of autonomously functioning nodules or neoplasms. Checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 that are used to treat a range of malignancies can induce a rapidly progressing form of autoimmune thyroiditis associated with transient thyrotoxicosis. In patients treated with thyroid hormone preparations, ingestion of excessive doses may lead to severe thyrotoxicosis. Rarely thyrotoxicosis is induced during therapeutic administration of interferon alpha or CAMPATH. Table 1: Causes of thyrotoxicosis in elderly View in own window Increased thyroid hormone production Graves’ disease Toxic multinodular goiter Toxic adenoma Type 1 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis Metastatic thyroid cancer Inflammation with leakage of thyroid hormone Subacute thyroiditis Autoimmune (Hashimoto’s) thyroiditis Type 2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis Ingestion of exogenous thyroid hormone Iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED AND SUGGESTED Suspected thyrotoxicosis may be confirmed when lab tests reveal a suppressed TSH level in tandem with an elevated free or total T4 level. A total T3 level may also be checked, as it is often disproportionately elevated in cases of untreated Graves’ disease. In patients who aren’t taking amiodarone and haven’t been recently exposed to iodinated contrast, a thyroid uptake study can distinguish increased production of thyroid hormone (marked by increased uptake), from inflammation with leakage of thyroid hormone (marked by decreased uptake). Thyroid scan images that reveal the distribution of increased uptake can help to distinguish Graves’ disease from toxic nodular disorders. In cases that demonstrate decreased uptake, an elevated ESR or CRP may reflect subacute thyroiditis, while elevated anti-thyroid peroxidase or anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels may reflect autoimmune thyroiditis. The absence of either of these
