Severe Thyrotoxicosis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyrotoxicosis, daily, thyroid hormone, hormone, hyperthyroidism, thyroiditis, treatment, disease, elevated, cases, levels, toxic, com, uptake


demonstrate decreased uptake, an elevated ESR or CRP may reflect subacute thyroiditis, while elevated anti-thyroid peroxidase or anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels may reflect autoimmune thyroiditis. The absence of either of these findings may raise suspicion of iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis. Il-6 may be elevated in amiodarone induced hyperthyroidism. A suppressed TSH level with “normal” T4 and T3 levels indicates subclinical hyperthyroidism. This problem is common in elderly individuals with multinodular goiter or “hot” nodules. Long standing subclinical hyperthyroidism is associated with atrial arrhythmias, and for this reason, if confirmed and continued, is often treated in the same manner as overt hyperthyroidism. THERAPY Severe thyrotoxicosis may induce or exacerbate atrial arrhythmias, ischemia, congestive heart failure or diabetes mellitus, problems requiring urgent diagnosis and therapy. Coincident anemia should be recognized. If tolerated, and in the absence of CHF, beta blockers may help to ameliorate some symptoms in patients presenting with thyrotoxicosis. Since administration of beta-blockers to patients with severe thyrotoxicosis has rarely been associated with vascular collapse, a reduced dose may be administered initially. In cases of severe hyperthyroidism ascribed to Graves’ disease, a toxic multinodular goiter, or a toxic adenoma, antithyroid drugs are usually administered as first line treatment. Methimazole is the usual agent of choice. Relatively high doses (20-40 mg daily) may be needed at the outset. Once adequate control of hyperthyroidism has been achieved, definitive therapy with radioactive iodine ablation or thyroid surgery may be considered. Patients who demonstrate an allergy or adverse side effects when taking antithyroid drugs may need to proceed directly to treatment with radioactive iodine ablation. Consideration should be given to the possibility of triggering increased thyrotoxicosis as a result of radioactive iodine treatment with adverse effects on cardiovascular disease. Pre-treatment with antithyroid drugs, repeated partial dose radioactive iodine therapy, or post-treatment with beta blockers or saturated solution of potassium iodide (at least 10 mg daily) may be considered. Thyroid surgery may be indicated in cases where substernal enlargement of a toxic multinodular goiter has caused significant compressive symptoms, and in cases with any suggestion of a thyroid malignancy. Temporizing treatment with high doses of NSAIDs or prednisone may help to relieve discomfort associated with the onset of subacute thyroiditis. Table 2: Treatment View in own window Beta blockers Propranolol: 10-30 mg tid-qid, or 60-120 mg ER daily Atenolol: 25-100 mg daily Metoprolol: 25-50 mg bid, or 50-100 mg ER daily Antithyroid drugs Methimazole: 10-60 mg daily Propylthiouracil:
