nutrients
KEYWORDS: sulphate, chondroitin, utis, chondroitin sulphate, d-mannose, uti, urinary, additionally, urinary tract, tract, reported, chondroitinsulphate, prevention, response, italy


yielded a pooled relative risk for recurrent UTIs of 0.39 compared to 0.23 of the pooled relative risk of D-mannose only . NNuutrtrieienntsts2 2002233,,1 155,,3 x5 7F3OR PEER REVIEW 44 ooff 1134 FFiigguurree2 2.. AAddhheerreenncceeo offu urrooppaatthhooggeennssa annddr rooleleo offD D-M-Maannnnoossee.. 3. ChondroitinSulphate 3. Chondroitin Sulphate Inrecentyears,chondroitinsulphatehasemergedasapotentialcandidateforUTI In recent years, chondroitin sulphate has emerged as a potential candidate for UTI prevention [26–28]. Chondroitin sulphate is a naturally occurring compound found in prevention [26–28]. Chondroitin sulphate is a naturally occurring compound found in connectivetissues,includingthoseliningtheurinarytract.Theurotheliumofthebladderis connective tissues, including those lining the urinary tract. The urothelium of the bladder indeedcoatedbyathicklayerofglycosaminoglycans(GAGs),whichactsasanon-specific is indeed coated by a thick layer of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), which acts as a non- anti-adherencefactoranddefensemechanismagainstinfectionsandirritants. Twotypesof specific anti-adherence factor and defense mechanism against infections and irritants. GAGsarereportedinbladderurothelium: non-sulphatedGAGsasthehyaluronicacidand Two types of GAGs are reported in bladder urothelium: non-sulphated GAGs as the sulphatedGAGsasheparansulphate,chondroitinsulphateanddermatansulphate. Chon- hyaluronic acid and sulphated GAGs as heparan sulphate, chondroitin sulphate and droitinsulphateisknownforitsabilitytomaintaintissueintegrityandprovidestructural dermatan sulphate. Chondroitin sulphate is known for its ability to maintain tissue support. Bysupplementingwithchondroitinsulphate,itishypothesizedthatthe integrity and provide structural support . By supplementing with chondroitin protectiveeffectsontheurinarytractliningcanhelppreventtheattachmentandcoloniza- sulphate, it is hypothesized that the protective effects on the urinary tract lining can help tionofuropathogenicbacteria,reducingtheriskofUTIs.SimilartoD-mannose,chondroitin prevent the attachment and colonization of uropathogenic bacteria, reducing the risk of sulphatehasbeenshowntointerferewithbacterialadhesion. Uropathogenicbacteria, UTIs. Similar to D-mannose, chondroitin sulphate has been shown to interfere with suchasE.coli,utilizeadhesinstoattachtotheurinarytractepithelium. Chondroitin bacterial adhesion . Uropathogenic bacteria, such as E. coli, utilize adhesins to attach sulphate can act as a decoy molecule, competing with these adhesins for binding sites to the urinary tract epithelium . Chondroitin sulphate can act as a decoy molecule, andreducingbacterialattachment. Thisinhibitionofbacterialadhesioncanimpedethe competing with these adhesins for binding sites and reducing bacterial attachment. This initialstepsofUTIdevelopment. Additionally,chondroitinsulphatehasbeenfoundto inhibition of bacterial adhesion can impede the initial steps of UTI development. haveimmunomodulatoryproperties,whichcaninfluencetheimmuneresponsewithin Additionally, chondroitin sulphate has been found to have immunomodulatory theurinarytract. Byregulatingimmunecellactivityandcytokineproduction,chondroitin properties, which can influence the immune response within the urinary tract. By sulphate may contribute to a balanced immune response, helping to control inflamma- regulating immune cell activity and cytokine production, chondroitin sulphate may tion and prevent the progression of UTIs . Chondroitin sulphate supplementation contribute to a balanced immune response, helping to control inflammation and prevent has shown promise in reducing the frequency of UTI recurrences, both via intravesical the progression of UTIs . Chondroitin sulphate supplementation has shown promise andoraladministration. Damianoetal. reported,inaprospective,randomizeddouble- in reducing the frequency of UTI recurrences, both via intravesical and oral blindedplacebo-controlledstudyincluding57women,adecreasedUTIrateperpatient
