A man in his 50s with altered mental status and abdominal pain. What treatment must be given immediately, and how much?
KEYWORDS: hyperkalemia, gluconate, calcium, ecg, patient, calcium gluconate, cardiac, cardiac arrest, arrest, bradycardia, case, initial, woman, hyperk, tachycardia hyperkalemia


A 50-year-old male with PMH of ESRD, heart failure, pancreatitis and previous MI presents to the ED with chief complaint of epigastric pain. He was described as “altered” with limited history able to be obtained due to mental status on arrival. Here is his triage ECG: What are your initial thoughts? – This EKG looks sinusoidal and highly concerning for hyperkalemia – Wide complex – Rate too slow to be Vtach. Patient then divulges that he has not been dialyzed in 5 days, hyperkalemic treatment started with albuterol, insulin, dextrose, lokelma and only 2g calcium gluconate. (Meyers note: this is a common and important initial mistake, 2g calcium gluconate is not nearly enough for this peri-arrest hyperkalemia). Smith: remember that to equal 1 “amp” of Calcium chloride, you must give 3 of calcium gluconate. That is the molar equivalent, since the molecular weight of gluconate is far larger than that of chloride. Initial K returned at 8.4 mEq/L. Repeat EKG shortly after initial treatment: This ECG looks even worse than the first! 2 gm calcium gluconate was not enough. This was realized, and next 6 more gm of calcium gluconate were given. Here is the ECG shortly after that: As hoped, the QRS has improved somewhat, the rate has increased, and P waves have become more clear. The patient underwent dialysis and a repeat EKG was obtained: The QRS has narrowed. There is likely underlying LVH, maybe also LAFB. The most concerning hyperkalemic findings have resolved. The patient did well. See this case of cardiac arrest from HyperK, in which Pendell gave 13 g of calcium chloride (= 39 g of calcium gluconate). See this case of Ventricular Tachycardia from Hyperkalemia which required 15 grams of Ca Gluconate for Stabilization. In this case, the providers thought that 1 g of calcium gluconate had fixed the hyperK. But what really happened? Tachycardia and hyperkalemia. What will happen after therapy with 1 gram of Ca gluconate and some bicarbonate? General hyperkalemia cases (cardiology-relevant): * A 50s year old man with lightheadedness and bradycardia * Patient with dyspnea; triage ECG interpreted as “normal” * Severe shock, obtunded, and a diagnostic prehospital ECG * A woman with near-syncope, bradycardia, and hypotension * What happens if you do not recognize this ECG instantly? * A woman in her 50s with dyspnea and bradycardia * A patient with cardiac arrest, ROSC, and right bundle branch block
