nutrients
KEYWORDS: ced, patients, ced patients, controls, gfd, status, nutritional, diagnosis, mass, nutritional status, ecw, index, time, studies, body


to controls, while our data showed only a reduced FFMI at diagnosis. Most nutritional status studies have focused on the pediatric population, as emphasized in a recent meta- analysis and systematic review performed by Vereczkei et al. , where five studies of the seven included were conducted on children. This meta-analysis underlined that the few studies conducted on adults, at diagnosis, and during follow-up, had used different techniques to evaluate body composition . In particular, most studies analyzed the nutritional status of CeD patients using only BMI or other anthropometric measures . Our results emphasize that the analysis of those parameters alone does not necessarily show any differences between patients and controls. In contrast, data obtained with BIA allowed us to demonstrate statistically significant differences concerning BCMI, FFMI, ASMI, and PA, which were lower in CeD than in controls, and ECW percentage, which was higher in CeD patients. Thus, CeD patients’ nutritional status at diagnosis is worse than healthy subjects, particularly considering both PA and ECW percentages, known to be predictors of malnutrition. PA also correlates with BCM and ECW ratios. So, it is widely used in clinical practice as a cellular integrity and cell functions index that decreases in cases of inflammation, malnutrition, impaired quality of life, and sarcopenia [41–45]. We also considered the changes in nutritional status over time due to the effect of the GFD. Similarly, in this setting, the studies are few and mainly carried out in the pedi- atric population , or only based on BMI [46–48]. Our results showed a body-fluid redistribution on a GFD: TBW increased (p < 0.001), as well as PA (p = 0.002), while ECW percentage decreased, mainly in the first 6 months of the diet (p = 0.004). These data confirm that GFD has a positive effect on nutritional status. Indeed, the TBW increase reflects the rising of all fat-free mass indexes. On the Nutrients2023,15,2686 9of13 4. Discussion Accordingtorecentguidelines,oncethediagnosisofCeDisconfirmed,patientsshould bereferredtoadietitianforstartingaGFD.Theeffectofthisdietonthenutritionalstatuses ofCeDpatientsisstillamatterofdebatesincemanystudieshavemainlyfocusedonBMI astheonlyavailableparameter. Therefore,inthecurrentstudy,weaimedtoevaluatethe nutritionalstatusofnewlydiagnosedCeDpatientsusingdifferentnutritionalparameters, includingthosederivedbyapplyingbioelectricalimpedanceanalysis. Weobservedthat CeD patients at diagnosis had a poorer nutritional status than healthy controls, but it significantlyimprovedafter6and12monthsofaGFD. OnlyafewstudieshavebeenperformedonadultCeDpatientsusingBIA.Inparticular, Capristoetal.,similarlytous,evaluatedthenutritionalstatusintwogroups: CeDpatients at the moment of diagnosis and CeD patients on a GFD, comparing them to healthy controls;bothgroupsofpatientshadalowerBMI,FM,andFFMcomparedtocontrols, whileourdatashowedonlyareducedFFMIatdiagnosis. Mostnutritionalstatusstudies havefocusedonthepediatricpopulation,asemphasizedinarecentmeta-analysisand systematic review performed by Vereczkei et al. , where five studies of the seven includedwereconductedonchildren. Thismeta-analysisunderlinedthatthefewstudies conductedonadults,atdiagnosis,andduringfollow-up,haduseddifferenttechniques to evaluate body composition . In particular, most studies analyzed the nutritional status of CeD patients using only BMI
