Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


Raben in 1962 ( 1 ). In the present chapter we will briefly review the normal physiology of GH secretion and the effects of GH on intermediary metabolism throughout adulthood. Other important physiological effects of GH are presented in the review on GH replacement in adults. GROWTH HORMONE GH is a single chain protein with 191 amino-acids and two disulfide bonds. The human GH gene is located on chromosome 17q22 as part of a locus that comprises five genes. In addition to two GH related genes (GH1 that codes for the main adult growth hormone, produced in the somatotrophic cells found in the anterior pituitary gland and, to a minor extent, in lymphocytes, and GH2 that codes for the placental GH), there are three genes coding for chorionic somatomammotropin (CSH1, CSH2 and CSHL) (also known as placental lactogen) genes ( 2 , 3 ). The GH1 gene encodes two distinct GH isoforms (22 kDa and 20 kDa). The principal and most abundant GH form in pituitary and blood is monomeric 22K-GH isoform, representing also the recombinant GH available for therapeutic use (and subsequently for doping purposes) ( 3 ). Administration of recombinant 22K-GH exogenously leads to a decrease in the 20K-GH isoform and testing both isoforms is used to detect GH doping in sports ( 4 ). As already mentioned, GH is secreted by the somatotroph cells located primarily in the lateral wings of the anterior pituitary. A recent single cell RNA sequencing study performed in mice showed that GH-expressing cells, representing the somatotrophs, are the most abundant cell population in adult pituitary gland ( 5 ). The differentiation of somatotroph cell is governed by the pituitary transcription factor 1 (Pit-1). Data in mice suggests that the pituitary holds regenerative competence, the GH-producing cells being regenerated from the pituitary’s stem cells in young animals after a period of 5 months ( 6 ). Physiological Regulation of GH Secretion The morphological characteristics and number of somatotrophs are remarkably constant throughout life, while the secretion pattern changes. GH secretion occurs in a pulsatile fashion, and in a circadian rhythm with a maximal release in the second half of the night. So, sleep is an important physiological factor that increases GH release. Interestingly, the maximum GH levels occur within minutes of the onset of slow wave sleep and there is marked sexual dimorphism of the nocturnal GH increase in humans, constituting only a
