Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


the maximum GH levels occur within minutes of the onset of slow wave sleep and there is marked sexual dimorphism of the nocturnal GH increase in humans, constituting only a fraction of the total daily GH release in women, but the bulk of GH output in men ( 7 ). GH secretion is also gender, pubertal status, and age dependent ( Figure 1 ) ( 8 ). Integrated 24 h GH concentration is significantly greater in women than in men and greater in the young than in the old adults. The serum concentration of free estradiol, but not free testosterone, correlates with GH and when correcting for the effects of estradiol, neither gender nor age influence GH concentration. This suggests that estrogens play a crucial role in modulating GH secretion ( 8 ). During puberty, a 3-fold increase in pulsatile GH secretion occurs that peaks around the age of 15 years (yr) in girls and 1 yr later in boys ( 9 ). Figure 1. The secretory pattern of GH in young and old females and males. In young individuals the GH pulses are larger and more frequent and females secrete more GH than men (modified from ( 8 )). Pituitary synthesis and secretion of GH is stimulated by episodic hypothalamic hormones. Growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) stimulates while somatostatin (SST) inhibits GH production and release. GH stimulates IGF-I production which in turn inhibits GH secretion at both hypothalamic and pituitary levels. The gastric peptide ghrelin is also a potent GH secretagogue, which acts to boost hypothalamic GHRH secretion and synergize with its pituitary GH-stimulating effects ( Figure 2 ) ( 10 ). Interestingly, recently germline or somatic duplication of GPR101 constitutively activates the cAMP pathway in the absence of a ligand, leading to GH release. Although GPR101 physiology is unclear it is worth mentioning it since it clearly has an effect on GH physiology ( 11 ). In addition, a multitude of other factors may impact the GH axis most probably due to interaction with GHRH, somatostatin, and ghrelin. Estrogens stimulate the secretion of GH but inhibit the action of GH on the liver by suppressing GH receptor (GHR) signaling. In contrast, androgens enhance the peripheral actions of GH ( 12 ). Exogenous estrogens potentiate pituitary GH responses to submaximal effective pulses of exogenous GHRH ( 13 ) and mutes inhibition by exogenous SST ( 14 ). Also, exogenous
