Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


( 12 ). Exogenous estrogens potentiate pituitary GH responses to submaximal effective pulses of exogenous GHRH ( 13 ) and mutes inhibition by exogenous SST ( 14 ). Also, exogenous estrogen potentiates ghrelin action ( 15 ). GH release correlates inversely with intraabdominal visceral adiposity via mechanisms that may depend on increased FFA flux, elevated insulin, or free IGF-I. Figure 2. Factors that stimulate and suppress GH secretion under physiological conditions. GROWTH HORMONE RELEASING HORMONE (GHRH) GHRH is a 44 amino-acid polypeptide produced in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. These neuronal terminals secrete GHRH to reach the anterior pituitary somatotrophs via the portal venous system, which leads to GH transcription and secretion. Moreover, animal studies have demonstrated that GHRH plays a vital role in the proliferation of somatotrophs in the anterior pituitary, whereas the absence of GHRH leads to anterior pituitary hypoplasia ( 16 ). In addition, GHRH upregulates GH gene expression and stimulates GH release ( 17 ). The secretion of GHRH is stimulated by several factors including depolarization, α2-adrenergic stimulation, hypophysectomy, thyroidectomy, and hypoglycemia and it is inhibited by somatostatin, IGF-I, and activation of GABAergic neurons. GHRH acts on the somatotrophs via a seven trans-membrane G protein-coupled stimulatory cell-surface receptor. This receptor has been extensively studied over the last decade leading to the identification of several important mutations. Point mutations in the GHRH receptors, as illustrated by studies done on the lit/lit dwarf mice, showed a profound impact on subsequent somatotroph proliferation leading to anterior pituitary hypoplasia ( 18 ). Unlike the mutations in the Pit-1 and PROP-1 genes, which lead to multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies and anterior pituitary hypoplasia, mutations in the GHRH receptor leads to profound GH deficiency with anterior pituitary hypoplasia. Subsequently to the first GHRH receptor mutation described in 1996 ( 19 ) an array of familial GHRH receptor mutations have been recognized over the last decade. These mutations account for almost 10% of the familial isolated GH deficiencies. An affected individual will present with short stature and a hypoplastic anterior pituitary. However, they lack certain typical features of GH deficiency such as midfacial hypoplasia, microphallus, and neonatal hypoglycemia ( 20 ). SOMATOSTATIN (SST) SST is a cyclic peptide, encoded by a single gene in humans, which mostly exerts inhibitory effects on endocrine and exocrine secretions. Many cells in the body, including specialized cells in the anterior periventricular nucleus and arcuate nucleus, produce
