Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


gene in humans, which mostly exerts inhibitory effects on endocrine and exocrine secretions. Many cells in the body, including specialized cells in the anterior periventricular nucleus and arcuate nucleus, produce SST. These neurons secrete SST into the adenohypophyseal portal venous system, via the median eminence, to exert effect on the anterior pituitary. SST has a short half-life of approximately 2 minutes as it is rapidly inactivated by tissue peptidase in humans. The secretion of SST by the hypothalamic neurons is inhibited by high blood glucose and is stimulated by serum GH/IGF-I level, exercise, and immobilization ( 21 ). SST acts via a seven trans-membrane, G protein coupled receptor and, thus far, five subtypes of the receptor have been identified in humans (SSTR1-5). Although all five receptor subtypes are expressed in the human fetal pituitary, adult pituitary only express 4 subtypes (SSTR1, SSTR2, SSTR3, SSTR5). Out of these four subtypes, somatotrophs exhibit more sensitivity to SSTR2 and SSTR5 ligands in inhibiting the secretion of GH in a synergistic manner ( 22 ). GHRELIN Ghrelin is a 28 amino-acid peptide that is the natural ligand for the GH secretagogue receptor. In fact, ghrelin and GHRH have a synergistic effect in increasing circulating GH levels ( 7 ). Ghrelin is primarily secreted by stomach and may be involved in the GH response to fasting and food intake. Clinical Implications GH LEVELS- INFLUENCE ON BODY COMPOSISTION, PHYSICAL FITNESS, AND AGE With the introduction of dependable radioimmunological assays, it was recognized that circulating GH is blunted in obese subjects, and that normal aging is accompanied by a gradual decline in GH levels ( 23 , 24 ). It has been hypothesized that many of the senescent changes in body composition and organ function are related to or caused by decreased GH ( 25 ), also known as “the somatopause”. Studies done in the late 90s have uniformly documented that adults with severe GH deficiency are characterized by increased fat mass and reduced lean body mass (LBM) ( 26 ). It is also known that normal GH levels can be restored in obese subjects following massive weight loss ( 27 ), and that GH substitution in GH-deficient adults normalizes body composition. What remains unknown is the cause-effect relationship between decreased GH levels and senescent changes in body composition. Is the propensity for gaining fat and losing lean body mass initiated or preceded by a primary age-dependent
