Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


cause-effect relationship between decreased GH levels and senescent changes in body composition. Is the propensity for gaining fat and losing lean body mass initiated or preceded by a primary age-dependent decline in GH secretion and action? Alternatively, accumulation of fat mass secondary to non-GH dependent factors (e.g., lifestyle, dietary habits) results in a feedback inhibition of GH secretion. Moreover, little is known about possible age-associated changes in GH pharmacokinetics and bioactivity. Cross sectional studies done to assess the association between body composition and stimulated GH release in healthy subjects show that, adult people (mean age 50 yr) have a lower peak GH response to secretagogues (clonidine and arginine), and females had a higher response to arginine when compared to males. Multiple regression analysis, however, reveal that intra-abdominal fat mass is the most important and negative predictor of peak GH levels as previously mentioned ( Figure 3 ) ( 28 ). In the same population, 24-h spontaneous GH levels also predominantly correlated inversely with intra-abdominal fat mass ( 29 ). Figure 3. Correlation between intra-abdominal fat mass and 24-hour GH secretion. A detailed analysis of GH secretion in relation to body composition in elderly subjects has, to our knowledge, not been performed. Instead, serum IGF-I has been used as a surrogate or proxy for GH status in several studies of elderly men ( 30 - 32 ). These studies comprise large populations of ambulatory, community-dwelling males aged between 50-90 yr. As expected, the serum IGF-I declined with age ( Figure 4 ), but IGF-I failed to show any significant association with body composition or physical performance. Figure 4. Changes in serum IGF-I with age; modified from ( 33 ). GH ACTION - INFLUENCE OF AGE, SEX, AND BODY COMPOSITION Considering the great interest in the actions of GH in adults, surprisingly few studies have addressed possible age associated differences in the responsiveness or sensitivity to GH. In normal adults the senescent decline in GH levels is paralleled by a decline in serum IGF-I, suggesting a down-regulation of the GH-IGF-I axis. Administration of GH to elderly healthy adults has generally been associated with predictable, albeit modest, effects on body composition and side effects in terms of fluid retention and modest insulin resistance ( 34 ). Whether this reflects an unfavorable balance between effects and side effects in older people or employment of excessive doses of GH is uncertain, but it is evident
