Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


( 34 ). Whether this reflects an unfavorable balance between effects and side effects in older people or employment of excessive doses of GH is uncertain, but it is evident that older subjects are not resistant to GH. Short-term dose response studies clearly demonstrate that older patients require a lower GH dose to maintain a given serum IGF-I level ( 35 , 36 ), and it has been observed that serum IGF-I increases in individual patients on long-term therapy if the GH dosage remains constant. Moreover, patients with GH deficiency older than 60 yr are highly responsive to even a small dose of GH ( 37 ). Interestingly, there is a gender difference in response to GH treatment with men being more responsive in terms of IGF-I generation and fat loss during therapy, most probably due to men having lower estrogen levels that negatively impact the effect of GH on IGF-I generation in the liver ( 38 ). The pharmacokinetics and short-term metabolic effects of a near physiological intravenous GH bolus (200 micrograms) were compared in a group of young (30 yr) and older (50 yr) healthy adults ( 39 ). The area under the GH curve was significantly lower in older subjects, whereas the elimination half-life was similar in the two groups, suggesting both an increased metabolic clearance rate and apparent distribution volume of GH in older subjects. Both parameters showed a strong positive correlation with fat mass, although multiple regression analysis revealed the age to be an independent positive predictor. The short-term lipolytic response to the GH bolus was higher in young as compared to older subjects. Interestingly, the same study showed that the GH binding protein (GHBP) correlated strongly and positively with abdominal fat mass ( 40 ). A prospective long-term study of normal adults with serial concomitant estimations of GH status and adiposity would provide useful information about the cause-effect relationship between GH status and body composition as a function of age. In the meantime, the following hypothesis is proposed ( Figure 5 ): 1.Changes in life-style and genetic predispositions promote accumulation of body fat with aging; 2. The increased fat mass increases FFA availability, inducing insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia; 3. High insulin levels suppress IGF binding protein (BP)-1 resulting in a relative increase in free IGF-I levels; 4. Systemic elevations of FFA, insulin, and free IGF-I suppresses pituitary GH release, which further increases fat mass;
