Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


binding protein (BP)-1 resulting in a relative increase in free IGF-I levels; 4. Systemic elevations of FFA, insulin, and free IGF-I suppresses pituitary GH release, which further increases fat mass; 5. Endogenous GH is cleared more rapidly in subjects with high amount of fat tissue. At present it is not justified to treat the age-associated deterioration in body composition and physical performance with GH also due to concern that the ensuing elevation of IGF-I levels may increase the risk for the development of neoplastic disease. Figure 5. Hypothetical model for the association between low GH levels and increased visceral fat adults. LIFE- LONG GH DEFICIENCY A real-life model for the GH effects in human physiology is provided by the subjects with life-long severe reduction in GH signaling due to GHRH or GHRH receptor mutations, combined deficiency of GH, prolactin, and TSH, or global deletion of GHR. They show short stature, doll facies, high-pitched voices, central obesity, and are fertile ( 41 ). Despite central obesity and increased liver fat, they are insulin sensitive, partially protected from cancer, and present a major reduction in pro-aging signaling and perhaps increased longevity ( 42 ). The decrease in cancer risk in life-long GH deficiency together with reports on the GH permissive role for neoplastic colon growth ( 43 ), preneoplastic mammary lesions ( 44 ), and progression of prostate cancer ( 45 ) demands, at least, a careful tailoring of GH substitution dosage in the GH deficient patients. However, recent evidence suggests that the GH produced locally by the colon tumor cells, and not pituitary GH, acts in an autocrine and paracrine manner to suppress the tumor suppressor proteins and to increase nuclear β-catenin accumulation and epithelial–mesenchymal transition potentially participating in tumor progression ( 46 , 47 ). GH AND IMMUNE SYSTEM Although the majority of data on the relation between GH and the immune system are from animal studies, it seems that GH may pose immunomodulatory actions. Immune cells express receptors for growth hormone, and respond to GH stimulation ( 48 ). The GHR is expressed by several lymphocyte subpopulations. GH stimulates in vitro T and B-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin synthesis, enhances human myeloid progenitor cell maturation, and modulates in vivo Th1/Th2 ( 8 ) and humoral immune responses ( 49 ). It has been shown that GH can induce de novo T cell production and enhance CD4 recovery in HIV+ patients.
