Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


( 8 ) and humoral immune responses ( 49 ). It has been shown that GH can induce de novo T cell production and enhance CD4 recovery in HIV+ patients. Another study with possible clinical relevance showed that sustained GH expression reduced prodromal disease symptoms and eliminated progression to overt diabetes in mouse model of type 1 diabetes, a T-cell–mediated autoimmune disease. GH altered the cytokine environment, triggered anti-inflammatory macrophage (M2) polarization, maintained activity of the suppressor T-cell population, and limited Th17 cell plasticity ( 49 ). JAK/STAT signaling, the principal mediator of GHR activation, is well-known to be involved in the modulation of the immune system, so it is tempting to assume that GH may have a role too, but clear data in humans are needed. Growth Hormone Signaling in Humans GROWTH RECEPTOR ACTIVATION GH receptor signaling is a separate and prolific research field by itself ( 50 ), so this section will focus on recent data obtained in human models. GHR have been identified in many tissues including fat, lymphocytes, liver, muscle, heart, kidney, brain, and pancreas ( 51 , 52 ). Activation of receptor-associated Janus kinase (JAK) 2 is the critical step in initiating GH signaling. One GH molecule binds to two GHR molecules that exist as preformed homodimers. Following GH binding, the intracellular domains of the GHR dimer undergo rotation, which brings together the two intracellular domains, each of which bind one JAK2 molecule. This in turn induces cross-phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in the kinase domain of each JAK2 molecule followed by tyrosine phosphorylation of the GHR ( 51 , 53 ). Phosphorylated residues on GHR and JAK2 form docking sites for different signaling molecules including signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 1, 3, 5a and 5b. STATs bound to the activated GHR-JAK2 complex are subsequently phosphorylated on a single tyrosine by JAK2 after which they dimerize and translocate to the nucleus, where they bind to DNA and act as gene transcription factors. A STAT5b binding site has been characterized in the IGF-I gene promoter region, which mediates GH-stimulated IGF-I gene activation ( 54 ). Attenuation of JAK2-associated GH signaling is mediated by a family of cytokine-inducible suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) ( 55 ). SOCS proteins bind to phosphotyrosine residues on the GHR or JAK2 and suppress GH signaling by inhibiting JAK2 activity and competing with STATs for binding on the GHR. As an
