Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


SOCS proteins bind to phosphotyrosine residues on the GHR or JAK2 and suppress GH signaling by inhibiting JAK2 activity and competing with STATs for binding on the GHR. As an example, it has been reported that the inhibitory effect of estrogen on hepatic IGF-I production seems to be mediated via up regulation of SOCS-2 ( 56 ). GH SIGNALING Data on GHR signaling derive mainly from rodent models and experimental cell lines, although GH-induced activation of the JAK2/STAT5b and the MAPK pathways have been recorded in cultured human fibroblasts from healthy human subjects ( 57 ). STAT5b in human subjects is critical for GH-induced IGF-I expression and growth promotion as demonstrated by the identification of mutations in the STAT5b gene of patients presenting with severe GH insensitivity in the presence of normal GHR ( 58 ). GHR signaling in human models in vivo has been reported in a study in healthy young male subjects exposed to an intravenous GH bolus vs. saline ( 59 ). In muscle and fat biopsies significant tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5b was recorded after GH exposure at 30-60 minutes. There was no evidence of GH-induced activation of PI 3-kinase, Akt/PKB, or MAPK in either tissue ( 59 ). GH AND INSULIN SIGNALING There is animal and in vitro evidence to suggest that insulin and GH share post-receptor signaling pathways ( 60 ). Convergence has been reported at the levels of STAT5 and SOCS3 ( 61 ) as well as on the major insulin signaling pathway: insulin receptor substrates (IRS) 1 and 2, PI 3-kinase, Akt, and extracellular regulated kinases (ERK) 1 and 2 ( 62 , 63 ). Studies in rodent models suggest that the insulin-antagonistic effects of GH in adipose and skeletal muscle involve suppression of insulin-stimulated PI3-kinase activity ( 60 , 64 ). One study assessed the impact of a GH infusion on insulin sensitivity and the activity of PI3-kinase as well as PKB/AKt in skeletal muscle in a controlled design involving healthy young subjects ( 65 ). The infusion of GH induced a sustained increase in FFA levels and subsequently insulin resistance as assessed by the euglycemic clamp technique, as expected, but was not associated with any changes in the insulin-stimulated increase in either IRS-1 associated PI3-kinase or PKB/Akt activity. It was subsequently assessed that insulin had no impact on GH-induced STAT5b activation or SOCS3 mRNA expression ( 66 ). INSULIN-LIKE GROWTH FACTOR-I
