Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


either IRS-1 associated PI3-kinase or PKB/Akt activity. It was subsequently assessed that insulin had no impact on GH-induced STAT5b activation or SOCS3 mRNA expression ( 66 ). INSULIN-LIKE GROWTH FACTOR-I Physiology of IGF-I GH acts both directly through its own receptor and indirectly through the induced production of IGF-I. GH stimulates synthesis of IGF-I in the liver and many other GH target tissues ( Figure 6 ); about 75% of circulating IGF-I is liver-derived. IGF-I is a 70 amino-acid peptide, found in the circulation, 99% bound to transport proteins. Following the initial discovery of IGF-I, it was thought, that GH governs somatic growth only by IGF-I produced by the liver ( 67 ). However, in the 1980s this hypothesis was changed by the identification of IGF-I production in numerous tissues ( Figure 6 ). IGF-I is known as a global and tissue-specific growth factor as well as an endocrine factor. In some tissues IGF-I acts as a potent inhibitor of cellular apoptosis. Figure 6. GH is produced in the pituitary gland. In the periphery, GH acts directly and indirectly through stimulation of IGF-I production. In the circulation, the liver is the most important source of IGF-I (75%) but other tissues (e.g. brain, adipose tissue, kidney, bone, and muscles) may contribute. Under GH stimulation the muscle, adipose tissue, and bone have been shown to secrete IGF-I that has a paracrine/autocrine effect. Interestingly, insulin and IGF-I share many structural and functional similarities implying that they have originated from the same ancestral molecule. Both molecules could have been part of the cycle of food intake and consequent tissue growth. The IGF-I gene is a member of the insulin gene family and the IGF-I receptor is structurally similar to the insulin receptor in its tetrametric structure, with 2 alpha and 2 beta subunits ( 68 ). The alpha subunit binds IGF-I, IGF-II, and insulin; however, the subunit has a higher affinity towards IGF-I compared to IGF-II and insulin. Although insulin and IGF-I share many similarities, during evolution, the functionality of the two molecules has become more divergent, where insulin plays a more metabolic role and IGF-I plays a role in cell growth. The IGF-I receptor is expressed in many tissues in the body. However, the receptor number on each cell is strictly regulated by several systemic and tissue factors including circulating GH, iodothyronines, platelet-derived growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor. Following the binding of
