Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


the receptor number on each cell is strictly regulated by several systemic and tissue factors including circulating GH, iodothyronines, platelet-derived growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor. Following the binding of the IGF-I molecule, the receptor undergoes a conformational change, which activates tyrosine kinase, leading to auto-phosphorylation of tyrosine. The activated receptor phosphorylates “insulin receptor substrate-2” (IRS-2), which in-turn activates the RAS activating protein SOS. This complex activates the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) pathway. Thus activation of the MAP kinase pathway becomes vital in the stimulation of cell growth by IGF-I ( 69 , 70 ). IGF-I is bound almost 100% to a family of binding proteins (IGFBP) in the circulation. The IGFBP family comprises six binding proteins (IGFBP 1-6) with a high affinity towards IGF-I and II. Apart from regulating the free plasma IGF fraction, IGFBPs also play an important role in the transport of IGF into different tissues and extravascular space. IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-2 are the most abundant forms seen in plasma and are saturated with IGF-I due to their high affinity. 75% of IGF-I is bound to IGFBP-3. Interestingly, similar to IGF-I, IGFBP-3 production is also regulated by GH. In the plasma, IGFBP-3 is bound to a protein called acid labile subunit (ALS), which stabilizes the “IGFBP3-IGF-I” complex, prolonging its half-life to approximately 16 hours ( 71 ). IGFBP-1, on the other hand, is present in lower concentration in plasma than IGFBP-2 and 3. However, due to lower affinity for IGF-I, IGFBP-1 is usually in an unsaturated state and changing plasma concentrations of IGFBP-1 becomes important in determining the unbound fraction of IGF-I. A recently new discovered player in the regulation of IGF-I bioavailability is the pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A2 (PAPP-A2) that cleaves IGFBP3 and 5 and releases IGF-I. Homozygous mutations in PAPP-A2 result in growth failure with elevated total but low free IGF-I ( 72 ). Low IGF-I bioavailability impairs growth and glucose metabolism in a mouse model of human PAPP-A2 deficiency and treatment with recombinant human IGF-I in PAPP-A2 deficient patients improves growth and bone mass and ameliorates glucose metabolism ( 72 , 73 ). Effects of IGF-I Studies on hypophysectomized animals overexpressing IGF-I demonstrate the independent anabolic effects of IGF-I ( 74 ). IGF-I plays a key role in growth, where it acts not only as a determinant of postnatal growth, but also as an intra-uterine growth promoter. Total inactivation of the IGF-I gene
