Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


plays a key role in growth, where it acts not only as a determinant of postnatal growth, but also as an intra-uterine growth promoter. Total inactivation of the IGF-I gene in mice produce a perinatal mortality of 80% with the surviving animal showing significant growth retardation compared to controls ( 75 ). Human IGF-I deficiency can be either due to GH deficiency, GHR inactivation, or IGF-I gene mutation. Interestingly, infants with congenital GH deficiency and GHR mutations present with only minor growth retardation, whereas the rare patient with IGF-I deficiency, secondary to a homozygous partial deletion of the IGF-I gene, presents with severe pre and postnatal growth failure, mental retardation, sensorineural deafness, and microcephaly ( 76 - 78 ). The differences in the clinical presentation are most likely due to the fact that some degree of IGF-I production is present in patients with GH deficiency, GHR, and GHRH defects. More detailed studies on transgenic mice have clearly demonstrated this fact with selective deletion of IGF-I gene expression only in the liver, showing low serum IGF-I concentrations with only 6-8% postnatal growth retardation. In contrast, animals with total IGF-I deletion or only peripherally produced IGF-I deletion showed marked growth retardation ( 79 ). Both elevated and reduced levels of serum IGF-I are associated with excess mortality in human adults ( 80 ). In addition, it is well recognized in many species including worms, flies, rodents, and primates that a reciprocal relationship exists between longevity and activation of the insulin/IGF axis ( 80 ). The underlying mechanisms are subject to continued scrutiny and are likely to be complex. In this regard, it is noteworthy that calorie restriction is associated with increased longevity and reduced insulin/IGF activity in many species ( 81 ) albeit GH levels are increased by calorie restriction and fasting ( 82 ). In the context of GH and IGF-I physiology it can be concluded that 1) during childhood and adolescence the combined actions of GH and IGF-I in the presence of sufficient nutrition promote longitudinal growth and somatic maturation, 2) continued excess IGF-I activity in adulthood increases the risk for cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases and hence reduces longevity, 3) calorie restriction, which suppresses IGF-I activity and stimulates GH secretion, may promote longevity in human adults ( 82 ). METABOLIC EFFECTS OF GROWTH HORMONE Nutritional status dictates GH effects. In the state of feast and sufficient nutrient intake where insulin
