Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


may promote longevity in human adults ( 82 ). METABOLIC EFFECTS OF GROWTH HORMONE Nutritional status dictates GH effects. In the state of feast and sufficient nutrient intake where insulin is increased in the liver and IGF-I production is stimulated, GH promotes protein anabolism. Whereas, in the state with decreased nutrient intake and during sleep and exercise, the direct effect of GH are more predominant and this is mainly characterized by stimulation of lipolysis. Glucose Homeostasis and Lipid Metabolism The involvement of the pituitary gland in the regulation of substrate metabolism was originally detailed in the classic dog studies by Houssay ( 83 ). Fasting hypoglycemia and pronounced sensitivity to insulin were distinct features of hypophysectomized animals. These symptoms were readily corrected by the administration of anterior pituitary extracts. It was also noted that pancreatic diabetes was alleviated by hypophysectomy. Finally, excess of anterior pituitary lobe extracts aggravated or induced diabetes in hypophysectomized dogs. Furthermore glycemic control deteriorates following exposure to a single supraphysiological dose of human GH in hypophysectomized adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( 84 ). Somewhat surprisingly, only modest effects of GH on glucose metabolism were recorded in the first metabolic balance studies involving adult hypopituitary patients ( 85 , 86 ). More recent studies on glucose homeostasis in GH deficient adults have generated results, which at first glance may appear contradictory. Insulin resistance may be more prevalent in untreated GH deficient adults, whereas the impact of GH replacement on this feature seems to depend on the duration and the dose ( 87 ). Below, some of the metabolic effects of GH in human subjects, with special reference to the interaction between glucose and lipid metabolism, will be reviewed. STUDIES IN NORMAL ADULTS More than fifty years ago, it was shown that infusion of high dose GH into the brachial artery of healthy adults reduced forearm glucose uptake in both muscle and adipose tissue, which was paralleled by increased uptake and oxidation of FFA ( 88 ). This pattern was opposite to that of insulin, and GH in the same model abrogated the metabolic actions of insulin. Administration of a GH bolus in the post absorptive state stimulates lipolysis following a lag time of 2-3 hours ( 89 ). Plasma levels of glucose and insulin, on the other hand, change very little. This is associated with small reductions in muscular glucose uptake and oxidation, which could
