Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


( 89 ). Plasma levels of glucose and insulin, on the other hand, change very little. This is associated with small reductions in muscular glucose uptake and oxidation, which could reflect substrate competition between glucose and fatty acids (i.e., the glucose/fatty acid cycle) ( Figure 7 ). In line with this, sustained exposure to high GH levels induces both hepatic and peripheral (muscular) resistance to the actions of insulin on glucose metabolism together with increased (or inadequately suppressed) lipid oxidation. However, GH excess reduces intrahepatic lipid content suggesting that GH-induced insulin resistance is not associated with hepatic lipid accumulation ( 90 ). Apart from enhanced glucose/fatty acid cycling, it has been shown that GH induced insulin resistance is accompanied by reduced muscle glycogen synthase activity ( 91 ) and diminished glucose dependent glucose disposal ( 92 ). Bak et al. also demonstrated insulin binding and insulin receptor kinase activity from muscle biopsies to be unaffected by GH ( 91 ). Undoubtedly, a causal link exists between GH-induced lipolysis and insulin resistance ( 93 ). Acute GH exposure in healthy individuals downregulates important suppressors of lipolysis, the G0/G1 switch gene (G0S2) and fat specific protein 27 (FSP27), in addition to regulating the suppressor of the insulin signaling, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) ( 94 ). LESSONS FROM ACROMEGALY Active acromegaly clearly unmasks the diabetogenic properties of GH. In the basal state plasma glucose is elevated despite compensatory hyperinsulinemia. In the basal and insulin-stimulated state (euglycemic glucose clamp) hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance is associated with enhanced lipid oxidation and energy expenditure ( 95 ). There is evidence to suggest that this hyper-metabolic state ultimately leads to beta cell exhaustion and overt diabetes mellitus ( 96 ), but it is also demonstrated that the abnormalities are completely reversed after successful surgery ( 95 ). Conversely, it has been shown that only two weeks of the administration of GH in supraphysiological doses induces comparable acromegaloid, and reversible abnormalities in substrate metabolism and insulin sensitivity ( 97 ). Interaction of Glucose and Lipid Metabolism Relatively few studies have scrutinized the exact modes of action of GH on glucose metabolism. There is no evidence of a GH effect on insulin binding to the receptor ( 91 , 98 ), which obviously implies post receptor metabolic effects. The effect of FFA on the partitioning of intracellular glucose fluxes was originally described by Randle et al. (
