Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


91 , 98 ), which obviously implies post receptor metabolic effects. The effect of FFA on the partitioning of intracellular glucose fluxes was originally described by Randle et al. ( 99 ). According to his hypothesis (the glucose/fatty acid cycle), oxidation of FFA initiates an upstream, chain-reaction-like inhibition of glycolytic enzymes, which ultimately inhibits glucose uptake ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. The glucose fatty-acid cycle. Randle proposed in 1963 that increased FFA compete with and displace glucose utilization leading to a decreased glucose uptake. The hypothesis stated that an increase in fatty acid oxidation in muscle and fat results in higher acetyl CoA in mitochondria leading to inactivation of two rate-limiting enzymes of glycolysis (i.e., phosphofructokinase (PFK) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex). A subsequent increase in intracellular glucose-6-phosphate (glucose 6-P) results in high intracellular glucose concentrations and decreased glucose uptake by muscle and fat. However, in contrast to the proposed hypothesis by Randle, studies using MR spectroscopy have shown reductions in intramyocellular glucose 6-P and glucose concentrations and have led to an alternative hypothesis. The new hypothesis proposes that a transient increase of intracellular diacylglycerol (DAG) activates theta isoform of protein kinase C (PKCθ) that causes increased serine phosphorylation of IRS-1/2 and consecutively decrease PI3K activation and glucose-transport activity leading to decrease intracellular glucose concentrations. When considering the pronounced lipolytic effects of GH the Randle hypothesis remains an appealing model to explain the insulin-antagonistic effects of GH. In support of this, experiments have shown that co-administration of anti-lipolytic agents and GH reverses GH-induced insulin resistance. Similar conclusions were drawn from a recent study in GH deficient adults, which showed that insulin sensitivity was restored when acipimox (a nicotinic acid derivative) was co-administered with GH ( 100 ). We have also shown that GH-induced insulin resistance is associated with suppressed pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in skeletal muscle ( 101 ). It has, however, also been reported that GH-induced insulin resistance precedes the increase in circulating levels of fatty acids and forearm uptake of lipid intermediates ( 102 ). This early effect of GH on muscular glucose uptake could reflect intramyocytic FFA release and oxidation and thus be compatible with the Randle hypothesis. According to the Randle hypothesis the fatty acid-induced insulin resistance will result in elevated intracellular levels of both glucose and glucose-6-phosphate ( Figure 7 ). By contrast, muscle biopsies from GH deficient adults after GH treatment have revealed increased
