Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


resistance will result in elevated intracellular levels of both glucose and glucose-6-phosphate ( Figure 7 ). By contrast, muscle biopsies from GH deficient adults after GH treatment have revealed increased glucose but low-normal glucose-6-phosphate levels ( 103 ). Moreover, NMR spectroscopy studies in healthy adults indicate that FFA infusion results in a drop in the levels of both glucose and glucose-6-phosphate ( 104 ). The latter study, which did not involve GH administration, reported that FFA suppressed the activity of PI-3 kinase, an enzyme stimulated by insulin, which is considered essential for glucose transportation into skeletal muscle via translocation of glucose transporter activity (GLUT 4). A more recent study showed that GH infusion does not impact insulin-stimulated PI-3 kinase activity ( 65 ). IMPLICATIONS FOR GH REPLACEMENT Regardless of the exact mechanisms, the insulin antagonistic effects may cause concern when replacing adult GH deficient patients with GH, since some of these patients are insulin resistant in the untreated state. There is evidence to suggest that the direct metabolic effects on GH may be balanced by long-term beneficial effects on body composition and physical fitness, but some studies report impaired insulin sensitivity in spite of favorable changes in body composition. There is little doubt that these effects of GH are dose-dependent and may be minimized or avoided if an appropriately low replacement dose is used. Still, the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous (s.c.) GH administration is unable to mimic the endogenous GH pattern with suppressed levels after meals and elevations only during post absorptive periods, such as during the night. This may be considered the natural domain of GH action, which coincides with minimal beta-cell challenge. This reciprocal association between insulin and GH and its potential implications for normal substrate metabolism was initially described by Rabinowitz & Zierler ( 105 ). The problem arises when GH levels are elevated during repeated prandial periods. The classic example is active acromegaly, but prolonged high dose s.c. GH administration may cause similar effects. Administration of GH in the evening probably remains the best compromise between effects and side effects ( 106 ), but it is far from physiological. Long-acting GH analogues have been developed to improve adherence and compliance. The clinical experience is limited now but seem not to impact adversely the glucose metabolism compared with daily GH ( 107 ). However, long-term surveillance data are required to consolidate its safety profile ( 108 ). Effects
