Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


seem not to impact adversely the glucose metabolism compared with daily GH ( 107 ). However, long-term surveillance data are required to consolidate its safety profile ( 108 ). Effects of GH on Muscle Mass and Function The anabolic nature of GH is clearly evident in patients with acromegaly and vice versa in patients with GH deficiency. A large number of in vitro and animal studies throughout several decades have documented stimulating effects of GH on skeletal muscle growth. The methods employed to document in vivo effects of GH on muscle mass in humans have been exhaustive including whole body retention of nitrogen and potassium, total and regional muscle protein metabolism using labeled amino acids, estimation of lean body mass by total body potassium or dual x-ray absorptiometry, and direct calculation of muscle area or volume by computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging. EFFECT OF GH ON SKELETAL MUSCLE METABOLISM IN VITRO AND IN VIVO The clinical picture of acromegaly and gigantism includes increased lean body mass of which skeletal muscle mass accounts for approximately 50%. Moreover, retention of nitrogen was one of the earliest observed and most reproducible effects of GH administration in humans ( 1 ). Thoroughly conducted studies with GH administration in GH deficient children using a variety of classic anthropometric techniques strongly suggested that skeletal muscle mass increased significantly during treatment ( 109 , 110 ). Indirect evidence of an increase in muscle cell number following GH treatment was also presented ( 110 ). These early clinical studies were paralleled by experimental studies in rodent models. GH administration in hypophysectomized rats increased not only muscle mass, but also muscle cell number (i.e., muscle DNA content) ( 110 ). Interestingly, the same series of experiments revealed that work-induced muscle hypertrophy could occur in the absence of GH. The ability of GH to stimulate RNA synthesis and amino acid incorporation into protein of isolated rat diaphragm suggested direct mechanisms of actions, whereas direct effects of GH on protein synthesis could not be induced in liver cell cultures ( 111 ). Another important observation of that period was made by Goldberg, who studied protein turnover in skeletal muscle of hypophysectomized rats with 3H-leucine tracer techniques. In these studies it was convincingly demonstrated that GH directly increased the synthesis of both sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar protein without affecting proteolysis ( 112 ). The most substantial recent contributions within the field
