Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


it was convincingly demonstrated that GH directly increased the synthesis of both sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar protein without affecting proteolysis ( 112 ). The most substantial recent contributions within the field derive from human in vivo studies of the effects of systemic and local GH and IGF-I administration on total and regional protein metabolism by means of amino acid isotope dilution techniques. Systemic GH administration for 7 days in normal adults increased whole body protein synthesis without affecting proteolysis ( 113 ), and similar data were subsequently obtained in GH deficient adults ( 114 ). Systemically infused GH for 8 hours in normal adults lead to an acute stimulation of forearm (muscle) protein synthesis without any effects on whole body protein synthesis ( 115 ). By contrast in a design that also included co-administration of somatostatin to suppress insulin, an acute stimulatory effect of GH on whole body protein synthesis was observed, but no stimulatory effect on leg protein synthesis ( 116 ), Finally, infusion of GH into the brachial artery was accompanied by a local increase in forearm muscle protein synthesis ( 117 ). Based on these studies it seems that the nitrogen retaining properties of GH predominantly involve stimulation of protein synthesis without affecting (lowering) proteolysis. Theoretically, the protein anabolic effects of GH could be either direct or mediated through IGF-I, insulin, or lipid intermediates. GHR are present in skeletal muscle ( 52 ), which combined with Fryburg’s intra-arterial GH studies, makes a direct GH effect conceivable. An alternative interpretation could be that GH stimulates local muscle IGF-I release, which subsequently acts in an autocrine/paracrine manner. The effects of systemic IGF-I administration on whole body protein metabolism seem to depend on ambient amino acid levels in the sense that IGF-I administered alone suppresses proteolysis ( 118 ) whereas IGF-I in combination with an amino acid infusion increase protein synthesis ( 119 ). Moreover, intra-arterial IGF-I in combination with systemic amino acid infusion increased protein synthesis ( 120 ). It is therefore likely that the muscle anabolic effects of GH, at least to some extent, are mediated by IGF-I. By contrast, it is repeatedly shown that insulin predominantly acts through suppression of proteolysis and this effect(s) appears to be blunted by co-administration of GH ( 121 ). The degree to which mobilization of lipids contributes to the muscle anabolic actions of GH has so far not been specifically investigated. In
