Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


by co-administration of GH ( 121 ). The degree to which mobilization of lipids contributes to the muscle anabolic actions of GH has so far not been specifically investigated. In conclusion several experimental lines of evidence strongly suggest that GH stimulates muscle protein synthesis. This effect is presumably in part mediated through binding of GH to GHR in skeletal muscle. This does not rule out a significant role of IGF-I being produced either systematically or locally. An interesting discovery has been that infusion of GH and IGF-I into the brachial artery increases forearm blood flow several fold ( 117 , 122 ). This effect appears to be mediated through stimulation of endothelial nitric oxide release leading to local vasodilatation ( 123 , 124 ). Thus, it appears that an IGF-I mediated increase in muscle nitric oxide release accounts for some of the effects of GH on skeletal muscle protein synthesis. These intriguing observations may have many other implications. It is, for instance, tempting to speculate that this increase in skeletal muscle blood flow contributes to the GH induced increase in resting energy expenditure, since skeletal muscle metabolism is a major determinant of resting energy expenditure ( 24 ). Moreover, it is plausible that the reduction in total peripheral resistance seen after GH administration in adult growth hormone deficiency is mediated by nitric oxide ( 124 ). EFFECTS OF GH ADMINISTRATION ON MUSCLE MASS AND FUNCTION IN ADULTS WITHOUT GH DEFICIENCY As previously mentioned, the ability of acute and more prolonged GH administration to retain nitrogen in healthy adults has been known for decades and more recent studies have documented a stimulatory effect on whole body and forearm protein synthesis. Rudman et al. was the first to suggest that the senescent changes in body composition were causally linked to the concomitant decline in circulation GH and IGF-I levels ( 24 ). This concept has been recently reviewed ( 125 ) and a number of studies with GH and other anabolic agents for treating the sarcopenia of ageing are currently in progress. Placebo-controlled GH administration in young healthy adults (21-34 yr) undergoing a resistance exercise program for 12 weeks showed a GH induced increase in lean body mass (LBM), whole body protein balance, and whole body protein synthesis, whereas quadriceps muscle protein synthesis rate and muscle strength increased to the same degree in both groups during training ( 126 ). In a
