Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Normal Adults
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, igf-i, insulin, journal, metabolism, effects, muscle, clinical, endocrinology, glucose, protein, human


balance, and whole body protein synthesis, whereas quadriceps muscle protein synthesis rate and muscle strength increased to the same degree in both groups during training ( 126 ). In a similar study in older men (67 yr) GH also increased LBM and whole body protein synthesis, without significantly amplifying the effects of exercise on muscle protein synthesis or muscle strength ( 127 ). An increase in LBM but unaltered muscle strength following 10 weeks of GH administration plus resistance exercise training was also recorded ( 128 ). A more recent study of 52 older men (70-85 yr) treated with either GH or placebo for 6 months, without concomitant exercise, observed a significant increase (4.4%) in LBM with GH, but no significant effects on muscle strength ( 129 ). A meta-analysis of studies administering GH to healthy adult subjects demonstrate that it increases lean body mass and reduces fat mass without improving muscle strength or aerobic exercise capacity ( 130 ). Numerous studies have evaluated the effects of GH administration in chronic and acute catabolic illness. A comprehensive survey of the prolific literature within this field is beyond the scope of this review, but it is noteworthy, that HIV-associated body wasting is a licensed indication for GH treatment in the USA. In this patient category GH treatment for 12 weeks has been associated with significant increments in LBM and physical fitness ( 131 , 132 ). CONCLUSIONS GH/IGF-I axis is specifically regulated and is involved in a multitude of processes during all aspects of life from intrauterine growth, to childhood and puberty, adulthood, and lastly elderly periods. GH actions directly or via its principal metabolite, IGF-I have a wide range of physiological roles being a metabolic active hormone in adulthood. Nutritional status of an organism dictates the effects of GH, either an impairment of insulin action (fasted state) or promoting protein anabolism (feed state). As our knowledge of the GH normal physiology increases, our ability to understand and specifically target the GH/IGF-I pathway for a diverse range of therapeutic purposes should also increase. REFERENCES 1. Raben MS. Growth hormone. 1. Physiologic aspects. The New England journal of medicine. 1962;266:31-35. [ PubMed : 14038540 ] 2. Petronella N, Drouin G. Gene conversions in the growth hormone gene family of primates: stronger homogenizing effects in the Hominidae lineage. Genomics. 2011;98(3):173-181. [ PubMed : 21683133 ] 3. Baumann GP. Growth hormone doping in sports:
