Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


Enhancing outcomes in medically inoperable early- stage NSCLC with gut- targeted antibiotics and stereotactic body radiotherapy: results from a randomized pilot study Steven Joel Feigenberg,1 Francesca Costabile,1 Ceylan Tanes,2 Kyle Bittinger,2 Roderick O’Connor,3 Divyansh Agarwal,4 Giorgos Skoufos,5 Silavano Salaris,6 Artemis Hatzigeorgiou,5 Nektarios Kostopoulos,1 Shane Lloyd,7 Cole Friedes,1 Lisha Chen,1 Nikhil Yegya- Raman,1 Keith Cengel,1 William Levin,1 Bakir Valentić ,3 Tyler Quarton,8 Alexander A Shestov,9 Abigail Berman,10 Jeffrey Bradley,1 Amit Maity,7 Costantinos Koumenis,1 Edgar Ben- Josef,1 Andrea Facciabene 1,11 To cite: Feigenberg SJ, ABSTRACT WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ON THIS TOPIC Costabile F, Tanes C, et al. Background Gut microbiota modulation is an Enhancing outcomes in emerging strategy to improve cancer therapy ⇒ Radiation therapy is a standard treatment for early- medically inoperable early- outcomes. This study evaluated the safety and stage non- small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but re- stage NSCLC with gut- targeted therapeutic potential of combining oral vancomycin—a gional and distant failures remain common. The gut antibiotics and stereotactic body non- absorbed, gut- restricted antibiotic with primary microbiome is increasingly recognized as a modi- radiotherapy: results from a activity against gram- positive bacteria—with fiable factor in cancer outcomes. While systemic randomized pilot study. Journal for ImmunoTherapy of Cancer stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in early- stage antibiotics often impair immune responses, preclin- 2025;13:e011356. doi:10.1136/ non- small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The underlying ical studies have shown that gut-r estricted, gram- jitc-2024-011356 hypothesis was that vancomycin- induced changes in positive- targeting antibiotics like vancomycin may gut microbiota could enhance the antitumor effects of instead enhance the immune-s timulating effects of ► Additional supplemental SBRT. radiation. WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS To view, please visit the journal pilot study in patients with early- stage NSCLC. online (https:// doi. org/ 10. 1136/ Patients received oral vancomycin (125 mg, four times ⇒ This translational pilot study provides early clin- jitc- 2024- 011356). daily for 5 weeks, starting 1 week prior to SBRT). ical evidence that oral vancomycin is safe and may improve the antitumor effects of radiation Safety, progression- free survival (PFS), overall survival Accepted 29 April 2025 (OS), gut microbiota composition, gut metabolome, therapy in NSCLC by modulating the gut mi- crobiome. It supports the concept that not all and immune responses were evaluated. antibiotics are immunosuppressive—and that Results The combination of vancomycin and SBRT some, like vancomycin, may selectively target was well tolerated, with no grade 3 or 4 adverse immunosuppressive bacterial
