Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


evaluated. antibiotics are immunosuppressive—and that Results The combination of vancomycin and SBRT some, like vancomycin, may selectively target was well tolerated, with no grade 3 or 4 adverse immunosuppressive bacterial taxa while pro- events reported. Vancomycin treatment selectively moting beneficial microbes, thereby enhancing depleted certain bacterial strains while enriching therapeutic response. others, leading to significant restructuring of the gut microbiota and alterations in the gut metabolome, HOW THIS STUDY MIGHT AFFECT RESEARCH, including reductions in short- chain fatty acids PRACTICE OR POLICY © Author(s) (or their and shifts in other important immunomodulatory ⇒ Our findings prompt further investigation into employer(s)) 2025. Re- use metabolites. These changes were associated with this combined treatment in a larger patient co- permitted under CC BY- NC. No dendritic cell and T cell activation, suggesting hort to confirm enhanced progression- free sur- commercial re-u se. See rights enhanced systemic immune engagement. Patients and permissions. Published by vival and overall survival. Exploring the impact receiving vancomycin showed improved outcomes, BMJ Group. on distal recurrences and applying this strategy with a PFS HR of 0.42 (95% CI 0.18 to 0.96; p=0.049) to more advanced patient stages could signifi- For numbered affiliations see and OS HR of 0.38 (95% CI 0.14 to 0.99; p=0.033), end of article. cantly influence future research directions and compared with controls. clinical practices. This approach may also help Conclusions This pilot study demonstrates that Correspondence to refine antibiotic stewardship in oncology by gut microbiome modulation using a gram- positive- Professor Andrea Facciabene; distinguishing immune- enhancing agents from Andrea. Facciabene@ targeting, gut- restricted antibiotic in combination those with immunosuppressive effects. pennmedicine. upenn. edu with SBRT is safe and may improve clinical outcomes Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: 1 Open access in early- stage NSCLC. These findings support further investigation validating the unique role of vancomycin in enhancing of targeted microbiome modulation strategies as adjuvants to cancer therapy.19 immunogenic therapies like radiation. Trial registration number NCT03546829. We discovered that oral vancomycin treatment alters the monocytes and dendritic cell (DC) features, enhancing INTRODUCTION antigen presentation and cytokine secretion, which Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is used in early- supports the priming of an antitumor T cell response stage non- small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients and ultimately improves RT outcomes. This combination who are inoperable or decline surgery. While SBRT offers therapy increases the expression of key genes involved excellent local control
