Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


participants provided written informed consent before enhancing the immune response to radiation therapy enrollment in the study, in accordance with institutional (RT). Unlike systemic antibiotics, vancomycin remains and national research ethics guidelines. confined to the gut, primarily targeting gram-p ositive Study design and objectives bacteria without significant systemic absorption. This This trial was designed as an open-l abel, randomized localization preserves the integrity of other mucosal pilot study (NCT03546829). All patients provided written microbiomes, such as those of the skin, respiratory, and consent to participate. The primary safety endpoint was urogenital tracts, which are essential for maintaining uncontrolled diarrhea, as defined by CTCAE v5.0 > or = overall immune function.13–15 Our findings suggest that grade 3. This was evaluated during SBRT and at 1 month, vancomycin—and potentially other selectively acting anti- 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-SBRT. The addi- biotics—may facilitate the depletion of immunosuppres- tional primary objective of the trial was to determine if sive bacterial taxa while enriching beneficial microbes, the addition of vancomycin to SBRT was safe and may thereby reshaping the microbiota in a way that supports increase the Th1 cytokine profile. Secondary objectives antitumor immunity. This targeted approach offers a stra- included determination of vancomycin- induced changes tegic advantage in cancer therapy by modulating the gut in the gut microbiota composition as well as SCFAs, microbiome to enhance the efficacy of RT and potentially measures of other inflammatory cytokines. Exploratory other therapeutic modalities.16 17 goals were to look for a signal for differences in local Contrary to the prevalent perception that antibiotic use control, disease-f ree survival and acute and chronic toxic- in cancer treatment generally leads to adverse outcomes, ities in each arm. our results indicate that oral vancomycin could represent an exception, with potential to improve RT efficacy.18 Inclusion/exclusion criteria This pioneering result has been corroborated by subse- Adults aged 18 and older, with an ECOG performance quent studies using different cancer models, further status of 0–2 and diagnosed with early- stage NSCLC 2 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access planning to receive SBRT were eligible. While a confir- The hypotheses were tested using a time-b y- treatment matory biopsy was recommended, it was not mandatory interaction analyzed via regression, or difference of based on multidisciplinary discussions. All candidates differences scores assessed with a t- test. With two groups underwent positron emission tomography/CT scans of 20,
