Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


interaction analyzed via regression, or difference of based on multidisciplinary discussions. All candidates differences scores assessed with a t- test. With two groups underwent positron emission tomography/CT scans of 20, using a Cohen’s d effect size of 0.8, we achieve 80% within 6 weeks before SBRT to exclude nodal or distant power at a 10% type I error rate. The detectable effect metastases, and brain imaging was performed only if size reflects within- group score differences. Variability in neurological symptoms were present. Patients were these differences is influenced by the raw SD of cytokine excluded if they had used antibiotics, antifungals, antivi- levels and within-s ubject correlation. For 20 samples, the rals, or antiparasitics within 4 weeks prior to registration; 90% CI for the mean difference will span approximately had an active infection with a temperature over 100°F; 0.77 SD. For the full sample of 40, the 90% CI for correla- used corticosteroids, methotrexate, or immunosup- tion ranges from 0.20 (high correlation, r=0.9) to 0.53 pressives in the 4 weeks before registration; underwent (no correlation). chemotherapy in the 4 weeks prior to or during radio- Please refer to the online supplemental materials therapy; had a history of HIV, hepatitis B virus, or hepa- and methods for the following presented data: metage- titis C virus; suffered from uncontrolled GI disorders, nomic sequencing, bioinformatics processing, metabo- including inflammatory bowel disease or severe irritable lomic analysis MS- TOF, heatmap procedure, quantitative bowel syndrome; had persistent GI infections or condi- RT- PCR, flow cytometry, ELISA, total RNA seq, RNA tions such as Clostridium difficile infection within 2 years or sequencing data analysis, and pathway analysis. untreated Helicobacter pylori infection; underwent signifi- cant GI surgery (excluding cholecystectomy or appendec- Data availability statement tomy) within the past 5 years or any major bowel resection RNA- seq data from PBMCs are publicly available in ever; or were currently using antidiarrheal medications or the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (Accession No probiotics. GSE277984) (dataset),26 and stool metagenomic data are available in the NCBI Sequence Read Archive (Acces- Treatment approach sion No PRJNA1153928) (dataset).27 Additional data SBRT was administered per institutional guidelines for are provided in the article and the online supplemental peripheral or centrally located tumors under 5 cm. Treat- materials, or available on reasonable request. ment was delivered as 50 Gy across four or five fractions on non- consecutive days, while other fractionation regimens Statistical analysis were excluded.
