Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


Treat- materials, or available on reasonable request. ment was delivered as 50 Gy across four or five fractions on non- consecutive days, while other fractionation regimens Statistical analysis were excluded. Patient set- up involved 4D CT simulation The primary and secondary analyses included all random- with upper and lower VacLok bags for reproducibility ized patients (intention-t o- treat analysis), except for and a compression belt for tumors in the lower lobe to the toxicity analysis and translational endpoints, which reduce motion. Treatment volumes were defined using analyzed patients by receipt of vancomycin regardless of the 4D CT images to create an IGTV, Established dose randomization (per protocol analysis). The number of constraints from previous publications were followed. patients who were not evaluable, who died or withdrew before treatment began was specified. Progression-f ree Vancomycin administration survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and freedom from If subjects were randomized to the study drug arm, local failure, locoregional failure and distant metastases vancomycin was administered at 125 mg four times daily were estimated using the Kaplan-M eier method, and starting 1 week prior to SBRT and continued for a total comparisons between the vancomycin and control groups of 5 weeks. Medication compliance was assessed with the were made using the log- rank test with a one- sided type I use of a Pill Diary case report form completed by the error rate of 0.10. or research staff. between control and treatment groups were assessed To reduce the risk to subjects, a stopping rule was imple- using the PERMANOVA test at each time point. Differ- mented if more than 33% of subjects given oral vanco- ences in alpha diversity, relative abundance of bacteria mycin experienced uncontrolled diarrhea, as defined by and relative abundance of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes CTCAE v5.0 > or = grade 3). and Genomes (KEGG) orthologs between control and treatment groups were assessed using linear models. The Sample size determination difference between time points within a study group was Our primary objective was to assess the impact of vanco- assessed using linear mixed effects models with subject mycin on cytokine expression changes following SBRT, IDs as random effects. Multiple tests were corrected estimating these effects with a 95% CI. The null hypoth- for false discovery rate using the Benjamini-H ochberg esis posits that SBRT combined with vancomycin does not method. and tumor necrosis factor-a lpha (TNF-α), compared mass spectrometry (MS), and
