Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


therapy. Figure 1 (left and right) demonstrates the failure was nodal, seen in all four patients at 18, 20, 24 KM estimates for the significant improvement in PFS and and 32 months post-SBRT. One patient additionally failed OS from the addition of vancomycin. Further analysis of 4 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access Table 2 Details of patients who developed a recurrence Size Time to failure Race Histology (cm) Location Dose Vancomycin (months) Site of failure W Adenocarcinoma 1.0 RUL 50 Gy in 4 fx Yes 32 Mediastinal/pleural studding AA Adenocarcinoma 1.1 RUL 50 Gy in 4 fx No 18 Local/hilar/pleural effusion W Empiric 2.1 RML 50 Gy in 5 fx No 20 Hilar W Adenocarcinoma 2.5 LLL 50 Gy in 5 fx No 24 Mediastinal/pleural effusion with some also receiving vancomycin. (SBRT), Stereotactic Body RaioTherapy. time to distant metastasis and local and locoregional fail- Vancomycin-induced changes in gut microbial diversity and ures shows a trend toward improvement; however, statis- taxonomic composition tical significance was not reached likely due to the small The administration of vancomycin resulted in a notable sample size (online supplemental figure 2). decrease in the alpha diversity of the participants’ gut microbiota which persisted over a month post- SBRT Stool and serum collection time point (figure 2A). Furthermore, at the 3- month Blood and stool samples were collected at five desig- time point, the alpha diversity of the treatment group nated time points throughout the study from participants remained lower than the control group despite the in both the vancomycin group and the control group. cessation of antibiotics. The alpha diversity in the Compliance with stool sample collection ranged from control group remained relatively stable except for a 20% to 80% in the vancomycin group, where one partic- slight increase at the 3- month time point compared ipant provided only one sample (20% compliance), four with baseline (figure 2A). In line with previous works, participants achieved 80% compliance, and two partici- the use of vancomycin on patients has altered the pants maintained 60% compliance. In the control group, composition of the microbiome.24 Antibiotics had a three participants achieved an 80% compliance rate, two significant effect on the microbiome, as the micro- participants had a 60% compliance rate, and one partic- biome composition of the subjects during and after ipant submitted only one stool sample. Serum sample compliance varied similarly, with rates
