Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


participants had a 60% compliance rate, and one partic- biome composition of the subjects during and after ipant submitted only one stool sample. Serum sample compliance varied similarly, with rates ranging from antibiotic treatment was different from the control 40% to 80% across different time points. The variability cohort (online supplemental figure 3A, PERMANOVA, in compliance can largely be attributed to the impact of p=0.003). Furthermore, when we investigated each the COVID- 19 pandemic, which introduced significant time point separately, the microbiome composition challenges. Additionally, the predominantly older cohort at the inspection time point was different between found the process of self- collecting stool samples particu- control and treatment groups (PERMANOVA, p=0.01), larly burdensome, which disproportionately affected the indicating that the effect of vancomycin persisted past compliance rates for stool samples. the therapy window (figure 2B), confirming previous Figure 1 Oncologic outcomes. Left: OS as a function of vancomycin use. Right: PFS as a function of vancomycin use. Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: 5 Open access Figure 2 Effect of vancomycin treatment on bacterial abundances. (A) Shannon diversity of samples. (B) Principal coordinate analysis on Bray-C urtis distances of taxonomic abundances of bacteria at the different time points assessed. (C) Relative abundance of four major phyla in the gut. Differences across time were tested using linear mixed effects models, and differences between control and treatment groups were tested using linear models. (D) Mean of center log ratio (clr) transformed abundances at each time point. The stars mark the bacteria that are different between the control and treatment groups for that time point using linear models. ***P<0.001, **p<0.01, *p<0.05. SBRT, stereotactic body radiotherapy. works.23 At the phylum level, vancomycin treatment lower levels during SBRT (online supplemental figure during the SBRT induced a decrease in Bacteroidetes 3B). and an increase in Proteobacteria compared with base- line (figure 2C). After vancomycin was completed, we From microbiome to metabolome: tracing the effects of observed a reduction in Actinobacteria at the inspec- vancomycin treatment through KEGG pathway analysis tion time point (figure 2C). Various species from the The relative abundance of orthologs and the relevant pathways were analyzed to determine the microbial shifts Bacteroidetes phylum decreased during treatment, on the host metabolism using the KEGG database.32 This such as Bacteroides vulgatus, B. uniformis and B. fragilis. approach enabled us to elucidate the potential impact This resulted in an increase in Escherichia
