Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


metabolism using the KEGG database.32 This such as Bacteroides vulgatus, B. uniformis and B. fragilis. approach enabled us to elucidate the potential impact This resulted in an increase in Escherichia coli during of vancomycin-i nduced changes in the microbiome on the vancomycin treatment. Three species belonging the host’s metabolic landscape, with a particular focus to the Lachnospiraceae family and additional species on pathways known to affect the immune system. The belonging to the Ruminococcaceae family, which gene composition of subjects during and after antibi- contains numerous butyrate producers, were lower otic treatment differed from that of the control cohort at the inspection time point in the treatment group (PERMANOVA, p=0.03; figure 3A). However, when compared with controls (figure 2D). Akkermansia, analyzing individual time points, we observed a trend but Veillonella, Megasphaera and Enterococcus, previously did not detect significant differences in gene composi- identified as important in the antitumor response tion between the control and treatment groups (online mediated by ICI, ACT, as well as GVHD for patients supplemental figure 4). We then investigated individual with lymphoma receiving allotransplantation, only orthologs that could be responsible for the difference showed changes before false discovery rate correc- in metabolic potential. Since our preclinical data iden- tion during the vancomycin use.28–31 Veillonella levels tified SCFAs and butyrate as key effectors of vancomycin showed trends of higher levels compared with control effects, we first examined pathways associated with and were higher during the treatment compared with SCFAs, including glycoside hydrolases, which break down baseline, whereas Akkermansia levels showed trends of complex carbohydrates into simpler sugars in the gut.33 6 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access Figure 3 Effect of vancomycin treatment on bacterial gene abundances. (A) Principal coordinate analysis on Bray-C urtis distances of gene abundances of bacteria obtained through alignment to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. (B) Estimated log difference between control and treatment groups at each time point for glycoside hydrolase genes that are significantly different (linear models). (C) Estimated log difference between baseline and other time points in each study group for the major butyrate production pathways (linear mixed effects models). (D) Relative abundance of major genes in butyrate production by bacteria in the gut. (E) Relative abundance of bile-i nducible operon (bai) and bile salt hydrolase (BSH) genes. (G) Estimated log difference between baseline and other time points for genes that were altered
