Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


gut. (E) Relative abundance of bile-i nducible operon (bai) and bile salt hydrolase (BSH) genes. (G) Estimated log difference between baseline and other time points for genes that were altered in select pathways. **P<0.01, *p<0.05. SBRT, stereotactic body radiotherapy. Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: 7 Open access KEGG pathway analysis revealed differences between vancomycin significantly diminished all tested SCFAs in control and treatment groups at each time point for stool samples: acetic acid, propionic acid, isobutyric acid, glycoside hydrolase genes (figure 3B). These differences butyric acid, isovaleric acid, and hexanoic acid (figure 4A are likely due to the overall decrease in members of the and online supplemental figure 5A). In plasma samples, Bacteroidetes phylum and modulation of specific genera significant reductions were detected in butyric acid and and species capable of performing this function. We then isovaleric acid, while acetic acid, propionic acid, isobu- investigated the levels of butyrate-p roducing genes since tyric acid and hexanoic acid levels did not show signifi- the most common mechanism of butyrate production in cant changes (figure 4B). This suggests that vancomycin’s the gut is through fermenting complex carbohydrates impact on SCFAs production in the gut is mirrored to along with three other pathways that rely on amino acid some extent in systemic circulation, particularly affecting metabolism. In our cohort, the aggregated levels of genes butyric acid and isovaleric acid. The visual representa- in four butyrate-p roducing pathways showed decreasing tion underscores the systemic effects of vancomycin on trends across time in the treatment cohort, and the levels metabolite in the serum, reflecting its impact on host of glutarate and 4-a minobutyrate (GABA) pathways were metabolism when used as a therapeutic agent in combi- altered at the start of SBRT (figure 3C). The Bcd gene, nation with SBRT (figure 4C and online supplemental which is a bottleneck gene common to all four pathways, table 3). Recent research has highlighted the relevance as well as the Buk and But genes, which are terminal genes of bile acids in cancer and immunotherapy and the effi- in the production of butyrate in the fermentative pathway, cacy of immunotherapeutic strategies.37 In our MS anal- were lower at the start of SBRT compared with baseline ysis, we found that specifically lithocholic acid levels were in the treatment group, leading to decreased butyrate- decreased (figure 4D). producing potential of the microbiome34 (figure 3D). Our metabolomic analysis
