Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


ysis, we found that specifically lithocholic acid levels were in the treatment group, leading to decreased butyrate- decreased (figure 4D). producing potential of the microbiome34 (figure 3D). Our metabolomic analysis also revealed additional Bacteria in the gut can modify primary bile acids secreted significant changes in various other metabolites in the into the gut lumen into secondary bile acids through serum. Notably, there was a decrease in L- Dopa levels in the specific converting enzymes. The set of genes responsible treatment group compared with controls, suggesting an for processing primary bile acids is defined by the bai impact on dopamine biosynthesis pathways. Additionally, operon, while the deconjugation of amino acids, which levels of kynurenic acid and kynurenine, both metabolites is a crucial step in this conversion process, is mediated in the tryptophan degradation pathway, were decreased by the bile salt hydrolase (BSH) gene. In our cohort, we in the treatment group, indicating catabolism of trypto- observed both of these pathways were negatively affected phan, which has immunomodulatory effects (figure 4D). by vancomycin (figure 3E).35 Furthermore, we observed a decrease in proline and an Following up on additional metabolite analysis showing increase in glycine, indicating an impact on amino acid alterations, the total relative abundance of the genes in metabolism (figure 4D). Other metabolite levels affected arginine biosynthesis was lower, and arginine metabolism in the serum of vancomycin- treated patients were the long- was higher in the vancomycin group (figure 3F). One chain fatty acid C24:3(15Z, 18Z, 21Z), inosine 2',3'-cyclic mechanism of arginine metabolism starts with converting phosphate (online supplemental figure 5B), suggesting arginine into ornithine.36 The genes ornithine decarbox- broad alterations in nucleotide metabolism and fatty ylase (speC/speF) responsible for converting ornithine to acid biosynthesis. Interestingly, we detected enhanced putrescine, genes puuA, puuB, puuC, puuD responsible levels of 1-m ethylhistidine (1-M H) in the serum following for converting putrescine to 4- aminobutyrate and patA vancomycin treatment. These changes could reflect alter- responsible for converting putrescine to 4-a minobutanal ations in gut microbial activity or dietary habits, poten- were all elevated while subjects were on vancomycin tially influencing metabolic processes like the absorption (figure 3G). or clearance of 1- MH. While 1- MH itself is not known to affect the immune system directly, the broader metabolic Validation of the impact of vancomycin on gut microbiome shifts associated with its altered levels could have indirect and consequent impact on serum metabolome implications
