Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


system directly, the broader metabolic Validation of the impact of vancomycin on gut microbiome shifts associated with its altered levels could have indirect and consequent impact on serum metabolome implications for immune responses and the tumor micro- Building on our comprehensive investigation into vanco- environment (online supplemental figure 5B). mycin’s impact on the gut microbiome and its subsequent effects on metabolic KEGG pathways, we extended our Vancomycin’s systemic effects revealed by integrated serum research to explore the broader systemic implications metabolomics and PBMC transcriptomics study encompasses a detailed metabolomic analysis, obtaining post- treatment biopsies was not feasible. employing liquid mass spectrometry (LMS- TOF) to quan- Consequently, we expanded our research to include titatively and qualitatively assess the serum metabolite a detailed analysis of serum metabolomic alterations profiles of patients treated with vancomycin compared in patients treated with vancomycin. This approach with control subjects. Complementing our KEGG analysis, allowed us to explore the broader cellular impacts of which highlighted pathways involved in SCFAs produc- these metabolic changes by examining the effects on tion, we observed pronounced changes in SCFAs levels the transcriptome of circulating PBMCs. This investiga- following vancomycin treatment. Our results showed that tion bridges the identified systemic metabolic changes 8 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access Figure 4 Impact of vancomycin treatment on short- chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and other metabolites in stool and plasma. (A) Stool SCFAs: left heatmap, right display level of butyric acid and isovaleric acid in the treatment group compared with the control group. (B) Plasma SCFAs: left heatmap, right display level of butyric acid and isovaleric acid in the treatment group compared with the control group. (C) Plasma metabolomics: heatmap highlighting broad changes in serum/plasma metabolic profiles of patients receiving oral vancomycin. (D) Significant differences in specific metabolites between control and treatment groups: lithocholic acid, L-D opa, kynurenic acid, kynurenine, proline and glycine. CTRL, control. Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: 9 Open access Figure 5 Impact of oral vancomycin on PBMC transcriptome, phenotype, and serum cytokine levels. (A) Ingenuity Pathway Analysis of RNA sequencing data from 12 samples collected 1 week after vancomycin administration, highlighting significant changes in immune- related pathways. (B) Quantitative PCR (qPCR) validation shows increased expression of antigen- presenting genes in PBMCs from vancomycin- treated patients. (C) FACS analysis reveals changes in the phenotype of immune cells within PBMCs, including dendritic cells
