Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


validation shows increased expression of antigen- presenting genes in PBMCs from vancomycin- treated patients. (C) FACS analysis reveals changes in the phenotype of immune cells within PBMCs, including dendritic cells (DCs), T cells, and natural killer (NK) cells, characterized by increased expression of activation markers such as HLA- DR, PD- 1, and CD25. (D) Serum levels of Th1 cytokines IFN-β and IFN-γ, showing treatment- induced changes compared with baseline. CTRL, control; IFN, interferon. with molecular mechanisms driving immune responses, DCs (CD45+CD11b−CD11c+), natural killer cells (NKs; offering a comprehensive view of vancomycin’s influence CD45+CD3−CD56+), monocytes (CD45+CD14+CD16+), on host physiology. Through differential gene expres- and myeloid- derived suppressor cells (CD45+CD33+C- sion analysis, enhanced by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, D14/15+HLA- DR low). Despite the inherent variability we observed significant transcriptomic alterations in among individuals, we noted a notable expansion of DCs PBMCs post-v ancomycin treatment. A key finding was expressing HLA- DR, T cells expressing CD25 and PD- 1, the substantial upregulation of the antigen presentation and NK cells expressing CD25 in patients treated with pathway (figure 5A), echoing our preclinical findings in vancomycin (figure 5C). Cytokines play a crucial role mice18 and illustrating vancomycin’s potent modulation in cancer therapy by mediating and enhancing the anti- of immune recognition processes across species, despite tumor immune response. Specifically, Th1 cytokines are individual variability. To validate the sequencing results, pivotal in this process.22 Therefore, we performed several we performed qPCR of several molecules central to ELISAs to detect the levels of several cytokines including antigen presentation. Confirming the RNA sequencing IFN-β, IFN-γ, TNF-α and interleukin 18 (IL- 18). While data, we observed a significant increase in the expression the increases in IFN-β and IFN-γ levels observed in the of PSMB8, TAP1, B2M, CALR, and BATF3 (figure 5B). vancomycin- treated group did not reach statistical signif- These molecules are crucial for the antigen presenta- icance, there was a discernible trend toward elevated tion pathway, underscoring the impact of vancomycin levels, suggesting a potential enhancement of antiviral on enhancing immune surveillance mechanisms.38 To and antitumor responses (figure 5D, top and bottom). assess the potential effects on leukocyte population However, most serum samples did not exhibit detectable phenotypes, we conducted a comprehensive 16-c olor levels of TNF-α or IL- 18, as shown in online supplemental FACS analysis on PBMCs collected after SBRT treatment. figure 6. This analysis encompassed T cells (CD45+, CD3+, CD4+, In conclusion, our integrative approach, combining
