Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


18, as shown in online supplemental FACS analysis on PBMCs collected after SBRT treatment. figure 6. This analysis encompassed T cells (CD45+, CD3+, CD4+, In conclusion, our integrative approach, combining CD8+ and FoxP3), neutrophils (CD45+CD3−CD15+), serum metabolomics and PBMC transcriptomics, 10 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access underscores vancomycin’s systemic effects and its specific modification. Additionally, arginine and purine metab- influence on immune modulation. The drug alters serum olism were influenced by lower relative abundance of metabolite profiles and impacts the immune system at genes responsible for arginine biosynthesis and elevated the cellular and molecular levels, particularly enhancing levels of genes involved in arginine metabolism. antigen presentation pathways and cytokine responses, The immune modulation observed in this study is intri- thereby potentially boosting antitumor immunity. cately tied to the microbial and metabolic alterations. Enhanced activation of immune cells, as evidenced by flow cytometry findings, shows an uptick in the APCs func- DISCUSSION tionality of DCs, as well as T cells and NK cells expressing Our findings highlight a significant departure from markers such as CD25 and PD- 1.49–51 These changes conventional results regarding antibiotics in cancer suggest an environment primed for a heightened anti- therapy. Specifically, vancomycin—a gram- positive, gut tumor response, potentially facilitated by altered meta- microbiome-t argeted antibiotic—demonstrates the bolic cues stemming from vancomycin treatment. This potential to enhance RT efficacy in early-s tage NSCLC by link is further supported by shifts in cytokine profiles, modulating the gut microbiome. This is in stark contrast where trends in increased IFN-β and IFN-γ levels under- to the typically adverse outcomes associated with antibiotic score the antitumor response.22 use in cancer treatments, including traditional chemo- In line with our work and others’ previous works, the therapy and advanced therapies like ICI and CAR- T cell metabolomic analysis using MS-T OF revealed signif- therapies.39 Several studies have also investigated the role icant reductions in key SCFAs in stool samples, with of radiotherapy in inducing an immune response through notable reductions of only butyric acid and isovaleric ICD.40 Recently, in line with these results, a pivotal study acid in serum, while other SCFAs like acetic, propi- has further elucidated this by demonstrating the specific onic, and isobutyric acids remained unaffected. SCFAs, induction of neoantigen- specific T cell responses post- particularly butyrate, propionate, and valerate, exhibit SABR in stage I NSCLC.41 potent anti- inflammatory effects by modulating the func-
