Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


augment cancer therapy. Future research activation. should focus on further refining our understanding of The observed toxicity profile suggests that vancomycin how to best leverage the therapeutic benefits of micro- treatment is well tolerated, with only mild to moderate biome modulation to advance cancer treatment, ensuring side effects such as diarrhea, nausea, and fatigue that such strategies are employed effectively and safely. reported, and no severe adverse events. This encouraging safety profile enhances the potential for integrating Author affiliations offering a promising avenue for enhancing therapeutic 2CHOP, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA efficacy with manageable toxicity. While the effects of Pennsylvania, USA vancomycin on the gut microbiome and immune modu- 4MGH, Boston, Massachusetts, USA lation are evident, it is prudent to consider certain vari- 5University of Thessaly, Volos, Greece ables that might have influenced these outcomes, such 6Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Venezie, Legnaro, Italy 8KBR Inc., Intelligent Systems Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, factors allows for a more nuanced interpretation of the California, USA results and helps delineate areas for further investiga- 9University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA tion. Although the sample size of our study was modest, 10Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA underlying biological mechanisms previously identified Pennsylvania, USA in preclinical models.18 19 This alignment underscores the translational potential of our findings and supports X Andrea Facciabene @none the hypothesis that microbial modulation can signifi- Acknowledgements We thank the NIH/NCI for financial support through grant 1R01CA219871- 01A1. We also extend our gratitude to Dr M Uribe- Herranz and Dr cantly impact immune responses and cancer outcomes. S Beghi for their assistance with sample collection and aliquoting. We especially To build on these promising results and overcome the acknowledge Norma Carretta for her invaluable career guidance and support, limitations posed by the sample size, future studies with and we remember her with great respect following her recent passing. Most larger cohorts are essential. importantly, the study team thanks all the patients who contributed their time, Despite these challenges, our study makes a significant samples, and data to this research. contribution to the field by demonstrating the feasibility Contributors SJF led the clinical trial and assisted in drafting the manuscript. CF performed most of the key laboratory experiments and helped in drafting of modulating the gut microbiome to enhance immune- the manuscript. CT and KB performed shotgun sequence and analyzed the mediated cancer therapies. The insights gained here metagenomic
