Open access Original research
KEYWORDS: vancomycin, treatment, gut, cancer, immune, patients, cell, acid, figure, sbrt, study, levels, therapy, analysis, effects


helped in drafting of modulating the gut microbiome to enhance immune- the manuscript. CT and KB performed shotgun sequence and analyzed the mediated cancer therapies. The insights gained here metagenomic data. RO’C, BV, AAS, and TQ were instrumental in performing and lay the groundwork for future interventions that could interpreting the mass spectroscopy data. DA carried out the RNA Ingenuity Pathway potentially transform cancer treatment paradigms. Analysis and helped in drafting the manuscript. NK performed sample collection, DNA extraction and logistic for sample sequencing. GS and AH conducted RNA In essence, vancomycin and RT engage distinct but sequencing deconvolution and performed differential gene expression analysis. synergistic pathways to substantially bolster the immune SS analyzed the mass spectroscopy data and prepared the heatmaps. Team contributed to the drafting of the clinical protocol. AM and SL provided significant immune responses, while RT directly impacts tumor cells support in manuscript revision and data interpretation. CK was involved in the and the tumor microenvironment. This dual approach conceptualization of the idea and financial support. EB- J was responsible for enhances immune activation and increases TAAs avail- writing the clinical protocol and assisting in manuscript drafting. AF (guarantor) ability, and exploits the synergy between systemic read- conceptualized the study, helped in the protocol writing, led the laboratory experiment and analyses, and wrote the manuscript. AI was used for English iness and localized immune responses, preparing the language editing only, and not for the creation, analysis, or scientific content of the immune system more effectively to target and eradicate manuscript. cancer cells. The notable improvements in OS and PFS Funding This work was supported by the Center for Strategic Scientific Initiatives, observed in patients treated with vancomycin high- National Cancer Institute fund (1R01CA219871-0 1A1). Additional support was light the potential of integrating microbiome-t argeting provided by internal funds from the University of Pennsylvania. 12 Feigenberg SJ, et al. J Immunother Cancer 2025;13:e011356. doi: Open access Competing interests None declared. 14 Patel S, Preuss CV, Bernice F. Vancomycin. StatPearls Publishing, 2024. Patient consent for publication Not applicable. 15 Tedesco F, Markham R, Gurwith M, et al. Oral vancomycin Ethics approval This study involves human participants and was approved by the for antibiotic- associated pseudomembranous colitis. Lancet 1978;2:226–8. University of Pennsylvania Institutional Review Board (IRB Protocol No 827551). 16 Uribe- Herranz M, Beghi S, Ruella M, et al. Modulation of the gut Participants gave informed consent to participate
