Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


other means offers treatment (Anderson and others 2003). For cervical, col- hope for preventing such cancers. orectal,and breast cancer,effective methods of early detec- The HBV vaccine was designed to prevent liver cancer and tion and treatment are available,but their implementation is currently the only such vaccine in widespread use.Long-term has been uneven (Sankaranarayanan, Black, and Parkin protection against acute and chronic infection has been 1998). demonstrated with the HBV vaccine in a wide range ofsettings • Diagnosis and treatment.The primary modalities of cancer (Coursaget and others 1994; Viviani and others 1999), and treatment are surgery,chemotherapy,and radiotherapy,and recent data support a reduction in hepatocellular carcinoma these modalities may be used alone or in combination. (Lee,Hsieh,and Ko 2003). 572 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Martin L. Brown, Sue J. Goldie, Gerrit Draisma, and others Infectionwithspecifichigh-risktypesofHPVplaysakeyrole Severalstudies,mostof themindevelopedcountries,have in causing cervical cancer.A double-blind placebo-controlled assessedthepotentialcost-effectivenessof screeningindividu- trialofanHPV16vaccinereportedencouragingefficacyresults als for infection with H.pylori and then eradicating H.pylori inyoungfemalevolunteerswhohadbeenfullyvaccinated(three with antibiotic therapy as a means of preventing the later doses of vaccine or placebo) over a1.7-year follow-up period occurrence of stomach cancer. Roderick and others (2003) (Koutskyandothers2002).Inamorerecentstudy,abivalent examine the cost-effectiveness of an H. pylori screening pro- HPV16/18vaccinepreventedapproximately95percentofper- gram conducted in the United Kingdom. Discounting costs sistentinfectionswithHPV16and18(Harperandothers2004). and benefits at 6 percent,they find that the cost-effectiveness Several modeling studies have explored the potential bene- ratioforscreeningforH.pylori,initiatedatage40,isapproxi- fits of HPV vaccination at the population level (Goldie and mately US$28,000 per year of life saved (YLS).Optimal cost- others 2003;Hughes,Garnett,and Koutsky 2002;Kulasingam effectiveness was not achieved until the H. pylori screening and Myers 2003) and have elucidated several priorities for programhadrunforatleast40years.Harrisandothers(1999) future research,including a better understanding ofthe hetero- estimate the cost-effectiveness ratio associated with one-time geneity ofvaccine response and the effects oftype-specific vac- screening for H. pylori at age 50 to be approximately cination on other HPV types. US$50,000 perYLS (in 1995 dollars,3 percent discount rate) Hughes,Garnett,and Koutsky (2002) evaluate the potential when treatment for H.pylori infection results in a 15 percent effectiveness ofHPV vaccination usinga dynamic transmission reduction in stomach cancer risk. Assuming a 30 percent model and find that, when both men and women were reduction, the figure was US$25,000 per YLS for the United vaccinated—assuming 90 percent coverage, 75 percent effec- States, but only a few hundred dollars per YLS in Colombia, tiveness,and10-yearimmunity—type-specificHPVprevalence which has a much higher rate of stomach cancer and lower wasreducedby44percent.Whenonlywomenwere vaccinated, healthcarecosts. the reduction was 30 percent.The authors show
