Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


a few hundred dollars per YLS in Colombia, tiveness,and10-yearimmunity—type-specificHPVprevalence which has a much higher rate of stomach cancer and lower wasreducedby44percent.Whenonlywomenwere vaccinated, healthcarecosts. the reduction was 30 percent.The authors show that,ifthe vac- cine targeted only certain types ofhigh-risk HPV,cervical can- Tobacco and Alcohol Control Programs. Tobacco consump- cer incidence was not reduced proportionally because other tion is the most important cause of lung and other cancers of high-risk types ofHPV progressed to invasive cancer. the respiratory system,as well as ofesophageal cancer,and may Goldie and others (2003) assess the impact ofa type-specific be a contributing factor for several other cancers. The most HPV 16/18 vaccine calibrated to population-based data for effective national tobacco control programs combine health Costa Rica.They find that a vaccine that prevented 98 percent of persistent HPV 16/18 was associated with an approximate with policies. Policy instruments include regulating tobacco equivalent reduction in HPV 16/18–associated cancer and a advertising and promotion; enacting smoking bans in work- 51percent reduction in total cervical cancer.The effect on total places, restaurants, and public buildings and on public cancer was attenuated because of the competing risks associ- transportation;and increasing excise taxes on tobacco products ated with oncogenic types ofHPV other than HPV 16/18. (Fiore, Hatsukami, and Baker 2002; WHO 2002). Decreased Three studies have evaluated the potential cost-effectiveness rates of smoking uptake by children and adolescents would ofHPV vaccination in countries with cervical cancer screening result in the greatest potential gain in life years. The WHO programs (Goldie, Kohli, and others 2004; Kulasingam and Framework Convention on Tobacco Control Myers 2003;Sanders and Taira 2003).In general,these studies summarizes tobacco control policies and programs related to indicate that a program ofHPV vaccination that permits a later regulation, taxation, and education. Da Costa e Silva (2003) age of screening initiation and a less frequent screening inter- shows prioritized treatment approaches for tobacco cessation, val is likely to be a cost-effective use ofhealth care resources in based on countries’levels ofresources. developed countries. Excessive alcohol use accounts for 20 to 30 percent of liver In Fujian province,China,a region ofhigh mortality attrib- and esophageal cancer .Interventions to reduce utable to stomach cancer, a recently completed randomized excessive consumption of alcohol have many principles in controlled trial of H. pylori eradication with antibiotics pro- common with tobacco control, including the effectiveness of vides some evidence that this approach may be effective in pre- regulatory and taxation measures along with health
