Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


eradication with antibiotics pro- common with tobacco control, including the effectiveness of vides some evidence that this approach may be effective in pre- regulatory and taxation measures along with health promotion venting stomach cancer in the subgroup of H. pylori carriers and addiction treatment programs. without precancerous lesions at the time of treatment (Wong and others 2004). A recent randomized trial of H. pylori eradication in Chiapas,Mexico,which used preneoplastic con- Dietary and Related Interventions. The dietary ingestion of ditions as surrogate markers for the development of gastric substances produced by the mold Aspergillus flavus,specifically cancer,found some evidence for the effectiveness ofthis treat- aflatoxin B1, is causally associated with hepatocellular carci- ment (Ley and others 2004). noma. Exposure to aflatoxins may be synergistic with HBV Health Service Interventions for Cancer Control in Developing Countries | 573 infection in the development ofthis cancer.Effective means are Early Detection and Secondary Prevention available for preventing the contamination ofgrains and other This subsection looks at studies of the effectiveness and cost- types of food with aflatoxin during the growth,harvest,stor- effectiveness ofseveral interventions for the early detection and age,and processing ofsuch products (Kensler and others 2003; secondary prevention ofcancer. Turner and others 2002).Furthermore,chlorophyllin supple- ments have been found to reduce the carcinogenic properties of aflatoxin.That finding provides additional evidence for current Screening for Liver Cancer. Screening methods for early dietary guidelines that meals should contain foods rich in detection of liver cancer include serum assays for alpha- chlorophylls—for example,spinach and other green,leafy veg- fetoprotein and,potentially,ultrasound.A recently completed etables (Kensler and others 2003). randomized controlled trial of liver cancer screening in China Among those infected with H.pylori,diet is thought to play evaluated the use of two or six alpha-fetoprotein assays over a a critical role in the progression of superficial gastritis to period offour years among men age 30 to 69 with chronic HBV chronic atrophic gastritis. Prolonged consumption of foods (Chen and others 2003).Screening resulted in earlier diagnosis rich in salted,pickled,and smoked products increases the risk of liver cancer, but because treatment for established liver of stomach cancer, and increased consumption of fresh fruit cancer is largely ineffective, screening did not reduce overall and vegetables likely decreases the risk.Obesity is also a well- mortality. established risk factor for several cancers (Vainio and Bianchini Randomized trials that include ultrasound screening for 2002b).For that reason,WHO recommends that governments liver cancer and that incorporate recent advances in antiviral seeking
