Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


visit. In middle-income countries where cytology screening is available Screening for Colorectal Cancer. Screening methods for early but cervical cancer mortality has not been reduced,key ques- detection ofcolorectal cancer include fecal occult blood testing, tions center around improving the quality of cytology-based sigmoidoscopy,barium enema,and colonoscopy.Several stud- programs; such improvement includes having adequate col- ies of the cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening in poscopy and biopsy facilities and accessible treatment developed countries have been published (Pignone and others (Lazcano-Ponce and others 1999); making use of HPV DNA 2002). Table 29.2 presents estimates of the cost-effectiveness testing technology in a cost-effective manner;and targeting the of colorectal cancer screening in the United States. Cost- appropriate age group for cervical cancer screening more accu- effectiveness ratios for various modalities of colorectal cancer rately.The vast majority of published cost-effectiveness analy- screening range from almost US$6,000 to about US$40,000 per ses of population-based cervical cancer screening performed YLS.Using models closely linked to European trials ofbiennial during 1980–2003 focused on high-income countries.(A list of fecal occult blood testing to screen for colorectal cancer, the 39 studies reviewed is available from the authors.) The Whynes and Nottingham Faecal Occult Blood Screening detailed results of each study are somewhat difficult to com- Trial (2004) report favorable cost-effectiveness ratios ranging pare.The types ofcosts included in each study varied substan- from US$2,500 to US$4,000 per YLS. Studies of the cost- tially (patient time costs and programmatic costs often were effectiveness ofcolorectal cancer screening in developed coun- omitted),studies frequently did not discount costs and benefits tries consistently conclude that such screening is cost-effective, or did not note the discount rate used,and sensitivity analyses but they do not totally agree on the relative rankings ofdiffer- were not conducted consistently on all relevant variables. ent colorectal screening strategies (Pignone and others 2002). Despite those limitations, several themes emerge. The incre- mental cost-effectiveness of screening in the general popula- Screening for Cervical Cancer. Cytology-based screening tion becomes increasingly less favorable as programs are inten- using the Papanicolaou smear has been the main screening sified by shortening the screening interval. For example, method used for the secondary prevention of cervical cancer Mandelblatt and others (2002)reported that for conventional worldwide.In many low-income countries,however,cytology cytology and HPV testing,compared with cytology alone,the screening has proved difficult to sustain because ofits reliance incremental cost was more than US$300,000 when conducted on highly trained cytotechnologists;good-quality laboratories; annually compared to US$15,400 per
