Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


per life year saved 522 722 582 450 1,846 1,709 902 (2001 US$) Source:Authors’ calculations. Note:The discount rate used was 3 percent. Table 29.6shows the results ofour sensitivity analysis for the Cancer Treatment and Palliative Care exploratory cost-effectiveness analysis of breast cancer screen- Barnum and Greenberg (1993) used an indirect approach to ing in India.Cost-effectiveness ratios are lower when the inci- estimate the cost-effectiveness of initial cancer treatment in dence of cancer is higher, as in Bombay. Cost-effectiveness developing countries.They assumed that they could estimate ratios are 32 and 16 percent higher,respectively,with a lower the effectiveness ofinitial cancer treatment by comparing can- sensitivity ofCBE and when the averted costs ofpalliative treat- cer survival in the United States for the period 1975–80 with ment are not included. Using alternative approaches to esti- the period 1940–45. The logic of such a comparison is that mate screening program costs has a major effect,resulting in major advances in cancer diagnosis, surgery, radiation, and cost-effectiveness estimates 6 to 11 times higher than the base chemotherapy occurred during the intervening period, case analysis. This result underlines the need for economic and thus survival in the 1940–45 period could be equated to studies that can obtain reliable data from primary sources on outcomes expected to result from no treatment or ineffective the true resource costs ofcancer control interventions in devel- treatment. Barnum and Greenberg’s results indicated a cost- oping countries. With data from such studies, researchers effectiveness ratio ofthe following: would not have to continue to rely on extrapolating cost esti- mates from data in developed countries. • US$1,300 to US$6,200 per YLS for initial treatment of the These results depend critically on assumptions about the more treatable cancers, that is, cervical, breast, oral cavity, efficacy ofCBE,for which the evidence is limited,highlighting and colorectal cancer the need for controlled studies ofCBE in developing countries. • US$53,000 to US$163,000 per YLS for initial treatment of Our estimates indicate that the cost-effectiveness of screening the less treatable cancers, that is, liver, lung, stomach, and mammography in India compares favorably,in absolute terms, esophageal cancer. with breast cancer screening in developed countries. Nevertheless, screening mammography for breast cancer is The following subsections review cost-effectiveness studies likely to be less cost-effective in a country such as India than performed on selected adjuvant or palliative cancer treatments isscreening for cervical cancer. that have been studied extensively in controlled clinical trials. Health Service Interventions
