Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


for breast cancer are about the same therapy following mastectomy and chemotherapy to treat order of magnitude as Barnum and Greenberg’s (1993) esti- node-positive breast cancer in premenopausal women. mates of cost-effectiveness for initial therapy of breast cancer T. Smith and Hillner (2000), relying on results from the (about US$7,300 per YLS in 2000 dollars). Other studies Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (EBCTCG (Malin and others 2002; Norum 2000) have yielded cost- 1998), modeled the natural history of breast cancer in pre- effectivenessestimatesforchemotherapyandhormonaltherapy menopausal 45-year-old women in the United States who were two to three times more favorable than Smith and Hillner’s diagnosed with early-stage breast cancer and treated with estimates.The more favorable estimates are probably the result tamoxifen,chemotherapy,or both.Table 29.7summarizes the ofthe investigators’use ofa discount rate of3 percent instead 580 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Martin L. Brown, Sue J. Goldie, Gerrit Draisma, and others of 5 percent and their assumption that the benefits of treat- chemoradiation—is more effective than standard therapy ment continue over a longer period oftime. using radiation alone in the treatment of advanced cervical Two U.S. studies (Lee and others 2002; Marks and others cancer (Rose and Lappas 2000). Using an economic model, 1999) have estimated the cost-effectiveness ratio for radiation Rose and Lappas apply unit costs to resource allocation data therapy following mastectomy and chemotherapy for node- derived from the cisplatin-based chemoradiation arms of the positive breast cancer in premenopausal women to be in the five randomized trials and examine the benefits in terms of range ofUS$22,600 to US$43,000 per quality-adjusted life year increased median survival time. Costs per YLS for cisplatin- (adjusted to 2000 U.S. dollars, with a discount rate of 3 per- based chemoradiation regimens varied from US$2,384 to cent).Results were sensitive to treatment costs,survival benefit, US$28,770 on the basis ofpublished survival and from US$308 and patient time costs. to US$3,712 on the basis of estimated survival. Although The clinical trials ofpostmastectomy radiation on which the chemoradiation for advanced cervical cancer would probably two U.S.studies are based compared radiation following sur- be considered cost-effective in most developed countries, gery plus chemotherapy with surgery plus chemotherapy analyses that take local treatment settings into account are alone. Love and others (2003), however, offer observational needed to determine if this result also holds for developing evidence that radiation treatment may also extend survival countries. for Chinese and Vietnamese women when administered
