Chapter
KEYWORDS: cancer, screening, countries, breast, cost-effectiveness, treatment, developing, breast cancer, cervical, journal, developing countries, cost, control, cancer screening, interventions


been estimated to have cost-effectiveness ratios in the studies in developed countries might translate to health care range ofa few thousand U.S.dollars to a few tens ofthousands delivery settings in developing countries,but disease incidence and time horizon are major pertinent considerations in rela- tion to cancer prevention and screening interventions.In rela- tion to cancer treatment,other considerations have to be taken a. Incidence of cervix uteri into account. Rate (per 100,000) Factors Affecting the Applicability of Cost-Effectiveness Studies of Prevention and Screening 60 Cost-effectiveness analyses ofcancer prevention and screening interventionsarecomplex.Severalparametershavealargeinflu- ence on the results ofthese studies,including the following: • age-specific cancer incidence • all-cause life expectancy and temporal trends of major 0 0– 15– 45– 55– 65– epidemics age • population age structure • availability,effectiveness,and costs ofcancer treatment b. Incidence of breast cancer intervention. 250 As illustrated by the several examples described in this 200 chapter, those parameters are likely to vary widely between developed and developing countries. For example,age-specific cancer incidence in the absence of 100 a preventive or screening intervention can have a major influ- ence on the potential cost-effectiveness of a cancer prevention or screening intervention. Generally, the higher the back- ground incidence ofthe cancer,the more cost-effective the can- 0– 15– 45– 55– 65– age cer prevention or screening intervention will be.For that rea- son, the relative cancer incidence patterns in developed and More developed countries Less developed countries developing countries for the cancer screening interventions Source: Ferlay and others 2001. described earlier need to be considered. Figure 29.3shows age-specific cancer incidence patterns for Figure 29.3 Age-Specific Incidence of Cervical and Breast Cancer, cervical and breast cancer for developed and developing Developed and Developing Countries, 2000 582 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Martin L. Brown, Sue J. Goldie, Gerrit Draisma, and others in developed countries but might be viewed as less favorable in not consider the additional costs ofchemotherapy preparation, low- and middle-income countries that face stringent con- administration, and supervision and supportive care (Schrag straints on health care resources. Disease incidence and time 2004). The situation is similar for other common cancers. cost-effectiveness of cancer treatment, because the cost of make the newest cancer drugs widely available to cancer treatment applies only to those individuals already diagnosed patients;however,this example illustrates the need for periodic with cancer and considered eligible for a specific treatment,not updating ofavailable chemotherapy options along with evalu- to a broader population
