Li et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:1291 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: wound, gulosibacter, blood, massiliensis, human, isolated, genus, patient, data, molinativorax, case, bifidus, report, acid, revealed


long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or v e c o m m o n .s o r g / l i c e n s e s / y b - n c - n d / 4 . 0 . / reports on Gulosibacter spp. are limited. Recently, Van- revealed a wound measuring 1.5 cm in length between damme P et al. in 2021 isolated this genus of bacte- the ventral part of the fourth and fifth toes of the right ria from the human ear and named it G. hominis, while foot, with ulceration, bleeding, and a large amount of Yacouba A et al. in 2022 isolated it from peripheral blood black dirt. The sensation and blood supply of the toes and named it G. massiliensis[1.3]. Further clinical research appeared normal. Laboratory tests revealed that the will help to study and understand the infectivity and white blood cell count (6.5*10^9/L) and hypersensitive pathogenicity of this bacterium better. We isolated the G. C-reactive protein level (< 0.20 mg/L) were within the massiliensis strain from the wound exudate of a trauma normal values. The positive and oblique radiographs of patient and recorded the treatment process. The entire the right foot revealed no obvious signs of malposition process of culture, isolation, and identification of G. mas- fracture. Moreover, the joint space was normal, and the siliensis in the clinical laboratory was recorded in detail. joint surface was smooth (Fig. 1a). The soft tissue around Additionally, the related data on Gulosibacter spp. were the fourth phalanx of the right foot showed high density. obtained and sorted to provide a reference for the detec- To reduce the patient’s pain, stop bleeding in time, and ming were performed at the earliest. During the opera- Case report tion, a 2-cm transverse wound was found in the web A 54-year-old man stepped into
