Li et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:1291 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: wound, gulosibacter, blood, massiliensis, human, isolated, genus, patient, data, molinativorax, case, bifidus, report, acid, revealed


bleeding in time, and ming were performed at the earliest. During the opera- Case report tion, a 2-cm transverse wound was found in the web A 54-year-old man stepped into a gutter and developed space of the fourth toe of the right foot with irregular pain in his right foot with obvious bleeding from the edges. The wound had reached the bone surface, and the wound 2 h before the hospital visit. Physical examination contamination was obvious from the shallow to the deep Fig. 1 Radiographic findings of the patient and appearance of the wound. a: Radiographic findings; b: Wound appearance after surgery with the appear- ance of the postoperative wound (the red box) part of the wound. During the operation, the wound was bid, respectively. After the initial laboratory report was rinsed repeatedly with hydrogen peroxide and saline. received by the clinicians, metronidazole and cefurox- Adequate hemostasis and layer-by-layer suturing were ime sodium were discontinued and anti-infective treat- performed for the wound, followed by a sterile dress- ment was changed to levofloxacin (oral, 0.5 g qd), and ing (Fig. 1b). After the operation, the exudate from the the frequency of wound dressing change and disinfection wound increased, and a sample was sent to the microbi- was increased. Fourteen days later, the patient had nor- ology laboratory for bacterial culture and identification. mal indicators, pain relief, wound healing, and was dis- treatment included anti-infection therapy and wound cleaning. Microbiological analysis In this patient, tetanus antitoxin injection and cefu- The wound secretion was collected and inoculated with roxime sodium (intravenous IV, 1.5 g qd) were promptly Columbia blood agar and MacConkey agar and cultured given at the time of the first visit to the emergency in a 5% CO incubator at 35 °C. Small, white colonies of Codeine (0.4 g bid) was given for anti-inflammatory, culture at 24 h (Fig. 2a, b). The 48-h observation revealed antipyretic and analgesic treatment. In order to prevent 1.0–2.0 mm-sized, white, round, raised colonies with anaerobic infection, the doctor added metronidazole (IV, smooth surfaces and neat edges (Fig. 2c, d). No growth 0.5 g bid), oral Chinese patent medicine (Ruyi-Zhenbao- was observed in the MacConkey agar culture and an tablet, 1.5 g tid and Yunnan-Baiyao-Capsule, 0.75 g tid) to anaerobic environment. Gram staining revealed gram- promote blood circulation and remove blood stasis, and positive Bacillus brevis of varying lengths (Fig. 2e, f). injection of papaverine
