Li et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:1291 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: wound, gulosibacter, blood, massiliensis, human, isolated, genus, patient, data, molinativorax, case, bifidus, report, acid, revealed


mea- than 1.38 (less than 1.699 indicated that the identification sured, and the sensitivity to antibiotics was assessed result was not reliable), and the bacterial results could according to the established criteria (Table 1). not be obtained. After processing by Flex Analysis soft- Discussion ware (version 3.0; Bruker Daltonik GmbH, Germany), we found that the mass spectra of this bacterium had rela- Gulosibacter spp. are a group of irregular rod-shaped, tively clear characteristic peaks at M/Z 3969, 4420, 5108, non-spore-forming, gram-positive bacteria belonging to 5499, 6631 and 9646. the Microbacteriaceae family of the order Micrococcales. Biochemical identification was performed using The diamino acid of peptidoglycan is D-ornithine and the VITEK 2 Anaerobic and Corynebacteria identification major respiratory quinone is menaquinone MK-9. The card (ANC, bioMérieux, Marcy l’Etoile, France) accord- polar lipids are diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglyc- ing to the standard operating procedure. The identifica- erol, and an unknown glycolipid. The predominant fatty tion results suggested “low discrimination” for Turicella acids are 12-methyl-tetradecanoic acid (anteiso-C ), 15: 0 otitidis (50%) or Propionibacterium acnes (50%). The 14-methyl-pentadecanoic acid (iso-C ), and 14-methyl- 16 :0 result was not considered reliable. Biochemical results hexadecanoic acid (anteiso-C ) . The genus Gulosi- 17 :0 showed that the reaction was positive for leucine aryl- bacter was first emended in 2004 by Manaia et al. . amidase, phenylalanine arylamidase, L-proline arylami- Until now, the genus comprised the following eight dase, L-pyrrolidone arylamidase, tyrosine arylamines species : G. molinativorax, G. faecalis, G. bifidus, G. and catalas. However, it was negative for α-arabinosidase, macacae, G. hominis, G. massiliensis, G. chungangensis, β-mannosidase, β-D-fucosidase, phosphatase, α-L- and G. sediminis. They were isolated from different types fucosidase, D-galactose, D-cellobiose, D-glucose, D-man- of specimens in different countries and showed different nose, D-maltose, sucrose, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, biochemical characteristics (Tables 2 and 3). urease, maltotriose, aesculin, L-arabinose, D-ribose, α-L- In 2004, an isolate from a microbial mixed culture arabinoside, and D-dxylos. Neither biochemical identi- enriched in molinate was identified as G. molinativorax fication nor mass spectrometry yielded accurate results. by Manaia et al. . In the same year, G. faecalis was iso- Therefore, 16 S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequenc- lated from cow feces and G. bifidus from the soil, human ing was chosen to identify the bacterium. The 16 S rRNA blood, and a wound sample by Lin et al. . It should sequencing analysis revealed that the gene amplification be noted that G. bifidus and G.
