Li et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:1291 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: wound, gulosibacter, blood, massiliensis, human, isolated, genus, patient, data, molinativorax, case, bifidus, report, acid, revealed


molinativorax and G. chungangensis. The Gulosibacter spp. are a group of gram-positive bacilli only known organism to produce molinate hydrolase is associated with opportunistic infections. Clinical data on G. molinativorax ON T, which catalyzes the breakdown this genus can strengthen the understanding and increase of the thiocarbamate herbicide into azepane-1-carbox- awareness about the bacteria. However, the therapeu- ylic acid and ethanethiol . The 4-ethylphenol oxidase tic effect of local wound debridement and disinfection from G. chungangensis, with its high thermal stability, to control the infection focus may be greater than the well-defined structural properties, and high expression anti-infection effect of antibiotics, which makes the clini- yields, may become a catalyst of choice for the specific cal effect of direct antibiotic treatment of G. massilien- dehydrogenation of phenolic compounds bearing small sis infection unclear. Studies on the possible pathogenic substituents . According to the isolation sources, mechanisms and post-infection treatment measures are Gulosibacter spp. are ubiquitous in nature, mainly in soil warranted. and feces. They can also be isolated from human wounds, Abbreviations ear canals, and blood; however, their infectivity and 16 S rRNA 1 6 S ribosomal ribonucleic acid pathogenicity have not been elucidated. Analyses of the Gulosibacter spp. Genus Gulosibacter CLSI The Clinical & Laboratory Standards Institute Gulosibacter pangenome and the publicly available 16 S MALDI-TOF MS Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time of Flight rRNA gene sequences and 16 S rRNA amplicon sequenc- Mass Spectrometry ing data sets revealed the absence of acquired antimicro- Acknowledgements bial resistance determinants and virulence factors in the We are grateful to the patient and doctor who provided information selflessly, G. hominis genomes, suggesting that it is a member of the and we thank our colleagues for their help. human skin microbiota and may be involved in opportu- Author contributions nistic infections . WJL performed the data analysis and wrote the manuscript. RRZ and LJL Studies have reported a significant increase in blood- participated in the data analysis and manuscript revision. CW, YWS and YLD stream infections caused by gram-positive bacilli in participated in the laboratory examinations. SHL and XJY oversaw the study design and manuscript revision. All authors read and approved the final various regions, especially in patients with weakened manuscript. immunity and those undergoing interventional or sur- gical procedures [14–16]. Based on the detection of G. Funding None. massiliensis and G. bifidus in human blood, this genus could cause bacteremia in humans; hence,
