W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: water, jet, water jet, mucosa, colonoscopy, colon, case, scope, injury, mucosal, malfunction, jet malfunction, patient, report, normal


W J C C World Journal of Clinical Cases Submit a Manuscript: World J Clin Cases 2022 November 26; 10(33): 12375-12379 DOI: ISSN 2307-8960 (online) CASE REPORT Colon mucosal injury caused by water jet malfunction during a screening colonoscopy: A case report Parth Patel, Chien-Huan Chen and hepatology Unsolicited article; Externally peer Ave, Campus Box 8124, St. Louis, MO 63110, United States. reviewed. Peer-review model: Single blind Abstract Peer-review report’s scientific BACKGROUND quality classification Screening colonoscopies are routinely performed and have low occurrences of Grade A (Excellent): 0 adverse events such as perforation, bleeding, infection, and post-polypectomy Grade B (Very good): B syndrome. True device related adverse events are rarely reported in the literature. Grade C (Good): C, C, C, C Grade D (Fair): 0 CASE SUMMARY Grade E (Poor): 0 We report a case of a 51-year-old patient without past medical history who presented for her first screening colonoscopy. The patient was thought to have P-Reviewer: Ko J, South Korea; friable mucosa in the cecum and oozed upon water irrigation during screening Nakamura K, Japan; Serban ED, colonoscopy. It was later identified that the colonoscope used during the index Romania; Sulbaran MN, Brazil; procedure had malfunctioned and produced a pin-point water jet which damaged Tan Y, China the colon mucosa of cecum. The maintenance service identified a piece of rubber fragment lodged in the instrument component at the tip of the scope, resulting in high pressure water jet. Repeat colonoscopy with a functioning colonoscope Peer-review started: August 11, confirmed normal colon mucosa without friability. First decision: September 25, 2022 CONCLUSION Revised: October 20, 2022 This is the first report of mucosa injury from a colonoscope water jet malfunction. Article in press: October 26, 2022 2022 report ©The Author(s) 2022. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. WJCC 12375 November 26, 2022 Volume 10 Issue 33 Patel P et al. Colonoscope water jet malfunction mucosa injury Core Tip: We report a case of colon mucosal injury due to a colonoscope water jet malfunction. During a screening colonoscopy, a patient was found to have friable oozing colon mucosa upon water irrigation. We later found that the water jet of the colonoscope was abnormally narrow with high pressure, resulting in mucosal injury. Removal of a piece of rubber lodged at the tip of the scope normalized the water pressure. The patient’s subsequent colonoscopy showed normal colon mucosa. This is the
