W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: water, jet, water jet, mucosa, colonoscopy, colon, case, scope, injury, mucosal, malfunction, jet malfunction, patient, report, normal


mucosal injury. Removal of a piece of rubber lodged at the tip of the scope normalized the water pressure. The patient’s subsequent colonoscopy showed normal colon mucosa. This is the first reported case of iatrogenic injury from a colonoscope water jet malfunction. Citation: Patel P, Chen CH. Colon mucosal injury caused by water jet malfunction during a screening colonoscopy: A case report. World J Clin Cases 2022; 10(33): 12375-12379 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Screening colonoscopies are routinely performed to prevent colon cancer by detecting and removing precancerous polyps and by the early detection of colon cancer. Devices currently approved for screening colonoscopies offer excellent diagnostic and therapeutic abilities while meeting safety standards. Known adverse events related to colonoscopy include perforation, bleeding, infection, and post-polypectomy syndrome. Perforation is the most feared complication which occurs mostly in recto-sigmoid colon and its rate has been estimated to be 0.02%-0.08%, depending on the indication for colonoscopy. However, true device-related adverse events are rare and upon literature review, we only identified cases related to infection transmission through endoscopes. Current endoscopic system has an integrated water jet connected through an external irrigation pump to assist with endoscopic visualization. To date, there has been no safety report of a water jet related adverse event. Here, we report a case of colon mucosal injury related to malfunction of the water jet. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints A 51-year-old female presented for her first asymptomatic screening colonoscopy. History of present illness The patient underwent bowel preparation with SUPREPTM split prep, and the procedure was performed with monitored anesthesia care using propofol. During the colonoscopy, her cecum was thought to be friable and oozed upon water irrigation to clear the debris. Despite prolonged and copious irrigation, clear visualization of the cecum could not be achieved due to mucosal friability (Figure 1A). The rest of the colon was clear, without debris that would require cleansing with water jet, and appeared to have normal mucosa (Figure 1B). Later in the same endoscopy unit, during a colonoscopy on another patient, a different endoscopist found that the water jet of the colonoscope (Olympus, CF-HQ190L) had a very narrow stream of water, which resulted in focal mucosal damage and hemorrhage upon irrigation. After the procedure, the scope was identified to be the same scope used in the previous case with “cecal mucosal friability”. The high water pressure generated from the sharp pin-point water jet was the suspected
