W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: water, jet, water jet, mucosa, colonoscopy, colon, case, scope, injury, mucosal, malfunction, jet malfunction, patient, report, normal


was identified to be the same scope used in the previous case with “cecal mucosal friability”. The high water pressure generated from the sharp pin-point water jet was the suspected cause of mucosal damage. When the scope was sent for repair, the maintenance service found that a piece of rubber was lodged in the hole of C-Cover (an instrument component at the tip of the scope) which resulted in a sharper water stream. The water pressure was very high but normalized after the piece of rubber was removed. That piece of rubber was a component of the scope which broke off and lodged there. History of past illness No known past medical conditions. Personal and family history No family history of colon cancer. Physical examination No abnormalities were noted on the abdominal exam. WJCC 12376 November 26, 2022 Volume 10 Issue 33 Patel P et al. Colonoscope water jet malfunction mucosa injury Figure 1 Colonoscopy. A: Initial colonoscopy showing cecum with mucosal oozing post-water jet irrigation; B: Initial colonoscopy with normal transverse colon mucosa; C: Repeat colonoscopy with normal cecum mucosa; D: Repeat colonoscopy with normal terminal ileum. Laboratory examinations Normal hemoglobin value of 13.4 g/dL, and normal platelets count of 320 K/cumm. Other values of basic chemistries and of a complete blood panel were within normal limits. Imaging examinations No relevant imaging data. FINAL DIAGNOSIS Iatrogenic colon mucosa injury due to water jet malfunction. TREATMENT Given that the colonoscopy finding was due to a water jet malfunction, no specific therapy or treatment was given or needed. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP Three months later, the patient underwent a repeat colonoscopy and had a normal terminal ileum and normal mucosa of the entire colon, including of the cecum (Figure 1C and D). The patient did have a 2 mm sessile polyp at the cecum base that was removed with cold biopsy forceps. The pathology showed that the polyp was a tubular adenoma. It is possible that this polyp was not seen during the index colonoscopy due to limited visualization in the setting of extensive mucosal injury. There were no other abnormalities found in the colon during this examination. WJCC 12377 November 26, 2022 Volume 10 Issue 33 Patel P et al. Colonoscope water jet malfunction mucosa injury DISCUSSION To our knowledge, we have not identified any other case of water irrigation related mucosal injury in the literature. The manufacturer of the scope,
