W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: water, jet, water jet, mucosa, colonoscopy, colon, case, scope, injury, mucosal, malfunction, jet malfunction, patient, report, normal


water jet malfunction mucosa injury DISCUSSION To our knowledge, we have not identified any other case of water irrigation related mucosal injury in the literature. The manufacturer of the scope, Olympus, also was not aware of prior similar incident (personal communication). This case highlights the importance of recognizing the potential for iatrogenic mucosa damage from a high-pressure water jet. When the water-jet pressure is high enough, the water stream can penetrate the mucosa and into the submucosal space. In fact, pin-point high- pressure water jets have been utilized in commercial products for needle-free submucosal injection to create a submucosal cushion (for example, HybridAPC, Erbe United States). Water jets have also been used extensively as a hydrosurgery dissecting tool for burn wound debridement. Endoscopists should be aware of the power of high-pressure water jets, their potential application, and the possibility of iatrogenic damage. In our endoscopy unit, all endoscopes undergo routine maintenance and processing as recommended by the manufacturer. Nevertheless, endoscopists or endoscopy lab staff should still check the endoscope and water jet before procedures to ensure proper instrument function. To recognize the high-pressure narrow water jet stream during the instrument check, awareness and vigilance are required. In addition, this case highlighted the need for studies to identify the threshold of water pressure that the mucosa can withstand without injury, as well as additional safety measures that include checking the water jet and pressure before procedures. We hope that the publication of this case report will increase awareness of this uncommon but important issue so it can be detected before procedures are conducted and thus avoid potential damage and complications. In our case, the high water jet pressure was caused by a piece of rubber lodged in the scope. The piece of rubber was a component of the scope that broke off and lodged under the C-Cover. Given its location, it would not be possible to see or find the piece of rubber during inspection or brushing during reprocessing of the scope. Although this incident was not preventable, we were able to link the patient with cecal mucosal damage to the scope with water jet malfunction because in our endoscopic unit the identification number of every scope utilized is meticulously documented. From the standpoint of patient safety and quality improvement, it is very important to document the scope identification number so that any potential adverse event is traceable, and the patients
