Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


11–1 CHAPTER 11 RISK FACTORS FOR TYPE 1 DIABETES Marian Rewers, MD, PhD, Lars C. Stene, PhD, and Jill M. Norris, MPH, PhD Dr. Marian Rewers is Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at the Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO. Dr. Lars C. Stene is Senior Scientist at the Department of Child Health, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. Dr. Jill M. Norris is Professor of Epidemiology at the Colorado School of Public Health, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO. Received in final form December 27, 2015. SUMMARY The incidence of type 1 diabetes is increasing at an annual rate of 3%–5%, which suggests a major environmental exposure has changed, by either the gradual introduction of a susceptibility factor or the removal of a protective factor, during the past 60 or more years. Outbreaks and seasonality of type 1 diabetes may suggest an infectious cause, perhaps related to increasing sanitation and loss of herd immunity. Early childhood diet and environmental toxins are also of interest. Prospective studies following high-risk children from birth to development of the subclinical phase of the disease (islet autoimmunity) and diabetes have been the most reliable source of information regarding risk factors for type 1 diabetes. Prenatal and early post­ natal exposures appear to be critical, as the incidence of islet autoimmunity peaks in the second year of life. Among the infectious agents, enteroviral infections (particularly if they are persistent and acquired in early childhood) have gained most interest. Early leads suggesting the role of cow’s milk exposure in the initiation of islet autoimmunity have not been confirmed by large prospective studies and a large randomized clinical trial. While numerous studies have reported 1.5–2-fold increases in the risk of islet autoimmunity or type 1 diabetes with various components of early childhood diet and infectious exposures, none of the associations appears particularly strong or universal across different populations. In the United States, 1 in 300 children and adolescents develop type 1 diabetes by age 20 years, but 1 in 40 offspring of mothers with type 1 diabetes and 1 in 15 offspring of fathers with type 1 diabetes develop type 1 diabetes. The disease is likely caused by the inter­ play of genetic and environmental factors. Systematic investigation of gene-environment interactions in large, prospectively followed cohorts of young children may help to identify and fully characterize modifiable risk factors
