Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


inter­ play of genetic and environmental factors. Systematic investigation of gene-environment interactions in large, prospectively followed cohorts of young children may help to identify and fully characterize modifiable risk factors and design trials to fully evaluate the stron­ gest candidate triggers of autoimmunity. INTRODUCTION The incidence of type 1 diabetes is increasing worldwide, by 3%–5% annually (1), with rates doubling every 20 years (2,3). The rising incidence, outbreaks (4), and a seasonal pattern (5) may suggest that infectious agents play a role in the pathogenesis. However, the incidence has been increasing since at least the 1950s (Figure 11.1) (2,3,6,7,8,9,10,11). Such a secular trend is unlikely to result from a new infectious agent; however, similar to the polio model (12), an “old” microbe could express its diabetogenic effect due to increasing hygiene and decreasing herd immunity. Changes in early childhood diet have also been implicated, as type 1 diabetes has increased the most in the youngest children. Prospective studies (13,14,15) following high-risk children from birth have made important inroads into the understanding of the role of infectious FIGURE 11.1. Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Per 100,000 Per Year in Children Age 0–14 Years, 1950–2003 Type 1 diabetes incidence is increasing 3%–5% per year and has doubled every 20 years. SOURCE: Reference 11. Data for Finland are from the Finnish National Public Health Institute (3); data for Sweden are from the Swedish Childhood Diabetes Registry (6); data for Colorado are from the Colorado IDDM Registry, the Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes, and SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth (2,7); data for Germany are a compilation of two reports (8,9); data for Poland are from seven regional registries (10). 11–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition and dietary factors in type 1 diabetes. Prospective studies have defined two major steps in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes (Figure 11.2). Seroconversion to positivity for one or more islet auto­ antibodies (to insulin, glutamic acid decarboxylase [GAD], insulinoma antigen 2 [IA-2], or zinc transporter 8 [ZnT8]) marks the development of islet autoim­ munity. Approximately 70% of children positive for two or more of these auto­ antibodies develop diabetes in 10 years following the appearance of the first auto­ antibody (16). In contrast, most children persistently positive for only one islet auto­ antibody do not progress to diabetes (16). Data suggest that a variety of exposures may trigger islet autoimmunity, promote progression to clinical diabetes, or affect
