Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


for only one islet auto­ antibody do not progress to diabetes (16). Data suggest that a variety of exposures may trigger islet autoimmunity, promote progression to clinical diabetes, or affect both of these steps. Most of the existing data concerning risk factors for islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes have come from a handful of prospective studies that have sometimes generated inconsistent results. While the large international prospective cohort study (The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young [TEDDY]) will likely reconcile some of the inconsistencies, randomized clinical trials of risk factor modifications will provide the ultimate test. Type 1 diabetes is caused by the interplay of genetic and environmental factors. The genetics of type 1 diabetes is reviewed in depth in Chapter 12 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes and only briefly summarized in the following section. In this chapter, infectious, dietary, and other environmental factors are reviewed in detail, as well as potential gene-envi­ ronment interactions in type 1 diabetes etiology. FIGURE 11.2. Two-Step Model of Type 1 Diabetes Development and Potential Role of Environmental Factors GAD, glutamic acid decarboxylase; IA-2, insulinoma antigen 2; ZnT8, zinc transporter 8. SOURCE: Original figure constructed by M. Rewers. GENETIC FACTORS FAMILY HISTORY OF TYPE 1 DIABETES In the United States, approximately 1 in 300 children and adolescents develop type 1 diabetes by age 20 years (Table 11.1) (2,17). The risk is increased to about 1 in 40 in offspring of mothers with type 1 diabetes and 1 in 15 in offspring of fathers affected by type 1 diabetes; the reason for this difference may have an epigen­ etic origin. The risk to siblings of type 1 diabetes individuals ranges from 1 in 12 to 1 in 35 (18,19). The risk is significantly higher in siblings of individuals diagnosed at age <7 years than in those diagnosed later (20). It is as high as 1 in 3 among monozygotic twins (21). In parents of indi­ viduals with type 1 diabetes, the risk by age 40 years is 2.6% and twofold higher in fathers (3.6%) than in mothers (1.7%) (20). By age 60 years, an estimated 10% of first degree relatives will develop type 1 diabetes (22). However, the “familial” cases account for less than 10% of type 1 diabetes in the general population; they do not differ from “sporadic” cases in terms of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR,DQ gene frequencies or the prevalence
