Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


e.g., higher levels of exposure to the critical factor. INFECTIOUS AGENTS Prospective studies of high-risk children have shown that the incidence of islet autoimmunity peaks in the second year of life (42,43,44), suggesting that the puta­ tive environmental trigger(s) must occur very early in life in many cases. Therefore, in utero, perinatal, or early childhood infections and infant diet are likely candi­ date exposures. SEASONALITY OF TYPE 1 DIABETES DIAGNOSIS, ISLET AUTOANTIBODIES, AND BIRTH Type 1 diabetes incidence in children is higher in autumn-winter and lower in spring-summer in both hemispheres, resembling seasonality of viral infections (7,45,46). However, children age 11–15 years show more obvious seasonal vari­ ation compared to children diagnosed before age 5 years (47), which may suggest that additional factors may play a role, e.g., easier detection of the onset of diabetic signs/symptoms in children attending school. Development of islet autoimmunity could also depend on an environmental exposure during preg­ nancy as suggested by seasonality of islet autoantibodies in cord blood (48) and seasonal distribution of birth dates of type 1 diabetes patients in some popula­ tions (49,50). 11–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition VIRAL INFECTIONS Viral infections have long been impli­ cated in the etiology of type 1 diabetes, but a definitive proof has been elusive. Footprints of infectious triggers of islet autoimmunity may be hard to detect due to a long incubation period of type 1 diabetes in most cases. A number of agents have been suggested to trigger autoimmune diabetes; the strongest leads are reviewed in this section. Enteroviruses have shown associations with type 1 diabetes in both animal and human studies (51,52). These viruses have a tropism to human pancreatic islets in vivo and in vitro (53,54,55), and they have been detected in the pancreata of type 1 diabetes patients (56). Animal studies suggest that the timing of an infection may be critical. The outcome of infection may differ in individuals with islet autoim­ munity compared to those with unaffected islets. The outcome is also modulated by complex interactions between the microbe and the host, e.g., variants of the innate immune system receptor interfer­ on-induced helicase C domain-containing protein 1 (IFIH1) may determine viral load (57). Despite a number of studies using different approaches, the nature of the relationship between enteroviruses and type 1 diabetes remains controversial. In most cases, diagnosis of type 1 diabetes follows a long period of preclinical islet autoimmunity.
