Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


approaches, the nature of the relationship between enteroviruses and type 1 diabetes remains controversial. In most cases, diagnosis of type 1 diabetes follows a long period of preclinical islet autoimmunity. Viruses present at diag­ nosis may have infected the host late in the disease process rather than trigger the process. Alternatively, the triggering infec­ tion has likely been cleared by the time of diagnosis, unless the virus is able to persist. Enterovirus infections may poten­ tially initiate islet autoimmunity, modulate progression to clinical type 1 diabetes (58,59,60,61,62), or both (Figure 11.2). CASE-CONTROL STUDIES OF ENTEROVIRAL INFECTIONS AT THE DIAGNOSIS OF TYPE 1 DIABETES Enterovirus Serology The initial observation of an association between enteroviral infections and type 1 diabetes made by Gamble et al. in 1969 (63) was based on apparently higher prevalence of antibodies against Coxsackie virus in patients with recently diagnosed type 1 diabetes than in controls. Controls were poorly selected, older than the cases, thus less likely to have had a recent infection. That study did not adjust for likely differences in the HLA genotypes among cases and controls. The HLA genotypes associated with type 1 diabetes are a powerful confounder, as they are also associ­ ated with a more vigorous antibody response to infection than the other genotypes (64,65). However, none of the 13 studies published up to 2002 (66) determined HLA type in cases and controls. This has helped to reinforce the possibly false-positive initial finding by Gamble. The review by Green et al. (66) concluded that heterogeneity in assays, study design, and results did not allow a conclusion or calculation of a pooled estimate. Smaller studies included in that review had larger estimated odds ratios, suggestive of a publication bias (66). Separate analyses performed for anti­ bodies specific for Coxsackie viruses B3, 4, and 5 (based on 11, 17, and 11 studies, respectively) revealed little or no asso­ ciation overall. Most of the limitations plaguing the early seroepidemiologic studies apply also to more recent studies using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for enterovirus detection, covered in the next section. Enterovirus RNA in Blood Samples Yeung et al. reviewed studies using modern methods of enterovirus detection (67). This meta-analysis unfortunately pooled estimates across all studies despite the presence of significant hetero­ geneity in the study designs and results (68). For instance, methods of detection included in situ hybridization or immuno­ histochemistry on pancreatic tissue, as well
