Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


Type 1 Diabetes 11–5 FIGURE 11.3. Studies of Enterovirus RNA in Serum or Plasma From Patients With Type 1 Diabetes Diagnosed Within One Month and From Healthy Controls Note that three studies of patients with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes did not include matched controls and are thus not included in panels A and B. (A) Odds ratio for association between enterovirus and type 1 diabetes estimated using Woolf’s formula, as information for matched analysis was not provided in original publications. The I-squared estimate of statistical between-study heterogeneity was 0.0%. Odds ratio estimates cannot be calculated from studies with zero observed controls with enterovirus. Overall results (association and heterogeneity) were similar after adding 0.5 to all four cells in the 2x2 table for studies with zero observed controls with enterovirus RNA positive serum (data not shown). (B) Percent enterovirus-positive age-matched healthy controls (with exact 95% confidence intervals). (C) Percent enterovirus-positive type 1 diabetes patients. CI, confidence interval; EV, enterovirus. SOURCE: Reference 52, copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, reprinted with permission, and references cited (first author and publication year indicated in figure) are 62, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, and 78. Data from Oikarinen 2011 (78) include data not presented in original publication, obtained by personal communication from H. Hyöty and S. Oikarinen, Tampere, Finland. Figure does not include data based on enterovirus detection in periph­ eral blood mononuclear cells, which are available from Schulte et al. (76). Norwegian MIDIA (Environmental Triggers of Type 1 Diabetes); and the German BABYDIAB and BABYDIET studies. Preliminary data from a study in Australia called VIGR (Viral etiology of type 1 diabetes) have only been presented in abstract form, but the results were included in the meta-analysis by Yeung et al. (67) (Table 11.3). These studies followed children with increased risk of type 1 diabetes, defined by a first degree family history, HLA susceptibility genes, or both, with serial tests of serum or stools for evidence of enterovirus infections. These seven studies have published data from a total of 176 cases of islet autoimmunity; DiMe followed only children with islet autoimmunity for type 1 diabetes as the endpoint. Sample frequency and method of virus detection varied. Results of the prospective studies were reviewed by Stene and Rewers (52) and are summarized in Table 11.4 (64,67,80,83,84,85,86,87). Presence of Enteroviral RNA in Stool. Three studies (DIPP, MIDIA, and BABYDIET) reported separate
