Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


mimicry has been invoked (111,112). A review has highlighted gaps in the evidence linking congenital rubella infections with type 1 diabetes (113). Rotavirus also infects beta cells (114) and may have a link to islet autoimmunity by way of molecular mimicry (115); however, evidence for a causal role is lacking (116). A longitudinal Australian study reported an increased incidence of islet autoantibodies shortly after detection of rotavirus infec­ tion (117). The limitation of this study was diagnosis of infection based on measure­ ment of serum rotavirus antibodies rather than detection of viral presence in stool by PCR. A Finnish study that measured rota­ virus antibodies in serum samples collected at 3–6-month intervals up to age 2 years did not confirm the association (118). A causal link between mumps and type 1 diabetes has long been suggested. Mumps epidemics were sometimes followed by sudden, sharp increases in type 1 diabetes onset a few years later (119), and the presence of islet-specific antibodies correlated with mumps infections (120). However, despite near-eradication of mumps through routine childhood vaccination, type 1 diabetes incidence is still rising, suggesting that mumps is not a trigger of type 1 diabetes. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) has also been implicated in the etiology of type 1 diabetes, primarily using serological evidence (121,122,123). In contrast, several epidemiologic studies have failed to demonstrate a link between CMV and the development of islet autoantibodies or type 1 diabetes (124,125,126). A more recent study analyzed specifically a possible association between perinatal CMV infection and islet autoantibodies in young children with type 1 diabetes risk-associated HLA genotypes and found none (127). The Kilham rat virus (KRV), a member of the parvovirus family, is sufficient to induce type 1 diabetes in diabetes-resistant BioBreeding (BB) rats that do not spon­ taneously develop diabetes (128). The incidence of human parvovirus infections peaks in childhood, the virus is endemic with irregular intervals of outbreaks, and it promotes a T cell-mediated lympho­ proliferative response that could generate autoimmunity. Parvovirus has been related to type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and Grave’s disease in small clinical case-control studies (129,130). A homology between the parvovirus B19 and the extracellular domain of IA-2 islet autoantigen suggests a potential mimicry (131). However, case-control studies have, so far, been negative (132). Several additional viruses (133,134,135, 136) have been associated with onset of type 1 diabetes, but confirmation is lacking. In summary, it has not been established beyond
