Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


far, been negative (132). Several additional viruses (133,134,135, 136) have been associated with onset of type 1 diabetes, but confirmation is lacking. In summary, it has not been established beyond reasonable doubt that any of the candidate infections triggers islet autoimmunity or accelerates islet autoimmunity toward diabetes in a large number of patients. Further prospective studies of these candidate triggers, as well as of other microbial agents, are therefore warranted in subjects at increased type 1 diabetes risk. High-throughput (“next generation”) sequencing technologies are being applied to human studies of viruses in causation of type 1 diabetes (137). With larger and higher quality data sets in the future, such as those expected from the TEDDY study (11), more sophisticated statistical analyses are being applied to separate information from noise. Progress in sequencing technologies has offered attractive new possibilities to detect microbes in biological samples and carry out metagenomic studies where the whole microbiome and virome can be explored in the context of islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes. This concerns not only all known microorganisms represented in GenBank (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ genbank/), but also novel ones. INTESTINAL MICROBIOTA In addition to viruses, bacterial infections and commensal microbiota may modulate the risk of type 1 diabetes (138). The mucosal immune system has special­ ized regulatory mechanisms to tolerate commensal microorganisms. Some of the candidate environmental factors that appear to affect the risk of type 1 diabetes (e.g., cesarean section delivery, early childhood diet, use of antibiotics) are intertwined with the development and function of the human microbiome. Intestinal bacteria have also been related to type 2 diabetes, inflammatory bowel diseases (139), rheumatoid arthritis (140), atherosclerosis, allergy, colon cancer, and a host of other diseases, but the effect appears to be nonspecific. There is growing evidence that the “Western” diet has altered the genetic composition and metabolic activity of the gut microbiota. Emerging data support the hypothesis that altered gut bacterial composition may play a role in development of type 1 diabetes (141,142,143,144,145,146,147). Gut microbes influence lipid and glucose metabolism, as well as immunity and systemic inflammation outside of the intestine (141,148,149,150); therefore, they could be considered as a target in prevention of metabolic and proinflam­ matory diseases. In general, however, microbiome studies in the context of type 1 diabetes have, thus far, been underpow­ ered and focused on taxa diversity. Some have reported lower microbial diversity in children with islet autoimmunity before progression
