Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


the context of type 1 diabetes have, thus far, been underpow­ ered and focused on taxa diversity. Some have reported lower microbial diversity in children with islet autoimmunity before progression to diabetes compared to healthy controls (138,142,147). The picture remains unclear at this time and will require large studies that employ whole genome sequencing of microbiome at multiple time points prior to diagnosis. VACCINES As childhood immunization programs have expanded, there has been speculation that vaccines may play a role in the development of childhood diseases that have risen in incidence, such as type 1 diabetes (151). Fortunately, no association between immunizations and islet autoimmunity or type 1 diabetes has been found thus far (14,152,153,154). A meta-analysis reviewed 23 studies investigating 16 vaccinations and analyzed 11 studies that met the inclusion criteria (155). Overall, there was no evidence to Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes 11–9 suggest an association between any of the childhood vaccinations investigated and type 1 diabetes. The pooled odds ratios ranged from 0.58 (95% CI 0.24–1.40) for the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccination in five studies up to 1.04 (95% CI 0.94–1.14) for the haemophilus influenza B (HiB) vaccination in 11 studies. Significant heterogeneity was present in most of the pooled analyses but was markedly reduced when analyses were restricted to study reports with high methodology quality scores. The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine has attracted some interest as a potential immunomodulator that could theoretically reduce the incidence of autoimmune diabetes. However, human data for any association between BCG vaccination and type 1 diabetes or islet autoimmunity are universally negative. Until recently, BCG has been routinely administered to all neonates in Finland, the country with the highest incidence of type 1 diabetes worldwide. Case-control studies from Canada (156) and Sweden (157) have shown no association of BCG vaccination with the risk of diabetes. Likewise, the German BABYDIAB study (158) reported no association with development of islet autoimmunity. A 20-year follow-up of the 1974 Canadian birth cohort, of which 45% were given BCG in the first year of life, also showed no association (159). In addition, vaccination with BCG at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes does not increase the remission rate or preserve beta cell function (160,161). DIETARY FACTORS Dietary factors associated with the appear­ ance of islet autoimmunity and progression from islet autoimmunity to type 1 diabetes are reviewed in this section. BREASTFEEDING An ecologic study
