Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


(early) exposure to cow’s milk (188). A nested case-control study within the Finnish DIPP cohort found that increased cow’s milk intake during childhood was weakly associated with increased islet autoimmunity risk (184). While a similar analysis in the DAISY cohort found no association between cow’s milk intake and islet autoimmunity risk, increased cow’s milk intake was associated with progression to type 1 diabetes in children with islet autoimmunity (HR 1.59, 95% CI 1.13–2.25) (190). In DIPP (191), investigators evaluated whether serum fatty acids differed between children developing islet autoimmunity and those remaining autoantibody negative. Myristic acid, pentadecanoic acid, monounsaturated palmitoleic acid isomers 16:1 n-7 and 16:1 n-9, and conjugated linoleic acid were positively associated with the risk of islet autoimmunity at or before the time of seroconversion. Because these serum fatty acids are biomarkers of milk and ruminant meat fat (192,193), this suggests that higher current consumption of milk and meat may be associated with risk of islet autoimmunity. The inconsistencies across these studies may be due to the modifying effects of the underlying genetic profile. This is further described in the Gene X Environment Interactions section. The reports that newly diagnosed diabetic children compared with age-matched controls have higher levels of serum antibodies against cow’s milk proteins (194,195) have been difficult to reproduce (196). Prospective studies have also been contradictory: the Finnish TRIGR Pilot study showed higher levels of cow’s milk antibodies in infancy prior to the development of type 1 diabetes (197), whereas DAISY did not observe elevations of the cow’s milk IgG4 antibody, beta- lactoglobulin, prior to islet autoimmunity or type 1 diabetes (198). SOLID FOODS AND CEREALS In addition to breast milk substitutes, such as infant formulas, the infant is exposed to other dietary antigens in the first year of life that may impact oral tolerance or the immune system. Prospective studies of children at increased risk for type 1 diabetes from both Germany (BABYDIAB) and Colorado (DAISY) have shown an increased risk for islet autoimmunity associated with first exposure to cereals prior to the third month of life when compared with introduction in the fourth to sixth months of life. In DAISY, the timing of introduction of any type of cereal (gluten and non-gluten-containing) was associated with an increased islet autoimmunity risk, and the study also found that there appears to be a U-shaped relationship between risk and age at introduction, the nadir of the
