Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


associated with an increased islet autoimmunity risk, and the study also found that there appears to be a U-shaped relationship between risk and age at introduction, the nadir of the curve occurring with introduction in the fourth to sixth months of life (168). In contrast, BABYDIAB showed the association with gluten specifically and found that a further protective effect was conferred if foods containing gluten were introduced after the sixth month (171). Given the difference in the defined dietary variables (the non-gluten-containing food variable in BABYDIAB contained non-cereal foods), it is difficult to determine whether the two studies actually contradict each other regarding whether the driving antigen was gluten. The Finnish prospective study (DIPP) suggested that introducing gluten- containing cereals between ages 5 and 5.5 months (the middle tertile of exposure) was associated with an increased risk of islet autoimmunity compared with introducing gluten after age 5.5 months (the third tertile of exposure), but only during the first 3 years of life (173). There was no increased risk of islet autoimmunity associated with introducing gluten earlier than age 5 months (the first tertile of exposure) compared with after age 5.5 months. Because gluten is the environmental trigger for celiac disease, another childhood autoimmune disease with many similarities to type 1 diabetes, and because gluten is a component of many cereals, gluten has been extensively studied in the context of type 1 diabetes as a potentially important environmental exposure. In the BB diabetes-prone rat, gluten precipitates the onset of islet autoimmunity (199), and MacFarlane et al. identified a wheat storage protein called Glb1 that may be associated with islet damage, by observing that antibodies to this protein were detectable in patients with diabetes, but not in nondiabetic individuals (200). Intervention studies in islet autoantibody-positive children indicate that while a gluten-free diet may not decrease autoantibody titers (201,202), it may improve beta cell function (202). However, an intervention study, in which 150 high-risk infants were randomly assigned to a first gluten exposure at age 6 months (control group) or 12 months (late-exposure group), found that delaying gluten exposure until age 12 months did not substantially reduce the risk for islet autoimmunity in genetically at-risk children, nor did it increase the risk (104,203). Other solid foods in the infant diet, besides gluten and cereals, have been implicated in the etiology of islet autoimmunity. In Finland, DIPP found that introduction of root vegetables by
