Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


specific times in infancy wherein exposure is asso­ ciated with an increased risk of developing islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes. In aggregate, these studies lend support to the idea that general antigenic stimulation is more important than the actual antigen in this disease process. The risk associ­ ated with early exposure may suggest a mechanism involving an aberrant immune response to dietary antigens in an immature gut immune system among susceptible individuals. The increased risk predicted by late exposure to solid foods may be related to the larger amounts given at initial exposure to older children (168,175), nutrient deficiencies (205), and/ or the cessation of breastfeeding before solid foods are introduced, resulting in a loss of the protective effect of breast milk at the introduction of foreign food antigens (168,169,175), described earlier in this chapter. VITAMIN D Vitamin D has been examined as a potentially protective factor, because it plays an active role in the regulation of the immune system, as well as metabolic pathways relevant to diabetes. Mechanistically, vitamin D has been shown to shift the balance of the body’s T cell response toward down-regulation of the Th1 immune response (206). Both in vitro studies and animal studies have found that vitamin D stimulates a Th2 response (207,208,209). The Th1 response plays a key role in response to intracellular pathogens, primarily viruses and malignancies; its overactivation against autoantigens is thought to cause autoimmunity leading to type 1 diabetes. The Th2 response upregulates antibody production to fight extracellular organisms and promotes tolerance of the fetus during pregnancy; Th2 overactivation may lead to atopic dermatitis or asthma. Vitamin D status during the intrauterine period may be of special importance for the development of the fetus (210). The seasonality of birth in children with type 1 diabetes and/or the presence of a seasonal pattern at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes could be explained by seasonal variation in endogenous vitamin D production via exposure to the sun (211,212). The monthly averages of maximal daily temperature and daily hours of sunshine were inversely related to the number of new patients per month in Belgium (213). Ecologic studies suggest that ultraviolet radiation exposure, which increases the body’s ability to make vitamin D, is inversely associated with incidence of type 1 diabetes (214,215). However, epidemiologic studies of in utero vitamin D exposures have been inconsistent. In Finland, DIPP (216) examined the maternal diet during pregnancy
