Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


associated with incidence of type 1 diabetes (214,215). However, epidemiologic studies of in utero vitamin D exposures have been inconsistent. In Finland, DIPP (216) examined the maternal diet during pregnancy and found that vitamin D intake was not associated with risk of islet autoimmunity nor type 1 diabetes in the child, which contradicts previous studies from the United States and Sweden that found that maternal vitamin D intake during pregnancy was associated with a decreased risk of islet autoimmunity in the child (217,218). In a meta-analysis, the pooled odds ratio with maternal intake of vitamin D during pregnancy was 0.95 (95% CI 0.66–1.36), suggesting no effect of vitamin D intake (219). A Norwegian study found an association between higher serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) in samples collected in late pregnancy and lower risk of type 1 diabetes in the offspring (220), whereas a Finnish study found no such association with samples collected in the first trimester of pregnancy (221). Multiple studies have examined the role of vitamin D exposure in infancy in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes. The EURODIAB multicenter case-control study found that diabetic children were less likely to have been given vitamin D supplements in infancy than control children (222). This finding is similar to that found in the previously described case-control study from Norway, where diabetic children were less likely to have been given cod liver oil supplements during infancy compared to controls (223). However, as fish oils contain both omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D, it is not possible to attribute this association to one specific component. In a large, historical prospective study from Finland, infants who received no vitamin D supplementation had higher risk of type 1 diabetes than those who did receive supplements (224). Two meta- analyses of retrospective studies showed that the risk of type 1 diabetes was significantly reduced in infants who were supplemented with vitamin D compared to those who were not supplemented (pooled OR 0.71) (219,225). However, in a Swedish prospective study, no association was found between an intermediate dose of vitamin D supplementation during infancy and development of diabetes- related autoantibodies (218). Determinants of circulating 25(OH)D, the inactive circulating form of vitamin D and an established marker of vitamin D status, include sun exposure, dietary intake 11–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition (supplements, fatty fish, and vitamin D fortified dairy foods), and genetic predis­ position. The aforementioned studies were
