Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


were also associated with type 1 diabetes. CYP27B1 had previously been associated with type 1 diabetes in 2007 (233). DAISY found that variants in DHCR7 and CYP27B1 were associated with development of islet autoimmunity, but not progression to type 1 diabetes, in children with islet autoimmunity (234). The DHCR7 variant was also found to be associated with 25(OH)D levels in DAISY children; however, since 25(OH)D levels were not associated with islet autoim­ munity or type 1 diabetes risk (226), the effect of this variant is not likely mediated through 25(OH)D levels, suggesting that this enzyme may influence diabetes risk via other mechanisms. POLYUNSATURATED FATTY ACIDS Several studies have demonstrated a strong effect of long-chain polyunsatu­ rated fatty acids, specifically omega-3 fatty acids, on inflammatory responses in animals and humans (235,236). A rela­ tive deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids, a characteristic of many Western diets, may predispose to heightened inflammatory reactions and, thus, increase the risk for autoimmune diseases, such as type 1 diabetes. Alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) is the principal omega-3 fatty acid in Western diets and is found in the green leaves of plants and in flax, canola, walnuts, and soy. The next most common omega-3 fatty acids are eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which are found in fatty fish. Fatty acid levels in plasma or serum and fatty acid content of erythrocyte membranes are short-term and long-term markers of fatty acid status, respectively. In Norway, a prospective study of DHA and EPA and other fatty acids in the phospholipid fraction of maternal serum collected in late pregnancy found no association with risk of type 1 diabetes before age 15 years (237). However, as mentioned previously, children with type 1 diabetes were less likely to have received cod liver oil (which contains DHA and EPA, along with vitamin D) in infancy (223) and had a decreased percentage of DHA in erythrocyte membranes (238) compared with controls. DAISY reported that higher omega-3 fatty acid intake during childhood was associated with a lower risk of islet autoimmunity and, likewise, that higher omega-3 fatty acid levels in the erythrocyte membrane were associated with a lower risk of islet autoimmunity (Figure 11.4) (13). In DIPP, while investigators did not find an association FIGURE 11.4. Risk of Developing Islet Autoimmunity for Reported Dietary Intake of Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Omega-3 Fatty Acid Levels in Erythrocyte Membranes, Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young (DAISY),
