Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


FIGURE 11.4. Risk of Developing Islet Autoimmunity for Reported Dietary Intake of Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Omega-3 Fatty Acid Levels in Erythrocyte Membranes, Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young (DAISY), 1994–2006 CI, confidence interval; HR, hazard ratio. * Hazard ratios calculated for 1-standard deviation difference in omega-3 levels, adjusted for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotype, family history of type 1 diabetes, and caloric intake (for intake variable only). SOURCE: Reference 13 Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes 11–13 between serum EPA or DHA and risk of islet autoimmunity, they showed that lower serum linoleic acid, an omega-6 fatty acid, was associated with increased risk of islet autoimmunity (191). VITAMIN E Animal models suggest that vitamin E, or α-tocopherol, may protect against diabetes (239,240). High maternal intake of vitamin E and other nutrients, such as retinol, beta-carotene, vitamin C, selenium, or manganese, was not associated with development of islet autoimmunity in children (241). Serum α-tocopherol, but not retinol or selenium, was inversely associated with type 1 diabetes in a small case-control study nested within a 21-year follow-up of adult Finnish men (242). In a cohort of initially nondiabetic siblings of children with type 1 diabetes, an inverse association with borderline significance between serum α-tocopherol concentrations and the risk of diabetes was observed (243). However, in DIPP, serum α-tocopherol concentrations were not significantly associated with the risk of islet autoimmunity (244). ZINC Studies have shown that serum, plasma, or intracellular zinc levels are significantly lower in type 1 diabetes patients than in controls (245,246). The role of zinc deficiency in triggering onset or progression of islet autoimmunity is unclear, but it could be related to the synthesis, storage, and secretion of insulin that require zinc for conformational integrity of insulin as a hexamer. Autoantibodies to ZnT8 are present in 60%–80% of newly diagnosed patients with type 1 diabetes (247). Ecologic studies suggest that the incidence rate of childhood diabetes is significantly higher in areas with lower levels of zinc in the drinking water (248,249). In Sweden, water samples from families with children with diabetes had lower concentrations of zinc (OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.57–0.90) than water samples from control families (250). A study from Finland suggests no association between maternal consumption of zinc during pregnancy and risk of islet autoimmunity (241). WEIGHT GAIN, INSULIN RESISTANCE, AND BETA CELL STRESS A number of studies have investigated the hypothesized association between obesity, insulin resistance,
