Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


suggested that increased BMI in child­ hood increased risk of self-reported type 1 diabetes (276). Similarly, in the Australian BabyDiab cohort, higher weight and BMI Z-scores were associated with development of islet autoimmunity (277). However, analyses of the prepu­ bertal DAISY cohort showed that BMI was not associated with development of islet autoimmunity nor progression to type 1 diabetes and that height and weight were weakly inversely associated with risk of islet autoimmunity (278), which is contrary to the Accelerator Hypothesis. However, greater height growth velocity was associated with islet autoimmu­ nity development and type 1 diabetes development, suggesting that velocity of growth and its related stressors may be involved in the progression from genetic susceptibility to islet autoim­ munity and then to type 1 diabetes in prepubertal children. BABYDIAB partic­ ipants positive for islet autoantibodies did not have an increased homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) compared with age-matched islet autoantibody-negative children at ages 8 or 11 years (279). Contrary to the accelerator hypothesis, islet auto­ immunity status was associated with decreased HOMA-IR values, controlling for age and sex (p=0.01). BMI was similar between islet autoantibody-positive and autoantibody-negative children at ages 2, 5, 8, and 11 years and similar to that of national reference values (279). In summary, small and inconsistent effects of height or weight have been reported by some studies, mostly from Scandinavia. These are likely not causally related to the autoimmune disease process in a vast majority of the cases. 11–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Glycemic Index In addition to growth, obesity, and insulin resistance, dietary factors, such as glycemic index and glycemic load, may also stress the beta cells. While development of islet autoimmunity was not associated with either, progression to type 1 diabetes in children with islet autoimmunity was associated with higher glycemic index and load at the first islet autoimmunity-positive visit (280), perhaps due to increased demand on the beta cells to release insulin. TOXINS AND CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS Toxins found in foods or water may activate autoimmune mechanisms in genetically susceptible individuals, and exposure to toxins may result in pancre­ atic islet cell death. Streptozotocin (281,282) or dietary nitrates and nitro­ samines (283) induce islet autoimmunity in animal models. Circumstantial and ecologic evidence suggests a connec­ tion between type 1 diabetes and water containing nitrates, nitrites, or nitrosamines, although other studies have shown either no or contradic­ tory associations (248,284,285). In
