Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


ecologic evidence suggests a connec­ tion between type 1 diabetes and water containing nitrates, nitrites, or nitrosamines, although other studies have shown either no or contradic­ tory associations (248,284,285). In a case-control study in Sweden, type 1 diabetes was associated with consuming higher amounts of foods containing nitrosamines (OR 1.7 and OR 2.6) and nitrates or nitrites (OR 0.8 and OR 2.4 for medium and high, respectively, compared with low amounts) (286). In Sweden, water samples from families with children with diabetes had higher concentrations of nitrate (OR 1.32, 95% CI 1.06–1.64) than water samples from control families (250). In Canada, only a nonsignificant trend between increasing consumption of nitrates in food and type 1 diabetes was observed (287). In Germany, water concentrations of nitrate and nitrite were not associated with risk of either islet autoimmunity or progres­ sion to type 1 diabetes progression (288). Animal studies show that ingestion of subtoxic levels of bafilomycin, a natural toxin found in skins of Streptomyces- infected root vegetables, such as potatoes, by pregnant nonobese diabetic mice results in higher incidence and earlier onset of diabetes in their offspring (289,290,291). Thus, exposure to small quantities of bafilomycin in the maternal diet during pregnancy may contribute to risk of type 1 diabetes in the child. METABOLOMIC STUDIES The serum/plasma metabolite profile detected by combining gas and liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry has established metabolomics as a readout of phenotypes that has enabled the discovery of previously undetected associations between metabolic pathways and diseases. Metabolomics is central to the analysis of samples obtained prior to development of islet autoimmunity. These analyses can be used to test the hypothesis that a trigger(s) of islet autoimmunity induces or acts upon metabolic disturbances that predict the appearance of islet autoantibodies. Similarly, children with islet autoimmunity may express specific serum metabolite profiles heralding clinical onset of diabetes. High genetic risk Finnish children followed since birth until diagnosis of type 1 diabetes had reduced serum levels of succinic acid and phosphatidylcholine already at birth. Furthermore, levels of lysophosphatidylcholine increased months before seroconversion to islet autoantibodies but normalized after seroconversion (292). An independent population of offspring of type 1 diabetes parents has suggested that higher levels of odd-chain triglycerides and polyunsaturated fatty acid-containing phospholipids may predict islet autoimmunity (293). In addition, children developing islet autoimmunity before age 2 years had lower levels of methionine than those developing islet autoimmunity at
