Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


polyunsaturated fatty acid-containing phospholipids may predict islet autoimmunity (293). In addition, children developing islet autoimmunity before age 2 years had lower levels of methionine than those developing islet autoimmunity at older ages (293). A Swedish cohort study used umbilical cord blood lipidomic analysis to identify possible risk markers for the early develop­ ment of type 1 diabetes while controlling for HLA genotype, sex, and date of birth, as well as mother’s age and gestational age (294). A total of 106 lipid metabolites from cord blood samples were identified and, using principal component analysis, were analyzed for their predictive ability. In the children developing type 1 diabetes before age 4 years, lower levels of cord blood phospholipids (phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylethanolamines, and sphingo­ myelins) all predicted development of type 1 diabetes, while in the children devel­ oping type 1 diabetes before age 2 years, triglycerides predicted type 1 diabetes. These results were replicated in a study of cord blood from children in the DIPP study, which also showed higher risk of progression to type 1 diabetes associated with lower levels of choline-containing phospholipids, including sphingomyelins and phosphatidylcholines (295). The metabolomic studies to date present several leads for a search for the envi­ ronmental factors that trigger islet autoimmunity and are involved in the increasing incidence of type 1 diabetes. The alterations in cord blood lipoprotein profiles noted in both the DIPP and Diabetes Prediction in Skåne (DiPiS) studies suggest that the intrauterine environment may affect type 1 diabetes risk. Further, the other early metabolomic changes may reflect specific alterations in the infant’s microbiome. Other lipid­ omic and metabolomic changes noted above that precede the development of autoimmunity may reflect the activation of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory mechanisms in early islet autoimmunity. While fascinating, these findings have to be interpreted with caution as the studies to date have been very small and remain to be replicated (for a comprehensive review see Frohnert and Rewers [296]). Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes 11–15 PSYCHOSOCIAL AND SOCIOECONOMIC FACTORS PSYCHOLOGICAL STRESS A role of psychological stress in the etiology of type 1 diabetes has been suggested by case reports and small case-control studies (297). A cross-sectional study of 4,400 general- population children in Sweden found an association between presence of GAD autoantibodies at age 1 year and the history of high parenting stress (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.2–2.9, p<0.01), serious life events (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.3–4.0), foreign
