Chapter 11: Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, islet, autoimmunity, study, islet autoimmunity, children, studies, childhood, age, associated, increased, exposure


moderate-risk HLA-DR genotypes, suggests that the pressures of an increasingly permissive environment may be more easily observed 11–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition in children with moderate- or low-risk HLA-DR genotypes compared with high- risk genotypes. In addition, one can examine a potential gene x environment interaction in more detail by dividing analyses into exposure*HLA combinations, with one risk group being those who have the exposure but not the HLA genotype, another risk group contains those who have the HLA genotype and not the exposure, and the putative highest risk group (i.e., representing the interaction) would be those with both the HLA genotype and the exposure. Each of these risk groups would be compared to the referent group, who are those with neither the HLA genotype nor the exposure. If the odds ratio in those with both the genetic variant and the exposure is greater than the product of the odds ratio for the exposure and odds ratio for the genotype, then the interaction is considered more than multiplicative. Several studies have examined potential interactions between the HLA variants and dietary exposures. Stene et al. tested whether the effect of different dietary factors (use of cod liver oil and multivitamins by the mother during pregnancy, use of cod liver oil or vitamin D supplements in the first year of life, and exclusive breastfeeding for <3 months) differed across HLA risk groups and found no evidence of interaction, although power was limited (312). In DAISY, the hazard ratios for islet autoimmunity for early and late exposure to cereals in children with HLA-DR3/4 genotype were greater than in children with the moderate and low HLA-DR genotypes, although the interaction term was only marginally significant (168). Studies from Colorado and Chile have indicated a more than multiplicative joint effect of HLA-DR risk and either short duration of exclusive breastfeeding (313) or early introduction of cow’s milk and solid foods (314). As an example, in the Colorado study, the odds ratio for type 1 diabetes for being HLA-DR3/4 in the absence of early exposure to solid foods was 3.1 (95% CI 1.4–7.2), the odds ratio for early exposure to solid foods in the absence of HLA-DR3/4 was 1.7 (95% CI 0.5–5.8), and the odds ratio for having both HLA-DR3/4 and early exposure to solid foods was 6.3 (95% CI 2.5–16.1) (314). The inconsistent findings with childhood cow’s milk consumption and risk of islet autoimmunity
