Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


behavior, autism spectrum disorder) ⚬ Sleep disturbance ⚬ Seizures Laboratory findings. Persistence of fetal hemoglobin detected by standardized laboratory methods, such as hemoglobin HPLC (high-performance liquid chromatography) or hemoglobin electrophoresis Nonspecific brain MRI findings. Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum, hypoplasia of the cerebellar vermis, or white matter abnormalities Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of BCL11A-ID is established in a proband with suggestive findings by identification of a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in BCL11A on molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: Per ACMG variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variants" and "likely pathogenic for clinical decision making. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this section is understood to include any likely pathogenic variants. BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability 3 Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability typically begins with chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA). If CMA is not diagnostic, the next step is typically either a multigene panel or exome sequencing. Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of BCL11A, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) may be considered in individuals with nonfamilial persistence of fetal hemoglobin identified by hematologic assays. CMA uses oligonucleotide or SNP arrays to detect genome-wide large deletions/duplications (including BCL11A) that cannot be detected by sequence analysis. See Genetically Related Disorders for discussion of individuals who have larger deletions or duplications of the 2p15-p16.1 region, which includes BCL11A and surrounding genes. An intellectual disability (ID) multigene panel that includes BCL11A and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition in a person with a nondiagnostic CMA while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Of note, given the rarity of BCL11A-ID, some panels for ID may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. Exome sequencing, which does not require the clinician to determine
