Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


Clinical Description BCL11A-related intellectual disability (BCL11A-ID) is characterized by developmental delay / intellectual disability of variable degree (from mild to severe, but most frequently in the moderate range), neonatal hypotonia, microcephaly, distinctive but variable facial characteristics, behavior problems, and asymptomatic persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HbF). Growth delay, seizures, and autism spectrum disorder have also been reported in some affected individuals. To date, 27 individuals have been reported with a pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in BCL11A [Firth et al 2009, De Rubeis et al 2014, Iossifov et al 2014, Peter et al 2014, Balci et al 2015, Deciphering Developmental Disorders Study Group 2015, Dias et al 2016, Cai et al 2017, Landrum et al 2018, Peron et al 2018, Soblet et al 2018, Yoshida et al 2018]; the authors are aware of additional affected individuals. The following description of the phenotypic features associated with this condition is based on the reported cases and the authors' experience. Developmental delay (DD) and intellectual disability (ID). All individuals with BCL11A-ID present with DD. Speech delay is always present, and gross and fine motor delays are usually seen as well. All affected individuals have ID, with variable levels ranging from mild to severe. Other neurodevelopmental features: • Neonatal hypotonia is seen in the majority of affected individuals, and may result in delayed acquisition of motor milestones (average age at walking: ~30 months). Hypotonia may resolve in childhood, though in some it persists into adolescence. • Infant feeding difficulties are occasionally present and thought to be associated with central hypotonia as opposed to primary dysphagia. BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability 5 • Ataxia and/or broad-based gait has been reported in three affected individuals. Epilepsy has been reported in 5/25 affected individuals [Cai et al 2017, Peron et al 2018, Yoshida et al 2018]. • Various types of seizures have been described (including myoclonic, tonic, and atonic seizures; absence seizures; and spasms) without a common electroclinical pattern. • Age at seizure onset among individuals reported in the literature varied from two months to three years. • Seizures are usually controlled with single or combined (2) anti-seizure medication(s). Three reported individuals had seizures that were drug resistant [Peron et al 2018, Yoshida et al 2018] (see also Genetically Related Disorders). Behavior problems. Most individuals reported have presented with behavior problems [Dias et al 2016]. • Autism spectrum disorder has been described in a subset of affected individuals [De Rubeis
