Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


al 2016, Peron et al 2018]. • White matter abnormalities, including reduced white matter volume, have been reported [Dias et al 2016]. Other associated features • Musculoskeletal features ⚬ Joint hypermobility is a common finding (>80%) in individuals with BCL11A-ID. 6 GeneReviews ® ⚬ Scoliosis has occasionally been reported [Dias et al 2016, Cai et al 2017]. • Gastrointestinal problems. Infantile feeding problems with poor weight gain, gastroesophageal re flux disease (GERD), and constipation have occasionally been reported [Dias et al 2016]. • Craniofacial features. No specific dysmorphic features have been observed. If present, dysmorphic features are nonspecific. ⚬ Affected individuals frequently have flat midface, full cheeks, small nares, thin vermilion of the upper lip, and full or everted vermilion of the lower lip [Dias et al 2016, Peron et al 2018]. ⚬ A subset of individuals have external ear anomalies, including overfolded helix, everted ears, and small earlobe [Liang et al 2009, Dias et al 2016, Soblet et al 2018]. Prognosis. BCL11A-ID is a congenital disorder without known regression of skills. Life span and typical cause of death are unknown due to the limited number of individuals reported to date and ascertainment bias toward diagnosis in childhood. However, the lack of life-limiting congenital anomalies in affected individuals suggests a favorable long-term prognosis with appropriate support. The authors are aware of two affected individuals who are alive and well at 19 and 23 years, respectively [Authors, personal observation], demonstrating that survival into adulthood is possible. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations With the limited number of affected individuals reported to date, no statistically significant genotype-phenotype correlations can be made. However, certain features described to date have been seen only in individuals with loss-of-function (nonsense and frameshift) variants [Dias et al 2016, Yoshida et al 2018]: • Blue sclerae in infancy • Epicanthal folds • Micrognathia or retrognathia • Short stature (mild) Prevalence The prevalence of BCL11A-ID is unknown. To date, 27 affected individuals have been reported in the literature. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No disease phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in BCL11A. 2p15p16.1 deletion syndrome was first reported by Rajcan-Separovic et al in individuals with intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, progressive microcephaly, brain anomalies, renal anomalies, visual defects, neuromotor
