Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


these circumstances predisposition to these tumors is not heritable. Currently there is no evidence that individuals with BCL11A-ID are at increased risk of developing cancer, and no specific cancer screening guidelines for individuals with BCL11A-ID have been published. Differential Diagnosis Table 2 describes specific conditions that may have features that overlap with BCL11A-related intellectual disability (BCL11A-ID). Note: The phenotypic features associated with BCL11A-ID are generally not sufficient to diagnose this condition. All disorders with intellectual disability without other distinctive findings should be considered in the differential diagnosis. See OMIM Autosomal Dominant, Autosomal Recessive, Nonsyndromic X-Linked, and Syndromic X-Linked Intellectual Developmental Disorder Phenotypic Series. Table 2. Selected Disorders to Consider in the Differential Diagnosis of BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability Key Clinical Features of DiffDx Disorder DiffDx Disorder Gene(s) MOI Overlapping w/BCL11A-ID Distinguishing from BCL11A-ID • Facial features incl blepharophimosis & KANSL1-related ID, infant hypotonia, joint bulbous or tubular nose intellectual disability KANSL1 AD hypermobility, everted lower lip, • More frequent congenital anomalies (renal syndrome strabismus & urogenital anomalies, heart defects) • Craniofacial features (telecanthus, tented vermilion of upper lip, progressive • ID, hypotonia, small head coarsening of facial features), genital Alpha-thalassemia X- circumference, everted lower lip, abnormalities, & skeletal abnormalities linked intellectual short nose, short stature • ID is typically severe to profound in boys ATRX XL disability syndrome • Facial gestalt in a subset of those (heterozygous females w/craniofacial (ATRX) w/BCL11A-ID resembles that of features, ID, & growth restriction have ATRX. 1 been described). 2 • Alpha-thalassemia (in ~85% of individuals) AD = autosomal dominant; DiffDx = differential diagnosis; ID = intellectual disability; MOI = mode of inheritance; XL = X-linked 1. Peron et al 2. Badens et al 8 GeneReviews ® Management Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with BCL11A-ID, the evaluations summarized in Table 3 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to diagnosis) are recommended. Table 3. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis in Individuals with BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability System/Concern Evaluation Comment • EEG if seizures suspected Assessment for hypotonia & signs/ Neurologic • Consider brain MRI to detect brain symptoms of seizures abnormalities. For persons age >18 mos: screen for behavior problems Psychiatric/ Neuropsychiatric eval incl sleep disturbances, ADHD, anxiety, &/or traits Behavioral suggestive of ASD. Weight, length/height, & head Assess for evidence of short stature, failure to thrive, Constitutional circumference microcephaly. Eyes Ophthalmologic eval
