Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


available in all states. Ages 3-5 years. In the US, developmental preschool through the local public school district is recommended. Before placement, an evaluation is made to determine needed services and therapies and an individualized education plan (IEP) is developed. Ages 5-21 years • In the US, an IEP based on the individual's level of function should be developed by the local public school district. Affected children are permitted to remain in the public school district until age 21. • Discussion about transition plans including financial, vocation/employment, guardianship, and medical arrangements should begin at age 12 years. Developmental pediatricians can provide assistance with transition to adulthood. All ages. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician is recommended to ensure the involvement of appropriate community, state, and educational agencies and to support parents in maximizing quality of life. Consideration of private supportive therapies based on the affected individual's needs is recommended. Spe cific recommendations regarding type of therapy can be made by a developmental pediatrician. In the US: • Developmental Disabilities Administration (DDA) enrollment is recommended. DDA is a public agency that provides services and support to qualified individuals. Eligibility differs by state but is typically determined by diagnosis and/or associated cognitive/adaptive disabilities. • Families with limited income and resources may also qualify for supplemental security income (SSI) for their child with a disability. Motor Dysfunction Gross motor dysfunction • Physical therapy is recommended to maximize mobility. • Consider use of durable medical equipment as needed (e.g., wheelchairs, walkers, bath chairs, orthotics, adaptive strollers). Fine motor dysfunction. Occupational therapy is recommended for difficulty with fine motor skills that affec t adaptive function such as feeding, grooming, dressing, and writing. 10 GeneReviews ® Oral motor dysfunction. Assuming that the individual is safe to eat by mouth, feeding therapy, typically from an occupational or speech therapist, is recommended for affected individuals who have difficulty feeding as a result of poor oral motor control. Communication issues. Consider evaluation for alternative means of communication (e.g., augmentative and alternative communication [AAC]) for individuals who have expressive language difficulties. Social/Behavioral Concerns Children may qualify for and benefit from interventions used in treatment of autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA therapy is targeted to the individual child's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and is typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician and/or a psychiatrist may be helpful
