Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and is typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician and/or a psychiatrist may be helpful in guiding parents through appropriate behavior management strategies or providing prescription medications, such as medication used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, when necessary. Concerns about serious aggressive or destructive behavior can be addressed by a pediatric psychiatrist. Surveillance Table 5. Recommended Surveillance for Individuals with BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Neurologic Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. As clinically indicated Behavioral assessment for anxiety, attention, & aggressive or self- Monitor clinically at each visit; refer for eval as Psychiatric injurious behavior indicated. Weight, length/height, & head circumference measurements Constitutional At each visit plotted on standard growth chart Eyes Ophthalmologic eval As clinically indicated Musculoskeletal Monitor for scoliosis. Orthopedic eval as indicated. Monitor clinically at each visit. Gastrointestinal Assessment of feeding difficulties, GERD, constipation At each visit (particularly in infancy) Miscellaneous/ Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. At each visit Other GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disorder Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic BCL11A-Related Intellectual Disability 11 status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance BCL11A-related intellectual disability (BCL11A-ID) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Almost all probands reported to date with BCL11A-ID whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as a result of a de novo BCL11A pathogenic variant. • One individual diagnosed with BCL11A-ID inherited a pathogenic variant from a heterozygous parent; the clinical
