Bookshelf_NBK547048
KEYWORDS: individuals, intellectual, disability, intellectual disability, pathogenic, affected, related, disorder, developmental, reported, genetic, variant, affected individuals, related intellectual, variants


testing have the disorder as a result of a de novo BCL11A pathogenic variant. • One individual diagnosed with BCL11A-ID inherited a pathogenic variant from a heterozygous parent; the clinical status of the heterozygous parent is unknown [Firth et al 2009]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband with an apparent de novo pathogenic variant. • If the BCL11A pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the pathogenic variant most likely occurred de novo in the proband. Another possible explanation is that the proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline mosaicism. Although theoretically possible, no instances of germline mosaicism have been reported to date. • Theoretically, if the parent is the individual in whom the BCL11A pathogenic variant first occurred, the parent may have somatic mosaicism for the variant and may be mildly/minimally affected. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the the pathogenic variant. • If the BCL11A pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be 1% because of the theoretic possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Rahbari et al 2016]. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with a BCL11A-ID has a 50% chance of inheriting the BCL11A pathogenic variant. It is not possible to reliably predict clinical severity in offspring who inherit the pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the BCL11A pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. However, given that almost all probands with BCL11A-ID reported to date have the disorder as a result of a de novo BCL11A pathogenic variant, the risk to other family members is presumed to be low. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. 12 GeneReviews ® Prenatal Testing
