Direct Current (DC) Cardioversion-Defibrillation
KEYWORDS: cardioversion, biphasic, shock, devices, monophasic, defibrillation, ventricular, energy, level, energy level, current, necessary, biphasic devices, specification, used


The decision to treat an arrhythmia depends on its symptoms and its potential severity. Treatment is directed at causes. If necessary, direct antiarrhythmic therapy, including antiarrhythmic drugs, direct current (DC) cardioversion-defibrillation, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), pacemakers (and a special form of pacing, cardiac resynchronization therapy), catheter ablation, surgery, or a combination, is used. A transthoracic DC shock of sufficient magnitude depolarizes the entire myocardium, rendering the entire heart momentarily refractory to repeat depolarization. Thereafter, the most rapid intrinsic pacemaker, usually the sinoatrial (SA) node, reassumes control of heart rhythm. Thus, DC cardioversion- defibrillation very effectively terminates tachyarrhythmias that result from reentry. However, it is less effective for terminating tachyarrhythmias that result from automaticity because the return rhythm is likely to be the automatic tachyarrhythmia. For tachyarrhythmias other than ventricular fibrillation (VF) and pulseless ventricular tachycardia (VT), the shock must be synchronized to the QRS complex (called cardioversion) because a shock that falls during the vulnerable period (near the peak of the T wave) can induce VF. In VF, synchronization of a shock to the QRS complex is neither necessary nor possible. A shock applied without synchronization to a QRS complex is defibrillation. DC cardioversion or defibrillation can be delivered as Monophasic current Biphasic current Monophasic current travels in one direction between the 2 electrodes. In biphasic devices, the current reverses direction part way through the shock waveform. Most manual and automated external defibrillators (AEDs) are biphasic because of potential safety and efficacy advantages. In randomized trials including patients in the controlled setting of induced ventricular fibrillation, the application of lower energy biphasic waveforms achieved similar defibrillation efficacy compared with monophasic waveforms, which may result in less myocardial injury (1). However, this potential benefit has not been proven when studied in trials of patients receiving either monophasic or biphasic waveform defibrillation in the uncontrolled situation of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (2). Biphasic devices are also smaller in size (making them more portable). Procedure for DC cardioversion 1/3 When DC cardioversion is elective, patients should fast for 6 to 8 hours before the procedure to avoid the possibility of aspiration. Because the procedure is frightening and painful, brief general anesthesia or IV analgesia and sedation (eg, fentanyl and midazolam) is necessary. Equipment and personnel to maintain the airway and provide additional support, if necessary, must be present. How To Do Synchronized Cardiov... VIDEO The electrodes (pads or paddles) used for cardioversion may be placed
