Direct Current (DC) Cardioversion-Defibrillation
KEYWORDS: cardioversion, biphasic, shock, devices, monophasic, defibrillation, ventricular, energy, level, energy level, current, necessary, biphasic devices, specification, used


to maintain the airway and provide additional support, if necessary, must be present. How To Do Synchronized Cardiov... VIDEO The electrodes (pads or paddles) used for cardioversion may be placed anteroposteriorly (along the left sternal border over the third and fourth intercostal spaces and in the left infrascapular region) or anterolaterally (between the clavicle and the second intercostal space along the right sternal border and over the fifth and sixth intercostal spaces at the apex of the heart). After synchronization to the QRS complex is confirmed on the monitor, a shock is delivered. The most appropriate energy level varies with the tachyarrhythmia being treated. Cardioversion and defibrillation efficacy increases with use of biphasic shocks. For defibrillation of ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia, the energy level for the first shock in adults is 120 to 200 joules for biphasic devices (or according to manufacturer specification) although many practitioners use the maximum device output in this setting 360 joules for monophasic devices (or according to manufacturer specification) Subsequent shocks are at the same or higher energy level for biphasic devices and are at the same level for monophasic devices. For synchronized cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, the energy level for the first shock in adults is 120 to 200 joules for biphasic devices (or depending on manufacturer specification) (3) 200 joules for monophasic devices (or according to manufacturer specification) 2/3 Subsequent shocks are typically at a higher energy level for both biphasic and monophasic devices. DC cardioversion-defibrillation can also be applied directly to the heart during a thoracotomy or through use of an intracardiac electrode catheter; then, much lower energy levels are required. Complications of DC cardioversion Complications are usually minor and include atrial and ventricular premature beats and muscle soreness. Less commonly, but more likely if patients have marginal left ventricular function or multiple shocks are used, cardioversion can precipitate myocyte damage and electromechanical dissociation.
