Sirinawasatien and Sakulthongthawin
KEYWORDS: esophagus, esophageal, distal, corkscrew, esophageal spasm, upper, case, jackhammer, endoscopy, spasm, motility, high-resolution, manometry, hrm, normal


Sirinawasatien and Sakulthongthawin BMC Gastroenterol (2021) 21:222 CASE REPORT Open Access Manometrically jackhammer esophagus with fluoroscopically/endoscopically distal esophageal spasm: a case report Apichet Sirinawasatien* and Pallop Sakulthongthawin Abstract Background: Jackhammer esophagus is a rare esophageal motility disorder that can result in dysphagia, chest pain, and gastro-esophageal reflux symptoms. High-resolution manometry is the gold standard for diagnosis, while cork- screw esophagus on upper gastrointestinal endoscopy is an uncommon manifestation. Case presentation: 72-year-old man who presented with progressive dysphagia for three months without symp- toms of chest pain or heartburn. Initial workup showed a corkscrew esophagus on upper gastrointestinal endoscopy; subsequently, high-resolution manometry revealed an esophago-gastric junction outflow obstruction with hypercon- tractile (jackhammer) esophagus. Treatment with calcium channel blockers and proton pump inhibitors was success- ful and relieved his symptoms near completion. Conclusions: Even though the corkscrew esophagus is typically for distal esophageal spasm, the hypercontractile (jackhammer) esophagus can appear. The high-resolution manometry can help to distinguish each specific motility disorder. Keywords: Jackhammer esophagus, Corkscrew esophagus, High-resolution manometry, Dysphagia, Case report Background criteria for JH esophagus as at least 20 % of swallows with Jackhammer (JH) esophagus is defined as normally prop- a distal contractile integral (DCI) of over 8000 mmhg- agated esophageal peristaltic contractions with extremely s-cm on esophageal HRM . Here, we reported a rare elevated amplitudes . Patients with this esophageal case of manometrically JH esophagus with fluoroscopi- hypercontractility disorder normally present with dys- cally/endoscopically distal esophageal spasm. phagia and noncardiac chest pain. A corkscrew appear- Case presentation ance in barium studies and upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy has been described in distal (or also called A 72-year-old man presented with three months’ his- diffuse) esophageal spasm , while in JH esophagus tory of progressive dysphagia for solid and liquid foods. it is an uncommon finding. Nowadays, high-resolution He also had frequent instances of regurgitation of food manometry (HRM) is the gold standard for the diagnosis without any symptoms of chest pain or heartburn, while of this esophageal motility disorder . Recently, the new his body weight remained constant. His Eckard score was Chicago classification version 4.0 describes the diagnostic 5 points which consist of dysphagia each meal and daily regurgitation. He had underlying hypertension and dys- lipidemia and was taking losartan 50 mg/day and simv- *Correspondence: astatin 20 mg/day. He denied any history of smoking, Bangkok 10400, Thailand © The Author(s) 2021. This article is licensed under a Creative
