Sirinawasatien and Sakulthongthawin
KEYWORDS: esophagus, esophageal, distal, corkscrew, esophageal spasm, upper, case, jackhammer, endoscopy, spasm, motility, high-resolution, manometry, hrm, normal


association with an IRP greater than the upper limit of normal. This Discussion and conclusions has several potential etiologies, including incompletely JH esophagus is an uncommon esophageal motility disor- expressed achalasia or early achalasia. Supporting this der identified in 4 % of patients who undergo manometry contention, among a series of 12 patients diagnosed with . It is an extreme phenotype of the hypercontractility JH esophagus on HRM, 3 (25 %) progressed to type III esophageal disorder, described less than a decade ago, achalasia, 1 (8 %) reverted to normal manometry, and which is characteristics repetitive and excessively force- 8 (67 %) had persistent JH esophagus over a mean of 24 ful contractions during peristalsis . This disorder pre- months. Whereas, a manometric finding of impaired EGJ served normal contractile propagation and normal distal relaxation found at the time of diagnosis with JH esopha- contractile latency, thereby excluding achalasia and dis- gus may predict this progression. tal esophageal spasm . Hypercontractile (JH) esopha- These patients have major symptoms of dysphagia gus can be a manifestation of EGJ outflow obstruction (72 %), pyrosis (42 %), retrosternal chest pain (36 %), and a b Fig. 1 Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed the corkscrew appearance of the lower esophagus (a); and normal esophagogastric junction (b) Fig. 3 High-resolution esophageal manometry representative of the patient’s swallows. The median integrated relaxation pressure (IRP) was borderline high at 15.5 mmHg, a distal latency (DL) was normal at 6.5 s and the mean distal contractile integral (DCI) was elevated to 14,458 mmHg-s-cm. High amplitude peristaltic esophageal contraction with a DCI > 8000 mmHg-s-cm represented the hypercontractile (JH) esophagus epigastralgia (33 %) . Dysphagia is associated with esophagus in a patient with dysphagia was reported by strong contractions of the LES reflex, possible outflow Han and Wagh, but that patient was finally diagnosed obstruction, and a very high DCI, whereas chest pain is with type III (spastic) achalasia by HRM . not associated with any of the manometric findings . Currently, the standard treatment of this disease is not Various endoscopic findings have been reported in well defined. Pharmacologic treatment should be selected patients with JH esophagus. Mallet et al. reported that as the first choice, includes smooth muscle relaxants 54.3 % of these patients had gastro-esophageal reflux dis- such as calcium channel blockers, nitrates, or phospho- ease (GERD), while an upper GI endoscopy showed non- diesterase-5 inhibitors, which
