Sirinawasatien and Sakulthongthawin
KEYWORDS: esophagus, esophageal, distal, corkscrew, esophageal spasm, upper, case, jackhammer, endoscopy, spasm, motility, high-resolution, manometry, hrm, normal


relaxants 54.3 % of these patients had gastro-esophageal reflux dis- such as calcium channel blockers, nitrates, or phospho- ease (GERD), while an upper GI endoscopy showed non- diesterase-5 inhibitors, which reduce both LES pressure erosive to mild reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles grade A) and esophageal contraction amplitude . Another . A case report by Tanaka et al. revealed abnormally option which can relieve chest pain symptoms without strong contractions in the distal esophagus on upper GI improvement in motility function is low-dose antidepres- endoscopy and pathological results of the esophageal sants . Endoscopic therapies for refractory symptoms biopsy specimens showed massive eosinophil infiltration which aim to decrease the abnormal contraction vigor into the epithelium, which were diagnosed as JH esopha- include botulinum toxin injection, pneumatic dilation, gus due to eosinophilic esophagitis . In another study and peroral endoscopic myotomy all of which have been by Clément et al. found that most of them were nor- reported to achieve some success [13–15]. mal, about one-third who had abnormal findings during The rational of proton pump inhibitor used in this endoscopy included hiatal hernia, longitudinal striae, patient based on the pathophysiological mechanisms that impression of esophageal dilatations, and increased LES esophageal acid perfusion can induce esophageal spasm tone. , as well as, there was some evidence showed that Overall, no typical endoscopic feature which was a hall- spastic motility disorders can also occur in conjunction mark for JH esophagus, while a corkscrew esophagus was with, or as a consequence of GERD . Never- an uncommon finding on upper GI endoscopy reports in theless, the flaw of the present report was the lack of the literatures such as the one in our present study. Mean- evidence of GERD by either pH-testing or endoscopy. while, a typical corkscrew appearance of the lower esoph- In summary, we describe a rare case of JH esophagus agus is usually associated with distal esophageal spasm with a corkscrew esophagus on upper GI endoscopy, , however, similar endoscopic findings to corkscrew the classic finding for which an endoscopist is usually diagnosed with distal esophageal spasm; however, other 4. Clément M, Zhu WJ, Neshkova E, Bouin M. Jackhammer esophagus: from manometric diagnosis to clinical presentation. Can J Gastroenterol possible diagnoses such as achalasia should be kept in Hepatol. 2019;3:5036160. mind before the disease has been confirmed by HRM. 5. Yadlapati R, Kahrilas PJ, Fox MR, Bredenoord AJ, Prakash Gyawali C,
