Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


evidence indicatesthat furtherresearchwould belikely eration that the currently available international to have an impact on the confidence of the estimate, guidelines, both for children and adults, are outdated. whereas ‘‘low’’-quality evidence indicates that further In recent years there was a plethora of new data that study would likely have an important impact on the need to be critically evaluated and incorporated in a confidence in the estimate of the effect and would structured manner in an updated guideline. likely change the estimate. The board members of the European Society for the SupplementFile1givesanoverviewoftheGRADE StudyofCoeliacDisease(EScCD),atrans-nationaland system. multidisciplinary group including both paediatricians and adult gastroenterologists, have undertaken the Overview task of providing up-to-date guidelines dealing with gluten-related disorders. Furthermore, two of the 1. Review of the evidence and recommendations boardrepresentativeswerenominatedbytheEuropean 1.1. Definitions Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology 1.2. Epidemiological factors andNutrition(ESPGHAN). 1.2.1. Genetics 1.2.2. Environmental factors 2. Serology in CD diagnosis Writing the manuscript 2.1. Who should be tested for CD? At first there was a detailed revision of the currently 2.2. The role of serology in CD diagnosis availableguidelines.Thesecondstepincludedanexten- 2.2.1. IgA-Anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA) sivesearchoftheliteratureusingthePubMeddatabase. 2.2.2. Tissue transglutaminase (TG2) and endo- We searched for articles published from 1 January 1 mysium (EMA) testing 1990 to present using the terms ‘‘celiac’’, ‘‘coeliac’’, 2.2.3. Deamidated gliadin peptides (IgA and ‘‘non-tropical sprue’’ and ‘‘gluten’’. This is in addition IgG-DGP) totheterms‘‘dermatitisherpetiformis’’,‘‘enteropathy’’ 2.3. IgA deficiency and ‘‘ataxia’’, with no language restrictions. In our 2.4. Other serology assay methods selection of articles, we emphasised those published 2.5. Interpretation of serological results since 2000, but included older landmark publications 2.6. Point-of-care tests ofscientificandhistoricalrelevance.Wemostlyselected 2.7. Serological test in saliva and faeces cohort and case–control studies and the few rando- 3. Endoscopy and histopathology mised trials performed in this subject area and also 3.1. Endoscopic findings and biopsy relevance. There was significant input from distin- 3.3. The histopathology report guished reviewers who have extensive experience in 3.4. Differential diagnosis based on histopathology the field of diagnosis and management of CD. The lit- 3.5. Correlation of mucosal damage with serological erature search and preparing the first draft of the findings manuscript was conducted between January and 4. Other issues in CD diagnosis August 2018. 4.1. Novel diagnostic methods TheboardmembersoftheEScCDreviewedcritically 4.2. HLA-DQ2/8 typing eachsectionofthemanuscript.Thegroupinitiallymade 4.3. Other tests in CD diagnosis contact via email, which was followed by a meeting in 4.3.1. Video capsule endoscopy (VCE) Vienna, Austria, parallel to the United European 4.3.2. Intestinal
