Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


evidence and 10.1. Diagnostic aspects 10.1.1. Who should be tested for CD in child- recommendations hood and adolescence? 1.1. Definitions 10.1.2. Approach for a child with symptoms/ signs suggestive of CD Gluten ingestion has been linked with a range of 10.1.4. Approach for an asymptomatic child orders, which have gradually emerged as an epidemio- with an increased risk for CD logically relevant phenomenon. Besides CD, the 10.1.5. Gluten challenge spectrumofthesedisordersincludesdermatitisherpeti- 10.2. Follow-up formisanddisorderssuchasgluten-sensitiveataxiaand 10.3.TransitionfromchildhoodtoadulthoodinCD NCGS. Gluten is the water-insoluble protein mass that 10.3.1. The process of transfer of care remainswhenwheatdoughiswashedtoremovestarch, 10.3.2. Issues that need to be discussed during albuminsandotherwater-solubleproteins.2Glutenand transfer gluten-related proteins are present in wheat, rye and 586 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) barley and are used widely in food processing to give screening of the general population. The female-to- dough the desired baking properties, add flavours and male ratio ranges from 1:3 to 1.5:1. CD is known to improve texture. Coeliac disease is a chronic, multi- affect all age groups, including the elderly; more than organ autoimmune disease that affects the small- 70%ofnewpatientsarediagnosedabovetheageof20 bowel in genetically predisposed persons precipitated years.10 Some of these adults probably have had unde- by the ingestion of gluten.2,3 Historically, it used to tected disease since childhood; in other cases theyhave beknownascoeliacsprue,gluten-sensitiveenteropathy contracted the disease in adulthood.11 ornon-tropicalsprue.AsubgroupofCDisregardedas TheriskofhavingCDismuchgreaterinfirst-degree a ‘‘potential’’ CD because they have a normal small- relatives (5–10%) but lesser in second-degree relatives, bowel mucosa but positive CD-serology along with as well as in individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus HLA-DQ2 and/or -DQ8 positivity. (T1DM) and other autoimmune diseases, Down syn- histopathological characteristics, CD may be subdi- Studiesontwinsshowedasignificantlyhigherconcord- vided into different categories, such as seronegative, ance in monozygotic twins than in dizygotic twins.14 slow-responders and refractory CD. These will be fur- Monozygotic and dizygotic twins had 70% and 9% ther defined in the dedicated sections. cumulative probability of having symptomatic or Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a cutaneous mani- silent forms of CD, respectively, within 5 years. festationofCDcharacterizedbyherpetiformclustersof Clinically severe manifestations may occur postpar- pruritic urticated papules and vesicles on the skin and tum, especially during the puerperium in 15–20% of granular IgA deposits in the dermal papillae. The skin coeliac women.13 lesions usually clear with gluten withdrawal but not in all adults.4 1.2.1. Genetics. ThespecificroleoftheHLA-DQA1and Gluten ataxia is defined as an otherwise idiopathic HLA-DQB1 genes in the presentation of gluten pep- sporadic ataxia in association with positive coeliac tides as antigens makes
