Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


1.2.1. Genetics. ThespecificroleoftheHLA-DQA1and Gluten ataxia is defined as an otherwise idiopathic HLA-DQB1 genes in the presentation of gluten pep- sporadic ataxia in association with positive coeliac tides as antigens makes the MHC-HLA locus the serology with or without enteropathy.5 Other alterna- most important genetic factor in the development of tive explanations of ataxia such as genetic disorders, CD.15–17 The majority (in some populations 90–95%) ischaemia and paraneoplastic phenomena need to be of CD patients carry HLA-DQ2.5 heterodimers, excluded. Non-coeliac gluten sensitivity is a condition encoded by DQA1*05 and DQB1*02 alleles, which characterized by irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)-like may be inherited together on the same chromosome symptoms and extra-intestinal manifestations, occur- (cis configuration) or separately on the two homolo- ring in a few hours or days after ingestion of gous chromosomes (trans configuration).18,19 The gluten-containing food, improving rapidly with remaining patients (5–10%) carry either HLA-DQ8 gluten withdrawal and relapsing soon after gluten heterodimers encoded by DQA1*03 with DQB1*03:02 challenge. Pre-requisite for suspecting NCGS is the or they carry HLA-DQ2.2. Some rare patients (<1%) exclusion of both CD and wheat allergy (WA) when not carrying these heterodimers express the other half the patient is still on a gluten-containing diet. Besides of the DQ2.5 heterodimer (DQ7.5).17,19 gluten, other potential culprits of this syndrome are Homozygous DQ2.5 carries the highest CD risk up amylase-trypsin inhibitors (ATIs) and fructans (rich to 30%, versus 3% risk in heterozygous genotype. in fermentable oligo di-mono-saccharides and polyols HLA-DQ2.5 homozygosity is associated with a more or FODMAPs), which are all components of wheat classical presentation and complicated CD.20 and other gluten-containing and non-gluten The presence of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) foodstuffs.6,7 risk alleles is a necessary, but not a sufficient, factor for the development of CD. 21 Although key to the pathogenesis of CD, HLA haplotypes alone confer 1.2. Epidemiological factors approximately 35–40% of the genetic risk.19,21 The prevalence of CD has significantly increased over Additional non-HLA genomic regions identified as thepast50years.Therehasbeenasubstantialincrease being associated with CD appear to explain some of in the numbers of new cases, partly due to better diag- the genetic heritability.21 nostictoolsandthoroughscreeningofindividualscon- sidered to be at high risk for the disorder.8,9 CD still 1.2.2. Environmental factors. Gluten exposure is essential representsastatisticaliceberg,withstillmorecasesthat for the development of CD. However, the duration of need to be diagnosed.8,9 The majority of patients with breast feeding and/or time of gluten introduction have CD remain undetected world-wide. no impact on the
