Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


CD. However, the duration of need to be diagnosed.8,9 The majority of patients with breast feeding and/or time of gluten introduction have CD remain undetected world-wide. no impact on the risk of developing CD. In western countries, the prevalence is around 0.6% Thereiscurrently noevidence to recommend avoid- histologically confirmed and 1% in serological ing either an early (at 4 months of age) or a late (at or Al-Toma et al. 587 after 6 or even 12 months) gluten introduction in chil- first-degreerelatives.12Theriskishighestinmonozygous dren at risk of CD.22–24 twins,nextinHLA-matchedsiblings,siblings,andfinally Lossofglutentolerancecanoccuratanytimeinlife parentsandchildrenofpatientswithCD.12Alowerrate as a consequence of other triggers besides gluten. probably applies to second-degree relatives.13 HLA Gastrointestinal infections, medications, a-interferon typing, if available, can be considered as the first line and surgery have also been implicated as trigger test for first-degree relatives; no further workup is factors.25–27 needed on those who are negative for HLA-DQ2/8. Membersoffamilieswhohavemorethanoneindividual identifiedwithCDareathigher risk ofCD,and recom- 2. Serology in CD diagnosis mendations for screening should extend to all other familymembers,includingsecond-degreerelatives.10,12,32 2.1. Who should be tested for CD? Patientswithunexplainedelevationofliverenzymes CD may present in many different ways. Traditionally shouldbeassessedforCD.Thereareconsiderabledata patients with CD presented with malabsorption domi- showingthatgluten-dependenthypertransaminasaemia nated by diarrhoea, steatorrhea, weight loss or failure willnormalizeinmostpatients(>95%)onaGFD.35,36 to thrive. However, CD can present with a wide range Rarely, CD can be associated with severe liver disease of symptoms and signs, including anaemia, vague and even liver failure.37 abdominal symptoms (often similar to IBS), reflux In patients with T1DM there is evidence that CD is oesophagitis, eosinophilic oesophagitis, neuropathy, substantially more common than in the general popu- ataxia, depression, short stature, osteomalacia and lation. The estimates vary between 3 and 10%.38,39 In osteoporosis, unexplained liver transaminitis, adverse comparisontothosewithisolatedT1DM,patientswith pregnancy outcomes and even lymphoma.28 undiagnosed CD and T1DM have a higher prevalence MalabsorptioninCD,ifpresent,resultsfromdamage of retinopathy (58% vs. 25%) and nephropathy (42% to the small-bowel mucosa with loss of absorptive sur- vs. 4%).40,41 facearea,reductionofdigestiveenzymes(bothluminal Several reports suggested that various operations, andalsopancreaticenzymes)withconsequentimpaired particularlyupperGIoperations,mayunmaskundiag- absorption of micronutrients such as fat-soluble vita- nosed CD, such as fundoplication, gastrectomy, pan- mins, iron, B12 and folic acid.29,30 In addition, the creaticoduodenectomy and bariatric gastric bypass. inflammation causes net secretion of fluid that can This phenomenon may be related to altered nutrient result in diarrhoea. Weightloss mightbe dueto failure absorption, motility, perioperative stress and hormone of absorption of adequate calories. Furthermore, mal- derangements.42,43 absorption results in abdominal pain and bloating.31 Table 1 summarizes the indications for CD testing. Abdominal pain
