Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


motility, perioperative stress and hormone of absorption of adequate calories. Furthermore, mal- derangements.42,43 absorption results in abdominal pain and bloating.31 Table 1 summarizes the indications for CD testing. Abdominal pain could be also attributed to small- bowel distension, inflammation with thickening of 2.2. The role of serology in CD diagnosis the proximal jejunal wall and because of this intermit- tentintussusception.Also,painmaybeduetoanasso- 2.2.1. IgA-anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA). Several antibody ciatedIBS.32 tests have been developed to detect CD. IgA-AGA has In children it is often characterized by failure to been used for decades and is reasonably accurate (sen- thrive, diarrhoea, muscle wasting, poor appetite and sitivity 85% and specificity 90%) when there is a high abdominal distension.33 Many of these children also pre-testprevalenceofCDbutperformsratherpoorlyin show signs of emotional distress, ‘‘change of mood’’ the general population setting.44,45 and lethargy. Others may have constipation and Nowadays AGA-testing has been replaced by more abdominal pain. accurate serological assays largely because of poor Currently,activecase-finding(serological testingfor specificity.46 CD among individuals with only subtle or atypical symptoms, and in risk groups) is a favoured strategy 2.2.2. Tissue transglutaminase (TG2) and endomysium(EMA) to increase detection of CD. Data from Finland sug- testing. It was with the advent of autoantibodies, first gested that this strategy and the increased alertness to directed against reticulin, then EMA and finally TG2 the condition have made efficient diagnosis of CD antibodies, that the truly coeliac-specific testing was possible.34 developed.TheidentificationofTG2asthetargetanti- ThefrequencyofCDissubstantiallyincreasedinper- gen for IgA-EMA antibodies was a major break- sonswhohaveafirst-degreefamilymemberaffectedwith through.47 The sensitivity and also specificity of TG2 CD.12,13Onemulticentrestudyreporteda rate of5%in for untreated CD is about 95%.46 The higher the titre both first- and second-degree relatives.9 Other studies ofanti-TG2,thegreateristhelikelihoodofatrueposi- show a rate of up to 20% in siblings and 10% in other tive result. 588 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) Table 1. Whoshouldbetested forCD? Endoscopy and duodenal biopsy even if CD serology is CD serology is indicated: biopsy is needed only when ser- negative ologyispositive (1)Chronic( non-bloody)diarrhoea (1)IBS (2) Diarrhoea with features of malabsorption, especially (2)Elevatedotherwise unexplainedliver transaminases weight loss (3)ChronicGIsymptomswithoutafamilyhistoryofCDora (3)Irondeficiencyanaemiainabsenceofothercauses personalhistory ofautoimmune disease (4)GI symptomswith afamilyhistoryof CD (4)Microscopiccolitis (5) Gl symptoms in patient with autoimmune disease or (5)Hashimoto’sthyroiditis andGraves’disease IgAdeficiency (6)Osteopenia/osteoporosis (6)Failureto thrive inchildren (7)Unexplainedataxiaorperipheralneuropathy (7)Skinbiopsy-provenDH (8)Recurrent aphthousulcerations/dentalenamel defects (8)Patientwithvideocapsulefindingssuggestiveforvil- (9) Infertility, recurrent miscarriage, late menarche, early lousatrophy menopause (9)Unexplained highoutput ileo-(colo-)stomy (10) Chronicfatiguesyndrome (11) Acute or chronic pancreatitis after excluding other knowncauses (12)Epilepsy;headachesincludingmigraines;mooddisorders; orattention-deficitdisorder/cognitiveimpairment (13)Hyposplenismorfunctionalasplenia (14)PsoriasisorotherskinlesionsthanDH (15)Down’sorTurner’ssyndrome (16)Pulmonaryhaemosiderosis (17)IgAnephropathy Thetest isbasedonan enzyme-linked immunosorb- IgA -and/
