Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


if negative, no further work-up is needed. tive serology.57 (Conditional recommendation, high level of evidence) (3) CDshouldbeexcludedinpatientswithunexplained 2.6. Point-of-care tests (POCT) elevation of serum aminotransferase levels. (Strong Several POCTs for CD have been developed. The recommendation, high level of evidence) results on the usefulness of these POCTs in adults (4) T1DM should be screened regularly for CD. thus far are conflicting, and therefore these tests have (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 590 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) Role of serology in CD diagnosis 3.2. Histopathological findings (1) IgA-TG2 antibody isthe preferred singletest for detectionofCDatanyage.(Strongrecommenda- ThediagnosisofCDreliesonacombinationofclinical, tion, high level of evidence) serological and histopathological findings. Because of (2) Total IgA level needs to be measured concur- the changing presentation of disease and the recogni- rentlywithserologytestingtodeterminewhether tion of many potential histopathological mimics, IgAlevelsaresufficient.(Strongrecommendation, communication between pathologists and gastroenter- moderate level of evidence) ologists is essential for appropriate interpretation of (3)InpatientswithselectivetotalIgA-deficiency,IgG- small-bowel biopsy specimens. based testing (IgG-DGPs or IgG-TG2) should be Based on the dynamic development pattern of coel- performed at diagnosis and follow-up. (Strong iac lesions and on the frequent finding of cases of CD recommendation, moderate level of evidence) with mild lesions, Marsh proposed a staging system (4) All diagnostic serologic testing should be for the histological changes in CD.70 Subsequently done while patients on a gluten-containing Rostami and later Oberhuber proposed a standardized diet. (Strong recommendation, high level of report, based on the Marsh classification, in which evidence) stage 3 was split into 3A, 3B and 3C, characterized (6) Antibodies directed against native gliadin by mild villous flattening, marked villous flattening (AGA) are not recommended for the primary and completely flat mucosa, respectively.71,72 At pre- detection of CD. (Strong recommendation, high sent, this modified Marsh classification is used by level of evidence) most pathologists both for diagnosis and to assess the regression of the lesions after a GFD, although Marsh himself has argued against the subclassification of Marsh 3 type lesions.73 Later, Corazza and 3. Endoscopy and histopathology Villanacci proposed a simpler grading system hoping to minimize disagreement between pathologists and to 3.1. Endoscopic findings and biopsy facilitate the comparison between serial follow-up Endoscopic features of CD are well described in the biopsies.74 literature, including mucosal fissuring, nodular There are other methods regarded as quantitative mucosa (mosaicism), bulb atrophy with visible sub- histologyaimingtoprovideobjectivemeasuresofhisto- mucosal vessels and loss, and reduction or scalloping logical changes.75 There are algorithms suggested to of
