Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


are other methods regarded as quantitative mucosa (mosaicism), bulb atrophy with visible sub- histologyaimingtoprovideobjectivemeasuresofhisto- mucosal vessels and loss, and reduction or scalloping logical changes.75 There are algorithms suggested to of Kerckring folds. These features have high sensitiv- provideastandardized,objectiveandquantitativehist- ity and specificity for CD.62 Approximately one-third ology scoring system for use as a clinical or research of newly diagnosed cases of CD have an endoscopic application. These methods need to be further refined, appearance that is entirely normal.63 Therefore, when and at present they are time consuming compared to CD is suspected, biopsies should be taken even the available semi-quantitative or subjective histology. when the endoscopic appearance of the duodenum A firm recommendation on using these methods at the is normal. present time cannot be yet made. The pathological findings in CD can be patchy and can affect areas of the duodenum with varying degrees 3.3. The histopathology report ofseverity.64Therefore,multiplebiopsiesofduodenum (at least four) should be performed if the diagnosis of Histopathological evaluation of small-bowel biopsies CD is considered.65 should be performed on biopsy pieces that con- Addingbiopsiesoftheduodenalbulbmightincrease tain three to four consecutive villous-crypt units visua- the diagnostic yield.66 Also, there are some reports on lized in their entirety and arranged parallel to each what is called ultrashort CD, where the enteropathy other. may be limited to the duodenal bulb, with a mild clin- The normal ratio of villous height to crypt depth ical phenotype and infrequent nutritional ranges from 3:1 to 5:1 and a ratio of 2:1 has been sug- deficiencies.67,68 gested to be normal for the duodenal bulb.76 Scattered There are enough data to recommend that only a Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) are present nor- single biopsy specimen should be obtained with each mally, which are more prominent along the lateral pass of the biopsy forceps.69 This improves the orien- edge of villi, decreasing in number from the villous tation of biopsy specimens and captures more severe base towards the tip, the so-called decrescendo pat- villous atrophy compared with double bite. Moreover, tern.77 Biopsies from patients with CD displaying specimensobtainedwiththedoublebitetechniquewere normal villous and crypt architecture lack this pattern more often architecturally damaged. as a result of increased density of lymphocytes at the Al-Toma et al. 591 proximal portions of villi, especially the villous tips, Thefollowingshouldbeclearlystatedinthehistopath- causing an even distribution of IELs along the villous ology report: lengthoraninversionofthenormalpattern.Thepres- ence of diffuse and uniform infiltration of IELs is the 1. Numberofbiopsies(includingduodenalbulb)and most sensitive
