Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


the villous tips, Thefollowingshouldbeclearlystatedinthehistopath- causing an even distribution of IELs along the villous ology report: lengthoraninversionofthenormalpattern.Thepres- ence of diffuse and uniform infiltration of IELs is the 1. Numberofbiopsies(includingduodenalbulb)and most sensitive but still non-specific feature of CD.78 A orientation. countofatleast25IEL/100epithelialcellsrepresentsa 2. Architectural features (normal, partial, sub-total definite increase in IELs.79 Immunohistochemistry for ortotalVA).Presenceofcrypthyperplasia,villous CD3 is helpful to highlight the distribution pattern of height: crypt depth ratio and subepithelial IELs. Counting IELs with or without the aid of an collagen. immunohistochemical stain for CD3 is helpful in 3. Commentonthecontentofthelaminapropria:in cases with patchy or mild increases in IELs. CD there is infiltration with lymphocytes, plasma Immunophenotypic studies have shown that the cellsandeosinophils,andoccasionallyneutrophils. increased IELs represent an expansion of both cyto- Cryptitis and crypt abscesses should suggest other toxicab-Tcellsandcd-Tcells;theformerpredominate pathology. The absence of plasma cells suggests and 60% to 70% express CD8, whereas the latter are CVID.82 mostly CD8 (cid:2)ve. The cd-T cells comprise 1–10% of 4. Presence of Brunner’s glands. IELs in normal small-bowel mucosa, but increase in 5. Percentage of IELs (use of immunohistochemistry patients with CD, in whom they can represent up to for CD3 in equivocal cases). 15–30% of all IELs.80 6. The report should provide a conclusion stated Microscopicexamination of the small-bowel biopsies according to the modified Marsh classification. should be performed in a sequential manner, ensuring inspection and evaluation, not only of the mucosa and submucosa (when present) but also the luminal aspect, 3.4. Differential diagnosis based on to identify adherent or free-floating infectious micro- histopathology organisms, e.g., Giardia, foreign objects and so forth.77 Notably,itisfoundthatapopulationofplasmacells Lymphocytic duodenosis (Marsh-1) is present in 3.8% from duodenal biopsies of patients with CD express of a population negative for coeliac serology.83 Only MHC-II;thisisthemostabundantcelltypepresenting around 16% of cases of lymphocytic duodenosis were theimmunodominantglutenpeptideDQ2.5-glia-a1ain found to have CD.84 Similarly there are causes of vil- the tissues from these patients. These results indicate lous atrophy in duodenal biopsies other than CD. that plasma cells in the gut can function as antigen- Table 3 shows other causes of Marsh-1 and VA. presenting cells and might promote and maintain Helicobacter pylori infection is frequently associated inflammation in patients with CD.81 with Marsh-1 histology, and its eradication may lead Table 3. Causesof histologicalmimics of CDinseronegativepatients. Differential diagnosis of CDwithor without villousatrophy Normal villousarchitectureand increased IELs VA(cid:3)increasedIELs Food hypersensitivity(cow’s milk,soy,fish,eggs,etc.) Infections (tropicalsprue,Giardia,Whippledisease, Pepticulcerdisease Mycobacterium avium complex, AIDS enteropathy) Helicobacterpylori-associatedgastroduodenitis Collagenoussprue Drugs(NSAIDs,protonpumpinhibitors) Autoimmune enteropathy Infections (e.g.,viralenteritis,Giardia,Cryptosporidium) CVID Immunedysregulation(rheumatoidarthritis,Hashimoto’s GVHD thyroiditis,
