Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


the subject is on a Recommendations GFD, but is not available outside the research setting so far. (1) WhenCDissuspectedbiopsies,shouldbetaken Interestingly, it has been reported that interferon evenwhentheendoscopicappearanceoftheduo- (IFN)-c-secreting T cells reactive to gluten can be denum is normal. (Strong recommendation, high detected in the peripheral blood of CD patients after level of evidence) short-term consumption of gluten-containing food. (2) Duodenal biopsy is an essential component of IFN-c can be transiently detected by using the the diagnostic evaluation for adults with enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays or by suspected CD and is recommended to confirm flow cytometry tetramer technology. The main limita- the diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, high tionsofthewideuseofthistechniqueforclinicalprac- level of evidence) tice are limited sensitivity and specificity compared to (3) Multiple biopsies of the duodenum (at least four availableserologytests,and thehighcostofELISPOT of the second part of duodenum) are recom- andtetramersimmuneassays.95,96Othersreportedthat mended to confirm the diagnosis of CD. inCD patients,a singlegluten challenge isfollowed by (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) an increased level of serum IL-2, and to lesser extent (4)Theadditionoftwobiopsiesoftheduodenalbulb IL-8 and IL-10, at 4 hours thereafter.97 might increase the diagnostic yield. (Conditional Therearenewtechniquesassociatedwithendoscopy recommendation, low level of evidence) to enhance the diagnosis of CD, but these are still lim- (5) An increase in IEL infiltration in the absence of ited by availability, expertise, tolerability and cost.98 VAinduodenalbiopsies(Marsh1)isnotspecific for CD and other causes should be excluded. 4.2. HLA-DQ2/8 typing (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) (6) H. pylori infection is frequently associated with It is important to recognize the capability of the per- Marsh 1 histology and its eradication may lead forming laboratory to identify HLA-DQ2 heterodi- to normalization of duodenal IEL count. mers, as individual carriage of one-half of the DQ2 Concomitant gastric biopsies or performing ser- molecule still confers a small risk of CD. Thus, HLA- ology is needed when H. pylori is suspected. DQ2.5 (very high predisposition) and HLA-DQ2.2 (low (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) predisposition) must be separated. Al-Toma et al. 593 Testing negative for HLA-DQ2/8 makes CD diag- thesystemiccirculation.SerumI-FABPmightbeuseful nosis very unlikely (positive predictive value in identifying dietary non-adherence and unintentional >99%).17,99,100HLAtestingisrecommendedinthefol- gluten intake.107,108 lowing situations: 4.3.4. Radiology. Itisimportantthatcliniciansandradi- (i) A negative HLA test is helpful to exclude the pos- ologists are aware of certain radiological findings that sibility of CD. This is especially helpful in those may suggest CD, e.g., a decreased number of jejunal already on a GFD before testing. folds, an increased number of
