Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


that sibility of CD. This is especially helpful in those may suggest CD, e.g., a decreased number of jejunal already on a GFD before testing. folds, an increased number of ileal folds, small-bowel (ii) When diagnosis of CD is uncertain, e.g., negative dilatation, wall thickening, intussusception, (cavi- serology, but histology suggestive of CD. tating-)mesentericlymphadenopathy,vascularchanges (iii) To distinguish siblingswhocan bereassuredthatit and splenicatrophy.109,110 is unlikely that they will develop CD from those who need to be monitored. Furthermore, the data Recommendations. on the quality of life on a GFD in those patients detected by screening are conflicting, but there is a HLA-DQ2/8 Typing in CD diagnosis: trend towardsimprovement.101,102 Also,thelackof (1) HLA-DQ2/DQ8 testing should not be used rou- understandingofthenaturalhistoryofundiagnosed tinely in the initial diagnosis of CD. It is recom- CD may justify screening asymptomatic persons. mendedthattheresultsofsuchtestingshouldbe (iv) In subjects with other autoimmune diseases and included along with a caution that patients at some genetic disorders who should be investigated risk should be serologically tested for CD with- for CD. out changing their diet. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) (2) HLA-DQ2/DQ8 testing should be used to rule 4.3. Other tests in CD diagnosis (a) Marsh 1–2 histology in seronegative patients; 4.3.1. Video capsule endoscopy (VCE). A meta-analysis (b)Evaluationofpatientsinwhomnotestingfor showed that VCE had a sensitivity of 89% and specifi- CD was done before being started on GFD; city of 95% for diagnosis of CD.103 VCE had better (c) When the results of coeliac-specific serology overallsensitivityfordetectionofmacroscopicfeatures and histology are discrepant. (Strong recom- of atrophy compared with regular upper endoscopy mendation, moderate level of evidence) (92% vs. 55%). The sensitivity of VCE is less when there is partial villous atrophy, and all non-atrophic Other tests in CD diagnosis: lesions (Marsh I-II) may escape detection.103 (1) VCE is not used for initial diagnosis of CD VCEcandetectcomplicationsassociatedwithCD.104 except for patients with positive coeliac-specific Extensive mucosal damage detected by VCE was asso- serologywhoareunwillingorunabletoundergo ciated with low albumin and type II refractory CD. endoscopywithbiopsy.(Strongrecommendation, Capsule findings among patients with slow-responsive moderate level of evidence) CD include stenosis, erosions, ulcers and lymphoma. (2) VCE is important in detecting complications In these patients, VCE may be used to assess the need associated with CD. (Strong recommendation, for further evaluation with devise-assisted enteroscopy, moderate level of evidence) especially among patients with clinical suspicion of (3) Intestinal-permeability tests are neither sensitive lymphoma, adenocarcinoma or ulcerative jejunitis.105 nor specific and are not recommended for CD
