Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


moderate level of evidence) especially among patients with clinical suspicion of (3) Intestinal-permeability tests are neither sensitive lymphoma, adenocarcinoma or ulcerative jejunitis.105 nor specific and are not recommended for CD Itisimportantnottomisdiagnoseulcerativejejunitis diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, moderate as Crohn disease. level of evidence) (4) Serum I-FABP might be useful in identifying diet- 4.3.2. Intestinal permeability tests. Although permeability arynon-adherenceandunintentionalglutenintake. tests (e.g., d-xylose breath test, sucrose, lactulose-man- (Strongrecommendation,moderatelevelofevidence) nitol ratio) can detect the gross changes of intestinal permeability associated with CD, their sensitivity and specificity are quite variable, and these tests are not recommended for diagnosis of CD.106 5. Establishing a diagnosis of CD 5.1. Requirements for CD diagnosis 4.3.3. Intestinalfattyacidbindingprotein(I-FABP). I-FABP isacytosolicprotein,expressedbyepithelialcellsofthe Thereisagreatoverlapin(non-)gastrointestinalsymp- small bowel. Upon cellular damage, it is released into toms in CD and other GI disorders. Improvement of 594 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) symptoms or exacerbation after re-introduction of decision to perform a duodenal biopsy may be delayed gluten has a very low predictive value for CD and by repeating serology at 3–6 months. should not be used for diagnosis in the absence of other supportive evidence. A positive CD-specific ser- 5.2.2. Normal villousarchitecturewithduodenal lymphocyto- ology(TG2,DGPandEMA)inpatientswithVAcon- sis(Marsh-1). IncreasedIELlevels induodenalbiopsies firms the diagnosis of CD.111 lacksspecificity.ItcanbefoundinCD,butmorecom- IgA-TG2maybenegativein5–15%ofpatientswith monly with other disorders and medications.123 biopsy-confirmedCD testedwhile on agluten-contain- Reported aetiologies are shown in Table 2. ing diet.112 Histological response to a GFD in patients Determining the aetiology can be challenging and requires a follow-up biopsy. HLA typing and histo- pathologicaldata.124Serologycorrelateswithdegreeof logical response may help to rule out or confirm the mucosal injury; therefore, negative serology alonedoes diagnosis of CD in patients with seronegative CD.112 not exclude CD in patients with Marsh-1.86 Small-bowel biopsy has been central to the confirm- Thereisasyetnofirmevidence-basedrecommenda- ationofthediagnosisofCD.Inadultpatientsthereare tion that can be made regarding the best diagnostic some data suggesting that the diagnosis of CD may be approach for these patients. In symptomatic patients made on the basis of serology alone without confirma- and/or abnormal laboratory tests, if there is no other torybiopsy;however,thisissueiscurrentlyunderscru- apparent cause, then we suggest the following expert tinyandneedmoredatabeforeafirmrecommendation opinion-based approach: If both anti-TG2 and EMA can be made.113–117 Furthermore, in adults endoscopy are positive, then CD is likely and a GFD needs to be may disclose other disorders associated with CD such started. In an adult patient repeat of duodenal biopsy as eosinophilic oesophagitis, autoimmune gastritis and andserologyafteraperiodofabout12monthsisadvis- lymphocytic gastritis.118,119 Lymphocytic gastritis is able.Aresponse,bothhistologicalandserological,con- variably reported in CD patients, is not associated firmsthediagnosisofCD.IfEMAisnegative,thenthe
