Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


In an adult patient repeat of duodenal biopsy as eosinophilic oesophagitis, autoimmune gastritis and andserologyafteraperiodofabout12monthsisadvis- lymphocytic gastritis.118,119 Lymphocytic gastritis is able.Aresponse,bothhistologicalandserological,con- variably reported in CD patients, is not associated firmsthediagnosisofCD.IfEMAisnegative,thenthe with H. pylori infection and improves after a GFD. absenceofHLA-DQ2/8excludesCD,whileinthepres- Moreover, CD at onset in adults can be already asso- ence of HLA-DQ2/8, it is advisable to repeat serology ciated with complications such small-bowel adenocar- after 6–12 months. Re-biopsy may also be considered. cinoma (SBA) and enteropathy-associated T cell This approach is summarized in Figure 1. lymphoma(EATL).Finally,adultCDmaynotquickly respond to a GFD (slow-responders) or more rarely is 5.2.3. Negativeserologywithduodenalbiopsyconsistentwith refractory. In these cases it is very useful to have index CD. At diagnosis, 2–15% ofpatients withCD are sero- histology to be compared with the histological findings negative.112 The term seronegative CD (SNCD) should after a GFD.120–122 be strictly used to denote those patients with VA who show response to a GFD but negative coeliac serology (IgA/IgG-EMA, IgA/IgG-TG2 and IgG-DGP), with 5.2. Decision-making in special scenarios the presence of HLA-DQ2/or-DQ8 and excluding 5.2.1. Positive serology with normal biopsy. False-positive other causes of seronegative VA.112,125,126 TG2 results do occur and usually show low titre. Differentiation of SNCD from alternate causes of Hypergammaglobulinemia, autoimmune diseases, enteropathyisaclinicalchallengeandrequiresintegra- enteric infections have shown false-positive results.45 OtherthanSNCD,possibleaetiologiesinpatientswith Theinitialstepinevaluationofsuchpatientsshould VA but negative coeliac serology include CD patients beareviewofthebiopsiesforsubtleabnormalities.The on aGFD at thetimeof testing andnon-coeliac enter- next step will be to confirm that the patient was on a opathy (NCE).127 Causes of the latter are shown in full gluten-containing diet at the time of endoscopy. If Table 3. the patient was on a low gluten diet, then it is recom- SNCD may be seen in the early stages of CD devel- mended to repeat the biopsy after gluten challenge for opment and in those patients who have adopted a 2–6weeks.HLA-DQ2/8typingshouldberequested.In reduced-gluten diet before testing. It can also result thepresenceofHLA-DQ2/8,thosewhohaveapositive from impaired immunoregulation, concomitant CVID serology but a normal small-bowel mucosa are and use of immunosuppressants. Compared to seropo- regarded as having a ‘‘potential CD’’. In addition to sitive-CD,patientswithSNCDwereolderatdiagnosis, anti-TG2, testing for other antibodies, e.g., EMA anti- more likely to have typical symptoms, and were asso- bodies, is mandatory. If more than one serological test ciatedwithmoresevereVAandcoexistingautoimmune is positive, that strengthens the argument that the diseases.127 Interestingly, TG2 deposits in the small- patient has a true CD.55 In symptomless patients, the bowel mucosa in patients with SNCD, despite their Al-Toma et al.
