Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


argument that the diseases.127 Interestingly, TG2 deposits in the small- patient has a true CD.55 In symptomless patients, the bowel mucosa in patients with SNCD, despite their Al-Toma et al. 595 Response: life-long GFD Serology and Both +ve CD is likely GFD rebiopsy 12m No response: revise Dx + DQ2/8 Anti-TG2 and Both -ve CD is excluded EMA Serology 6–12m. DQ2/8 +ve Rebiopsy may be considered TG2+ve/EMA-ve HLA-DQ2/8 DQ2/8 -ve CD is excluded Figure 1. Suggestedapproachforpatients with MarshIhistologywithpositive serology. seronegativity.128 Anti-TG2 antibodies are bound to IL-8 and IL-10 after only 3 days consumption of bowel TG2 with high avidity, rendering the antibodies gluten-containing food may provide an alternative to unable to enter the circulation to cause seropositivity. long-term challenge.95–97 These investigations are In patients where the diagnosis is uncertain or findings ongoing. areatypical,biopsiesshouldbereviewedbyaGIpath- ologistwithaninterestinCD.Iftheinitialbiopsiesare Recommendations unavailable or prove to be non-diagnostic after re- evaluation, repeat endoscopy with biopsy should be (1) The confirmation of a CD diagnosis should be performed. Further, obtain HLA-DQ2/DQ8 and basedonclinicaldata,positiveserologyandduo- DGP testing and consider causes of NCE. As a part denal histology. (Strong recommendation, high of serological assessment, IgG-based DGP testing level of evidence) should be considered in patients with IgA-deficiency (2) Improvement of symptoms or exacerbation after because they have a 10- to 20-fold greater risk of re-introductionofglutenhasaverylowpredictive developing CD.129 If these are found to be positive, valueforCDandshouldnotbeusedfordiagnosis then the patient is labelled as seropositive. in the absence of other supportive evidence. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 5.2.4. CDdiagnosisinpatientsalreadyfollowingaGFD. The (3) A positive CD-specific serology in patients with specific serological and histological features of CD do VA confirms the diagnosis of CD. (Strong not normalize immediately upon the initiation of a recommendation, high level of evidence) GFD. If the duration of GFD has been brief (1–3 (4) In asymptomatic patients with positive (but low months), serology and histology are often still abnor- titre) coeliac serology, the decision to perform mal. Some patients will quickly revert to normal on a biopsy may be preceded by repeating serology GFD. Hence, normal serological and histological find- test at 3–6 months. (Conditional recommenda- ings on a GFD cannot be used to exclude CD defini- tion, low level of evidence) tively.130 A negative HLA-DQ2/8 genotyping result (5) In case of elevated TG2-titre and normal histol- obviates the need for further workup. ogy:biopsiesshouldbereviewedbyapathologist Glutenchallengeisneededtoenablediagnostictest- familiar with CD. It is recommended to repeat ing in a patient already treated with
