Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


case of elevated TG2-titre and normal histol- obviates the need for further workup. ogy:biopsiesshouldbereviewedbyapathologist Glutenchallengeisneededtoenablediagnostictest- familiar with CD. It is recommended to repeat ing in a patient already treated with a GFD.131 Gluten biopsy after gluten challenge if the patient was challenge with a diet containing at least 10g/day for not on gluten-containing diet before testing. 6–8 weeks has long been the norm; however, there are HLA-DQ2/8 typing is mandatory. Testing for few data to support that. other antibodies, e.g. DGP and/or EMA, may One study130 found that diagnostic histological be of added value. (Strong recommendation, changes are seen in most CD patients after only 2 moderate level of evidence) weeks of gluten ingestion, while another could not (6)Insymptomaticpatientsand/orabnormallabora- show the same.132 tory tests with Marsh 1: If both anti-TG2 and In the future, alternatives to long-term challenge EMA are positive then CD is likely; If EMA is might be provided by flow cytometry of IELs80,93 or negative, then the absence of HLA-DQ2/8 testing for HLA-DQ–gluten tetramer in blood if these excludes CD; while in the presence of HLA- tests are further validated and made available for clin- DQ2/8, it is advisable to repeat serology after icaluse.94Furthermore,asmentionedearlier,detection 6–12 months. (Conditional recommendation, low oftransientcytokinereleasesuchasIFN-c,serumIL-2, level of evidence) 596 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) (7) Seronegative CD requires careful assessment CD. A review article on ‘safe’ gluten levels argues with HLA-DQ2/8 testing and a response to a thatdailyintakesof<10mghavenoeffectonmucosal GFD after excluding other causes of seronega- histology, whereas definite alterations are caused by a tive VA. Coeliac serology, both IgA- and IgG- daily intake of 500mg and observable alterations by based,shouldbenegative.(Strongrecommenda- 100mg.138 A calculated daily intake of 30mg seems tion, moderate level of evidence) not to harm the mucosa. Therefore, at present, a safe (8) InpatientswhoarealreadyfollowingGFDprior limit could be set at between 10 and 100mg.138 totesting,serologyandHLAtypingareneeded.If A systematic review (35 studies) suggests that while serology is positive, then biopsy is the next step. the amount of tolerable gluten varies among people Gluten challenge should be undertaken when ser- with CD, a daily gluten intake of <10mg is unlikely ology is negative but HLA DQ2/DQ8 positive. to cause significant histological abnormalities.139 (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) In 2008 the Codex Alimentarius Commission of the (9) Inadultstherearesomedatasuggestingthatthe WHO issuedguidelines forglutencontent ofprocessed diagnosisofCDmaybemadewithoutconfirma- food, and a law from the European Commission tory biopsy; however, these data are currently (EC41/2009), effective since January 2012, specified under
