Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


the (9) Inadultstherearesomedatasuggestingthatthe WHO issuedguidelines forglutencontent ofprocessed diagnosisofCDmaybemadewithoutconfirma- food, and a law from the European Commission tory biopsy; however, these data are currently (EC41/2009), effective since January 2012, specified under scrutiny and need more confirmation that foods labelled as ‘gluten-free’ should con- before a firm recommendation can be made. tain(cid:5)20ppm of gluten, which is regarded to be safe for people with coeliac disease. In addition to foodstuffs, drug products also need to beclearlylabelledasgluten-freeorgluten-containing.140 6. Dietary management 6.1.2. Role of the dietician. Newly diagnosed patients 6.1. Gluten-free diet shouldbereferredtoadietitiantodiscussdietaryman- The mainstay of treatment for CD is a GFD. Patients agement.141 An availability of dietitians with a subspe- with CD should be educated to avoid cereals and food cialism for CD is highly desirable for evaluating products derived from wheat, barley or rye and food patients for potential current and future dietary nutri- made from gluten-contaminated cereals that are nor- entdeficienciesandeducatethemonhowtomaintaina mally gluten-free like maize, oats, etc.133 Oats uncon- strict GFD with provision of healthy alternatives to taminatedbyglutenaresafeforalmostallpatientswith gluten. CD.134,135AsmallpercentageofpatientswithCDmay be sensitive to oats and develop symptoms or even 6.1.3. BenefitsofGFD. Apoordietaryadherenceisnega- using separate cooking utensils, cooking surfaces and lymphoma and pregnancy outcome. Poor foetal out- toasters. However, this might not be necessary if these come in pregnant women with undiagnosed CD com- shared items are thoroughly cleaned with soap and pared to those with CD on a GFD has been water between use in the case of the first two items, reported.142 and toaster bags can avoid the need for two toasters. Adherence to GFD typically leads to vast improve- Food labelling is important; available lists should be ment in symptomatology and mucosal healing asso- checked for allowable foodstuffs.136 Patients should ciated with decreased risk for cardiovascular disease be advised to eat a high-fibre diet.137 and malignancy.143–145 Data indicate that a strict There is evidence that compliance with a GFD is GFD might be of help in reaching ideal body weight, improved in those who are more knowledgeable whether an individual is underweight or obese at about CD and the diet. Also support by health pro- diagnosis.146 vidersandfamilieshasapositiveimpact.Inmostcoun- UntreatedCDisassociatedwithanincreasedpreva- tries, high-quality gluten-free products are available in lence of low bone mineral density (BMD), which supermarkets,specializedhealthfoodstoresandonthe improves on GFD in both adults and children.147 internet. GFD reduces the risk of infertility, spontaneous abor- GFD foodstuffs are generally more expensive than tions, preterm deliveries and delivery of low birth the equivalent wheat-based foods,
