Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


and children.147 internet. GFD reduces the risk of infertility, spontaneous abor- GFD foodstuffs are generally more expensive than tions, preterm deliveries and delivery of low birth the equivalent wheat-based foods, and some countries weight infants.142,148 reimbursepatients onthis diet.Coeliacsupport groups might be of help especially for underprivileged and 6.2. Nutritional deficiencies/excess in CD migrant populations. and GFD 6.1.1. Safe gluten intake. The susceptibility to gluten 6.2.1. Micronutrient deficiencies. Adherence to a GFD contamination of food varies among patients with usually leads to improvement in nutrient absorption. Al-Toma et al. 597 However,aGFDitselfhaslimitationsinnutrientvalue 6.2.3. ThemetabolicsyndromeinCDafteraGFD. Thereare and vigilant dietary monitoring is necessary. afewreportsraisingconcernofthedevelopmentofthe Iron deficiency is present in 7–80% of coeliac metabolic syndrome and also hepatic steatosis in CD patients at diagnosis.149 CD is present in 2–5% of patients on a GFD.161,162 In contrast, other studies patients with iron deficiency anaemia (IDA).150 With showed the converse.163,146 a strict GFD, iron stores typically improve. Eating Patients should be informed about this possible risk foodsrichinironisnecessary.Intravenousirontherapy andadvisedabouthavingabalanceddietandanactive may be needed especially in severe cases of deficiency lifestyle.ThelinkofthemetabolicsyndrometoaGFD andinthosewhoareintolerantorunresponsivefororal needs to be confirmed by further studies involving a therapy. Folate deficiency improves as the underlying large number of patients. enteropathy improves. A GFD is typically low in folate. Supplementation of folate and vitamin B12 Recommendations helped improve anxiety and depression and might be needed for years, especially in slow-responders.151 (1) Patients with CD should adhere to a lifelong VitaminB12deficiencyispresentin5–41%ofuntreated GFD. (Strong recommendation, high level of cases of CD.151 B12 deficiency is typically corrected evidence) withaGFDbutshouldbetreatedwithB12supplemen- (2) Oats are safely tolerated by the majority of CD tation in the short term.152 Vitamin D absorption is patients; its introduction into the diet should be decreased due to fat malabsorption. Further, elimin- cautious and patients should be monitored for ationofmilkproductsinCDwithconcomitantlactose possible adverse reaction. (Strong recommenda- intolerance will lead also to vitamin D deficiency. tion, moderate level of evidence) Several studies report vitamin D and calcium levels (3)PatientswithCDshouldbereferredtoadietitian can normalize within 1–2 years of a strict GFD and, whoiswell-trainedconcerningCDinordertoget in some patients, reverse bone loss.153 Calcium and a detailed nutritional assessment, education on vitamin D should be supplemented in coeliac patients the GFD and subsequent monitoring. (Strong with documented low serum levels, those with loss of recommendation, moderate level of evidence) BMDorthosewhocannotachieveadequateintakevia (4)A newly diagnosed adult CD patient should diet.154 Zinc deficiency can lead to growth arrest and undergo testing to uncover deficiencies of essen- diminished protein synthesis. With a strict
