Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


BMDorthosewhocannotachieveadequateintakevia (4)A newly diagnosed adult CD patient should diet.154 Zinc deficiency can lead to growth arrest and undergo testing to uncover deficiencies of essen- diminished protein synthesis. With a strict GFD, zinc tialmicronutrient, e.g.iron, folicacid, vitamin D deficiencies resolve, and long-term supplementation is and vitamin B12. (Strong recommendation, mod- notneeded.155Malabsorptionmayleadtodeficiencyof erate level of evidence) copper in CD.156 With copper repletion, the haemato- (5)Patientsshouldbeadvisedtoeatahigh-fibrediet logical manifestations typically resolve, but the neuro- supplementedwithwhole-grainrice,maize,pota- logicaldeficitscanbeirreversible. Screeningforcopper toes and ample vegetables. (Strong recommenda- deficiency needs to be considered at diagnosis of CD, tion, moderate level of evidence) especiallywhenanyassociateddeficiencysymptomsare identified.Screeningforpyridoxine(vitaminB6)isindi- cated.157 In general, these deficiencies are more 7. Management of severe presentations of CD common in adults than in children. Rarely CD may present with an acute onset or rapid 6.2.2. Other nutritional deficiencies in the GFD. progression of GI symptoms requiring hospitalization Macronutrients and energy intake are usually imbal- and/or parenteral nutrition – a scenario called coeliac ancedbothatthediagnosisofCDandalsowithadher- crisis.Thesepatientsmayhavesignsofseveredehydra- encetoaGFD.OverweightinCDpatientsisbecoming tion– hemodynamicinstabilityororthostatic hypoten- moreprevalentwithonestudyshowing40%ofpatients sion, neurological and renal dysfunction, metabolic withCDbeingoverweightatdiagnosis and13%inthe acidosis, hypoalbuminaemia, electrolyte disturbances obese range.158 and significant weight loss.164 TheGFDisusuallylowinfibre.137,159Thiscanlead Although it is still unclear what triggers this more toconstipation,aswellasremovalofotherhealthbene- aggressive disease course, current scientific evidence fits of soluble and insoluble fibre. Children on a GFD suggestsacombinationofseveremucosalinflammation were found to have increased intake of simple sugars, and immune activation. Approximately 50% of fats and proteins, with higher energy intakes than con- patients have an inciting event such as surgery, infec- trols.160 Many processed gluten-free products have an tion or pregnancy within months of their crisis.165 increased glycaemic index with increased fat and lower Thetreatmentincludesadmissiontothehospitalfor proteins compared with gluten-containing meals. intravenous hydration, electrolyte repletion and the 598 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) institution of a GFD. About half of patients may of dietary adherence, provide psychological support require the initiation of total parenteral nutrition and/ and to optimally motivate the patient to adapt to new or steroids. situation. Once the disease is stable and the patients manage their diet without problems, annual or biennial follow- 8. Follow-up CD in adult ups should be initiated. The physician should check the integrity of small-bowel absorption, associated auto- 8.1. Systemized follow-up immune conditions (in particular thyroid disorders and Dietary adherence improves by having regular follow- T1DM), liver disease and dietary adherence by measur- upwithinthesettingofaspecialistcoeliacclinic.166One ing coeliac-specific antibodies (anti-TG2 or EMA/ oftheimportantelementsconcerningadherenceisdiet- DGP).111Liverenzymeabnormalities,ifpresentatpres- enterologistanddietitian,bothwithaspecialinterestin are persistent then further assessment (immunological, CD. Patients should be encouraged to
