Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


nutrient intake.167 adults after 1-2 years of starting a GFD to assess for (iii) Serology and other markers: All coeliac-associated mucosal healing, especially in patients older than 40 antibodies are gluten-dependent. A decrease from years or in those having initially severe presentations. baseline values is expected within months of strict It seems logical to perform a follow-up biopsy in adherencetotheGFD.169Lackofdecliningvalues patientswithserology-negativecoeliacpatientsbecause and/or persistently positive serology 1 year after this is the only way possible to confirm response to startingaGFDstronglysuggestsglutencontamin- GFD. ation. Persistently positive serology was seen in only 1% of patients who underwent annual 8.3. Who may perform the follow-up? follow-upduringa5-yearperiod.89Itisreasonable to assume that positive antibody titres indicate Itisnotclearwhoshouldperformfollow-upofpatients some gluten intake. IgG-TG2 titres (in those with withCDandatwhatfrequency.Inasurveyofpatients, IgA deficiency) also show decline with time but thepreferredmethodoffollow-upwastoseeadietitian may not reach normalization despite strict diet. A with a doctor being available.166,180 In a population- significant decrease (or normalization) of markers based cohort 56% of visits were conducted with pri- of malabsorption, such as steatorrhea, should be mary care providers and 39% with gastroenterolo- expected after a GFD. A POCT may help stream- gists.180 A nationwide study from Finland, with line the follow-up process by providing TG2 or probably the highest prevalence of recognised CD in DGP results during the consultation and facilitate the world, showed that medical follow-up by primary the decision-making regarding the onward man- care providers was effective.181 agement plan such as the necessity of follow-up Primary care physicians may take the responsibility duodenal biopsy.170 ofthefollow-upiftheyhaveenoughexperienceindeal- Recent studies have reported that gluten immuno- ing with CD. genic peptides (GIPs) are considered to be the most immunodominant peptide within gluten in 8.4. At-risk family members CD.171–174 GIPs were also found in stool and urine of coeliac patients on a presumably GFD, It is advisable to follow-up these individuals with ser- showing the capacity to resist and be absorbed ology. The time interval is not defined but 3–5 years and excreted from the body, providing the would be reasonable. Those who get positive serology first simple and objective means to assess adher- or develop symptoms should have duodenal biopsy ence to the GFD. Detection of these GIPs in examination. stoolorurinemayhelpdetectdietaryglutenexpos- ure.Thismayprovideausefultoolwhenclinically 8.5. Who needs to be vaccinated? available. (iv) Follow-up biopsy: In adults, neither symptoms nor Hyposplenism or functional asplenia in association serology is reliable to predict small-bowel with CD may result in impaired immunity to encapsu- damage.175,176 Serum antibodies have
