Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) despite initial response to a GFD (secondary The identification of a monoclonal pattern upon refractoriness).197 TCR rearrangements analysis may contribute to ThedistinctionbetweenRCD-IandRCD-IIisman- the diagnosis of RCD-II.201 It was found that datory because of different treatment strategies and 97% of patients characterized as RCD-II based prognosis. RCD-II becomes more likely when severe on the presence of increased numbers of aberrant malnutrition with wasting, protein-losing enteropathy cells above 50% by immunohistochemistry dis- andulcerativejejunitisarepresent.197,201Symptomsare played clonality of the TCR (cid:2) chain versus 0% of notably less severe in RCD-I, and endoscopic and RCD-I patients.201 However, a subsequent report histological features are similar to those found in from Amsterdam showed that clonality analysis uncomplicated active CD. The diagnosis of RCD-I lacks sensitivity and specificity and is of limited may therefore be difficult, and the distinction between value in separating RCD-I from RCD-II.202 slow-responders, especially in the elderly, inadvertent 5. Other endoscopic investigations: VCE is useful in gluten ingestion and RCD-I may be sometimes impos- determining the extent of lesions and is less inva- sible. Ulcerative jejunitis is by definition RCD-II.197 sive than other endoscopic techniques.104,205 Balloon enteroscopy can efficiently detect sus- 9.2.1. Diagnostic approach to RCD pected lesions in jejunum, especially when sug- gested by imaging modalities.105 1. AssessmentofdietaryadherencetoGFD:Monitoring 6. Radiological imaging: Mesenteric lymphadenop- of anti-TG2 titre is generally suitable for this pur- athy, bowel-wall thickening and spleen atrophy pose.Inaddition,allpatientsshouldbereferredtoa (spleen volume <100cm3) are more commonly dietitian to systematically review their diet.197 detected in RCD-II and EATL. 184,206 PET-scan 2. Revision of initial CD diagnosis: Absence of CD- can help to exclude the presence of lymph- relatedgenotypesand/ornegativeserologyattime oma.207,208 MR-enteroclysis is complementary to of initial CD diagnosis are highly suggestive of VCE in the analysis of small bowel.109 misdiagnosis. 3. Endoscopy and histological evaluation: Endoscopic features of RCD may be similar to those found in 9.2.2. Pathogenesis of RCD. The only known genetic risk uncomplicated CD. The finding of mucosal ulcer- factors that have been associated with RCD-II are the ations in the duodenum and jejunum supports the same HLA alleles that are associated with CD suscep- diagnosis RCD-II.197 When histology reveals per- tibility, although RCD-II patients are more often sisting VA, the evaluation should focus on iden- homozygous for HLA-DQ2 alleles (44–60%) than tifying other causes of VA (Table 3). patients with CD.209 This observation suggests that 4. Identification of aberrant IELs: IELs are markedly the strength of the
