Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


HLA-DQ2 alleles (44–60%) than tifying other causes of VA (Table 3). patients with CD.209 This observation suggests that 4. Identification of aberrant IELs: IELs are markedly the strength of the gluten-specific T cell response influ- increased both in uncomplicated CD as well as in ences RCD-II and EATL development.210 RCD-I. They have a normal T cell phenotype. The Recently, a novel single nucleotide polymorphism majority of these cells carry the (cid:4)(cid:5) T cell receptor. associated with progression of CD to RCD-II has Whileupto14%ofIELscarrythe(cid:2)(cid:3)Tcellreceptor, been identified.211 (cid:4)15%haveahighspecificityforCDdiagnosis.80,202 No specific immune mechanisms have been shown Furthermore, a small proportion of IELs consist of in RCD-I. It was postulated that interleukin-15 (IL- cells lacking surface-CD3 and generally CD8 but 15) impairs control of autoreactive cells, which accu- expressing intracellular-CD3 (iCD3). Normally, mulate and sustain immune responses that becomes such cells typically constitute <10% of IELs.203 independent of gluten intake.211 The hallmark of In RCD-II, aberrant T cells may also be isolated RCD-II is the expansion of IEL with an aberrant from extra-intestinal sites such as the paranasal phenotype. Only patients harbouring the most sinuses.Flowcytometricanalysisisabletodifferen- mature aberrant IELs may develop an EATL.212 tiate cytoplasmic from membranous CD3 expres- These cells express an IL-15 receptor. An overproduc- sion. It is superior to T cell receptor (TCR) tion of IL-15 by enterocytes leads to persistent activa- clonality analysis in identifying patients at risk of tion of IELs. The increased IL-15 response results in developinganEATL.203However,newgenerations the expression of cytotoxic proteins and stimulates of TCR analysis may provide a very good sensitiv- production of IFN-(cid:2) and NKG2D-dependent cytotox- ity and specificity for detection of aberrant cells.204 icity resulting in severe enteropathy. The strong anti- It has been postulated that RCD-II constitutes a apoptotic effect of IL-15 might explain the accumula- low-grade lymphoma (Pre-EATL) and that the tion and eventually expansion of these aberrant cells. expansion of aberrant cells occurs as the conse- Next to IL-15, it is shown that IL-2, IL-21 and quence of clonal expansion of such cells. tumour necrosis factor (TNF) from gluten-specific Al-Toma et al. 603 CD4þT cells induce proliferation of aberrant IEL cell aberrant IELs. Withdrawing azathioprine after lines from RCD-II patients.213 2–3yearsofcompleteresponsemaybeconsidered. Recently, a new variant of EATL has been reported that originates from cd-IELs (cd-pre-EATL), rather than from aberrant IELs.214 Treatment of RCD-II. Immunosuppressive drugs have a limited role.218 Open capsule or non-SR budesonide 9.2.3. Treatment options. To date, there is no
