Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


from cd-IELs (cd-pre-EATL), rather than from aberrant IELs.214 Treatment of RCD-II. Immunosuppressive drugs have a limited role.218 Open capsule or non-SR budesonide 9.2.3. Treatment options. To date, there is no curative seems encouraging.217 treatment for RCD, and management relies on a com- Given the high percentage of RCD-II patients that binationofnutritionalsupportandimmunosuppressive developanEATL,theultimatetreatmentgoalinRCD- or ablative treatments. II is to eradicate the aberrant cell population. Clinical and histological remission accompanied by a reduction Treatment of RCD-I. A combination of nutritional of aberrant cells has been documented using cladribine support and immunosuppressive treatment is needed. (2-CDA).222,223 Responders have a 5-year survival of ImmunosuppressivedrugssuggestedforRCD-Iinclude 83% versus 22% in non-responders. Exclusion of steroids, thiopurines and infliximab. SR-mesalamine EATL is necessary before this treatment. might be effective; however, histological response is One possible alternative strategy includes high-dose disappointing.215 chemotherapy followed by autologous haematopoietic but no histological change in up to 90% of patients.216 is well tolerated with a significant improvement in the Budesonide administered as an open capsule to maxi- clinical and biochemical markers and quality of life mize its effect on the proximal small bowel has been (QoL). Quite surprisingly, the reduction of aberrant T response has been seen both in RCD-I and RCD-II. fore long-term outcome, notably the onset of EATL, is If this result is going to be confirmed by controlled still awaited.225 Auto-SCT is indicated only in symp- trials, then it may provide a good treatment option, tomatic patients and not purely to try to eradicate the particularly in mildly affected patients. aberrant IEL populationinasymptomaticpatients. The Combiningazathioprineandprednisonemightexert high risk of malignant transformation requires a treat- a better histological restoration, although complete ment strategy encompassing an inhibitor of common normalization of villi is only seen in 50% of patients, downstream signalling molecules of the different recep- and both lymphoma development and steroid-related tors expressed by aberrant IELs. Tofacitinib is a Jak3 side effects are of concern.218 inhibitor that blocks signalling through c-chain recep- Treatment with infliximab may induce responses, tors for several cytokines.226 Inhibition of this may but only a few cases have been reported.219 result in downregulating of the immune activation Thioguanine is well tolerated and it has good bio- and the anti-apoptotic effects in RCD-II. availability despite the presence of intestinal villous Combination therapy integrating Jak3-inhibitor atrophy. A clinical and histological response was with conventional therapy (2-CDAþopen capsule/ observedin83%ofRCD-I.220Thisdrugmightbeasso- non-SR budesonide) holds some promise but has not ciated with a small
