Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


villous Combination therapy integrating Jak3-inhibitor atrophy. A clinical and histological response was with conventional therapy (2-CDAþopen capsule/ observedin83%ofRCD-I.220Thisdrugmightbeasso- non-SR budesonide) holds some promise but has not ciated with a small risk of nodular regenerative hyper- beenclinicallytested.Further,asmentionedabove,the plasia of the liver.221 identification of the anti-apoptotic pathway mediated We recommend the following strategy in treating byIL-15mayprovidetreatmentavenuesforthisdevas- RCD-I: tating disorder. Anti-IL-15 monoclonal antibody (AMG 714) is currently undergoing clinical trial in a 1. Nutritional support. subset of RCD-II patients.227 Preliminary results 2. A trial of budesonide (open capsule or if available demonstrated proof-of-mechanism and proof-of- non-slowrelease)(3mg,3timesaday)foratleast3 concept for halting the progression of RCD-II/Pre- months may be given.216,217 Following a response EATL, with an acceptable safety profile. onsteroids,azathioprine(2–2.5mg/kg/day)canbe WerecommendthefollowingstrategyintreatingRCD- initiated.Duodenalre-biopsyshouldbeperformed II. These patients should be managed in conjunction with after 3 months on azathioprine to assess response. referralcentreshavinggoodexperienceincomplicatedCD. 6-Thioguanine seems to be a safe alternative.220 These centres should have gastroenterological, immuno- 3. Failure to respond should prompt a re-evaluation logical and haematological units experienced with CD. of the diagnosis of RCD-I and warrants optimiz- ing dosing of thiopurines. 1. Inrelativelystablepatientsatrialofopencapsule/ 4. Patients who respond should undergo annual non-SR budesonide (3mg, 3 times a day) or oral endoscopy and biopsy with quantification of prednisone (0.5–1mg/kg/day) may be given. 604 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) 2. In seriously ill patients, intravenous prednisone is bleeding.Further,thepoorprognosisofEATLisdeter- needed, to be changed later to enteral therapy. mined by extent of disease at diagnosis, multifocal 3. Purine analogue inhibitors such as cladribine or small-bowelinvolvement,poorgeneralhealthandpres- fludarabine could be used at this stage at ence of complications including perforation that pre- 0.15mg/kg/dayfor5days.Thosewhoshowapro- clude chemotherapy.232 Debulking surgery for large mising response may receive a second course if ulcerated small-bowel tumours is recommended for they relapse after 6–12 months. limiting the risk of perforation or bleeding during 4. Patients who continue to experience a symptom- chemotherapy. Pre-existent RCD-II is associated with atic decline following cladribine therapy should a poor prognosis. A small proportion of patients may undergo a re-evaluation of their diagnosis. 2- benefit from second-line therapy.233 CDA-auto-SCTstep-uptherapyisthenextstep.228 Brentuximab is an anti-CD30 chimeric antibody 5. Patientsmaybeincludedintrialstotestotheroptions conjugatedtothepotentantimitoticagentmonomethyl such as anti-IL15 or Jak3-inhibitor if available. auristatin E (MMAE). After binding to CD30 recep- tors, brentuximab is internalized and transported to lysosomes,whereMMAEiscleavedand,oncereleased, 9.2.4. Prognosis of RCD. RCD-I generally runs a benign will bind to tubulin and cause cell cycle arrest and course with 80–96% 5-year survival rates.197,198 Main apoptosis.234 Except one case report, no data seem to
