Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


generally runs a benign will bind to tubulin and cause cell cycle arrest and course with 80–96% 5-year survival rates.197,198 Main apoptosis.234 Except one case report, no data seem to causes of death in this group were either unrelated to be available describing its use or benefit in EATL.234 CDornutritionrelated.Itshouldbenotedthatlymphoma The excellent clinical and radiographic response developmentinthiscategoryofpatientswasnotobserved. reported in this case highlights the need to further RCD-II,ontheotherhand,isassociatedwithapoor evaluate its role in patients with EATL. A phase-2a prognosis with a 44% and 58% 5-year survival. The trial is currently in process. In conclusion, the current highermortalityassociatedwithRCD-IIcanbelargely Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology recommend attributedtothemuchhigherriskofdevelopingEATL, using multi-agent chemotherapy followed by stem cell which occurs in between 33 and 52% within 5 years transplantation for EATL.235 This regimen should still after diagnosis.198, 228 be the preferred therapy in eligible patients who can tolerate it, because current evidence supports its use. Until further data are available, brentuximab may be 9.3. Risk of malignancies in CD considered in patients who have a poor tolerance of 9.3.1. Enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma (EATL). This chemotherapy or in the absence of other standard is a rare GI lymphoma that accounts for <1% of all options. non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas (NHL).228 Transformation of RCD-II to EATL is a prominent risk and may run 9.3.2. Othermalignancies. The incidence of malignancies an aggressive course with poor overall prognosis. in connection with CD differs depending on the type Currently, two groups of EATL are recognized: andsiteofcancer,aswellastheperiodrelativetodiag- EATL type-I accounts for 80–90% of all cases and is nosis. Although some studies report no increase in the exclusively associated with CD; EATL type-II (de overallincidenceofcancer,ahigherriskfordeveloping novo)usually hasnot beenassociated with pre-existent lymphoproliferative disease (EATL and less frequently CD or precedes the diagnosis of CD.229,230 In RCD-II, B cell NHL) is unanimously reported.236,237 abnormal IELs may be found in mesenteric lymph AfterthefirstyearsofCDorDHdiagnosis,thereis nodes, blood, bone marrow and in different epithe- a decrease in the overall incidence of solid cancers, liums,suchaslungandskin.228Extra-intestinaldissem- NHL and all GI cancers.238 On the contrary, one ination of RCD-II IELs explains why EATL does not report suggested a high lymphoma risk independent developexclusivelyintheintestine.EATLmaynotably of adherence to GFD.144 There is an association arise from RCD-II cutaneous lesions. between CD and SBA and unexpectedly for oesopha- Histologically, there is infiltration by medium to geal squamous-cell carcinoma.239 large lymphoid cells expressing CD30 in more than 80% of cases.231 Recommendations PET-scancanfurtherguiderealizationofradiologic- ally guided biopsy or explorative laparoscopy. (1) Patients showing
