Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


is infiltration by medium to geal squamous-cell carcinoma.239 large lymphoid cells expressing CD30 in more than 80% of cases.231 Recommendations PET-scancanfurtherguiderealizationofradiologic- ally guided biopsy or explorative laparoscopy. (1) Patients showing slow response should be evalu- Themostwidelyusedtreatmentinclinicalpracticeis ated carefully to exclude dietary inconsistencies anthracycline-based combination chemotherapy, fol- and also identify other specific aetiologies. lowed by auto-SCT in eligible individuals. The overall (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) responseraterangesfrom30%to60%.229,231Themost (2) Evaluation of slow-responders should include frequent causes of death are bowel perforation and review initial diagnosis, coeliac serology, a Al-Toma et al. 605 dietary review and follow-up duodenal biopsy. abdominal pain, cramping or distension, chronic con- (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) stipation, chronic fatigue, recurrent aphthous stoma- (3) Distinction should be made between RCD-I and titis, DH-like rash, fracture with inadequate traumas/ RCD-II to select appropriate management and osteopenia/osteoporosis and abnormal liver determine the prognosis. (Strong recommenda- biochemistry. tion, moderate level of evidence) Group 2: Asymptomatic with an increased risk for CD (4)T-cellflowcytometryisthemostreliablemethod such as T1DM, Down syndrome, autoimmune thyroid tomakeadistinctionbetweenRCD-IandRCD- disease,Turnersyndrome,Williamssyndrome,selective II. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of IgA deficiency, autoimmune liver disease and first- evidence) degree relatives with CD. (5)ThenutritionalstatusofRCDpatientsshouldbe monitored closely. Nutritional support including parenteralnutritionformsanessentialpartofthe 10.1.2. Approach for a child with symptoms/signs suggestive management. (Strong recommendation, high level ofCD. IgA-TG2isrecommendedasthefirsttesttoiden- of evidence) tify those who need further investigation to diagnose (6)EATLshouldbeconfidentlyexcludedbeforestart- CD. If total serum IgA is not known, then this ingtreatmentwithmedicationsinRCD-II.(Strong should be measured. In the presence of total IgA-defi- recommendation, moderate level of evidence) ciency, atleast one test measuring IgG class antibodies (7)RCD-IIpatientsneedtobetreatedinreferralcen- shouldbedone(IgG-TG2,IgG-DGPorIgG-EMA).If tresbyanexperiencedgastroenterologistinCDin the first test was POCT, then the result should be con- collaboration with haematologist. (Strong recom- firmed by a quantitative test. In unclear cases, small- mendation, moderate level of evidence) bowel biopsies and HLA testing are strongly required. (8) EATL needs to be excluded in any CD patient with abdominal pain, fever, obstruction, anae- 10.1.3. Diagnosis of CD without duodenal biopsies. In chil- mia, gastrointestinal bleeding or unexplained drenandadolescentswithsignsorsymptomssuggestive weight loss. (Strong recommendation, moderate of CD the ESPGHAN guidelines recommend that the level of evidence) diagnosis of CD may be made without confirmatory (9) In EATL: debulking surgery for large ulcerated biopsy in those with high TG2-antibody levels (>10 small bowel tumours is recommended for limit- times ULN) confirmed by EMA-positivity and the ing the risk of perforation or bleeding during presence of HLA-DQ2/8 haplotypes. The diagnosis is ate level of evidence)
