Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


is recommended for limit- times ULN) confirmed by EMA-positivity and the ing the risk of perforation or bleeding during presence of HLA-DQ2/8 haplotypes. The diagnosis is ate level of evidence) response to a GFD. 10.1.4. Approachforanasymptomaticchildwithanincreased risk for CD. HLA testing should be offered as the first 10: Special issues concerning CD in childhood line test. In the absence of DQ2/DQ8 haplotypes no and adolescence further serological tests are needed. If the patient is DQ2 and/or DQ8 positive, then an IgA-TG2 test 10.1. Diagnostic aspects should be performed plus total IgA. If antibodies ThishasbeendealtwithbytheESPGHANguidelinesin are negative, then repeated testing for CD-specific great detail.240 Important issues are summarized here. antibodies is recommended for at-risk children period- ically. Genetic technological progress now enables 10.1.1. Who should be tested for CD in childhood and HLA typing from buccal cell samples, reducing adolescence?. It is important to diagnose CD not only stress associated with venepuncture in high-risk inchildrenwithobviousGIsymptomsbutalsointhose populations.241 inalmanifestationsoreveninthosewhoareasymptom- tive test result always should be confirmed by a quan- atic because the disease may have negative health titative test. consequences in the future. Testing for CD should be ToavoidunnecessarybiopsiesinthosewithlowCD- offered to the following groups: specific antibody levels (i.e.,<3 times ULN), it is rec- ommendedtotestforEMA.IftheEMAtestispositive, Group 1: Those with otherwise unexplained symptoms thenthechildshouldbereferredforduodenalbiopsies. and signs of chronic or intermittent diarrhoea, failure If the EMA test is negative, then repeated serological tothrive,weightloss,stuntedgrowth,delayedpuberty, testing on a gluten-containing diet at 3- to 6-monthly amenorrhoea, IDA, nausea or vomiting, chronic intervals is recommended. 606 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) 10.1.5. Gluten challenge. When there is doubt about the 10.3.1. The process of transfer of care. One path to facili- initial diagnosis, then gluten challenge is necessary. It tatetransitionofcareistocreatea‘transitionletter’by should be preceded by HLA typing and assessment of thepaediatrician.249Suchatransitionlettershouldcon- mucosal histology. It should be discouraged before the tain details of the basis for the diagnosis and informa- age of 5 years and during the pubertal growth spurt. tionduringfollow-upsuchasserology,anthropometric The gluten intake during the challenge period should data, comorbidities and dietary adherence. contain no less than 5g/day. The diagnosis of CD is confirmedifCD-antibodiesbecomepositiveandaclin- 10.3.2. Issues that need to be discussed during transfer ical and/or histological change is observed. If antibo- dies remain negative and no histological change is 1. Some young adults may question their diagnosis observed, then CD is excluded, taking into consider- and feel that re-evaluation is needed especially if ation that a delayed disease development may occur
