Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


young adults may question their diagnosis observed, then CD is excluded, taking into consider- and feel that re-evaluation is needed especially if ation that a delayed disease development may occur thediagnosisisonlybasedonserology.Iftheexist- later in life. ing diagnostic guidelines have not been met and thediagnosisneedsre-evaluation,anewdiagnostic approach should be instituted. Serology, HLA- 10.2. Follow-up DQ2/8 genotyping and histology may be part of The family should receive dietary counselling for a this approach. GFD preferably from an expert dietist/nutritionist if 2. Adherence to a GFD can be difficult, particularly available.Thepatientsshouldbefollowed-upregularly with new challenges: peer pressure and the stigma for symptomatic improvement and normalization of of ‘being different’ and increasing independence CD-specificantibodytests.Itisunnecessarytoperform from parents. follow-up small-bowel biopsies; however, if there is no 3. Financial issues: gluten-free products are expen- clinicalresponsetotheGFD,thenacarefulassessment sive; this becomes more relevant for adolescents/ to exclude lack of dietary adherence and further inves- young adults who now live on a limited budget tigations including new biopsies are required. after moving away from home. Paediatric patients should be seen at 3- to 6-month intervals for the first year after diagnosis. Once symp- toms have resolved and serology has normalized, an annual follow-up visit is recommended. Recommendations DEXA should only be considered for those at high risk (e.g., history of low-energy bone fractures, dietary (1) The confirmation of a CD diagnosis in some non-adherence, established persistent VA or low body children should be based on a combination of biopsies. (Strong recommendation, moderate 10.3. Transition from childhood to adulthood level of evidence) (2) Duodenal histology in some children is recom- in CD mendedtoconfirmthediagnosisofCD.(Strong Children and adolescents with CD need to be suffi- recommendation, high level of evidence) ciently prepared for the transfer to adult care, and the (3) CD diagnosis may be made without duodenal process of transition needs to be well organized. biopsy in symptomatic children with high TG2 Generally, the transition from paediatric to adult care levels (>10 times ULN) and EMA in the pre- should be a collaborative process involving patients, sence of HLA-DQ2/8. The diagnosis is con- ician.243–246 clinical response to a GFD. (Conditional recom- The transition process should gradually parallel the mendation, moderate level of evidence) evolution of becoming an adult and include an incre- (4) Gluten challenge is indicated when the CD diag- mental shift in knowledge and decisions to the adoles- nosis in doubt with negative serology before cent patient with CD.244 The physical, mental and starting a
