Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


when the CD diag- mental shift in knowledge and decisions to the adoles- nosis in doubt with negative serology before cent patient with CD.244 The physical, mental and starting a GFD. It should not be performed psychosocial development is central to transition, before the child is 5 years old or during the pub- which varies between individuals. Some adolescents ertalgrowthspurt.(Conditionalrecommendation, and young adults with CD will experience a delay moderate level of evidence) in pubertal and sexual development and may con- (5) A GFD should be introduced only when CD tinue so beyond the expected age of pubertal diagnosis has been made conclusively. (Strong completion.247,248 recommendation, high level of evidence) Al-Toma et al. 607 (6) The duration of breast feeding and/or gluten Recent data have shown that in NCGS patients introduction while the infant is still breast fed TLR4 might play a role in transducing the effect of had no impact on the risk of developing CD. gliadin through a myeloid differentiation factor 88 (Moderate recommendation, moderate level of (MYD88) adaptor protein. Circulating bacterial com- evidence) ponents, such as Lipopolysacharides (LPS) and flagel- (7)Thereiscurrentlynoevidencetorecommendavoid- lin, bind to TLR4 on macrophages and dendritic cells ingeitheranearly(at4monthsofage)oralate(at with the result of signals through the MYD88-depen- orafter6oreven12months)glutenintroductionin dent pathway. MYD88 signalling increases the expres- childrenatriskofCD.(Moderaterecommendation, sion of pro-inflammatory cytokines causing systemic moderate level of evidence) effects. This systemic immune activation may play a (8) Agradual transfer of medical careof an adoles- role in the pathogenesis of NCGS.254 centwithCDtoadultcareisrecommended. The transfer should be structured and include as the 11.3. Diagnosis minimum written information on the base of diagnosis, follow-up, anthropometric data, There are no specific biochemical, immunological or comorbidities and dietary adherence. histopathological markers associated with NCGS. The diagnosis shouldbeconsideredinpatientswithpersist- ent intestinal and/or extra-intestinal complaints show- ing a normal result of the CD and WA serological 11: Non-coeliac gluten sensitivity markers on a gluten-containing diet, usually reporting worsening of symptoms after eating gluten-rich food. 11.1. Clinical aspects Unfortunately, many of these patients are already on NCGS is characterized by IBS-like symptoms and the GFD when first seen at the specialty clinic. extra-intestinal manifestations, occurring in a few The following multi-step approach is suggested to hours or daysafter gluten ingestion, improving rapidly make the diagnosis of NCGS:255 with gluten withdrawal and relapsing soon after gluten challenge. Step 1: A full clinical and laboratory evaluation to Pre-requisite for suspecting this condition is the exclude CD and WA
