Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


NCGS:255 with gluten withdrawal and relapsing soon after gluten challenge. Step 1: A full clinical and laboratory evaluation to Pre-requisite for suspecting this condition is the exclude CD and WA while still on a gluten-containing exclusion of both CD and WA when the patients are diet. If highly suspicious of CD, the clinician can pro- still on a gluten-containing diet. Besides gluten, other ceed for obtaining a duodenal biopsy. If the biopsy potential culprits of this syndrome are ATIs and fruc- indicateslowCDprobability(Marsh0-1)thentheclin- tans (rich in FODMAPs), which are all components of ician can proceed to the following steps: 1. establish wheat and other gluten-containing cereals’’.6,7,250–252 baselinesymptomswhilethepatientisonagluten-con- There is substantial overlap in symptoms between tainingdiet;2.follow GFDforatleast6weeks; and 3. CD and NCGS. It appears that NCGS does not have re-evaluate symptoms. NCGS is excluded in subjects a strong hereditary basis and is not associated with failing to show symptomatic improvement. severe malabsorption or malignancy. It is less fre- Step2:Glutenchallengeisrequiredinpatientsrespond- quently associated with autoimmunity than CD, ing to treatment with the GFD and in those who are although in this syndrome there is a high prevalence already on a GFD before testing and are willing to of autoimmune thyroiditis and ANA-positivity.253 establish the diagnosis. Whether this should be done with regular bread or any other vehicle where FODMAP is excluded is a matter of debate. Ideally 11.2. Pathogenesis the clinical evaluation should include serially repeated This is poorly understood. NCGS potentially involves specific laboratory tests. many triggers as are seen in CD and IBS. The inciting event mainly involves exposure of bowel epithelium to NCGS might be difficult to differentiate from a cat- dietaryglutenleadingtoimmune-mediatedand/ornon- egoryofIBSpatients(bothIBS-DandIBS-C)showing denceforTcellinvolvementandthepossiblecontribu- tion from toll-like receptors (e.g., TLR-1, TLR-2), 11.4. Management NCGS may be more of an innate rather than adaptive immune response.6,254 Changes in the gut microbiome A GFD helps resolve the intestinal and extra-intestinal produced by gluten consumption may also influence symptoms. Obviously, a less stringent GFD might be NCGS.254 sufficient compared to those with CD. 608 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) latent CD. Patients who present with CD and concur- Recommendations rent DH are more likely to have more severe intestinal (1) NCGS may be considered in patients with damage than those with a DH-predominant gluten-related intestinal and/or extra-intestinal presentation.261 complaints showing a normal result of the CD Serology: Patients with DH usually show CD-speci- and WA serological markers on a gluten-con- fic antibodies. IgA-TG3 antibodies
