Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


intestinal and/or extra-intestinal presentation.261 complaints showing a normal result of the CD Serology: Patients with DH usually show CD-speci- and WA serological markers on a gluten-con- fic antibodies. IgA-TG3 antibodies are considered spe- taining diet. (Strong recommendation, moderate cific and sensitive serological markers for DH but are level of evidence) not available for clinical use.259 (2) Serology and small-bowel histology (while the HLA haplotypes: As in CD, virtually all patients patient is on a gluten-containing diet) and with DH carry either HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8. HLA-DQ typing (to rule out CD if negative) Epidemiology: Overall, the ratio between CD and are needed to differentiate between CD and DH in different populations has been 10–20:1.262 DH NCGS. (Strong recommendation, moderate level in childhood seems to be rare.263 No significant differ- of evidence) ences exist inadults. The meanage atdiagnosis of DH (3) The diagnosis of NCGS is excluded in subjects is39(range11–80)yearsandthatofCDis44(range1– failingtoshowsymptomaticimprovementafter6 85) years. weeks ofGFD. (Strongrecommendation, moder- GI symptoms and nutritional status: Minor GI com- ate level of evidence) plaints and occasional loose stools are the most (4) A less-stringent GFD might be enough com- common findings in DH. Signs of malabsorption are pared with those with CD. (Conditional recom- rare.264 Nutritional deficiencies are similar between mendation, low level of evidence) the two groups. (5) Patients showing a negative gluten challenge Body mass index: In untreated adults with CD, the should be investigated for other possible causes BMI is lower than in general population, but still 28% of IBS-like symptoms. (Conditional recommen- areoverweightand11%obese.265AnItalianstudysug- dation, low level of evidence) gested that BMI was even higher in patients with DH than in those with CD.266 Bone mineral density: there is no increased risk for fractures in treated DH compared with controls.267 12 CD-related skin and oro-dental disorders Associatedautoimmunediseases:thisissimilarinCD and DH.268 12.1. Dermatitis herpetiformis Risk of lymphoma: AsinCD,theriskofNHLissig- This is considered the specific cutaneous manifestation nificantlyincreasedinDH.AstrictGFDformorethan5 of CD. Both diseases occur in gluten-sensitive individ- years seems to protect against lymphoma in DH.269 uals,share thesame HLA haplotypesand improvefol- Mortality: Adherence to GFD reduces the all-cause lowing a GFD.4 mortality in DH.270 12.1.1. Histopathology. The IgA deposits against TG2 12.1.3. Diagnostic approach. The first step is testing can be seen in the small-bowel mucosa of DH serum anti-TG2 and a biopsy of perilesional skin for patients.258 Pathognomonic granular IgA deposits can Direct Immunoflourescence (DIF). The diagnosis of be detected by direct immunofluorescence (IF) in the DH should
