Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


anti-TG2 and a biopsy of perilesional skin for patients.258 Pathognomonic granular IgA deposits can Direct Immunoflourescence (DIF). The diagnosis of be detected by direct immunofluorescence (IF) in the DH should always be confirmed by DIF examination papillary dermis.258 The autoantigen for deposited of perilesional skin showing granular IgA deposits in cutaneous IgA was found to be epidermal TG3.259 thepapillarydermis.DIFhassensitivityandspecificity Currently,themostvalidimmunopathogenesishypoth- closeto100%forthediagnosisofDH.Ifthepatientis esis is that DH starts from hidden CD in the gut with on a GFD, a gluten-containing diet should be admin- TG2 antibody response, eventually evolving to istered and the biopsy taken after at least 1 month.271 immune-complex deposition of high avidity IgA anti- IncaseoftypicalresultsfromDIFandpositiveanti- bodies with TG3 enzyme in the papillary dermis.260 TG2,thediagnosisofDHandCDcanbeconfirmed.If The typical findings in the lesional skin of DH con- TG2 is negative, HLA DQ2/DQ8 testing is suggested. sist of subepidermal vesicles and blisters with accumu- If negative, DH can be excluded, but if positive, then lation of neutrophils at the papillary tips.253 EMAandanti-DGPshouldbetested. IfEMAoranti- DGP is positive, DH can be confirmed. If negative, 12.1.2. DH versus CD. Small-bowel enteropathy: then duodenal biopsy is needed prior to starting a Histological changes similar to that occurring in CD GFD.ThediagnosisofDHisexcludedincaseofnega- have been reported in 75% of patients with DH, and tive DIF and DQ2/DQ8 or negative DIF and the remaining have minor changes consistent with serology.272 Al-Toma et al. 609 12.1.4. Treatment. GFD: The mainstay for treatment of DHneedtocontinuetreatmentwithdapsonetocontrol DHisastrictGFD.Itresolvesboththegastrointestinal the active rash.277 The term refractory DH has been and the cutaneous manifestations.273,274 While it takes suggested to describe this condition. No lymphoma or an average of 1–2 years of a GFD for the complete abnormal IELs have been found yet in these patients resolution ofthe cutaneous lesions, thegastrointestinal indicating that refractory DH is a benign condition. symptoms usually resolve in an average of 3-6 months. Refractory DH differs from those with refractory CD IgAantibodiesmaydisappearfromthedermal–epider- by showing a clear response to a GFD in the small- mal junction after many years of a strict GFD. Few bowel mucosa. However, the rash remains active with studies have suggested that DH can go into remission persistent cutaneous IgA deposits. A case report in up to 20% of the cases, and, therefore, clinicians showed that one elderly patient with resistant DH should continually re-evaluate the need for a GFD achieved complete clinical and serological remission for patients with well-controlled DH.274 However, following therapy with rituximab, a monoclonal anti- other studies
