Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


DH should continually re-evaluate the need for a GFD achieved complete clinical and serological remission for patients with well-controlled DH.274 However, following therapy with rituximab, a monoclonal anti- other studies are required to confirm whether the body targeting CD20-positive B cells.278 GFD can be safely discontinued. Dapsone: Although no reports from randomized 12.1.6. Follow-up. Patients with DH should be evalu- controlled trials are available about its use, dapsone is atedatregularintervals(3months,6monthsafterdiag- considered an essential therapeutic option for patients nosis and then yearly) by a multidisciplinary team with DH during the 6- to 24-month period until the involving at least a physician and a dietitian. The pur- GFD is effective.260,261 In some patients it may be poses of these visits are to assess the compliance with needed for up to 10 years. The starting dose should the GFD and the presence of dyslipidaemia, and to be 50mg/day in order to minimize the potential side evaluate the possible development of intestinal malab- effects. Then the dosage can be increased up to sorption, autoimmune diseases and complications such 200mg/day until the disease is under control; in the as refractory CD, or lymphoma. Together with the maintenancephase,0.5–1mg/kg/daygenerallycancon- visits, laboratory investigations, including TG2antibo- trol itching and the development of new skin lesions. dies,andevaluationofintestinalmalabsorptionshould Several side effects are associated with dapsone use. be performed. They are usually dose-dependent and more frequent inpatientswithcomorbidities,suchasanaemia,cardio- 12.2. Other skin disorders pulmonary disease and glucose-6-phosphate dehydro- genase deficiency. Because of side effects, patients 12.2.1. Psoriasis. CD-specific antibodies were reported using dapsone should be carefully monitored. Before in subjects with psoriasis with levels correlating with starting the therapy, complete blood count, glucose-6- the severity of psoriasis.279 Concomitant CD is present phosphatedehydrogenase,methaemoglobinaemia,liver in 1–4% of people with psoriasis.280,281 This associ- and renal functions, as well as urinalysis should be ation, if present, may be explained by several mechan- investigated. isms including vitamin D deficiency, abnormal Th1/ Other drugs: If dapsone fails to control the symp- Th17 response, common genetic background and toms or in case of adverse effects, sulfasalazine, sulfa- increased intestinal permeability.282 There is good evi- pyridine and sulfamethoxypyridazine can be valid dencetosuggestthatpsoriaticpatients,eitherwithcon- alternatives for the treatment of patients with comitant CD or asymptomatic gluten intolerance, may DH.275,276 Topical steroids can be used to control the benefit from GFD with resolution of skin lesions.283 skin symptoms in patients with DH especially in cases Thus, it is justifiable to monitor patients with either with
