Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


to control the benefit from GFD with resolution of skin lesions.283 skin symptoms in patients with DH especially in cases Thus, it is justifiable to monitor patients with either with localized disease to reduce pruritus and the condition for clinical evidence of the other. Vitamin D appearance of new lesions. Accordingly, systemic ster- should be regularly controlled in patients with CD. oidsorantihistaminescancontrol,atleastinpart,itch- GFD should be considered in psoriatic patients with ing and burning sensation, although their effectiveness serological evidence of gluten intolerance even in the pressors such as cyclosporine A or azathioprine, colchicine, tetracycline, heparin nicotinamide, myco- 12.2.2. Non-specificskinconditions. PatientswithCDfre- phenolate and rituximab have been shown to be effect- quently report non-specific dermatological issues, ive in some reports.276 Finally, several new including dry skin, easybruising, brittle nails and thin- experimental approaches for the treatment of CD are ning hair.284 Zinc deficiency is particularly associated currently under investigation. with these skin lesions. Iron, zinc and fat-soluble vita- mins are most often deficient in patients with newly GFD, a small proportion of patients (about 2%) with improvement. 610 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) Alopeciaareatacanbeacoexistingautoimmunedis- The following tips may be of help to dentists encoun- orderinadultsandchildrenwithCD,althoughitisless tering oral symptoms and signs in a patient: common.285 This condition does not typically respond (1) Consider CD as a possible diagnosis in patient to a GFD and might be progressive. Consequently, with dental enamel defects, recurrent oral patientswithCDandseverehairlossshouldbereferred aphthous ulcers or both. including abdominal pain, diarrhoea, weight loss, poor growth, anaemia and fatigue. 12.3. Oro-dental abnormalities in CD (3) Inquire about the presence of other autoimmune CD can develop at any age when solid foods are intro- diseases, especially T1DM and thyroiditis. The duced into the diet; however, if CD occurs in children presence of these will further increase the prob- while the permanent teeth are developing, i.e., before 7 ability of CD. years of age, abnormalities in the structure of the dental (4) Consider adding CD to the list of disorders that enamelcanoccur.286Ithasbeenseeninchildren3–4years youinquireaboutduringfamilyhistoryscreening. old,andwethinkthatthisformsawindowofopportunity (5)IfCDissuspected,thedentistordentalhygienist torecognizeCD.Thesedefectsareseenmostcommonlyin should consult the patient’s primary care physi- thepermanentdentitionandtendtoappearsymmetrically cian or specialist. and chronologically in all four quadrants, with more (6)DonotrecommendaGFDtoapatientsuspected defects in the maxillary and mandibular incisors and of having CD without confirmation of the molars. Both hypoplasia and hypomineralization of the diagnosis. enamel can occur. A band of hypoplastic enamel, often with intact cusps, is common. A hiatus in enamel and dentinformationcanoccuratadevelopmentalstagecor- responding to the onset of
