Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


and hypomineralization of the diagnosis. enamel can occur. A band of hypoplastic enamel, often with intact cusps, is common. A hiatus in enamel and dentinformationcanoccuratadevelopmentalstagecor- responding to the onset of GI symptoms.287 The exact 13 Neuro-psychiatric manifestation related to mechanism leading to these defects is not clear, but gluten immune-mediateddamageissuspected.288Recurrentaph- 13.1. The link to gluten thous ulcers can also occur in CD.289 Gluten-induced neurological manifestations, including Recommendations gluten ataxia, are seen in adult CD and occur also in children. They may either precede or be present at onset of CD.5,290 In established CD, a 10-22% prevalence of (1)ThediagnosisofDHshouldalwaysbeconfirmed neurologicaldysfunctionisreported.5,290Also,thesecom- by DIF examination of perilesional skin plications may be the prime presentation of CD and showing granular IgA deposits in the papillary NCGS.291 Because of the lack of gut involvement in dermis. (Strong recommendation, high level of NCGS,neurocoeliacdiseasemayeasilygounrecognized. evidence) (2) In case of typical results from DIF and positive 13.2. Pathophysiology anti-TG2, the diagnosis of DH and CD can be confirmed. (Strong recommendation, high level of To date, both the causative factors and pathophysio- evidence) logical mechanisms of neurological involvement in CD (3) If the patient is on a GFD, a gluten-containing remain elusive. The nervous system may be one of the dietshouldbeadministeredandthebiopsytaken selective sites of gluten-mediated reactions, including after at least 1 month. (Strong recommendation, cross-reacting antibodies, immune-complex deposition, moderate level of evidence) directTcellcytotoxicity,immune-cytotoxicityanddefi- (4) GFD is essential in the management of DH. ciency of vitamins and other nutrients secondary to (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) chronic malabsorption.292,293 (5) Dapsone is considered an essential therapeutic option for patients with DH during the 6–24- 13.2.1. Genetics. In the Sheffield neurology cohort month period until the GFD is effective. (Strong HLA-DQ8 was more common in patients who had no recommendation, moderate level of evidence) enteropathy compared with CD patients, i.e., having (6) GFD should be considered in patient proven enteropathy. This may represent a separate with psoriasis and serological evidence of entity from ataxia complicating CD.292 glutenintoleranceevenintheabsenceofclinical signs of CD. (Conditional recommendation, low 13.2.2. Immunological basis. Current research suggests level of evidence) thatneurocoeliacmanifestationsareimmune-mediated. Al-Toma et al. 611 Post-mortem examination from patients with gluten The white matter abnormalities can be diffuse or focal ataxiashowedpatchylossofPurkinjecellsandinfiltra- and do not resolve after a GFD.290 tion of T-lymphocytes within the cerebellum. Lymphocyticinfiltratesarefoundindorsalrootganglia 13.3.4. Other neurological disorders. A link between epi- in coeliac patients with sensory neuronopathy or lepsy and CD has been reported with prevalence of
