Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


of T-lymphocytes within the cerebellum. Lymphocyticinfiltratesarefoundindorsalrootganglia 13.3.4. Other neurological disorders. A link between epi- in coeliac patients with sensory neuronopathy or lepsy and CD has been reported with prevalence of 4– with myopathy.292,294 Anti-TG6 has been found in up 8%. Glutensensitivityandtemporal lobeepilepsy with to 85% of coeliac patients with neurological hippocampal sclerosis might be associated.303 GFD involvement.295 might benefit these patients.304 In relapsing-remitting or secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis, there is no 13.2.3. Serotonergic effects. Gluten intolerance may evidenceofanincreaseinprevalenceofglutensensitiv- interfere with serotonergic functioning. GFD might ity.305 Cases of gradually progressive neurological dis- improve depressive and behavioural problems and easeandglutensensitivityassociatedwithwhitematter increase free L-tryptophan levels.296 lesions, mimicking multiple sclerosis, have been described.306 Adult CD patients often complain of 13.3. Overview of neuro-psychiatric mild cognitive symptoms called ‘‘foggy brain’’, which improves when gluten-restriction is started, but re- manifestations related to gluten: appears with dietary contamination.307,308 13.3.1. Gluten ataxia (GA). This is the most frequently Concentration and attention difficulties, episodic reported neurological disturbance in CD. The data memory deficits, word-retrieval problems, reduced from Sheffield suggest a 20% prevalence of GA mental acuity and episodes of confusion or disorienta- among all patients with ataxias and 40% among tion are common recognized features in CD.309 patients with sporadic ataxias.297 The use of gliadin antibodies to prove the link between ataxia and 13.3.5. Psychiatric disorders. There are reported associ- gluten created some scepticism towards the association ations of psychiatric disorders with CD, including with gluten. depression, bipolar disorder, apathy, excessive anxiety, GAisinfrequentlyrelatedtointestinalcoeliacmani- schizophrenia,eatingdisorders,attention-deficit/hyper- festations or vitamin deficiencies, and improvement activity disorder, autism and sleep complaints.310–312 with a GFD is possible. Less than 10% of patients Anxiety disorders are usually reactive in CD patients with GA have GI symptoms but a third have enterop- andimprovewithaGFD.Depressivedisturbancesmay athy on biopsy.297 Few studies, mainly case reports, significantly impair QoL and are a good predictor of suggest overall favourable effect of GFD.298 lackofdietarycompliance.310AprolongedGFDmight improvesomepatients.Theassociationbetweenautism 13.3.2. Peripheral neuropathy. Gluten neuropathy is and CD is debated.313 defined as idiopathic neuropathy in the absence of an alternativeaetiologywithserologicalevidenceofgluten Summary sensitivity. Presentations include symmetrical sensori- motor axonal peripheral neuropathy, asymmetrical (1)AwarenessforCDinneurologyoutpatientclinics neuropathy, sensory ganglionopathy and small-fibre should be improved. neuropathy.299 Only a third has enteropathy. (2) Patients with CD might be more susceptible to Effect of a GFD on peripheral neuropathy is disap- the development of neurological dysfunction if pointing.300,301 A strict GFD ameliorates the overall they continue to consume gluten. QoL.302 Furthermore, nutritional deficiencies such as may either
