Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


peripheral neuropathy is disap- the development of neurological dysfunction if pointing.300,301 A strict GFD ameliorates the overall they continue to consume gluten. QoL.302 Furthermore, nutritional deficiencies such as may either precede or follow the disease. vitamin B12 or copper could lead to neurological (4) The prevalence of gluten ataxia might be up to sequelae in CD. 20% among all patients with idiopathic ataxias. Copper deficiency is a rare cause of myelopathy (5) Up to 25% of coeliacs on a GFD have neuro- indistinguishable from subacute combined degener- physiological evidence of peripheral neuropathy. ationduetoB12deficiency.Ifproven,thesedeficiencies (6)Newdiagnostictoolsarebecomingavailable(e.g. need to be promptly addressed.152,156 anti-TG6), which will enable identification of patients with neuro-CD. 13.3.3. Gluten encephalopathy. This has a wide range of (7) Neurological manifestations in relation to gluten symptoms, such as headaches resembling migraine are most likely immune-mediated. responsive to a GFD to severe debilitating headaches (8) Removal of the immunological trigger (gluten) associated with focal neurological deficits and white forms the basis of treatment and should be matter abnormalities on MRI at the other end. recommended once the diagnosis is properly 612 United European Gastroenterology Journal 7(5) made. (Strong recommendation, low level of CD.319,320 For those asymptomatic children diagnosed evidence) after screening, QoL did not improve. (9)DepressionmaysignificantlyimpairQoLandisa good predictor of lack of dietary compliance. 15 Novel therapies for CD Prolonged GFD might improve some patients. 15.1. The need for therapeutic measures other than diet 14 Quality of life It is still quite challenging to eliminate the ‘‘hidden In recent years the health-related QoL of coeliac gluten’’ that often contributes to the ongoing signs patients has attracted interest both in medical research and symptoms and incomplete mucosal healing in a and in clinical practice.314 Measurement of this allows significant proportion of CD patients. Difficulty also the impact of medical interventions to be evaluated exists during travel to places where food choices may more comprehensively. The great majority of QoL stu- be very limited. Additionally, patient dissatisfaction dies in CD have been cross-sectional and conducted with the restrictive nature of the diet and the high among adults with the classical gastrointestinal dis- cost ofgluten-freefoodsall addtotheburdenoftreat- order. These studies showed that a wide variety of ment and can lead to suboptimal adherence.321 These issues can affect the QoL of patients.315 Besides age concernsandobservationshavegivenwaytoincreased withdietarestronglyassociatedwiththehealth-related in conjunction with a GFD. QoL in CD. With better understanding of the pathogenesis of CD many potential therapeutic targets have emerged,
