Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


the QoL of patients.315 Besides age concernsandobservationshavegivenwaytoincreased withdietarestronglyassociatedwiththehealth-related in conjunction with a GFD. QoL in CD. With better understanding of the pathogenesis of CD many potential therapeutic targets have emerged, andthereisincreasinginterestinidentifyingandtesting 14.1. Studies in adults novel therapies for CD. The disease may be quite burdensome, especially in patients with abdominal complaints with signs of mal- 15.2. Overview of potential therapeutic options QoL observed in untreated coeliac patients.314–316 The Clinicaltrialsarebeingconductedtotesttheefficacyof initiation of a GFD has usually resulted in significant inhibiting one or more steps in the pathophysiological improvement. The persistence of poor QoL despite pathwayofCD.Differentagentstargetedthefollowing appropriateGFDmightbeexplainedbythesignificant steps: burden and social restrictions caused by the treat- ment.316 Women with CD may have an increased risk 1. Dietary modification (gluten replacement or for anxiety despite appropriate dietary treatment.317 removal).322,323 patientsandhealthycontrolswasfound,eitheratdiag- endopeptidases).324–328 Latiglutinase (IMGX-003 nosis or while on treatment.318 or ALV-003), AN-PEP (prolyl endopeptidases In patients with gluten neuropathy, physical dys- derived from Aspergillus niger) and STAN1 (a functioning is the major determinant of QoL. A strict cocktail of microbial enzymes) have been tested. GFD ameliorates the overall pain and health change 3. Enhancingtightjunctionintegrityusinglarazotide scores, indicating better QoL.302 acetate.329–331 CD patients who are found by screening may have 4. TG2-inhibition and modulation of the immune only subtle symptoms or may even be completely system.332 A European phase-II gluten re-chal- asymptomatic. It is essential to evaluate whether early lenge study with ZED1227 (an irreversible TG2 diagnosis is truly beneficial for the QoL in these inhibitor) has been started. subjects.101,102 5. Blocking HLA-DQ2.333 Based on experience from other parts of medicine, it is unlikely that this strategy will succeed. 14.2. Studies in children 6. Induction of tolerance to gluten using Nexvax2, Theperceptionofgoodhealth-relatedQoLmaychange which is a novel, peptide-based, epitope-specific withage.Specialquestionnairesforyoungchildrenand immunotherapy based on the principle of desensi- for adolescents are usually required. Children seem to tizationtherapyforallergicconditionsusingwhole Al-Toma et al. 613 regulate host immune system by upregulation of HLA-DQ-gluten tetramer in blood, serum assays Th2 response.334,335 for I-FABP and T cell flow cytometry. 4. StudiesareneededtovalidatetheresultsofGWAS suggesting that genetic susceptibility to CD might be distinct from the progression to RCD-II. 15.3. Summary of results of novel therapies 5. Role of biopsy in diagnosis and follow-up: The A number of current clinical studies have shown pro- debate on the diagnosis of CD without biopsy mising results, especially compounds for enzymatic needs more clarification. Also, the indication for gluten detoxification or to modulate tight junction and timing of biopsy at follow-up
