Review Article
KEYWORDS: patients, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, evidence, level, serology, level evidence, biopsy, strong, recommendation, high, risk, symptoms, disease


of CD without biopsy mising results, especially compounds for enzymatic needs more clarification. Also, the indication for gluten detoxification or to modulate tight junction and timing of biopsy at follow-up should be fur- integrity, but these have been of a short duration and ther explored. low power; therefore, studies with longer duration and 6. Marsh-1pathology:Anevidence-basedapproachis greater power will be needed to assess both efficacy needed. and long-term safety. 7. The management of bone disease should be opti- Aswithanynoveltherapytheprojected costsofthe mized,e.g.,bydeterminingtheageofscreeningfor newtherapieswillneedtobeweighedagainstthevalue osteoporosisandtheplaceforintravenousbispho- andbenefitprovidedcomparedtothatofaGFDalone. sphonates particularly in the early years after Ultimately health insurance plans would need to com- diagnosis. pensate these costs to permit patients to afford such 8. Treatment of RCD: The results of ongoing trials medications, as they already face considerable costs to using anti-IL15 and tofacitinib are being awaited. adhere to a GFD. Strategies such as combination or step-up thera- pies need more elaboration. 16. Areas of uncertainty and future research 9. NCGS: The future research should explore the genetic background, histological characteristics, Future research should focus on exploring the follow- susceptibility and risk factors for NCGS in add- ing areas and provide appropriate answers: ition to developing reliable biomarkers. 10. In neuro-coeliac disease: More data are needed to 1. Inscreening studies:Thereisalackofunderstand- clarify the gluten–brain link and to develop pre- ingofthenaturalhistoryofundiagnosedCD;this ventive and therapeutic strategies. needs further clarification also to justify screening 11. The development of non-dietary therapies might of asymptomatic persons. Sensitivity/specificity of alleviate symptoms especially after an inadvertent anti-TG2 testing and the role of EMA in patients gluten exposure, and an effective replacement of with low or intermediate anti-TG2 level needs to the GFD could greatly enhance the QoL of bedefined.Further,weneedtodeterminethetime patients struggling with the diet. intervalsmandatorytorepeattestinginsubjectsin high-risk populations. 2. The role of POCT in high-incidence areas with limited access to medical care needs to be References determined. Seesupplementary material. 3. Studies are needed to validate the following tests and make them widely available for clinical use:
