pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


interquartile range; KASL, the Korea Association for the Study of the Liver; kPa, kilopascals; LS, liver stiffness; MELD, Model for End-Stage Liver Disease; MMP 2, matrix metalloproteinase 2; M2BPGi, Mac-2 binding protein glycosylation isomer; MRI, Magnetic resonance imaging; MRE, magnetic resonance elastography; MRS, MR spectroscopy; NAFLD, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease; NASH, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis; NFS, NAFLD fibrosis score; NLFS, NAFLD liver fat score; NIT, noninvasive test; NPV, negative predictive value; OS, overall survival; PBC, primary biliary cholangitis; PH, portal hypertension; PIIICP, procollagen III C-terminal propeptide; PIIINP, procollagen III N-terminal Propeptide; PPV, positive predictive value; PRO-C3, pro-collagen 3 neoepitope; PSC, primary sclerosing cholangitis; pSWE, point SWE; QALY, quality-adjusted life-year; RFA, radiofrequency ablation; ROI, region-of-interest; SS, spleen stiffness; SWE, Shear wave elastography; SVR, sustained virologic response; T2DM, type 2 diabetes mellitus; TDF, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; TIMP-1, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1; ULN, upper limit of normal; VCTE, vibration-controlled transient elastography; 2D-SWE, two-dimensional SWE S6 Mi Na Kim, et al. KASL clinical guidelines for NIT Literature search for evidence collection the level of evidence. A strong recommendation indicates, The committee collected and analyzed relevant Korean for example, that the interventions could be applied in most and international literature through PubMed, MEDLINE, patients with a greater possibility of desirable effects, high- and KoreaMed to establish guidelines based on the latest quality evidence, presumed patient-important outcomes, research and evidence. Only literature written in Korean cost-effectiveness, preference, and compliance. A weak and English was searched, and search terms included recommendation indicates a suggestion made with less ‘noninvasive’, ‘liver fibrosis’, ‘chronic liver disease’, ‘chronic certainty, which could be considered favorable for many hepatitis’, ‘hepatitis B’, ‘hepatitis C’, ‘viral hepatitis’, ‘nonal- patients. Alternative interventions could be chosen for coholic fatty liver’, ‘nonalcoholic steatohepatitis’, ‘alcoholic “weak recommendations” according to the preferences of liver disease’, ‘primary biliary cholangitis’, ‘autoimmune patients or medical practitioners. hepatitis’, ‘primary sclerosing cholangitis’, ‘congestive hep- atopathy’, ‘hepatectomy’, and specific terms of the subject. List of key questions The committee selected the following key questions and Level of evidence and grade of recommendations presented relevant evidence and recommendations. The literature collected for evidence was analyzed 1. What are the types of NITs, the principles and methods through systematic review, and the level of evidence was of measurement for each test, their advantages and classified based on the revised Grading of Recommenda- disadvantages, and considerations for interpretation? tions, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) 2. What is the diagnostic performance
