pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


each test, their advantages and classified based on the revised Grading of Recommenda- disadvantages, and considerations for interpretation? tions, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) 2. What is the diagnostic performance of NITs for liver fi- with modifications (Table 1). They were categorized based brosis in CHB? on the possibility of changes in the assessment through 3. What is the diagnostic performance of NITs for liver fi- further research as follows: high (A), with lowest possibility; brosis in CHC? moderate (B), with certain possibility; and low (C), with 4. What is the diagnostic performance of NITs for liver fi- highest possibility. Specifically, depending on the type of brosis in NAFLD? study, randomized controlled trials start at a high level of 5. What is the diagnostic performance of NITs for liver fi- evidence (A) and observational studies start at a low level brosis in alcohol-related liver disease? of evidence (C). Considering factors affecting the study’s 6. What is the diagnostic performance of NITs for liver fi- quality, the evidence level was raised or lowered further. brosis in other CLDs (PBC, autoimmune hepatitis, The strength of recommendation was either strong (1) or PSC, and congestive hepatopathy)? weak (2) according to the GRADE system. This was deter- 7. W hat is the cost-effectiveness of NITs? patient receptivity, and socioeconomic aspects as well as CLDs? Table 1. The grading of recommendation, assessment, development, and evaluation (GRADE) system Criteria Quality of Evidence High quality Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. A Moderate quality Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect B and may change the estimate. Low quality Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of C effect and is likely to change the estimate. Strength of Recommendation Strong Factors influencing the strength of the recommendation included the quality of the evidence, 1 presumed patient-important outcomes, and cost. Weak Variability in preference and values, or more uncertainty. A recommendation is made with less 2 certainty, higher cost or resource consumption. S7 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 9. What is the diagnostic and prognostic performance of TYPES OF NONINVASIVE TESTS NITs for portal hypertension? tocellular carcinoma (HCC), hepatic decompensation, siderable disease burden. The decision to initiate treatment and death? for CLD and its prognosis are primarily determined
