pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


OF NONINVASIVE TESTS NITs for portal hypertension? tocellular carcinoma (HCC), hepatic decompensation, siderable disease burden. The decision to initiate treatment and death? for CLD and its prognosis are primarily determined by the 11. How useful are NITs for monitoring the progression of degree of liver fibrosis and its progression, as well as the CLDs? risk of developing cirrhosis. Thus far, liver biopsy has been 12. What is the usefulness of NITs for evaluating liver fi- the standard test for diagnosing intrahepatic inflammation, brosis in pediatric and adolescent patients? steatosis, and fibrosis. However, there are drawbacks such as high cost, invasiveness, risk of complications, potential Internal and external review and approval process for interpretation errors based on subjective judgment, and Manuscripts and recommendations prepared by each sample error due to small tissue samples.1,2 Therefore, in evidence through several committee meetings, and the are commonly used, such as abdominal ultrasound and/or quality of the guidelines was evaluated according to the panels using serum markers. Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation II (AGREE II) criteria. The recommendations were assessed Serum markers and revised based on critical review by the Delphi Commit- tee, which was composed of 11 experts in the field of hepa- Principles and methods of measurement tology belonging to the KASL. The guidelines were re- Serum markers can be divided into indirect markers that viewed at a meeting of an external review board consisting reflect liver damage, intrahepatic inflammation, or changes of six specialists in the field of hepatology and at a sympo- in liver function and portal pressure, and direct markers sium open to all KASL members and the public, and they that measure components released into the bloodstream were then further modified. The final manuscript was en- during fibrogenesis or extracellular matrix remodeling pro- dorsed by the Board of Executives of the KASL. cesses.3 Indirect markers include aspartate aminotransferase Release of the guideline and plan for updates (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), apolipoprotein A1, Tests to Assess Liver Fibrosis in Chronic Liver Disease tamyl transpeptidase (GGT), haptoglobin, α2-macro- was released in Korean at the Liver Week 2024 event (June globulin, cholesterol, and asialo α1-acid glycoprotein 27, 2024). The guideline in Korean is available on the KASL (AsAGP).4-6 As liver fibrosis progresses, serum ALT gener- website ( The KASL plans to update ally decreases, while AST tends to remain stable or in- the guideline as novel evidence accumulates and revision
