pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


being painless and dates for VCTE examination, or clinicians may need to ap- noninvasive, the ability to conduct easy and quick exami- ply different cutoff values for assessing liver fibrosis nations in an outpatient setting, and the capacity to obtain depending on the degree of ALT elevation.56 In addition, immediate results. Additionally, the results are highly repro- other confounding factors including extra-hepatic cholesta- ducible, it directly measures LS, and the amount of liver sis,57 liver congestion due to heart failure,58 and excessive parenchyma examined is more than 100 times that of liver alcohol consumption59-61 also influence LS on VCTE. biopsy.39,45 The technique is also not difficult, so there is LS measurement using VCTE demonstrated high diag- not a substantial learning curve for practitioners,46 and it nostic performance for liver fibrosis; however, considering CLDs of various causes.47-49 should be interpreted by experts. However, results of VCTE can be difficult to obtain from patients with ascites or narrow intercostal space.39 In cases [Recommendations] of ascites, the elastic waves may not reach the liver paren- 1. VCTE can evaluate the degree of liver fibrosis nonin- chyma, and when the intercostal space is narrow, it be- vasively, rapidly, and conveniently. (A1) comes difficult to position the probe correctly. In addition, results of VCTE may be unreliable in individuals with a high Shear wave elastography BMI (>28 kg/m2). The risk of obtaining unreliable results of VCTE was relatively lower in studies conducted on Asians Shear wave elastography (SWE) assesses the degree of (1.1–3.5%) compared to those on populations in Western liver fibrosis by measuring the speed of shear waves along countries (4.3–7.0%), which can be attributed to the rela- with image information during abdominal ultrasound exami- tively lower BMI of Asians.50 In addition, during pregnancy, nation,37,40,62,63 and techniques include both point SWE VCTE examination is not recommended due to changes in (pSWE) and two-dimensional SWE (2D-SWE). the position of the liver. Rib Probe Shear wave 1D-SWE Figure 1. Principles of vibration-controlled transient elastography.43 S11 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 Principles of measurement strain is applied, the deformation of the medium measured, SWE imaging technique was designed in 1988 by Sarva- and Young’s modulus presented as a quantitative value. zyan et al.64 The basic principle is to measure the shear The examination is usually performed on the right lobe of strain of different materials against externally applied force the liver through the intercostal
