pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


basic principle is to measure the shear The examination is usually performed on the right lobe of strain of different materials against externally applied force the liver through the intercostal space, and the ROI is se- using SWE values that vary depending on the tissue medi- lected in an area free of blood vessels and bile ducts. um.65,66 To assess the degree of liver fibrosis, the trans- While the patient briefly holds their breath, the elastic mod- verse wave elasticity value is quantitatively calculated by ulus value is measured. If it is measured at a shallow depth measuring the propagation speed of the transverse shear of less than 1 cm below the liver capsule, the reproducibili- wave generated in the region of interest (ROI) using acous- ty and diagnostic ability of the test may be reduced due to tic radiation force impulse (ARFI) transmitted vertically from reverberation artifacts, so the measurement is performed the transducer (Figs. 2 and 3).65,66 at a depth of 1.5–2 cm (Figs. 2 and 3). Because results may vary depending on measurement depth, a consistent Methods of measurement depth is recommended for all follow-up tests on the same For SWE, the probe is placed on the right upper abdo- patient. Measurements can be made up to 7–8 cm from men, where the liver is anatomically located. Then, shear the probe, but to ensure the reproducibility of the test and Probe 1.5-2 cm Longitudinal wave Transverse wave Region of interest Shear wave velocity measurement 7.16±1.47 kPa ELASTO POINT QUANTIFICATION A B Figure 2. Principles of point shear wave elastography (A) and actual images (B). Probe 1.5-2 cm Longitudinal wave Transverse wave Region of interest Shear wave velocity measurement A B Figure 3. Principles of two-dimensional shear wave elastography (A) and actual images (B). S12 Mi Na Kim, et al. KASL clinical guidelines for NIT appropriate diagnostic ability for liver fibrosis, a distance of Advantages 4 to 4.5 cm should be maintained. After food intake, elas- SWE is an objective and reproducible test and has the ticity may increase due to increased hepatic blood flow, so advantage of being able to obtain quantitative measure- fasting is required at least 4 hours before the test.38,67-69 To ments without manual pressure while directly evaluating increase the reliability of the test, the standard deviation of tissue elasticity. In addition, not only can elastography be the elastic modulus values measured in more
