pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


degree of liver fi- erates sound waves targeting multiple focal zones in the brosis while observing the anatomical structure of the longitudinal direction of ultrasonic waves. It generates a liver. (B1) high-frequency range (60–600 Hz) shear wave amplified into a cone shape by focusing it (Fig. 3). Due to these dif- Magnetic resonance elastography ferences, it has been reported that the diagnostic ability of 2D-SWE is higher than that of pSWE.67-72 Afterwards, the MRE leverages a technique based on phase-contrast progress of the shear wave is captured in real-time through magnetic resonance imaging to quantitatively assess the ultrafast imaging using a plane wave that can obtain imag- degree of liver fibrosis. es at up to 20,000 frames per second, and the quantitative elastic modulus value is displayed in m/s or kPa on the ul- Principles and methods of measurement trasound screen.43 2D-SWE can obtain an elastic image of MRE employs an active driver to produce shear waves, a SWETM box in a wider range than pSWE and can mea- which are transmitted to liver tissue through a passive driv- sure elasticity by having one or more circular ROIs whose er attached to the patient’s body via a plastic tube (Fig. 4). sizes can be adjusted.37,40,67,73-75 The results are obtained The passive driver is usually positioned on the right lobe after repeating the test 5 to 10 times and then obtaining the of the liver, typically at the intersection of the right midcla- median of all valid measurements.69 vicular line and the xiphoid process, due to the left lobe’s S13 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 sensitivity to heart movement. The shear wave frequency carefully avoided. These include areas within 1 cm of the should be fixed at 60 Hz, as it influences wave propagation liver capsule, the gallbladder fossa, around major intrahe- speed. The amplitude is usually set at 50% as a default, patic vessels, and ‘hot spots’, which refer to focal areas of but can be adjusted according to abdominal wall thickness higher stiffness than the surrounding liver, often found near to ensure optimal wave transmission and image quality. It the liver dome or directly beneath the passive driver. Auto- is recommended the patient fast for at least four hours be- mated software now exists that measures LS on MRE. It fore the test to avoid falsely increased LS measurements segments the liver in the magnitude image,
