pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


variation in mea- DIAGNOSTIC PERFORMANCE OF NONINVA- surements across different MRI manufacturers, main mag- SIVE TESTS FOR LIVER FIBROSIS netic field strengths (e.g., 1.5 Tesla vs. 3.0 Tesla), or imag- ing sequences (e.g., 2D gradient recalled echo vs. 2D spin Chronic hepatitis B echo-echo planar imaging [SE-EPI]).86,87 The measurement success rate has been reported to be high, between 95% Assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with CHB is cru- and 100%.88 cial for determining treatment timing and prognosis. Liver For the few instances where MRE might fail, alternative biopsy can reveal the extent of inflammation and fibrosis, strategies based on the specific cause of failure can be which can help inform treatment decisions.1 Antiviral thera- considered. If MRE fails due to excessive hepatic iron de- py (AVT) is initiated when liver biopsy reveals moderate in- position, using a 1.5 Tesla machine or trying a 2D SE-EPI flammation (≥A2) or significant fibrosis (≥F2).100,101 However, sequence may help. Situations where the bowel interferes due to the invasive nature of liver biopsy, alternate NITs between the liver and the passive driver, or where liver such as serum markers, VCTE, SWE, and MRE have been anatomy has been altered by surgical procedures or condi- employed. tions like situs inversus, suggest relocating the passive driver to the liver’s left lobe as a viable alternative. While Serum markers MRE can still proceed in the presence of ascites, exces- Serum markers are easy to use and highly reproducible sive fluid may necessitate conducting paracentesis prior to in clinical practice. While serum markers cannot easily dis- repeat testing.89 tinguish between different stages of liver fibrosis, they have Constraints on MRE that have yet to be addressed in- high specificity for diagnosing significant fibrosis or cirrho- clude patient conditions such as claustrophobia, body size sis (F4) and are often used to rule out these stages. APRI, exceeding the scanner’s capacity, or the presence of me- FIB-4, and FibroTest are the most extensively studied in re- tallic implants (e.g., biliary stents, transjugular intrahepatic search comparing liver biopsy and serum markers for as- portosystemic shunt stents, or vascular embolization coils), sessing the degree of liver fibrosis in patients with CHB. which interfere with magnetic resonance imaging itself. Although sensitivity and specificity vary across studies The technique’s main drawbacks are its high cost and limit- due to different cutoff values, the specificity of APRI and ed accessibility. FIB-4 for diagnosing significant fibrosis
