pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


to ex- logical liver fibrosis but also by hepatic congestion and car- trahepatic bile duct strictures can lead to an overestimation diac function, limiting the utility of this approach. Similarly, of fibrosis stages.57 the role of MRE is currently based on retrospective studies involving a small number of patients, which have yielded Congestive hepatopathy conflicting results. This underscores the need for further In patients with congestive hepatopathy, the diagnostic validation in future research. performance of serum markers for liver fibrosis is low.351 A study involving 27 patients post-Fontan surgery used the [Recommendations] FibroSure test, which includes serum markers such as α2- 1. VCTE can be used to assess liver fibrosis in patients macroglobulin, total bilirubin, GGT, apolipoprotein A1, and with PBC, AIH, and PSC. (B1) haptoglobin, and compared the results with liver biopsy outcomes.352 The PPV was only 33%, and the NPV was S48 Mi Na Kim, et al. KASL clinical guidelines for NIT Cost-effectiveness 4% in tertiary care settings. In two UK studies, a strategy of using FIB-4 followed by VCTE or the ELF test in primary Studies on the cost-effectiveness of NITs for liver fibrosis care settings, and then referring to specialized care based have predominantly been based on VCTE. According to a on the results, proved effective in reducing healthcare prospective cohort study involving 6,295 individuals across costs.367,368 In a Canadian study, a strategy of performing six countries in Europe and Asia, using VCTE as a screen- SWE after FIB-4 was cost-effective for diagnosing signifi- ing method was found to be cost-effective compared to liv- cant fibrosis at a cost of $148.85 per diagnosis, accurately er function tests.359 The incremental cost-effectiveness ra- diagnosing 84% of the patients, and was also 92% accu- tio (ICER) was reported to be €6,217 per quality-adjusted rate for advanced fibrosis, proving to be the most cost-ef- life-year (QALY) in the general population. Notably, for fective.369 A recent US study compared the cost-effective- populations over the age of 45 at high-risk for ALD, the ness of MRE and VCTE following a high FIB-4 score ICER for VCTE screening was exceptionally favorable, cal- (≥2.67) in patients with NAFLD suspected of having ad- culated at €2,570 per QALY. vanced fibrosis.370 Although MRE was more expensive at In a Canadian study targeting populations at high-risk for $392,945 compared to $384,557 for VCTE, it offered supe- liver fibrosis, such as patients with T2DM or obesity, a se-
