pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


YLAQ/007,7$ :ETCV ETCV - 000,01 fo trohoc lacitehtopyH dna eert noisiceD )rallod SU( SU 073.la te ahgnaS YLAQ/840,7$ :ERM ERM - htiw stneitap dlo-raey-05 -etats vokraM )3202( dna 76.2≥ fo erocs 4-BIF noitisnart sisorbif decnavda detcepsus ;raey efil detsujda-ytilauq ,YLAQ ;erocs sisorbif esaesid revil yttaf cilohoclanon ,SFN ;yhpargotsale tneisnart dellortnoc-noitarbiv ,ETCV ;esaesid revil yttaf cilohoclanon ,DLFAN .yhpargotsale evaw raehs ,EWS ;xedni 4-sisorbif ,4-BIF ;yhpargotsale ecnanoser citengam ,ERM ;sisohrric revil ,CL .esaesid revil yttaf cilohoclanon ,DLFAN Mi Na Kim, et al. KASL clinical guidelines for NIT fectiveness improves as the severity of liver fibrosis in- effectiveness of NITs for liver fibrosis is likely to improve creases. Notably, VCTE showed excellent cost-effective- further. ness in patients with CHC, where the ICER per QALY compared to liver biopsy ranged from $9,000 to $14,000. [Summary] Cost-effectiveness analyses heavily depend on the prev- In cost-effectiveness analyses, the prevalence of a con- alence of the condition within a target population, necessi- dition within a target population heavily influences the tating tailored strategies based on specific group charac- need for tailored strategies. For patients with NAFLD or teristics. In primary care settings, where the prevalence of alcohol use disorder, the approach to assessing liver fi- advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis is relatively low, a strategy brosis can vary significantly based on the clinical setting. of initially using serum markers followed by sequential im- In environments where the prevalence of cirrhosis is low, aging tests such as VCTE has proven to be most cost-ef- it is cost-effective to first use serum markers followed by fective for assessing liver fibrosis in patients with both imaging tests such as VCTE or SWE. Conversely, in set- NAFLD and ALD. Thus, employing such strategies in pri- tings with a high prevalence of cirrhosis, directly initiating mary care to screen high-risk groups is advisable, though imaging tests like VCTE or SWE can be more cost-effec- there is a lack of Korean data to fully support this. Recent tive. However, there is a notable lack of domestic literature clinical utility has been demonstrated for combined ap- in this area, underscoring the need for further research to proaches using serum markers and imaging tests, such as validate these strategies within local contexts and ensure the AGILE score and the MEFIB index, in patients with the most efficient use of resources in diagnosing liver fi- NAFLD.247,261 These approaches have shown promise; how- brosis. ever, further research is
