pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


score and the MEFIB index, in patients with the most efficient use of resources in diagnosing liver fi- NAFLD.247,261 These approaches have shown promise; how- brosis. ever, further research is needed to assess their cost-effec- tiveness. Additionally, as effective pharmacological treat- ments for NAFLD/NASH are developed, the cost- HBsAg (+) Immune active Immune active Immune tolerant Grey zone Immune active Grey zone HBeAg positive HBeAg negative HBV DNA ≥20,000 IU/mL HBV DNA ≥20,000 IU/mL HBV DNA ≥2,000 IU/mL HBV DNA ≥2,000 IU/mL ALT or AST 40-80 U/L ALT or AST ≥80 U/L ALT or AST 40-80 U/L ALT or AST ≥80 U/L No Yes Yes No Yes Yes Inflammory necrosis (≥A2) Inflammory necrosis (≥A2) or significant fibrosis (≥F2) or significant fibrosis (≥F2) · Liver biopsy · Liver biopsy . VCTE . VCTE . MRE . MRE No Yes No Yes Monitor Antiviral therapy Monitor Antiviral therapy Figure 6. Antiviral therapy algorithm for chronic hepatitis B patients in the gray zone. HBsAg, hepatitis B surface antigen; HBeAg, hepati- tis B e antigen; HBV, hepatitis B virus; ALT, alanine aminotransferase; AST, aspartate aminotransferase; VCTE, vibration-controlled tran- sient elastography; MRE, magnetic resonance elastography. S51 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 SCREENING HIGH-RISK GROUPS natural course. Periodic and meticulous monitoring is es- sential to identify gray zone status in patients with CHB, Chronic hepatitis B which can be achieved using liver biopsy or NITs for liver fi- brosis. The risk of HCC in patients in the gray zone has Patients with CHB are considered a high-risk group re- been reported to be higher than that during the immune- quiring continuous monitoring and management. However, tolerant and immune-inactive phases. However, these pa- the risk of HCC and the effectiveness of AVT vary depend- tients have often been excluded from AVT as the serum ing on the natural immunological course of the virus.373,374 ALT, an indicator of liver damage, is not significantly elevat- Approximately 30% of patients with CHB fall into a gray ed.375-377 According to a recent multinational study, AVT in zone.375,376 In these patients, serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) patients with CHB in the gray zone may reduce the risk of DNA and ALT levels do not match a specific phase of the HCC by up to 70% compared to no treatment. The cumula- Primary care/non-hepatology care (endocrinology, cardiology, and etc) Patients with suspected steatotic liver disease (Patients with T2DM, obesity, metabolic
