pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


the HCC by up to 70% compared to no treatment. The cumula- Primary care/non-hepatology care (endocrinology, cardiology, and etc) Patients with suspected steatotic liver disease (Patients with T2DM, obesity, metabolic risk factors or unexplained elevation in liver enzyme.) Other causes of liver disease (HBV, HCV, Check for liver risk factor autoimmune liver disease, and etc) Calculate FIB-4 ≥1.3 (≥2.0 if aged ≥65) FIB-4 >2.67 consider referral Hepatologist No Yes Significant fibrosis Low risk 1.3 ≤FIB-4 ≤2.67 (LS by VCTE≥8 kPa) Patient review and risk assessment Consider repeat VCTE <8 kPa VCTE ≥8 kPa Consider additional NIT evaluation evaluation (MRE, ELF, Agile, or etc.) (1-3 years) Discordant NITs Consider biopsy Clinical or radiological cirrhosis If stage 4 No Yes Reassess annually Cirrhosis management Consider pharmacotherapy Figure 7. Algorithm for screening high-risk groups of patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. T2DM, type 2 diabetes mellitus; HBV, hepatitis B virus; HCV, hepatitis C virus; FIB-4, fibrosis-4 index; VCTE, vibration-controlled transient elastography; LS, liver stiffness; MRE, magnetic resonance elastography; ELF, enhanced liver fibrosis; NITs, non-invasive tests. S52 Mi Na Kim, et al. KASL clinical guidelines for NIT tive incidence of HCC significantly decreased five years af- The hepatologist will conduct a comprehensive review of ter AVT.378 Therefore, strategies to identify high-risk pa- the patient’s history and liver fibrosis risk, and additional tients who require AVT are being explored. NITs, such as MRE, ELF, and the AGILE score, may be Patients with CHB and ALT levels that are consistently considered to assess liver fibrosis. If cirrhosis is diagnosed, one to two times the ULN are considered to be in the gray careful monitoring and follow-up are necessary due to the zone, and AVT can be initiated if moderate or greater in- significantly increased risk of liver-related complications flammatory necrosis or significant fibrosis is confirmed.100 and HCC. Liver biopsy can be performed in patients with The risk of HCC is high in patients with CHB aged 30–40 inconsistent NIT results or when the degree of liver fibrosis years or older or with ALT levels at the ULN as well as in is difficult to determine, and follow-up and treatment are patients with normal ALT but persistently high HBV DNA. considered depending on the progression of the liver fibro- Therefore, these patients should be assessed for liver fi- sis. brosis and AVT should be considered.100,374 Methods for as- Although guidelines regarding the duration and method sessing for
