pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


liver fibro- Therefore, these patients should be assessed for liver fi- sis. brosis and AVT should be considered.100,374 Methods for as- Although guidelines regarding the duration and method sessing for liver fibrosis include NITs, such as VCTE and of follow-up have not yet been established, FIB-4 can be MRE. When significant fibrosis is detected, AVT can be ini- re-evaluated after one to two years in low-risk patients with tiated (Fig. 6).81,379 Although serum markers such as APRI prediabetes, T2DM, or two or more metabolic risk factors. and FIB4 can also be used to assess for liver fibrosis, there FIB-4 can be re-evaluated after two to three years in pa- is insufficient evidence for their use as a basis for initiating tients with NAFLD but without T2DM or other metabolic risk AVT. factors (Fig. 7).383,384 Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease [Recommendations] 1. Liver fibrosis should be assessed using VCTE, SWE, Liver fibrosis is the most important prognostic factor in and MRE to determine antiviral therapy in patients patients with NAFLD. Therefore, an accurate assessment with CHB who are in the gray zone. (A2) of liver fibrosis is crucial in these patients.380 Although liver 2. If patients with NAFLD have FIB-4 ≥1.3, referral to a biopsy is the standard test for identifying liver fibrosis, it is hepatologist or VCTE examination for assessing liver difficult to perform routinely. fibrosis can be considered. (B1) In primary care settings, a thorough history and blood tests are used to check for viral hepatitis, ALD, and other liver diseases when NAFLD is suspected. Several NITs can NONINVASIVE DIAGNOSIS OF PORTAL HY- be used to assess the risk among patients with NAFLD, PERTENSION AND PREDICTION OF PROG- and serum markers obtained using basic blood tests and NOSIS clinical information can be used to classify patients into high-risk groups in a cost-effective manner. Portal hypertension (PH) is an abnormal increase in FIB-4 is a well-known serum marker; patients with FIB-4 blood pressure of the portal vein and its tributaries. The <1.3 are classified as low-risk, while patients with FIB-4 most common cause of PH is cirrhosis, which leads to in- >1.3 should undergo VCTE or be referred to a hepatologist creased intrahepatic vascular resistance and portal blood for further risk analysis.81,381 However, patients aged ≥65 flow. Because PH is a direct cause of various complica- years with FIB-4 <2.0 are not considered high-risk.35 The tions related to cirrhosis, evaluation and
