pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


analysis.81,381 However, patients aged ≥65 flow. Because PH is a direct cause of various complica- years with FIB-4 <2.0 are not considered high-risk.35 The tions related to cirrhosis, evaluation and regular follow-up diagnostic performance of FIB-4 for advanced fibrosis may are necessary for the presence or absence of PH in cirrho- be lower in patients with NAFLD and T2DM. If the VCTE sis.317 test fails or further evaluation of liver fibrosis is necessary, The gold-standard test for PH is the measurement of he- MRE and liver biopsy can be considered.81,382 Moderate or patic venous pressure gradient (HVPG), which is assessed high-risk patients require a referral to a hepatologist for ac- by inserting a balloon catheter directly into the hepatic vein. curate assessment and appropriate management of liver fi- HVPG is the difference between the wedge hepatic venous brosis. S53 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 pressure and free hepatic venous pressure measured at Vibration-controlled transient elastography the border of the hepatic vein and the inferior vena cava, and is an estimate of the pressure difference between the Portal hypertension portal vein and the inferior vena cava. If HVPG is more There are many studies on the usefulness of VCTE in than 6 mmHg, it is defined as PH, and if it is more than 10 screening patients at high risk for CSPH, and it shows ex- mmHg, it is defined as clinically significant PH (CSPH). cellent overall diagnostic performance. In a recent meta- practice because it is invasive and can only be performed summary AUC of VCTE for CSPH diagnosis was 0.90, by experts at institutions equipped with specific facilities. sensitivity 87.5%, specificity 85.3%, and the summary To date, there is no NIT available that can replace HVPG HVPG-LS correlation coefficient was also high at 0.783.391 as a quantitative measure of PH, but studies on various In studies including patients with cirrhosis mainly caused NITs to evaluate PH and the risk of developing complica- by viruses or alcohol, it was suggested that CSPH can be tions are ongoing. diagnosed when LS exceeds 20–25 kPa,317,392-394 and it was reported that LS above 21 kPa was specific for CSPH diag- Serum markers nosis. 395 In the study by Robic et al., no PH-related complications There are studies attempting to evaluate PH using serum occurred when LS was 20 kPa or less during the 2-year fol- markers due to the advantages
