pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


often not visible on left without performing invasive endoscopy for screening. How- intercostal approach.417 However, it was recently reported ever, in high-risk groups potentially requiring primary bleed- that CSPH can be more accurately predicted with a sensi- ing prevention treatment, selective endoscopy is neces- tivity of 83% and a specificity of 82% when the cutoff value S55 Clinical and Molecular Hepatology Volume_30 Supplement September 2024 exceeds 26.5 kPa through SS measurement using 100-Hz- death.4 Consequently, several studies utilizing NITs to pre- probe VCTE dedicated to spleen measurement.418 dict liver-related complications have been conducted. Among NITs, meta-analyses of VCTE, which has been Noninvasive follow-up of portal hypertension most extensively studied, are summarized in Table 21. Moreover, for early-stage HCC, curative treatments such There is a lack of research on whether the Baveno VI cri- as hepatectomy and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) show study on patients with cirrhosis caused by HBV and HCV, rence and complications following those treatments. There- there was no development of large esophageal varices in fore, accurately assessing the degree of liver fibrosis be- patients who met the Baveno VI criteria and showed sus- fore hepatectomy or RFA is necessary in selecting tained viral suppression. Patients who did not meet the treatment modality and evaluating prognosis. Predicting Baveno VI criteria did not show progression of PH if they post-hepatectomy liver failure is particularly crucial in mak- maintained consistently good viral suppression.419 Addi- ing these decisions. tional research is needed to determine the most appropri- ate interval for follow-up depending on the patient’s clinical Development of hepatocellular carcinoma condition, the presence and size of esophageal varices, and the cause and treatment of liver disease. Serum markers Research on noninvasive monitoring following nonselec- Among serum markers, the predictive performance for tive beta-blocker treatment is also limited. One study iden- HCC development has been relatively well studied in FIB- tified hemodynamic parameters associated with the hemo- 4. The predictive performance of FIB-4 for HCC develop- dynamic response to intravenous infusion of propranolol,420 ment in patients with CHB has been primarily reported in another study showed an association between hemody- Korean studies.422-425 In a study involving 986 Korean pa- namic response to carvedilol and SS changes as a primary tients with CHB, the hazard ratio (HR) was 4.57 for the FIB- preventive treatment for large esophageal varices,421 but 4 group of 1.7≤FIB-4 <2.4, and 21.34 for FIB-4 ≥2.4, indi- further validation is needed.
