pISSN 2287-2728
KEYWORDS: fibrosis, liver, patients, diagnosing, vcte, auc, cutoff, value, kpa, diagnostic, cirrhosis, specificity, sensitivity, significant, study


biopsies be- 11 kPa after one year. Reductions in LS after AVT in these fore and after tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) treat- studies may not only reflect improvement in liver fibrosis ment, decreases in APRI or FIB-4 scores after 240 weeks but also improvement in inflammation. However, liver biop- of treatment with TDF did not correlate with the improve- sy, which is the reference standard, was not performed be- ment in liver fibrosis observed on liver biopsy.525 In this fore or after AVT in most studies; thus, it was difficult to de- study, baseline APRI and FIB-4 scores correlated with the termine correlations between the degree of improvement in histological stage of liver fibrosis; however, the APRI and liver fibrosis or inflammation and improvement in LS mea- FIB-4 scores after long-term AVT tended to underestimate surements. In a recent Chinese multicenter prospective the degree of liver fibrosis compared to liver biopsy. There- study conducted by Dong et al., 182 patients underwent fore, follow-up studies are needed to determine whether liver biopsy and VCTE simultaneously before and after 78 APRI and FIB-4 can predict improvement in liver fibrosis weeks of entecavir treatment.518 In this study, LS showed after AVT. an excellent diagnostic performance for each stage of fi- In a study of 71 CHB patients, pSWE LS values contin- brosis before treatment, but the decrease in LS during 78 ued to decrease during long-term AVT,526 but these results weeks of AVT appeared to reflect improvement in inflam- should be supported by future research with a larger num- mation rather than liver fibrosis. The only predictor of im- ber of patients. provement in histological liver fibrosis after AVT was the Ishak fibrosis score before treatment. Therefore, when Chronic hepatitis C measuring LS using VCTE before and after AVT, clinicians should consider that when ALT is elevated, LS can be over- After the introduction of highly potent DAAs for CHC estimated independently from liver fibrosis.49,127 Improve- worldwide, there has been an increasing need for NITs to ments in LS after AVT may be related to improvement in in- confirm improvement of liver fibrosis in patients who have flammation represented by normalization of ALT rather achieved a SVR after CHC treatment. In a meta-analysis than improvement in liver fibrosis. that investigated changes in VCTE LS before and after VCTE can also be used to monitor the natural history of AVT in patients with CHC,
