Early Repolarization Syndrome
KEYWORDS: early repolarization, early, repolarization, syndrome, ventricular, ecg, repolarization syndrome, patients, ventricular fibrillation, fibrillation, polymorphic, icd, diagnosis, tachycardia, family


Early repolarization syndrome is a genetic disorder of cardiomyocyte ion channel function (channelopathy). Patients are predisposed to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF). Diagnosis is by ECG. Some patients require an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Early repolarization refers to ECG findings typically including J-point elevation ≥ 0.1 mV, often with a slurred or notched terminal QRS complex, followed by ST-segment elevation in ≥ 2 contiguous leads other than V1 to V3. This ECG pattern is not uncommon, as it occurs in about 5% to 10% of the population (1, 2, 3), especially in males, younger patients, and athletes. Most people with this early repolarization ECG pattern do not manifest arrhythmias. However, early repolarization is substantially more common in survivors of apparently idiopathic ventricular fibrillation (VF) (1, 2, 3). Early repolarization syndrome refers to people with early repolarization in inferior or lateral leads (predicting higher risk of arrhythmias) on ECG who also have had symptomatic ventricular arrhythmias (4). Early repolarization syndrome appears to result from mutations that produce a Gain of function of outward potassium current channels OR Loss of function of inward sodium or calcium current channels These ion channel changes magnify the normal small transmural voltage gradients during the plateau phase of the action potential. These gradients produce a J-wave and J-point elevation on the ECG and predispose to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia which can degenerate into ventricular fibrillation in the absence of other causes of early repolarization (eg, hyperthermia or hypothermia, hypocalcemia, hyperkalemia). The ECG changes are similar to those of the Brugada syndrome but appear in the inferior or lateral leads in the early repolarization syndrome rather than in the right precordial leads of the Brugada syndrome. This and other similarities has led to Brugada syndrome and early repolarization syndrome being grouped as J-wave syndromes (4). Prior to the VT/VF, the early repolarization pattern may become more exaggerated and the VT/VF may be precipitated by an episode of myocardial ischemia. - Early repolarization syndrome appears to be inheritable, but disease-specific gene mutations are rarely identified, suggesting that the disorder is often polygenic. The ventricular arrhythmias may cause palpitations and/or cardiac arrest. Syncope may occur but is uncommon because VT that occurs with early repolarization syndrome rarely self-terminates (unlike with some other disorders that cause VT in which syncope is more common). Diagnosis of Early Repolarization Syndrome Characteristic clinical and ECG manifestations Clinical screening of first-degree family
