Early Repolarization Syndrome
KEYWORDS: early repolarization, early, repolarization, syndrome, ventricular, ecg, repolarization syndrome, patients, ventricular fibrillation, fibrillation, polymorphic, icd, diagnosis, tachycardia, family


self-terminates (unlike with some other disorders that cause VT in which syncope is more common). Diagnosis of Early Repolarization Syndrome Characteristic clinical and ECG manifestations Clinical screening of first-degree family members Diagnosis should be considered in patients who have had polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or sudden cardiac arrest (or a family history of those events) in the absence of structural heart disease and who also have ECG changes showing an inferior and/or lateral early repolarization pattern. The typical ECG finding of early repolarization is J-point elevation of ≥ 1 mm (≥ 0.1 mV) followed by ST segment elevation in ≥ 2 contiguous inferior and/or lateral leads. A probabilistic diagnosis scoring system (the Shanghai Early Repolarization Syndrome Score System) for the early repolarization syndrome has been proposed (1). Because specific gene defects are seldom identified, genetic testing is not typically recommended for patients or family members. However, first-degree family members should be evaluated clinically and with an ECG. Treatment of Early Repolarization Syndrome Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) if symptomatic For patients who are asymptomaticbut have the early repolarization ECG pattern and no family history of sudden death, no treatment is recommended because such patients are at very low risk. Patients who have had cardiac arrest or who have demonstrated VF or polymorphic VT are at high risk and have a class I indication for an ICD (1). An ICD may be considered for certain patients with the early repolarization ECG pattern and certain other high-risk features (2). When frequent ICD discharges need to be suppressed, quinidine, which blocks the outward potassium current that may be increased in early repolarization syndrome, may be efficacious. IV isoproterenol may be useful in patients who have multiple episodes of ventricular arrhythmias in quick succession (electrical storm). Key Points Early repolarization syndrome is genetic and predisposes to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT), ventricular fibrillation (VF), and sudden death. Consider the diagnosis in patients who have had unexplained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or sudden cardiac arrest and early repolarization in the inferior or lateral leads on ECG. Place an ICD in patients who have had cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation, or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.
