Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


method of medical management, which method mucosal erosion that exposes the underlying tissues to the should be finally determined after taking account of the digestive action of gastro-duodenal secretions. This path- conditions at the relevant medical institution (staff levels, ology was traditionally related to a hypersecretory acid en- experience, equipment, etc.) and the characteristics of the vironment, dietary factors and stress. However, the individualpatient.However,responsibilityfortheresultsof increasing incidence of the Helicobacter pylori infection, treatmentrestswiththosewhoaredirectlyengagedtherein, the extensive use of NSAIDs, and the increase in alcohol andnotwiththeconsensusgroup. and smoking abuse have changed the epidemiology of this disease.Despiteasharpreductioninincidenceandratesof Methods hospitaladmissionandmortalityoverthepast30years[2– These consensus guidelines are an update of the 2013 8], complications are still encountered in 10–20% of these WSESpositionpaperonthistopic.Tocreatetheseguide- patients . Complications of peptic ulcer disease in- lines, a panel of experts was designed and charged by the clude perforation and bleeding and improvement in med- board of the WSES to develop questions on six main ical management has made obstruction from chronic topics that thoroughly cover the field of this pathology fibrotic disease a rare event. A recent review on the epi- (diagnosis, resuscitation, nonoperative management, sur- demiology of complicated peptic ulcer disease found gery, angiography-angioembolization, antimicrobial ther- that hemorrhage was by far the most common complica- apy). Then, leading specialists in the field were asked to tion of peptic disease, with a reported annual incidence of perform a thorough search on each of these topics in dif- hemorrhageinthegeneralpopulationrangingfrom0.02to ferent databanks (MEDLINE, SCOPUS, EMBASE) for 0.06%, with sample size-weighted average 30-day mortality relevant papers between 1985 and June 2018 and a sys- of 8.6%. Reported annual incidence of perforation ranges tematicreviewoftheavailableliterature.Theywereasked from 0.004 to 0.014%, with sample size-weighted average to focus their search in order to provide evidence-based 30-day mortality of 23.5%. Although perforation is less answers toevery question with immediate practical appli- common,withaperforation:bleedingratioofapproximately cation and to summarize them in statements. All the 1:6, it isthe most common indicationfor emergencyoper- statements were presented and discussed during the 5th ationandcausesabout40%ofallulcer-relateddeaths. WSES Congress held in Bertinoro, Italy in June 28th, Peptic ulcer disease remains a significant healthcare 2018. For each statement, a consensus among the WSES problem, which can consume considerable financial re- panel of experts was reached. All the members contrib- sources. Management may involve various subspecialties uted to the development of the manuscript; the manu- including surgeons, gastroenterologists, and radiologists. scriptwasreviewedandapprovedbyalltheauthors. Successful management of patients with complicated The present guidelines have been developed according
