Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


score predicted mortality equally well free abdominal air. Erect and left lateral decubitus X-rays and better than the Boey score, but hypoalbuminemia still havesimilardiagnosticaccuracy,thelatterbeingbettertol- remainsthestrongestsinglepredictorofmortality[20–22]. eratedbypatientspresentingwithperitonitis.Thepresence of this radiological sign is highly variable across various Resuscitation studies present in literature and ranges between 30 and In patients with perforated peptic ulcer, which pa- 85% of perforations. This high variability and the finding rameters should beevaluatedadEDreferral? that a negative X-ray does not rule out a possible perfor- ationledmultipleauthorstostatethat,incaseofclearsigns Werecommendprompt evaluationand early of peritonitis, an abdominal CT scan should be the first recognitionofthepatientwithperforatedpepticulcer radiological examination to be performed. However, in the associatedsepsis topreventfurtherorgan failure and setting of a peripheral hospital without prompt access to a toreducemortality(strongrecommendation based on CTscan,theplainX-raystillhasadiagnosticroleandfree moderate-qualityevidences,1B). air on X-ray associated with a clear history and signs of peritonitis on physical examination is sufficient to justify Wesuggestadoptingscoringsystems(SOFA,qSOFA)to ray could be theadministration through a nasogastrictube withperforatedpepticulcer(Weakrecommendation (NGT) of water-soluble contrast that can detect the pres- basedonlow-qualityevidences,2C). enceofagastro-duodenalperforation.“Point-of-care”ultra- sound could also detect free intra-peritoneal, when Perforated peptic ulcer, with associated peritonitis and performedbyatrainedoperator,withthedemonstrationof sepsis/septicshock,isamedical/surgicalemergencyrequir- airundertheabdominalfascia;anyway,itsroleinthediag- ing rapid evaluation and management . It is crucial to nostic work-up of suspected perforated peptic ulcer still identifyparameterstoassesstheseverityofthedisease(i.e., needs to be defined. Suspicious CT scan findings include to define if a patient is stable or unstable). The latest Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page5of24 definitionofsepsis/septicshockandrelateddebates/contro- Several forms ofhemodynamicmonitoring(invasive or versiesarebeyondthescopeofthismanuscriptbutarecov- not) are available to optimize resuscitation and fluid/va- ered in recent papers . The timely recognition of sopressors administration. For a more comprehensive sepsis(i.e.,beforetheoccurrenceoforgandysfunction)isa approach tosepsis andseptic shock,we suggestreferring priority . During the ED evaluation of every septic to the last published guidelines of the “Surviving Sepsis patient,severalelementsshouldbeconsideredtoassessthe Campaign”. mental state, dyspnea), signs (i.e., tachycardia, tachypnea, Non-operativemanagement—endoscopictreatment reducedpulsepressure,decreasedurineoutput)andlabora- In patients with perforated peptic ulcer, which are tory findings (hyperlactatemia, arterial hypoxemia, in- theindicationsfornon-operativemanagement? creased creatinine, coagulation abnormalities) must be evaluated. It is important to keep in mind that these find- Inpatientswith perforated pepticulcer wesuggest ingsmaybemodifiedbypreexistingdiseaseormedications againstaroutinelyuseof non-operativemanagement; tobeperformedcarefully. eredinextremelyselectedcaseswhereperforation has Scoring systems, i.e., the sequential organ failure as- sealedas confirmed onwater-soluble contrast study sessment (SOFA) or the quick SOFA (qSOFA) , (weakrecommendation based onlow-qualityevi- with associated limitations [25, 30–33], are available to dences,2C). assess theseverity ofthedisease. In patients with perforated peptic ulcer, which are Non-operative management (NOM) of perforated pep- the appropriate targets for resuscitation (hemoglobin tic ulcer is attractive as it avoids surgery and its resultant level,bloodpressure/heartrate,lactateslevel,others)? morbidity, e.g., wound-related morbidity, postoperative adhesions, etc. The rationale
