Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


intravenous hydration; significant pneumoperitoneum orextraluminal decompression via nasogastric tube; anti-secretory and contrastextravasation orsignsofperitonitis,we PPI therapy; intravenous antibiotics; and follow-up en- recommendoperativetreatment (Strong doscopy at 4–6weeks. Mortality increases with every recommendation basedonlow-qualityevidences,1C) hourofdelay tosurgery, andhence,NOMmustbecare- fully selected. Surapaneni et al. have shown nil mortality We recommend performing surgery as soon as in patients who were operated within 24h of onset of possible, especially in patients with delayed symptoms as compared to surgery beyond 48h of onset presentation and patients older than 70 years old of symptoms . Buck et al. in 2688 Danish patients (strong recommendation based on moderate-quality have shown that every hour of delay from admission to evidences, 1B) surgery was associated with an adjusted 2.4% decreased probability of survival compared with the previous hour The feasibility of NOM should be weighed with the evi- . Elderly patients may experience paradoxical higher dencethatanincreaseinsurgicaldelaysignificantlyimpairs mortality if non-operative management fails and caution surgicaloutcome.Infact,acohortstudyperformedin2013 isadvised inpatients>70yearsofage. from the Danish Clinical Register of Emergency Surgery In patients with perforated peptic ulcer is there a showed that, over the first 24h after admission, each roleforendoscopictreatment? hourofsurgicaldelaybeyondhospitaladmissionwasasso- ciated with an adjusted 2.4% decreased probability of sur- Inpatientswith perforated pepticulcer,we suggestto vival compared with the previous hour, over the entire avoidendoscopictreatmentsuchclipping,fibrin glue observation period. Other studies highlighted the import- sealing,orstenting(Weakrecommendation based on anceofapromptsurgicalapproachtoPPU:aretrospective low-qualityevidences,2C) single-centerstudybyLuneviciousetal.showedanin- crease in the suture leakage rate after a delay in presenta- Closure of acute iatrogenic perforations with endo- tion>9h,whilearecentprospectivesingle-centerstudyon scopic clips is described ; however, clips may not 101 patients with peritonitis from peptic ulcer perforation be effective in perforated ulcer cases due to fibrotic tis- whounderwentlaparotomyandsimpleclosurewithomen- sue with loss of compliance. Combined laparoscopic- talpatchfoundthataperforation-to-surgeryintervallonger endoscopic approaches for perforated ulcer closures than 36h was significantly associated with an increase in have been described . Bergstrom et al. postoperative mortality . Furthermore, a systematic re- present a case series of eight patients with perforated viewperformedin2010including fiftystudieswith37 duodenal ulcers treated with covered self-expandable prognosticfactorscomprisingatotalof29,782patientspro- metal stents and the results indicate that, in very se- vided strong evidence for an association of older age, co- lected patients or in cases where surgical closure will be morbidity, and use of NSAIDs or steroids with mortality; difficult, gastroscopy with stent placement could be per- shock upon admission, preoperative metabolic acidosis, formed during laparoscopy, followed by laparoscopic tachycardia, acute renal failure, low serum albumin level, drain placement. In patients with severe co-morbidity or highASAscore,andpreoperativedelay>24hwerealsoas- delayed diagnosis, gastroscopy
