Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


admission, preoperative metabolic acidosis, formed during laparoscopy, followed by laparoscopic tachycardia, acute renal failure, low serum albumin level, drain placement. In patients with severe co-morbidity or highASAscore,andpreoperativedelay>24hwerealsoas- delayed diagnosis, gastroscopy and stent placement sociated with poor prognosis. Limiting pre-operative delay followed by radiologically guided drain placement could thusseemstobeofgreatimportance. be an alternative to more standard treatment. Endo- In patients with perforated peptic ulcer, which is scopic snaring of omentum and pulling is also described the most appropriate surgical approach (open vs as an effective adjunct along with duodenal plication. laparoscopy)? Furthermore, endoscopy also allows performing a biopsy and rule out gastric outlet obstruction in case of large Instablepatientswithperforatedpepticulcer,wesuggesta perforations. In spite of these case series, all the above laparoscopicapproach.Anopenapproachis Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page7of24 recommendedintheabsenceofappropriatelaparoscopic were 27 and 15%, respectively. The main reasons for skillsandequipment(weakrecommendationbasedon conversion were a large (1cm or more) ulcer perforation moderate-qualityevidences,2B). andfailure tolocatetheperforation site.Theoverallleak rates after laparoscopic glue repair and laparoscopic su- Inunstablepatients withperforatedpepticulcer,we ture repair were 16 and 6% respectively and the reopera- recommendopensurgery (strongrecommendation tion rates for clinical leaks after laparoscopic glue repair based onverylow-qualityofevidences,1D) and laparoscopic suture repair were 10 and 4% respect- ively. On the other hand, a retrospective cohort study A recent meta-analysis from Cirocchi et al. com- performed from January 2008 to December 2012 found pared laparoscopic to open surgery for patients with per- conflicting results : 107 patients were included, 64 forated peptic ulcer: their search identified 8 RCTs for a underwent laparoscopic repair with a sutureless on-lay totalof615patients(307patientsundergoinglaparoscopic omental patch, and 43 were treated by laparoscopic su- repair and 308 patientsundergoing open repair); however tured omentalpatch. High-riskpatientswith Boey scores alltheincludedstudieswereathighriskofbias.Thecom- of 2 and 3 or those with perforations larger than 10mm parison reported a significant advantage of laparoscopic were excluded. The time to water intake was signifi- repair with less postoperative pain in the first 24h after cantly shorter for patients who had repair with a suture- surgery and less postoperative wound infections. No sig- less omental patch (p = 0.007), as well as the mean nificant differences between laparoscopic and open sur- hospitalstay (p = 0.007). All patientsinbothgroups sur- gery were found for overall postoperative mortality, leak vived to the end of the study and no patient experienced of the suture repair, intra-abdominal abscesses and reop- leakage after the operation. The evidences listed above eration rate. This is the strongest evidence present so far are based on low quality
