Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


Werecommend duodenostomy verted to laparotomy. There was no difference in age, gen- only inextremecircumstances(weakrecommendations der, ASA score, surgical risk (Boey’s) score, and incidence based onverylow-qualityevidences,2D). ofco-morbiditiesbetweentwogroupsandbothgroupswas intake, postoperative complications and surgical outcomes. straightforward, the treatment of giant peptic ulcers Lo et al. retrospectively identified 73 patients undergoing (diameter > 2cm) poses different challenges according PPU laparoscopic repair, 26 received simple closure repair to the anatomical location. Furthermore, large gastric ul- and 47 received simple closure plus omental patch. There cers should always raise the suspicion of malignancy was no difference in age, gender, ASA score, Boey risk . The spontaneous perforation of gastric cancer is a score, incidence of co-morbidities, Mannheim Peritonitis rare complication, occurring in 1% of patients with gas- index,medianoperationtimeorlengthofstay.Again,they tric cancer, and it has been reported that about 10–16% stated that, in terms of leakage rate and surgical outcome, of all gastric perforations are caused by gastric carcin- the maneuver to cover an omental patch on the repaired oma . Besides this, there are no specific surgical PPU did not show additional advantage compared to sim- treatment recommendations since the site of perforation ple closure alone . A multicenter non-randomized and the secondary effects on the surrounding anatomical retrospective study further strengthens these findings: structures must direct the necessary interventions. The between2009 and 2013,297patients with PPU underwent gastric location is usually easier to treat when compared a laparoscopic procedure in eight Romanian surgical cen- to the duodenal location and gastric resection and re- ters. Primary suture repair was performed in 145 patients construction should be the surgical choice for the treat- (48.8%),primarysuturerepairwithomentopexyin146pa- ment of perforated gastric ulcers larger than 2cm. On tients(49.2%)andtheremaining6patientswereconverted the other hand, only the first portion of the duodenum to open surgery. The univariate complications rate analysis can be resected easily without risk of injuring the bile theyperformedfoundnosignificantassociation(p=0.634; duct or the pancreatic head. Antrectomy plus or minus Fisher’s exact test) between the type of the repair and the D1–D2 resection with diversion is the classic and most rateofcomplications.Aprospectivenon-randomizedstudy commonly described intervention, if the ampullary re- by Ates et al. compared laparoscopic simple closure with gion is not involved . The proximity of the defect conventionalomentalpatchopenrepairforperforatedpep- and its relation to the common bile duct and ampulla of ticulcer.Ofthe35patientsenrolled,noneexperiencedop- Vater must also be thoroughly investigated and intraop- erative complications nor postoperative leak or residual erative cholangiography may even be necessary to verify intra-abdominal abscess . On
