Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


ampulla of ticulcer.Ofthe35patientsenrolled,noneexperiencedop- Vater must also be thoroughly investigated and intraop- erative complications nor postoperative leak or residual erative cholangiography may even be necessary to verify intra-abdominal abscess . On the other hand, multiple common bile duct anatomy. Several different proce- retrospective studies highlight low postoperative leak rates dures, such as a jejunal serosal patch, Roux en-Y duode- with the omental patch technique, even in case of perfora- nojejunostomy, pyloric exclusion, and several variations tionsupto2cmindiameter.Multipleauthorssuggest of omental plugs have been described for large duo- theadjunctofanomentalpatchincaseoflargeulcerswith denal defects when the defect is felt too large to perform friable edges, to reduce the risk of the suture cutting a primary repair. In large ulcers, leak rates up to 12% throughtheedgesoftheulcer. have been reported from attempted closure with an In light of the above, we cannot suggest the routine omental patch procedure . These patients also fre- application of the omental patch because of the longer quently present in septic shock when the amount of operative time, the need for advanced laparoscopic skills peritoneal spillage is large. This factor alone should sig- and the similar results after simple closure, but it could nificantly influence the choice of operative intervention, beconsidered aviable option inselectedcases. because a definitive resectional approach for ulcers in- In patients with perforated peptic ulcer and large volving the ampullary area (i.e., Whipple procedure or perforation(≥2cm), whichsurgicalprocedure should similar) is usually not recommended in patients with beadopted? peritonitis, because of the high physiological impact of these procedures and the great risk of postoperative Wesuggestatailored approachbasedupon the complications. In these cases, a damage control proced- locationoftheulcer forthetreatment ofperforated ure (such as pyloric exclusion with gastric decompres- pepticulcerlarger than 2cm.Incaseof largegastric sion via a nasogastric tube or a gastrostomy and an ulcersthat raisethesuspicion ofmalignancy,we external biliary diversion via T-tube) will likely be the suggestresectionwith contextualoperativefrozen safest and most appropriate operation for the patient pathologic examinationwheneverpossible.Incase of . Duodenostomy (e.g., over Petzer tube) should be large duodenalulcers, wesuggestconsidering theneed used only as a last resort, in the presence of giant ulcers of resections orrepair plus/minuspyloricexclusion/ with severe tissue inflammation and when mobilization Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page9of24 of the duodenum is not possible and the patient is in se- the abdomen once the patient is hemodynamically veresepticshock withhemodynamic instability. stable. We refer you to the WSES guidelines on Open In patients with perforated peptic ulcer, what is the Abdomen management for further information . roleof
