Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


According to this evidence, antifungal not be ignored. In the past 20years, incidence of therapy does not benefit patients suffering from PPU healthcare-associated IAIs caused by MDROs has risen peritonitis with Candida spp. isolated from peritoneal dramatically , probably in correlation with escalating fluid cultures in general, and antifungal therapy should levels of antibiotic exposure and increasing frequency of be reserved for patients who are critically ill and/or se- patients with one or more predisposing conditions, in- verelyimmunocompromised. cluding elevated severity of illness, advanced age, degree Inpatientswithperforatedpepticulcer,whichanti- of organ dysfunction, low albumin levels, poor nutritional microbialregimenshouldbeusedandwhatisitscor- status, immunosuppression, presence of malignancy, and rectduration? other comorbidities. The first step in determining poten- tialresistance patterns of a given infectionisbyestablish- Inpatientswithperforatedpepticulcer,werecommendto ing whether the infection is community-acquired or startassoonaspossibleanempiricbroad-spectrumanti- healthcare-associated (nosocomial). The spectrum of mi- bioticregimenagainstamixtureofGram-negative,Gram- croorganisms involved in nosocomial infections is signifi- positive,andanaerobicbacteria,possiblyafterperitoneal cantlybroaderthanincommunity-acquiredinfections. fluidhasbeencollected(Strongrecommendationbasedon Quinolone resistance, prevalence of ESBL-producing low-qualityevidences,1C) bacteria, prevalence and mechanisms of carbapenem re- sistance in the local environment, and the place of re- Inpatientswith perforated pepticulcer,we suggesta cent traveling should be always taken into account when short-course(3–5daysoruntilinflammatorymarkers an antibiotic therapy is administered empirically. Gener- normalize) antibiotic therapy (weakrecommendation ally, the most important factors in predicting the pres- based onlow-qualityevidences,2C). ence of resistant pathogens inintra-abdominal infections are acquisition in a healthcare setting (particularly if the Perforated peptic ulcer peritonitis is by definition patient becomes infected in the ICU or has been hospi- poly-microbial. Gram-negative and Gram-positive as talized for more than 1week), corticosteroid use, organ well as anaerobic bacteria and yeasts can be isolated transplantation, baseline pulmonary or hepatic disease, from peritoneal fluid cultures. Antimicrobial therapy, to- and previous antimicrobial therapy . In patients with gether with adequate source control, plays a pivotal role IAIs, when patients are not severely ill and when source inthemanagementofpatientswithperitonitis,especially control is complete, a short course (3–5days) of postop- in those who are immunocompromised. As stated in a erative therapy is suggested. In 2015, a prospective study previous published paper , an empiric broad- on appropriate duration of antimicrobial therapy was spectrum antimicrobial therapy should be started as published : the study randomized 518 patients with soon as possible, and possibly after peritoneal fluid sam- IAIs and adequate source control to receive antibiotics ple collection, irrespective of the presence of severe sep- until 2days after the resolution of fever, leukocytosis, sis or septic shock. In these patients, a de-escalation and ileus, with a
