Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


hypovolemic shock charged early . Numerous scores have been or its consequences is a major cause of mortality in tested to predict the need for surgery and gastroscopy, acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding . In the the Glasgow-Blatchford Score (GBS), the Rockall score, acute setting, with the suspicion of bleeding peptic and the AIMS65 being the most widely evaluated and ulcer, blood tests that include blood-typing and cross- adopted. Risk stratification should identify high-risk pa- matching with determinations of hemoglobin, tients for early intervention and reduce the duration of hematocrit, electrolytes, and coagulation assessment hospitalstay forlow-riskpatients. should be performed in all patients. Alteration of co- agulation with INR greater than 1.5 is associated with Resuscitation an increased risk of mortality . In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which parame- Data are limited in the literature on the use of CT- tersshould beevaluatedatED referralandwhichcri- scan in the evaluation of gastrointestinal bleeding. teria should be adopted to define an unstable Given the assumption that gastroscopy is the first patient? diagnostic step, in patients where it is negative or not We recommend a rapid and careful surgical/medical feasible, CT-scan may be a valuable tool to detect the evaluation of bleeding peptic ulcer disease patients to pre- site and the degree of the bleeding. Otherwise, CT vent further bleeding and to reduce mortality (strong rec- angiography is the first-line investigation of choice for ommendationbasedonverylow-qualityevidences,1D) undifferentiated major gastrointestinal hemorrhage We recommend evaluating several elements (symptoms, (being particularly useful for the localization of small signs, and laboratory findings) to assess the stability/in- and large intestinal acute hemorrhage). There are in- stability of patients with bleeding peptic ulcer at ED re- creasing data to suggest that CT-scan should be the ferral (strong recommendation based on low quality “next step” investigative procedure in cases of active evidences,1C) GI hemorrhage . Inpatientswith bleedingpepticulcer, wesuggestevalu- In patients with suspected bleeding peptic ulcer, ating patients according to Rockall and Glasgow- what isthe diagnostic role ofendoscopy? Blatchford scoring systems to assess the severity of the disease and to guide therapy (weak recommendation Inpatientswith suspected bleedingpeptic, ulcer, we based onlow-qualityevidences,1C). especiallyinhigh-riskpatients(Strong recommenda- requiring a rapid surgical/medical evaluation to assess Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page13of24 similar to the bleeding trauma patient . In this re- abovementioned guideline . Regarding hemoglobin gard, wesuggestreferring tothe lastedition ofthe Euro- level, a randomized controlled trial comparing the effi- pean guideline on management of major bleeding and cacy and safety of
