Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


guideline . Regarding hemoglobin gard, wesuggestreferring tothe lastedition ofthe Euro- level, a randomized controlled trial comparing the effi- pean guideline on management of major bleeding and cacy and safety of a restrictive transfusion strategy coagulopathy following trauma . The parameters (transfusion with an Hb > 7g/dl) with those of a liberal that should beassessedat ERreferral arethe same asre- transfusion strategy (transfusion with an Hb > 9g/dl) in ported in the American College of Surgeons Advanced severe acute gastrointestinal bleeding has been per- 10th Edition; 2018) classification of blood loss (heart with a better outcome. rate, blood pressure, pulse pressure, respiratory rate, urine output, Glasgow Coma Scale score, and base def- Non-operativemanagement—endoscopictreatment icit). Moreover, it is very important to take an accurate In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are the medicalhistoryespecially regarding: indicationsfornon-operative management? In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we recommend – Drugsand diseasesthatmay affectthecoagulation non-operative management as the first line of manage- status(i.e.,antiplatelets, anticoagulants,hepatic ment after endoscopy (strong recommendation based on failure) low-qualityevidences,1C). – Cardiac(i.e., coronary artery disease) and pulmonary Non-operative management of bleeding peptic ulcer diseasesthatmay make patients more susceptibleto incorporatesprinciplesofABCDE : adverseeffectsofanemia – Neurologicaldiseases(i.e., dementia)thatmay – Airway control predispose patientsto pulmonary aspirationof – Breathing—ventilation and oxygenation gastriccontents. – Circulation—fluidresuscitationand controlof bleeding Several scoring systems are available for the evaluation – Drugs—pharmacotherapy withPPIs,prokinetics, etc. of patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The – Endoscopy(diagnosticand therapeutic)or Rockall score can be utilized to identify patients at embolization(therapeutic) risk of adverse outcomes where the Glasgow-Blatchford bleeding score identifies patients needing interven- A meta-analysis from Barkun et al. that included tionssuch asblood transfusionsorendoscopy. forty-one randomized trials showed that all endoscopic In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are therapies decreased rebleeding versus pharmacotherapy the appropriate targets for resuscitation (hemoglobin alone. Endoscopy is indicated to establish diagnosis and others)? acutely bleeding ulcers, endoscopy is a part of We recommend several resuscitation targets, similar to resuscitation. those of damage control resuscitation in the bleeding In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are trauma patient (weak recommendation based on low- theindicationsforendoscopictreatment? qualityevidences,1C). In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we recommend In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we recommend endoscopic treatment to achieve hemostasis and reduce tomaintainanHblevelofatleast>7g/dlduringthere- re-bleeding, the need for surgery, and mortality (strong suscitation phase (strong recommendation based on recommendationbased onlow-qualityevidences,1C). moderate-qualityevidences,1B). We suggest stratifying patients based on the Blatchford Early resuscitation of patients with upper gastrointes- score and adopting a risk-stratified management (weak
