Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


phase (strong recommendation based on recommendationbased onlow-qualityevidences,1C). moderate-qualityevidences,1B). We suggest stratifying patients based on the Blatchford Early resuscitation of patients with upper gastrointes- score and adopting a risk-stratified management (weak tinal bleeding is of paramount importance to reduce recommendation based on very low-quality evidences, mortality; this must proceed simultaneously with endo- 2D): scopic and surgical procedures . A rapid ABC (air- – Intheverylow-risk group, wesuggestoutpatienten- way, breathing, and circulation) evaluation should be doscopy (weak recommendation basedonlow-quality done immediately. Appropriate targets for resuscitation evidences, 2C) in bleeding peptic ulcer patients can be considered the – Inthelow-riskgroup, werecommendearlyinpatient same used in bleeding trauma patients (systolic blood endoscopy (≤24hofadmission)(strong recommen- pressure of 90–100mmHg until major bleeding has dation basedonlow-quality evidences, 1C). been stopped; normalization of lactate and base deficit; – Inthehigh-riskgroup,werecommend urgentin- hemoglobin 7–9g/dl; correction/prevention of coagu- patientendoscopy (≤12hofadmission)(strongrec- lopathy); for this reason, we refer to the ommendationbasedonlow-qualityevidences,1C). Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page14of24 In patients with spurting ulcer (Forrest 1a), oozing that dual endoscopic therapy was superior to epineph- ulcer (Forrest 1b), and ulcer with non-bleeding visible rine injection alone in improving outcomes of patients vessel (Forrest 2a), endoscopic hemostasis is recom- with high-risk bleeding ulcers. In a Cochrane review in- mended (strong recommendation based on low-quality cluding 19 randomized studies and 2033 patients, Ver- evidences,1C) gara et al. has shown that additional endoscopic In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest dual treatment after epinephrine injection reduces further modality for endoscopic hemostasis (weak recommenda- bleeding and the need for surgery in patients with high- tionbased onmoderate-qualityevidences,2B) risk bleeding peptic ulcer; however, they cannot con- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest con- clude that a particular form of dual-modality treatment sidering Doppler probe–guided endoscopic hemostasis if is equal or superior to another. Shi et al. have per- expertise is available (weak recommendation based on formed a network meta-analysis on dual therapy verylow-qualityevidences,2D). choices and shown that the addition of mechan- Endoscopy not only establishes the diagnosis but also ical therapy after epinephrine injection significantly re- treats the bleeding. WSES advocates patients’ risk deter- duced the probability of rebleeding (OR 0.19, 95% CI mination by using Blatchford score, Forrest classifica- 0.07–0.52) and surgery (OR 0.10, 95% CI 0.01–0.50). stratification areproposed: the rebleeding rate (OR 0.30, 95% CI 0.10–0.91) but not the need for surgical intervention (OR 0.47, 95% CI – Verylowrisk—safeforoutpatientmanagement,low 0.16–1.20). Hence, it appears that mechanical therapy riskofdeath along with epinephrine injection
