Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


(OR 0.30, 95% CI 0.10–0.91) but not the need for surgical intervention (OR 0.47, 95% CI – Verylowrisk—safeforoutpatientmanagement,low 0.16–1.20). Hence, it appears that mechanical therapy riskofdeath along with epinephrine injection is adequate. In pa- – Lowrisk—needforadmissionand earlyendoscopy tients with adherent clot (Forrest 2b), WSES advocates – Highrisk—needforresuscitation andurgent non-aggressive clot irrigation-flushing attempts rather endoscopy than mechanical dislodgment. The Asia-Pacific Work- ing Group consensus advocates vigorous target irriga- Risk stratification is based on many risk prediction tion for at least 5min and dual-modality hemostasis for models and Blatchford score is one of the most vali- patients with adherent clots . We advocate a cau- dated tools. In an international multicenter prospective tious approach for dislodging the adherent clots. If ex- study including 3012 patients, Stanley et al. has pertise is available, a vigorous approach could be shown that Blatchford score of 1 or less (very low-risk adopted . The individual endoscopist should be at group) had a sensitivity of 98.6%, specificity of 34.6%, the liberty to make decisions and we propose individual positive predictive value of 96.6%, and a negative pre- judgment until further evidence is available to support dictive value of 56.0% for non-intervention and survival that clot dislodgment improves outcomes. In the event both as the combined endpoint. They also reported that of bleeding, therapy is strongly advocated. Newer mo- a threshold Blatchford score of 7 or more (high-risk dalities such as over the scope clips (OTSC), hemos- group) was best at predicting endoscopic treatment, pray, EUS-guided ultrasound angiography, RFA, with a sensitivity of 80.4%, specificity of 57.4%, positive Endoclot, endoscopic band ligation, cryotherapy, Anka- predictive value of 31.3%, and negative predictive value ferd blood stopper, and endoscopic suturing devices are of 92.4%. Endoscopy reassures a safe and early dis- available. Their role needs to be defined. There are six charge in low-risk patients and assists therapy in high- studies that have investigated the role of over the scope risk patients. While the timing of endoscopy is deter- clips either as first-line or as second-line therapy for re- mined by local protocols and resources, the sooner the fractory bleeding [108–113]. Doppler probe–guided le- better, WSES advocates to perform endoscopy at the sion assessment is more accurate than endoscopic earliest available opportunity regardless of the risk pro- scoring of predicting rebleeding risk. In a prospective file and the only limitation would be resources and ex- cohort study including 163 patients,
