Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


available opportunity regardless of the risk pro- scoring of predicting rebleeding risk. In a prospective file and the only limitation would be resources and ex- cohort study including 163 patients, Jensen et al. pertise. Endoscopy by the “clock” is mere guidance, and showed spurting (Forrest 1a), visible vessel (Forrest 2a), if endoscopy could be done earlier, then a clinician and adherent clot (Forrest 2b) have a higher Doppler should do it. Endoscopy is a part of the resuscitative flow compared with oozing (Forrest 1b); Doppler as- strategy and blood transfusion should not replace early sessment improved risk stratification . It is im- hemostasis. Dual modality of endoscopic hemostasis is portant to note that rebleeding risk prediction is advocated in preference to single modality. Marmo superior to Forrest classification system, i.e., Forrest 1b et al. has conducted a meta-analysis including 20 has low risk of rebleeding compared with Forrest 2a randomized controlled trials and 2472 patients compar- and Forrest 2b lesions. Doppler probe–guided lesion ing dual therapy versus monotherapy in endoscopic management is shown to reduce rebleeding and further treatment of high-risk bleeding ulcers and concluded intervention. In a single blinded randomized controlled Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page15of24 study including 148 patients with 125 ulcers, Jensen PPI treatment affects clinically important outcomes, et al. has shown that Doppler probe–guided endoscopic namely mortality, rebleeding, or need for surgery. In hemostasis significantly reduced 30-day rates of the light of the above, the administration of high-dose rebleeding compared with standard, visually guided PPI, starting prior to endoscopy and continuing for the hemostasis with the number needed to treat of 7 . first 72h, seems reasonable and could be suggested, In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, what is the even though further studies are needed to give a strong appropriate pharmacological regimen (erythromycin, recommendation. However, the use of proton-pump in- PPI,terlipressin,others)? hibitors should not replace urgent endoscopy in pa- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest ad- tients with active bleeding. ministering pre-endoscopy erythromycin (weak recom- A prokinetic drug given before endoscopy helps to mendation basedonmoderate-qualityevidences,2B). empty stomach contents and improvesviewingat endos- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest start- copy. Only five randomized trials and their pooled ana- ing PPI therapy as soon as possible (weak recommenda- lyses have been published: three with the use of tionbased onmoderate-qualityevidences,2B), erythromycin and two with metoclopramide . Pre- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, after successful
