Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


as possible (weak recommenda- lyses have been published: three with the use of tionbased onmoderate-qualityevidences,2B), erythromycin and two with metoclopramide . Pre- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, after successful endoscopy erythromycin has been extensively studied endoscopic hemostasis, we suggest administration of high- andshowntoenhance thevisualization as well as reduce dose PPI as continuous infusion for the first 72h (weak the need for second endoscopy . However, recommendation based on moderate-quality evidences, such practice has not shown to reduce the need for sur- 2B). gicalinterventionorimpactmortality . In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we recommend After initial hemostasis, the risk of rebleeding must PPI for 6–8weeks following endoscopic treatment. Long- be minimized by adjunct therapies. In patients who term PPI is not recommended unless the patient has on- have PPU complicated by bleeding, there is a 33% going NSAID use (strong recommendation based on risk of rebleeding in 1–2years. Furthermore, there is moderate-qualityevidences,1B) a 40–50% rebleeding risk over the subsequent 10 The role of acid suppression in the treatment of pep- years following the initial episode of bleeding . tic ulcer and its complications is well known , but PPIs are recommended for 6–8weeks following endo- the dosage and the duration of PPI administration for scopic treatment of peptic ulcer bleeding to allow the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer are still a matter mucosal healing . Once mucosal healing has of debate. Multiple studies highlighted that high-dose been achieved, how long PPIs should be continued is regimens of PPI reduce rebleeding, surgical inter- still controversial. Randomized prospective trials have vention, and mortalityfollowingendoscopic hemostasis. demonstrated a benefit to long-term acid-suppression In a randomized placebo-controlled trial of 767 patients therapy in two settings: chronic NSAID users and H. with peptic ulcer bleeding treated with endoscopic pylori-infected patients . Testing for H. pylori is therapy because of high-risk stigmata, high-dose intra- recommended in all patients with BPU. This should venous PPIs (80mg of esomeprazole bolus plus 8mg/h be followed by eradication therapy for those who are of continuous infusion for 72h) significantly reduced H. pylori positive, with subsequent assessment of the rebleeding (5.9% vs. 10.3%, p = 0.03) and the need for effect of this therapy, and renewed treatment in those endoscopic retreatment . Similar results were in whom eradication fails. found by meta-analysis; high-dose intravenous PPIs In patients with recurrent bleeding from peptic after endoscopic therapy significantly reduced rebleed- ulcer, whatistherole ofnon-operative management? ing,
