Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


results were in whom eradication fails. found by meta-analysis; high-dose intravenous PPIs In patients with recurrent bleeding from peptic after endoscopic therapy significantly reduced rebleed- ulcer, whatistherole ofnon-operative management? ing, need for surgery, and mortality compared with pla- In patients with recurrent bleeding from peptic ulcer, cebo/no therapy . On the other hand, a Cochrane werecommendendoscopyasafirst-linetreatment(strong review focusing on this topic and including recommendationbased onlow-qualityevidences,1C). twenty-two RCTs found insufficient evidence to con- In patients with recurrent bleeding, we suggest trans- clude superiority, inferiority, or equivalence of high- catheter angioembolization as an alternative option dose PPI treatment over lower doses in peptic ulcer where resources are available (weak recommendation bleeding. Another systematic review from the Cochrane based onvery low-qualityevidences,2D). Collaboration included six RCTs comprising 2223 Emergency endoscopy is the first-line management for patients and showed that PPI treatment initiated before rebleeding peptic ulcer . Such endoscopy must be endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal bleeding might re- done at the earliest available opportunity. In patients duce the proportion of patients with stigmata of recent who are hemodynamically stable, angioembolization of bleeding at index endoscopy and significantly reduces the bleeding vessel is an option. However, this should be the requirement for endoscopic therapy during index carefully balanced for its inherent risks of patient trans- endoscopy. However, this study found no evidence that fer, contrast nephropathy, pancreatitis, or cholecystitis Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page16of24 risk due to embolization material and risks associated Interdisciplinary consensus (surgery, gastroenterology, with vascular access. intensive care, anesthesia) is required to guide this decision-making. Low-risk surgical patients are likely to Angiography,embolization benefit from an operative strategy due to the likely re- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are the duced mortality in this group. No specific studies exist indicationsforangiography? tovalidatethisclaim. In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest con- Furthermore, according to the physiology behind sidering angiography for diagnostic purposes as a second- wound repair, it is possible that angioembolization could line investigation after a negative endoscopy (weak rec- complicate a subsequent surgical intervention because of ommendation basedonlow-qualityevidences,2C). the reduction in the blood flow of the operative field, No recommendation can be made regarding the role of but nospecificdata exists tovalidatethisclaim. provocationangiography. Should embolization be considered for unstable pa- Angiography may assist both the diagnosis and the tientswithbleedingpepticulcer? treatmentofhemorrhageassociatedwithpepticulcer dis- We suggest against a routinely use of angioemboliza- ease. However,endoscopy remainsthe first-lineinvestiga- tionunstablepatients.Angioembolizationinunstablepa- tion of choice for an undifferentiated upper tients
