Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


assist both the diagnosis and the tientswithbleedingpepticulcer? treatmentofhemorrhageassociatedwithpepticulcer dis- We suggest against a routinely use of angioemboliza- ease. However,endoscopy remainsthe first-lineinvestiga- tionunstablepatients.Angioembolizationinunstablepa- tion of choice for an undifferentiated upper tients could be s considered only in selected cases and in gastrointestinal hemorrhage . Similarly, endoscopy is selected facilities (weak recommendation based on very the first-line diagnostic modality for patients with sus- low-qualityevidences,2D). pected upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from ulcer dis- There are nospecificdata toaddressthe relativesafety ease. of angioembolization compared with surgery in Angiographyfordiagnosticpurposesisasecond-linein- hemodynamically unstable patients. Variable definitions vestigation and angiography before endoscopy results in of hemodynamic stability between studies further com- unacceptable rates of negative investigations and is not plicate meaningful recommendations in this field. Suc- warranted given the invasive nature of an angiogram. cessful reports of angioembolization in patients with Angiography is useful for the confirmation and hemorrhagic shock are described. A recent retrospective localization of the point of hemorrhage and allows treat- case series describing super-selective angioembolization ment by embolization. On occasion, provocation angiog- in 51 patients with active gastrointestinal hemorrhage raphywiththeuseofanticoagulantsmaybeindicated.An (with 57% of these upper gastrointestinal in nature), inter-specialty consensus should guide this investigation demonstrated the possibility of this approach in patients onacasebycasebasis.Onlycasereports,caseseries,and with physiological shock (defined in this study as a sys- expertopinionareavailabletoguidethisdecision-making. tolic bloodpressureof<90mmHg) . In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are The appropriateness of angioembolization in theindicationsforangioembolization? hemodynamically unstable patients depends on a num- In hemodinamically stable bleeding peptic ulcer pa- ber of factors, including the timely availability and skills tients, where endoscopic hemostasis fails twice or is not oftheangioembolization service, thequalityoftheinitial possible/feasible, we suggest angiography with angioem- and ongoing resuscitation, the quality of the peri- bolization where technical skills and equipment are procedural and post-procedural intensive care, and pa- available (weak recommendation based on very low- tient variables. Furthermore, the presence of a hybrid qualityevidences,2D) OR or strict proximity of OR and the angioembolization Endoscopy is the established first-line therapy for the facility is mandatory for the angiographic approach to management of hemorrhage associated with peptic ulcer unstable patients. A coordinated, interdisciplinary ap- disease. It is appropriate (high-level evidence), to also proach (surgery, interventional radiology, gastroenter- conduct a second endoscopic examination with thera- ology, intensive care, and anesthesia) is likely to benefit peutic intent, in cases of recurrent hemorrhage. How- these critically ill patients, although there are no specific ever, where this also fails, surgery has been traditionally data tovalidatethishypothesis. indicated.
