Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


rebleeding rates following embolizationinadditiontoendoscopic hemostasis angioembolization, and a trend towards higher mortal- hasbeeninvestigated byseveralauthors,including ity after surgery was seen. A significantly lower rate of mostrecentlywithtworandomizedcontrolled trials post-procedural complications was reported in the .Laursenetal.demonstratedatrend angioembolization cohort. The latest meta-analysis towardimprovedoutcomesinpatientswho found similar results, but interestingly found a underwentadditionalprophylacticembolization. slight drift toward a lower mortality for the angioem- However, thesecondRCTbyLauetal.failedto bolization group. confirm thisobservation. This approach wasalso In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer who under- supported byaretrospective seriesbyMilleetal. went angioembolization, which are the most appro- . priate embolizationtechniquesandmaterials? Varied techniques andmaterialsexistfortheuseinthe At present, the evidences available in the literature ap- embolization of bleeding duodenal ulcer disease. A tai- pear to be insufficient to routinely recommend this lored approach,guided by themultidisciplinaryteam, in- approach. corporating patient, pathology, and environmental factors is suggested (weak recommendation based on low- Surgery qualityevidences,2C). In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are the Successful embolization of gastric and duodenal arter- indications for surgical treatment and which is the ies is complicated by the rich collateral blood supply. appropriate timing forsurgery? Several technical points are raised in various case re- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, we suggest surgi- ports, series, and review articles in this field. There are cal hemostasis (or angiographic embolization if immedi- no high-level articles to guide these technical consider- ately available and with appropriate skills) after failure ations. Pre-procedural endoscopic localization of the of repeated endoscopy. In patients with hypotension and/ point of hemorrhage could assist guidance of the select- or hemodynamic instability and/or ulcer larger than 2 ive and super-selective angiography and the angiogram cm at first endoscopy, we suggest surgical intervention canbefurther guidedbytheplacement ofanendoscopic without repeated endoscopy (strong recommendation clip at the ulcer if this has been identified. Diagnostic based onvery low-qualityevidences,1D). angiography usually commences with a selective coeliac A renowned RCT conducted in 1999 compared axis and superior mesenteric artery catheterization and endoscopic retreatment with surgery for peptic ulcer angiogram. Where no extravasation is seen, a super- rebleeding after initial endoscopy. Over a 40-month selective approach normally follows. Imaging from both period, 92 patients with recurrent bleeding were en- aspects of the bleeding point is ideally obtained (both rolled: 48 patients were randomly assigned to undergo sidesneed tobeapproached). immediate endoscopic retreatment and 44 were assigned Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page18of24 to undergo surgery. Of the 48 patients who were requiringsurgery forpersistentbleedingareusuallylarge assigned to endoscopic retreatment, 35 had long-term and posterior lesions, and the
