Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


44 were assigned Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page18of24 to undergo surgery. Of the 48 patients who were requiringsurgery forpersistentbleedingareusuallylarge assigned to endoscopic retreatment, 35 had long-term and posterior lesions, and the bleeding is often from the control of bleeding. Thirteen underwent salvage surgery, gastro-duodenal artery. A recent prospective cohort 11 because retreatment failed, and 2 because of perfora- study conducted in Denmark compared the out- tions resulting from thermocoagulation. Five patients in comes of duodenal and gastric bleeding peptic ulcers the endoscopy group died within 30days, as compared and found a significantly higher 90-day mortality and re- witheightpatientsinthesurgerygroup(p=0.37).Seven operation rate for the duodenal location, confirming the patients in the endoscopy group had complications, as greater complexity of surgical management of this ulcer. compared with 16 in the surgery group (p = 0.03). Dur- Via duodenotomy, the bleeding vessel can be seen on ation of hospitalization, need for ICU admission, ICU the floor of the ulcer and can be rapidly oversewn. It is length of stay, and the number of blood transfusions critical to perform triple-loop suturing of bleeding of the were similar in the two groups. In multivariate analysis, GDA due to the collateral blood supply to the transverse hypotension at randomization (p = 0.01) and an ulcer pancreatic arteries. The surgeon may not know pre- size of at least 2cm (p = 0.03) were independent factors operativelywherethebleedingoriginatesandintraopera- predictive of the failure of endoscopic retreatment. Ac- tive endoscopic guidance may be helpful. For patients cording to these data, repeated endoscopy is indicated with intractable ulcer bleeding, Schroeder et al. for stable patients with ulcers smaller than 2cm in from the analysis of a large database (ACS-NSQIP) have diameter, while for patients with a larger ulcer and heav- found that the surgical procedure of vagotomy/drainage ier bleeding, surgery may be taken into account as a is associated with significantly lower mortality than sim- first-linetherapy. ply simple local ulcer oversew. They further suggest that No evidence is available regarding the impact on clin- vagotomy/drainageispreferredtolocalproceduresalone ical outcome of time before surgery for bleeding peptic for the surgical management of patients with bleeding ulcer. We suggest immediate surgery for unstable pa- peptic ulcer disease requiring emergency operation for tients with bleeding peptic ulcer refractory to endos- intractable bleeding ulcers. copy/angioembolization. In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, what is the In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, what is the roleof damagecontrol surgery? most appropriate surgical approach
