Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


endos- intractable bleeding ulcers. copy/angioembolization. In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, what is the In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, what is the roleof damagecontrol surgery? most appropriate surgical approach (open vs laparos- We suggest considering damage control surgery for pa- copy) and what are the most appropriate surgical tients with hemorrhagic shock and signs of severe physio- procedures? logical derangement, in order to quickly resolve the In patients with refractory bleeding peptic ulcer, we bleeding and allow a prompt ICU admission (weak rec- suggest surgical intervention with open surgery (weak rec- ommendation basedonverylow-qualityevidences,2D). ommendation basedonverylow-qualityevidences,2D). Indications for damage control surgery in bleeding In patients operated for bleeding peptic ulcer, we sug- peptic ulcer are similar to those for perforated peptic gest intra-operative endoscopy to facilitate the ulcer and are reported in the WSES guidelines on Open localization of the bleeding site (weak recommendation Abdomenmanagement innon-traumapatients. based onvery low-qualityevidences,2D). We suggest choosing the surgical procedure according Antimicrobialtherapy tothelocationandextension oftheulcerand thecharac- In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, which are the teristics of the bleeding vessel (weak recommendation indications for antimicrobial therapy and for Helico- based onlow-qualityevidences,2C) bacterpyloritesting? Animmediateordelayedbiopsyisrecommended(weak In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, empirical anti- recommendationbased onlow-qualityevidences,2C) microbial therapy is not recommended (strong recom- A refractory bleeding peptic ulcer is defined as an mendation basedonlow-qualityevidences,1C) ulcer still bleeding after repeated endoscopy/angioembo- We recommend performing Helicobacter pylori testing lization. Open surgery is recommended when endo- in all patients with bleeding peptic ulcer (strong recom- scopic treatments have failed and there is evidence of mendation basedonlow-qualityevidences,1C). ongoing bleeding, plus or minus hemodynamic instabil- Bleeding peptic ulcer accounts for 75% of patients ad- ity. The choice of the appropriate surgical procedure for mitted to ED for peptic ulcer disease and has dif- bleeding peptic ulcer should be made on the basis of the ferent etiologies (ulcerogenic medications such as location and extension of the ulcer and the characteris- acetylsalicylic acid and NSAIDs, H. pylori infection, etc). tics of the bleeding vessel. Surgical approach involves H. pylori infection has a variable prevalence of 20–50% ulcer oversew or resection. Bleeding gastric ulcers among patients with bleeding peptic ulcer in various should be resected or at least biopsied for the possibility countries, but its eradication is associated with a signifi- of neoplasms. Conversely, most duodenal ulcers cant reduction in ulcer recurrence rate and rebleeding Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page19of24 [66, 149–151]. In a systematic review, Gisbert et
