Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3
KEYWORDS: patients, ulcer, peptic, bleeding, peptic ulcer, bleeding peptic, therapy, surgery, perforated, based, endoscopy, inpatientswith, endoscopic, management, recommendation


associated with a signifi- of neoplasms. Conversely, most duodenal ulcers cant reduction in ulcer recurrence rate and rebleeding Tarasconietal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:3 Page19of24 [66, 149–151]. In a systematic review, Gisbert et al. metronidazole, or amoxicillin in conjunction with PPI showed a 26% rebleeding rate among patients with H. . pylori infection–associated bleeding ulcers who did not As the response to eradication therapy is significantly receive eradication therapy . Conflicting results are related to the prevalence of primary resistance in the reported about appropriate timing to start eradication population, the choice of treatment regimen should be therapy. Empirical eradication therapy immediately after based on the knowledge of the underlying prevalence of re-feeding has been suggested as the most cost-effective resistantstrainsinthecommunity[151–154]. strategy , but its real effectiveness can vary by re- Several international guidelines and avail- gional prevalence of the bacteria. Therefore, confirming able meta-analysis recommend that standard theresultofH.pyloritestandinitiatingeradication ther- triple therapy(amoxicillin, clarithromycin, andPPI) regi- apy in H. pylori-positive patients prior to discharge men should be used as first-line therapy if low clarithro- would appear to be a more appropriate strategy than to mycinresistanceispresent. Thesuggested doses are: apply empirical therapy to all patients with BPU [66, 152]. – PPIstandarddosetwice aday; For this reason, all patients having BPU should – Clarithromycin500mg twiceaday; undergo H. Pylori testing. Different tests are available to – Amoxicillin 1000mg twiceaday,or confirm H. pylori infection. The urea breath test (UBT) – Metronidazole500mgtwice aday. and stool antigen testing are acceptable non-invasive tests with a sensitivity of 88–95% for UBT and 94% for Sequential therapy with four drugs (amoxicillin, clari- stool antigen testing, respectively. Specificity is 95–100% thromycin, metronidazole, and PPI) should be consid- for UBT and 92% for stool antigen testing, respectively ered in selected cases, if compliance to the scheduled . In cases of bleeding peptic ulcer, H. pylori testing regimen can be maintained, and if clarithromycin high onendoscopictissue biopsymay beavailable. resistance is detected. It is defined as the use of one PPI In patients with bleeding peptic ulcer and positive and amoxicillin for the first 5days followed by PPI plus tests for HP infection, which are the therapeutic clarithromycin and metronidazole for the next 5 days options? .Recommendeddosesareasfollows: In H. pylori-positive BPU patients, eradication therapy is recommended to avoid recurrent bleeding (strong rec- – PPIstandarddosetwice aday; ommendation basedonlow-qualityevidences,1C) – Amoxicilllin1000mgtwiceaday; In patients with HP positive tests, standard triple ther- – Clarithromycin500mg twiceaday; apy(amoxicillin, clarithromycin,andPPI) regimen isrec- – Metronidazole500mgtwice aday.
