Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


mg to 150 mg. There are limited data on the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor beyond 3 years of extended treatment. Ticagrelor costs £54.60 for a 56-tablet pack (28 days' supply). Costs may Price vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 Evidence The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by AstraZeneca and a review of this submission by the evidence review group. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. 4 Committee discussion The appraisal committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of extended therapy with ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily plus aspirin (hereafter referred to as ticagrelor), having considered evidence on the nature of preventing atherothrombotic events in people with a history of myocardial infarction and at high risk of atherothrombotic events, and the value placed on the benefits of ticagrelor by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical experts. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. Nature of the treatment and patient perspective 4.1 The committee heard from the clinical expert and patient experts that a history of a myocardial infarction causes considerable anxiety, particularly about having further myocardial infarctions or other cardiovascular events such as a stroke. People also have concerns about the risk of bleeding associated with antiplatelet therapy, particularly with extended treatment. The fear of a bleed increases over time and can have a negative impact on the quality of life of the person and their family. The committee concluded that an additional antiplatelet agent to reduce the risk of further cardiovascular events would be useful, but that any additional bleeding risk associated with extended treatment should be taken into account when deciding whether to continue a person's antiplatelet treatment. Clinical management 4.2 The committee understood that ticagrelor is a therapy to prevent further atherothrombotic events after treatment of the acute coronary syndrome has stopped. It therefore briefly discussed the clinical management of acute coronary syndromes. It was aware of NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes and prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes, as well as the NICE guidelines on myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation: acute management and unstable angina and NSTEMI: early management. The clinical experts explained that practice varies across the NHS and although clopidogrel plus aspirin has been the most commonly used treatment for acute coronary
