Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


angina and NSTEMI: early management. The clinical experts explained that practice varies across the NHS and although clopidogrel plus aspirin has been the most commonly used treatment for acute coronary syndromes, the use of newer therapies such as prasugrel and ticagrelor (each as dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin) is increasing. 4.3 The committee considered how treatment with ticagrelor would fit into the clinical pathway for preventing a myocardial infarction. The committee was aware that patients enrolled into PEGASUS-TIMI 54, the trial which formed the basis of the company submission, had a history of myocardial infarction occurring between 12 and 36 months before entry. Patients also had at least 1 additional risk factor for subsequent atherothrombotic events, listed in the summary of product characteristics as age 65 or over, diabetes mellitus needing medication, a second prior myocardial infarction, evidence of multivessel coronary artery disease, or chronic non-end-stage renal dysfunction. In the trial, treatment with a previous adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor could have been stopped any time before randomisation to the treatment arms. The committee was also aware that 84% of patients in each treatment arm received clopidogrel plus aspirin as their previous antiplatelet therapy and, therefore, had switched from clopidogrel (as their first- line therapy) to ticagrelor. The committee heard from clinical experts that switching between treatments occurs in clinical practice and is not as much of a concern as having a gap between treatments. The clinical experts clarified that when there is a gap in therapy, the risk of an atherothrombotic event increases, particularly in people at high risk. Therefore any gap in therapy should be minimised whenever possible. The committee considered whether ticagrelor would only be used as continuation therapy, but noted from consultation comments that this would not always be possible if, for example, a person had stopped their first-line therapy because of an adverse reaction within 1 year of their myocardial infarction (that is, before ticagrelor 60 mg is indicated). Based on comments from clinical experts and those received during consultation, the committee concluded that patients and clinicians would value ticagrelor either as continuation therapy after their first year of treatment, or when first-line dual antiplatelet therapy has been used but stopped for less than 1 year. Decision problem: population 4.4 The committee was aware that the population in the company's decision problem, and therefore the focus of the company's submission, was adults who had a myocardial
