Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


Decision problem: population 4.4 The committee was aware that the population in the company's decision problem, and therefore the focus of the company's submission, was adults who had a myocardial infarction between 1 and 2 years ago who are at increased risk of an atherothrombotic event (referred to by the company as its base-case population). The committee noted that the company had defined a narrower population than that in NICE's scope, that is, adults who have had a myocardial infarction and are at increased risk of atherothrombotic events. The committee was aware that the company's rationale for the narrower population was that the marketing authorisation focuses on those patients for whom the adverse effect profile was most favourable in PEGASUS-TIMI 54. The marketing authorisation allows ticagrelor to be started in patients 1 to 2 years after a myocardial infarction or within 1 year of stopping treatment with a previous antiplatelet therapy. Based on clinical practice in England, the company suggested that few patients would have stopped antiplatelet therapy within 1 year. However, the committee noted comments received during consultation that the full population covered by the marketing authorisation should be included in the committee's discussions; that is, not only people who had a myocardial infarction 1 to 2 years ago, but also people who had a myocardial infarction more than 2 years ago and stopped taking antiplatelet therapy no more than 1 year ago. The committee considered that because this latter group is covered by the marketing authorisation, and given comments that ticagrelor would be valued as an option for these people, it should include this group. The committee further concluded that although there may be only a minority of patients in this position, it was not appropriate to exclude these people in decision-making. Decision problem: comparator 4.5 The committee noted that the final scope specified clopidogrel plus aspirin and aspirin alone as comparators and that the company considered aspirin alone to be the appropriate comparator. The committee understood that the company did not consider clopidogrel plus aspirin to be an appropriate comparator because it does not have a marketing authorisation for use more than 12 months after a myocardial infarction and is not considered established clinical practice at that point in the treatment pathway. The committee recognised that although the company did not consider clopidogrel plus aspirin to be an appropriate comparator, it had considered doing an indirect comparison
