Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


point in the treatment pathway. The committee recognised that although the company did not consider clopidogrel plus aspirin to be an appropriate comparator, it had considered doing an indirect comparison of ticagrelor with clopidogrel plus aspirin because there were no trials directly comparing the 2 treatments. But the company considered this inappropriate (as did the evidence review group; ERG) because of differences in the design of the trials and the patient populations included in the indirect comparison. The committee understood from the clinical experts that clopidogrel plus aspirin was commonly used as an initial antiplatelet agent for up to 12 months after a myocardial infarction. However it is not used in clinical practice when continued treatment is needed for patients with a history of myocardial infarction and a high risk of an atherothrombotic event, that is, at the same point in the treatment pathway where the summary of product characteristics recommends ticagrelor (see section 4.3). The committee concluded that clopidogrel plus aspirin was not an appropriate comparator and that the most appropriate comparison for its decision-making was ticagrelor compared with aspirin alone. Clinical effectiveness PEGASUS-TIMI 54 4.6 The company presented clinical effectiveness results for the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 trial whole population who had ticagrelor compared with placebo (ticagrelor n=7,045, placebo n=7,067). The marketing authorisation for ticagrelor as an extended therapy was based on prespecified subgroup analyses. The committee noted that the company presented a prespecified subgroup analysis of patients who had a myocardial infarction 1 to 2 years previously (ticagrelor n=4,331, placebo n=4,333). The committee also noted that these results (referred to as the 'base-case' population by the company) tended to be more favourable to ticagrelor than the results from the overall ticagrelor population. The committee acknowledged that PEGASUS-TIMI 54 was not statistically powered to detect a difference in outcomes in the company's base-case population, but agreed that because of the size of the subgroup, and the baseline characteristics being sufficiently similar to the overall ticagrelor group, it was appropriate for it to focus on this subgroup analysis in its decision-making about the clinical effectiveness of ticagrelor. 4.7 The committee considered the effectiveness of ticagrelor compared with placebo in the subgroup of patients from PEGASUS-TIMI 54 who had a myocardial infarction between 1 and 2 years ago. The committee noted that ticagrelor reduced the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke or death from cardiovascular causes by 23% compared with placebo. The committee
