Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


between 1 and 2 years ago. The committee noted that ticagrelor reduced the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke or death from cardiovascular causes by 23% compared with placebo. The committee concluded that treatment with ticagrelor is clinically effective for people with a history of myocardial infarction and a high risk of an atherothrombotic event. 4.8 The committee heard contrasting views from the clinical and patient experts on the length of treatment with ticagrelor. Based on the progressive disease process that causes an atherothrombotic event, continued therapy may be justified. However, the committee was persuaded that the risk of bleeding was substantial and that prescribing should be informed by the evidence. The committee understood that the mean length of treatment in PEGASUS-TIMI 54 was 25.3 months, and that the ticagrelor marketing authorisation states that there are limited data on its efficacy and safety beyond 3 years of treatment with ticagrelor. The committee concluded that it could only consider a maximum duration of treatment of up to 3 years, in line with the evidence presented for ticagrelor. Cost effectiveness 4.9 The committee considered the cost effectiveness of ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction. It noted that the company's economic model was based on data for secondary efficacy outcomes in PEGASUS-TIMI 54, including first and subsequent events, hospitalisations, dyspnoea, bleeds, EQ-5D responses and treatment discontinuations. The committee considered whether PEGASUS-TIMI 54 was underpowered to analyse these data. It was persuaded by the clinical and health economic experts that using these outcomes was acceptable because the population was large, so the numbers of patients on whom the secondary outcomes were based were likely to generate reasonable estimates. In addition, the committee understood that the model used equations to calculate the risk of an event occurring and that the company had used the intention-to-treat population for calculating these. The ERG confirmed the company's view that the risk equations were likely to be conservative and would, therefore, be unfavourable to ticagrelor. The committee concluded that the company's incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were likely to be overestimates because the parameters used to derive them were for the intention-to-treat population and therefore likely to underestimate the effect of ticagrelor. 4.10 The committee considered the most plausible ICER on which to base its decision. It considered the company's deterministic base-case estimate of £20,636, which incorporated some minor amendments suggested by the ERG. It also considered the ERG's
