Ticagrelor for preventing atherothrombotic events after myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: ticagrelor, committee, treatment, myocardial, infarction, myocardial infarction, company, clinical, risk, considered, atherothrombotic, therapy, aspirin, patients, years


ICER on which to base its decision. It considered the company's deterministic base-case estimate of £20,636, which incorporated some minor amendments suggested by the ERG. It also considered the ERG's exploratory preferred base case of £24,711, which incorporated small changes to parameters including the cost and disutility associated with gout, adjusted health care costs, uncertainty around NHS reference costs and disutility for major bleeds. The committee was further reassured that when the ERG conducted scenario analysis, only one scenario resulted in an ICER above £30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. This scenario was considered to be implausible because it held treatment efficacy constant while assuming that all patients who did not die or have a non-fatal event incurred 3-year treatment costs, whereas the actual time on treatment for patients in the study who did not die or have a non-fatal event was less than 3 years. The committee concluded that all the estimates were within a range considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources (£20,000 to £30,000 per QALY gained) and that it could recommend treatment with ticagrelor in line with its marketing authorisation. The committee agreed that, although the ICERs presented did not include the people at high risk who had a myocardial infarction more than 2 years ago and whose antiplatelet therapy had been stopped less than 1 year ago, the recommendation should cover this group. 4.11 The committee recognised that all the cost-effectiveness evidence assumed a maximum treatment length of 3 years. It understood that some clinicians and patients may want to continue treatment indefinitely, but that the costs and clinical benefits of doing so had not been presented. The committee therefore concluded that the positive recommendation should only be for the length of time for which evidence had been presented, specifically 3 years. Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 2014 4.12 The committee was aware of NICE's position statement on the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 2014, and in particular the PPRS payment mechanism. It accepted the conclusion 'that the 2014 PPRS payment mechanism should not, as a matter of course, be regarded as a relevant consideration in its assessment of the cost effectiveness of branded medicines'. The committee heard nothing to suggest that there is any basis for taking a different view about the relevance of the PPRS to this appraisal. It therefore concluded that the PPRS payment mechanism was not relevant in
