Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


Clinical Practice Guidelines Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors Evidence-based clinical practice guideline Barbara Farrell PharmD ACPR FCSHP Kevin Pottie MD CCFP MClSc FCFP Wade Thompson Taline Boghossian ACPR Lisa Pizzola MSc Farah Joy Rashid ACPR Carlos Rojas-Fernandez PharmD Kate Walsh ACPR Vivian Welch PhD Paul Moayyedi MB ChB PhD MPH Abstract Objective To develop an evidence-based guideline to help clinicians make decisions about when and how to safely taper or stop proton pump inhibitors (PPIs); to focus on the highest level of evidence available and seek input from primary care professionals in the guideline development, review, and endorsement processes. members comprised the overall team; members disclosed conflicts of interest. The guideline process included the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach, with a detailed evidence review in in-person, telephone, and online meetings. Uniquely, the Editor’s KEy Points guideline development process included a systematic review of • Many patients continue to take proton pump PPI deprescribing trials and examination of reviews of the harm inhibitors (PPIs) beyond the recommended of continued PPI use. Narrative syntheses of patient preferences course of treatment, and this has potential for and resource-implication literature informed recommendations. harm and large economic implications. The team refined guideline content and recommendation wording through consensus and synthesized clinical considerations • Systematic review of the evidence for PPI to address common front-line clinician questions. The draft deprescribing (reducing dose, discontinuing, guideline was distributed to clinicians and then to health care switching to “on-demand” dosing) failed to demonstrate important clinical harms in professional associations for review and revisions made at deprescribing PPIs in adults. each stage. A decision-support algorithm was developed in conjunction with the guideline. • This guideline recommends deprescribing PPIs in adults who have completed a minimum Recommendations This guideline recommends deprescribing 4-week course of PPI treatment, resulting in PPIs (reducing dose, stopping, or using “on-demand” dosing) resolution of upper gastrointestinal symptoms. in adults who have completed a minimum of 4 weeks of PPI treatment for heartburn or mild to moderate gastroesophageal • Future PPI deprescribing research should reflux disease or esophagitis, and whose symptoms are resolved. address deprescribing for other PPI indications had Barrett esophagus, severe esophagitis grade C or D, or tapering regimens or alternate treatments documented history of bleeding gastrointestinal ulcers. to minimize symptom recurrence, consistent approaches to measuring outcomes, measurement of both positive and adverse Conclusion This guideline provides practical recommendations drug withdrawal events, long-term
