Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


history of bleeding gastrointestinal ulcers. to minimize symptom recurrence, consistent approaches to measuring outcomes, measurement of both positive and adverse Conclusion This guideline provides practical recommendations drug withdrawal events, long-term harms and for making decisions about when and how to reduce the dose benefits, and costs. of or stop PPIs. Recommendations are meant to assist with, not dictate, decision making in conjunction with patients. This article is eligible for Mainpro+ certified Self-Learning credits. To earn credits, go to www.cfp.ca and click on the Deprescribing is the planned and supervised process of dose Mainpro+ link. reduction or stopping of medication that might be caus- This article has been peer reviewed. ing harm or might no longer be providing benefit.1 The goal Can Fam Physician 2017;63:354-64 of deprescribing is to reduce medication burden and harm while maintaining or improving quality of life. However, deprescribing La traduction en français de cet article se trouve numéro de mai 2017 à la page e253. causing overt harm.2 In an effort to provide evidence-based recom- mendations and tools to aid clinicians in stopping medications that 354 Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien | Vol 63: may • mai 2017 Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors | Clinical Practice Guidelines might no longer be needed or that might be causing harm, we initiated the Deprescribing Guidelines in the Elderly Box 1. Los Angeles Classification for the endoscopic project (www.open-pharmacy-research.ca/research- assessment of reflux esophagitis projects/emerging-services/deprescribing-guidelines). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) were selected in a The classification uses a 4-grade system national modified Delphi consensus process as an impor- • Grade A: 1 or more mucosal breaks no longer than 5 mm, tant medication class for developing deprescribing guide- none of which extends between the tops of the mucosal folds • Grade B: 1 or more mucosal breaks more than 5 mm long, lines, given their high prevalence of use and overuse.3 none of which extends between the tops of 2 mucosal folds Concern about overuse of PPIs has been grow- • Grade C: Mucosal breaks that extend between the tops of ing.4-6 In a report summarizing prescription drug use in 2 or more mucosal folds but that involve less than 75% of Canada, pantoprazole was the fifth most common drug the esophageal circumference prescribed, with more than 11 million prescriptions dis- • Grade D: Mucosal breaks that involve at least 75% of the pensed in 2012.7 Most common
