Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


the following subcategories: review team and revised by the Guideline Development -Intermittent PPI use, which is defined by the Canadian Team based on feasibility and the literature available Consensus Conference as “daily intake of a medication for • Ratings of the evidence profile tables included high, a predetermined, finite period (usually two to eight weeks) moderate, low, or very low and depended on our confidence to produce resolution of reflux-related symptoms or in estimates of effect. Because only randomized controlled healing of esophageal lesions following relapse of the trials were used, they started with a high quality rating, but individual’s condition”33 could be rated down by limitations in any of 4 domains: -On-demand PPI use, which is defined by the Canadian risk of bias, inconsistency, indirectness, and imprecision. Consensus Conference as “the daily intake of a medication Publication bias could not be rated owing to the paucity of for a period sufficient to achieve resolution of the studies.29 Other areas that were considered in formulating a individual’s reflux-related symptoms; following symptom final rating included harms, patient values and preferences, resolution, the medication is discontinued until the and resource use individual’s symptoms recur, at which point, medication is • The GRADE Working Group outlines appropriate wording again taken daily until the symptoms resolve”33 for recommendations depending on the rating of strength -Lower dose, which is a reduction from a standard dose and confidence in the evidence. A strong recommendation to a maintenance dose6 with implications for patients (phrased as “we recommend ...”) implies that all patients in the given situation would want HRA—histamine-2 receptor antagonist, PPI—proton pump inhibitor. the recommended course of action, and only a small proportion would not. A weak recommendation (phrased as “we suggest ...”) implies that most patients would wish Draft recommendations were initially formulated by to follow the recommendation, but some patients would the GDT members (during an in-person meeting) from not. Clinicians must help patients make management the evidence tables using confidence in estimated effects decisions consistent with the patients’ values and (following dose lowering, switching to on-demand ther- preferences. Implications for clinicians are similar such apy, or stepping down to H RA therapy), and taking that a strong recommendation implies all or most patients 2 into account literature on patient preferences for PPI should receive the intervention. A weak recommendation should prompt a clinician to recognize that different use, a review of harms of
