Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


2 into account literature on patient preferences for PPI should receive the intervention. A weak recommendation should prompt a clinician to recognize that different use, a review of harms of continuing PPIs, team mem- implications (both in terms of PPI costs and costs that GRADE—Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and might be associated with complications arising from Evaluation; PPI—proton pump inhibitor. stopping PPIs). The GDT members met by teleconfer- ence to review and discuss recommendations drafted from the in-person meeting. Voting on the recommen- to histamine-2 receptor antagonist (H RA) therapy.32 dations was subsequently conducted anonymously by Summarized pooled estimates of treatment effects from e-mail. Unanimous agreement was sought; 80% agree- both systematic reviews for important and critical out- ment among the 5 GDT members was considered the comes for decision making are provided in GRADE evi- cutoff for consensus. All 5 members of the PPI depre- dence tables, available at CFPlus.* scribing GDT agreed with the final recommendations. The systematic reviews focused on outcomes rel- ers. Primary outcomes included change in upper GI rEcoMMEndations symptoms (positive or negative), pill burden, and cost. Secondary outcomes included patient satisfaction, posi- The recommendations are outlined in Box 4. The tive drug withdrawal events (eg, resolution of a side algorithm developed for this guideline is provided in effect such as diarrhea), and adverse drug withdrawal Figure 1. The rationale for the recommendations is out- events (eg, recurrence of esophagitis on endoscopy). lined in Table 1. The recommendations apply to adults 356 Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien | Vol 63: may • mai 2017 Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors | Clinical Practice Guidelines Consideration of harm includes the potential for com- Box 4. Recommendations monly reported side effects such as diarrhea, headache, and vitamin B12 and magnesium deficiency, as well For adults (>18 y) with upper GI symptoms, who have as associations with increased risk of fractures, C diffi- completed a minimum 4-wk course of PPI treatment, cile infection, community-acquired pneumonia, gastric resulting in resolution of upper GI symptoms, we recommend cancer, gastric atrophy, intestinal metaplasia, colorec- the following: tal cancer, bacterial peritonitis, small intestine bacterial • Decrease the daily dose or stop and change to on-demand overgrowth, and possibly increased vascular events in (as needed) use (strong recommendation, low-quality those taking clopidogrel. (Frequency ratios of the harms evidence) Alternatively, we suggest the following: are available at CFPlus.*) • Consider an
