Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


vascular events in (as needed) use (strong recommendation, low-quality those taking clopidogrel. (Frequency ratios of the harms evidence) Alternatively, we suggest the following: are available at CFPlus.*) • Consider an HRA as an alternative to PPIs (weak With regard to patient values and preferences, PPIs recommendation, moderate-quality evidence) are considered to improve quality of life, but patients often do not take them daily as prescribed; some GI—gastrointestinal, HRA—histamine-2 receptor antagonist, 2 patients taking on-demand PPIs are more willing to con- PPI—proton pump inhibitor. tinue treatment. Some fear recurrence of symptoms, and for this reason the guideline contains clinical consider- ations for alternative management strategies for occa- who have completed a minimum 4-week course of sional symptoms. (The evidence reviews and related PPIs for upper GI symptoms. The evidence base mainly references are available at CFPlus.*) relates to patients with GERD or esophagitis but can be Spending on PPIs is high ($249.6 million for public extrapolated to other upper GI disorders for which the efficacy of PPIs is more modest or for which short-term drug programs across Canada [except Quebec and the use is usually recommended (eg, stress ulcer prophylaxis, territories] in 2013).25 Studies consistently show inap- peptic ulcer disease) and therefore deprescribing is likely propriate PPI use in 40% to 65% of patients,4,11-14 sug- to be more effective.34 The recommendations do not gesting considerable health care dollars are spent on apply to those who have or have had Barrett esophagus, therapy that might not be providing benefit. Step-down, severe esophagitis grade C or D, or documented history intermittent, and on-demand PPI use reduces direct of bleeding GI ulcers. medical costs; however, there is no evidence comparing For those with mild to moderate GERD or upper GI these strategies. The cost-effectiveness of continuous symptoms who have no ongoing symptoms, lowering treatment for those with severe GERD has been demon- the dose of a PPI does not lead to significantly greater strated, and for this reason, patients with severe GERD relapse compared with continuing at a standard dose. should continue PPI treatment at the lowest effective Lowering the PPI dose was believed to have greater ben- dose. (The evidence reviews and related references are efit than harm owing to a lack of evidence of harm, the available at CFPlus.*) potential to reduce costs, and the potential to reduce the risk of rare PPI side effects and drug interactions. Both Clinical considerations on-demand
