Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


evidence of harm, the available at CFPlus.*) potential to reduce costs, and the potential to reduce the risk of rare PPI side effects and drug interactions. Both Clinical considerations on-demand therapy and stepping down to HRA therapy 2 This guideline is a tool to be used together with con- increase the risk of symptom relapse more so than low- sideration of a patient’s personal and medical context. ering the dose does. However, on-demand use is asso- Patients might be less accustomed to dialogue about ciated with lower pill burden and cost, which might be reducing or stopping medications, and so heightened desirable to patients. Please refer to Box 229-32 for defi- health care provider awareness to potential concerns nitions of the strength and quality of deprescribing trial might help foster improved patient uptake. The deci- evidence and to Table 1 for evidence to recommenda- sion to continue, reduce, or discontinue a medication is tions considerations across all decision domains (quality based on a balance of knowledge about its indication of evidence, balance of benefits and harms, patient val- and effectiveness, and risks of use including actual or ues and preferences, and resource implications). potential side effects, drug interactions, pill burden, and Based on a lack of evidence of serious harm from cost. Patient and family values and preferences play an deprescribing, the evidence for the benefits of reducing inappropriate PPI use in terms of pill burden and reduced important role. Decisions about continuing, tapering, risk of side effects, the high societal cost of inappropriate or stopping medications should be consistent with the PPI use, and the feasibility of a PPI deprescribing inter- patient’s goals of care. We developed a patient pamphlet vention, we rated the recommendation to lower the dose to facilitate discussion, which is available at CFPlus.* or switch to on-demand PPI use as strong. The recom- The following questions were articulated by the GDT mendation to step down to HRA therapy was rated as as being important to consider when making decisions weak owing to the higher risk of symptom return. about the steps for deprescribing PPIs. Vol 63: may • mai 2017 | Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien 357 Clinical Practice Guidelines | Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors 358 Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien | Vol 63: may • mai 2017 rebmetpeS mhtiroglA gnibircserpeD )IPP( rotibihnI pmuP notorP erugiF ?IPP
