Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


relapse rate compared with Yes  No  certainty that the standard doses. On-demand PPI use reduced pill burden. • No evidence that benefits are different in subgroups benefits outweigh the Cost, rare PPI side effects, and drug interactions were Should there be separate recommendations for subgroups based harms? noted as potential concerns for continuous PPI use. Low- on risk levels? Yes  No  Yes  No  dose PPIs were thus considered to clearly have greater • No evidence of benefit for any risk level (See the description benefits than harms. On-demand PPI use and a step-down Is the baseline risk for harm similar across subgroups? of harms and approach to HRAs were also noted to have benefits over Yes  No  references 17-20 in harms, but this was not as certain as the other • No evidence that harms would be different for subgroups the evidence reviews deprescribing approach Should there be separate recommendations for subgroups based at cFPlus*) on harms? Yes  No  • No evidence for harms in subgroups Values and In semistructured interviews patients reported that they Perspective taken: the guideline group put high value on the preferences: Is there believed PPIs were effective for preventing GI symptoms. lack of evidence of serious harms of deprescribing and on the confidence in the However, it was also noted that most patients with GERD reduction of medications and related harms and medication importance of to on-demand PPI research. Dose-lowering studies did not the variability of patient values and preferences on different outcomes and patient report patient satisfaction, while on-demand studies did deprescribing approaches preferences? not provide clear evidence on patient satisfaction Source of values and preferences: semistructured interviews and Yes  No  other qualitative studies (See references 1-3 Source of variability, if any: variability difficult to estimate and 21-25 in the Method for determining values satisfactory for this evidence reviews at recommendation? Yes  No  cFPlus*) • Clear preference to use PPIs to prevent GERD, but also evidence for on-demand and other reduced-dose use All critical outcomes measured? Yes  No  • More information on the various describing approaches would be helpful, but available evidence was clear Resource implications: In Canada, PPI use accounts for a high proportion of public Feasibility: Is this intervention generally available? Are the resources drug program spending ($249.6 million in 2013). The Yes  No 
