Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


PPI use accounts for a high proportion of public Feasibility: Is this intervention generally available? Are the resources drug program spending ($249.6 million in 2013). The Yes  No  worth the expected recommended treatment duration for GERD, the most Opportunity cost: Is this intervention and its effects worth net benefit? common GI symptom, is 4 wk; thus much of this PPI use is withdrawing or not allocating resources from other Yes  No  inappropriate. Several studies have demonstrated interventions? Yes  No  (See references 19 and interventions to reduce PPIs are feasible. On-demand trials • The budget for PPIs is $69 million, and inappropriate PPI use 26-39 in the evidence led to reduced pill burden. The cost of stopping PPIs, is a considerable problem in adults and the elderly reviews at cFPlus*) however, should be balanced against possible increased Is there a lot of variability in resource requirements across visits to physicians. Cost-effectiveness analyses were not settings? Yes  No  available • Deprescribing guidelines and implementation were considered to have relatively low resource requirements and to be feasible in primary care and long-term care Strength of main Based on the lack of evidence of harm, the evidence for benefits of reducing inappropriate PPI use, the societal cost of recommendation: inappropriate PPI use, and the feasibility of this intervention in primary care and long-term care strong Remarks and values The strong recommendation refers to low-dose or on-demand (as needed) PPI use. The weak recommendation refers to and preference stepping down to HRA therapy as a deprescribing approach. These recommendations place high value on zero to minimal term PPI use, and some value on the potential harms and remote side effects (eg, pneumonia, diarrhea, Clostridium difficile, osteoporosis) GERD—gastroesophageal reflux disease, GI—gastrointestinal, HRA—histamine-2 receptor antagonist, PPI—proton pump inhibitor, QoE—quality of evidence, RR—relative risk. 360 Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien | Vol 63: may • mai 2017 Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors | Clinical Practice Guidelines Are there indications or risk factors that warrant con- patients with a symptom management strategy that tinued use? An important first step is determining the might include on-demand PPIs. Anecdotally, clinicians original indication for the PPI and whether there are seem to prefer gradual dose reduction (eg, from twice ongoing risk factors for GI disease that warrant chronic daily to once daily, from high dose to low dose, from use. Reviewing
