Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


to prefer gradual dose reduction (eg, from twice ongoing risk factors for GI disease that warrant chronic daily to once daily, from high dose to low dose, from use. Reviewing patient history and consultation notes daily to every other day) and any of these approaches for evidence of Barrett esophagus, grade C or D esopha- can be used, taking into consideration the patient’s cur- gitis, or documented history of bleeding GI ulcers will rent medication supply, as well as the convenience of identify patients for whom deprescribing is unlikely to the approach. be beneficial. Advice should be sought from gastroenter- Explaining the rationale for deprescribing PPIs, and ologists for these patients to assess ongoing risk factors. the option of beginning with lowering the dose or Risk of GI ulceration and the need for gastroprotec- using on-demand therapy, will facilitate patient and tion with a PPI should be given careful consideration family acceptance. in patients receiving regular daily doses of nonsteroi- dal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients at high What monitoring needs to be done and how often, and risk of GI ulceration include those with a history of a how should symptoms be managed? Follow-up times previous complicated ulcer or those with 3 or more varied among trials of deprescribing.40-50 Typically, patients risk factors (age older than 65 years; high-dose NSAID attended follow-up appointments 4 and 12 weeks after use; previous history of uncomplicated ulcer; concur- deprescribing and again at 6 to 12 months. Patients also rent use of acetylsalicylic acid [including low-dose ace- reported recurrence of symptoms by contacting their Patients at moderate risk of GI ulceration include those following up with patients 4 weeks after deprescribing (or not have any of these risk factors. Patients at moder- (heartburn, regurgitation, epigastric pain, dyspepsia, or ate risk of GI ulceration taking chronic NSAIDs likely pain on swallowing) and at 12 weeks after deprescrib- require a PPI or misoprostol, or can be treated with ing to assess symptoms, frequency of on-demand use (if cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors without a PPI. Patients at applicable), and the need for further investigation or a high risk should receive a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor change back to continuous treatment.40-50 plus a PPI or misoprostol.35,36 Concomitant use of selec- Differentiating “rebound hypersecretion” from symp- tive serotonin reuptake inhibitors and NSAIDs has also toms of an underlying disorder such as GERD is challeng- been associated with an elevated risk of upper GI
