Clinical Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ppi, deprescribing, use, patients, evidence, ppis, guideline, proton, pump, proton pump, guidelines, therapy, on-demand, risk, treatment


to both the positive (such as resolution of side effects 362 Canadian Family Physician • Le Médecin de famille canadien | Vol 63: may • mai 2017 Deprescribing proton pump inhibitors | Clinical Practice Guidelines caused by the PPI) and negative (such as recurrence of Competing interests upper GI symptoms) patient-specific effects of PPI depre- Dr Farrell received research funding to develop this guideline; received financial payments from the Institute for Healthcare Improvement and scribing, particularly over the longer term, would be help- Commonwealth Fund for a deprescribing guidelines summary; and from the ful. Evaluating cost-effectiveness and long-term medical Ontario Long Term Care Physicians Association, the Ontario Pharmacists resource use is also important. engagements. Dr Moayyedi holds a chair partially funded by AstraZeneca and has received financial payments from AstraZeneca for speaking engagements. Next steps None of the other authors has any competing interests to declare. Correspondence The deprescribing team will provide routine guideline Dr Barbara Farrell; e-mail updates as new evidence emerges that might change the References recommendations. Prospective evaluation of the effects 1. Thompson W, Farrell B. Deprescribing: what is it and what does the evidence tell us? Can J Hosp Pharm 2013;66(3):201-2. of adoption of this and other deprescribing guidelines 2. Anthierens S, Tansens A, Petrovic M, Christiaens T. Qualitative insights into will be part of a research strategy in the future. general practitioners views on polypharmacy. BMC Fam Pract 2010;11:65. 3. Farrell B, Tsang C, Raman-Wilms L, Irving H, Conklin J, Pottie K. What are priorities for deprescribing for elderly patients? Capturing the voice of prac- Conclusion titioners: a modified Delphi process. PLoS One 2015;10(4):e0122246. 4. Heidelbaugh JJ, Goldberg KL, Inadomi JM. Magnitude and economic effect of Overuse of medication is acknowledged to be a key con- overuse of antisecretory therapy in the ambulatory care setting. Am J Manag tributor to polypharmacy, with attendant negative effects Care 2010;16(9):e228-34. 5. Heidelbaugh JJ, Goldberg KL, Inadomi JM. Overutilization of proton pump on health. Proton pump inhibitors are commonly indicated inhibitors: a review of cost-effectiveness and risk. Am J Gastroenterol for short-term use, and the potential for harm is not insig- 2009;104(Suppl 10):S27-32. Errata in: Am J Gastroenterol 2009;104(4):1072; nificant. A systematic review identified that PPIs can be Am J Gastroenterol 2009;104(Suppl 2):S39. 6. Canadian Optimal Medication Prescribing and Utilization Service. Evidence safely deprescribed in many patients taking them for the for PPI use in gastroesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia
