Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, Lisa M. DeMaria, Becca Feldman, Helene Gayle, Julian Gold, Robert Grant, and Michael T. Isbell Although global commitment to control the HIV/AIDS pan- EnormousadvancesinHIV/AIDStreatmentregimenshave demic has increased significantly in recent years,the virus con- fundamentally altered the natural history of the disease and tinues to spread with alarming and increasing speed.By the end sharplyreducedHIV-relatedmorbidityandmortalityincoun- of2005,an estimated 40 million people worldwide were living trieswheresuchtreatmentsareaccessible.Theadventof anti- with HIV infection or disease,a notable rise from the 35 mil- retroviral drugs in the late 1980s began a revolution in the lion infected with HIV in 2001 .In 2005,close management of HIV, which can be seen as analogous to the to 5 million new HIV infections and 3 million AIDS deaths useofpenicillinfortreatingbacterialinfectionsinthe1940s.The occurred,more ofboth than in any previous year.Sub-Saharan mostnotableadvanceonthetreatmentfrontistheuseofcom- Africa remains the region most affected by HIV/AIDS; how- binationantiretroviraltherapy,whichisfarmoreeffectivethan ever, the virus is now spreading rapidly in Asia and parts of monotherapy(zidovudineorAZT),thestandardof carewhen Eastern Europe. thefirsteditionof thisvolumewaspublished.Recentdeclines Despite the rapid spread of HIV, several countries have in the price of combination antiretroviral therapy in develop- achieved important success in curbing its transmission. The ingcountriesfromUS$15,000peryeartolessthanUS$150in extraordinary potential of HIV prevention is exemplified by somecountrieshavepromptednumerousdevelopingcountries such diverse efforts as Thailand’s 100 percent condom pro- to introduce antiretroviral therapy through the public sector. gram, Uganda’s remarkable decrease in HIV prevalence, and Thesedeclinesalsoposedifficultquestionsregardingtheoptimal the community-based syndromic management of sexually allocation of limited resources for HIV/AIDS, as well as the transmitted infections (STIs) in Mwanza, Tanzania. Box 18.1 potentialimpactonalreadystrainedhealthcareinfrastructures. describes characteristics common to these programs. Successesalsoincludethedevelopmentandeffectiveuseof OBSTACLES TO HIV CONTROL highly sensitive and specific HIV screening tests, which have virtually eliminated infection from the blood supply in the Obstacles to effective HIV control include lack of prevention developed world and in most parts of the developing world and care coverage and lack of rigorous evaluations. Both are .Inaddition,theadministrationofashortcourse discussed below. of nevirapinetomothersduringlaborandtonewbornspost- Lack of Coverage and Access to Prevention Services partum reduces the risk of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) by as much as 47 percent (Guay and others 1999). Notwithstanding these treatment strides, global efforts have However, recent data suggest that such short-term successes not proved sufficient to control the spread ofthe pandemic or maybeattheexpenseofresistanceandviralfailureoncetreat- to extend the lives ofthe majority ofthose infected.The desired mentisintroducedafterdelivery(Eshlemanandothers2001). level of success has not yet been achieved for several reasons. Box 18.1 Successful HIV Prevention Strategies The HIV prevention success stories highlighted in this
