Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


(Hook and others 1992).Not only does thebio- disease.Antiretroviral therapy significantly reduces the level of logical interaction between HSV-2 and HIV enhance the trans- virus,often to the point that standard tests cannot detect HIV mission and acquisition ofHIV,but HIV infection is also asso- in the patient’s blood (Palella and others 1998).Available data ciated with more frequent reactivation ofHSV-2.The presence suggest that viral load reductions induced by antiretroviral ofherpetic ulcers and lesions allows an entry point for HIV in therapy will lower infectiousness. Studies have shown a close the uninfected individual,and the presence ofhigh copy num- relationship between the amount of viral suppression and the bers ofHIV ribonucleic acid (RNA) in HSV-2 lesions in HIV- risk of vertical transmission (Garcia and others 1999).Quinn infected individuals underscores the importance for HIV pre- and others (2002) show that the risk of sexual transmission vention of controlling HSV-2 infections (Mbopi Keou and between couples in Africa was strongly related to the level of others 1999). viral load in the infected partner. Vaginal infections are also emerging as important risk factors for HIV. For example, infection with trichomonas Exposure to Infected Blood or Blood Products. Injection increases the risk for HIV seroconversion .In addi- drug use and blood transfusion are two mechanisms of HIV tion,higher trichomonas rates have been detected in regions of exposure to infected blood.Determinants ofeach are discussed Sub-Saharan Africa that have higher HIV rates,and investiga- below. tors working throughout Sub-Saharan Africa report similar results,with odds ratios from 1.5 to 56.8 (Gregson and others Injection Because of the efficiency of HIV transmission 2001).In addition,studies have shown an increased risk ofHIV throughneedlesharing,theintroductionofHIVintoanurban acquisition in patients who have bacterial vaginosis (Martin networkofinjectingdrugsuserscanquicklyleadtoextraordi- and others 1999). narilyhighHIVprevalenceinthispopulation.Sharingofinjec- Circumcision also affects HIV transmission. In a meta- tionequipmentandfrequencyofinjectionarebothimportant analysis of27 studies (Weiss,Quigley,and Hayes 2000),uncir- correlates of HIV infection (Chaisson and others 1989). cumcised men were almost twice as likely to be infected with Attendance at shooting galleries, where sharing with anony- HIV as those who were circumcised. Studies that controlled mousinjectingpartnersislikelytooccur,isalsoanindependent adequately for other risks and studies that separately assessed risk factor across many studies (Vlahov and others 1990). truck drivers,found an even stronger protective effect of cir- bloodisdrawnintothesyringeandtheninjected)andhavinga cumcision.Similarly,an ecological study comparing two high- numberofneedle-sharingpartnersarealsoassociatedwithHIV prevalence Sub-Saharan African cities with two low-prevalence infection(Anthonyandothers1991). cities found that circumcised individuals were substantially less likely to be infected with HIV (Auvert and others 2001).Two Blood Transfusion The probability of becoming infected
