Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


cities with two low-prevalence infection(Anthonyandothers1991). cities found that circumcised individuals were substantially less likely to be infected with HIV (Auvert and others 2001).Two Blood Transfusion The probability of becoming infected recent studies conducted in Kenya and India (Donnelly 2004; through an HIV-contaminated transfusion is estimated at Reynolds and others 2004) found that uncircumcised men had more than 90 percent ,and the amount ofHIV an HIV rate 7 to 11 times greater than circumcised men.More in a single contaminated blood transfusion is so large that indi- recently,results from a randomized controlled trial conducted viduals infected in this manner may rapidly develop AIDS. in South Africa indicated that the risk of HIV acquisition was Currently,between 5 and 10 percent of HIV infections world- reduced by more than 60 percent of men randomized for wide are transmitted through the transfusion ofcontaminated circumcision (controlling for sexual behavior, including con- blood products .Setting up and maintaining a dom use and health seeking behavior) in a community where safe blood supply will virtually eliminate HIV transmission more than 30 percent ofthe women were infected (Auvert and through transfusions. others 2005). Before circumcision among adult males becomes a wide- Perinatal Transmission. Perinatal HIV transmission includes spread policy recommendation,results are still pending in two both vertical transmission and transmission during breastfeed- similar trials.Obviously one issue is the acceptability ofsuch a ing.Determinants ofeach are discussed below. procedure as well as the fact that some increase in high risk sex- ual activity was noted among the men who were circumcised, Vertical Transmission Perhaps the most compelling evidence although this did not offset the results ofthe intervention. ofthe significance ofviral load and transmission risk has been HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 335 documented with respect to MTCT. Maternal viral load, as and how best to implement those interventions.We then dis- quantified by RNA polymerase chain reaction, is associated cuss the existing effectiveness and cost-effectiveness data. with increased risk in each mode of vertical transmission. A recent randomized clinical trial in Kenya found that maternal Essential Background Data for Any Intervention. Because plasma HIV RNA levels higher than 43,000 copies per milliliter the prioritization of prevention strategies for any epidemic were associated with a fourfold increase in vertical transmis- requires accurately identifying the epidemiological profile (dis- Independent of HIV RNA levels in maternal plasma,addi- surveillance system is a prerequisite for an effective prevention tional risk factors include cervical HIV deoxyribonucleic acid response.
