Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


the epidemiological profile (dis- Independent of HIV RNA levels in maternal plasma,addi- surveillance system is a prerequisite for an effective prevention tional risk factors include cervical HIV deoxyribonucleic acid response. An understanding of HIV and STI prevalence and (DNA), vaginal HIV DNA, and cervical or vaginal ulcers. trends,as well as the prevalence and distribution of behaviors Chorioamnionitis has also been documented as a risk factor for that contribute to the epidemic’s spread, should be supple- MTCT among African mothers (Ladner and others 1998), as mented by national monitoring systems that track sources and has exposure to maternal blood during labor and delivery. uses offunding to promote greater accountability.In addition, Newell (2003) estimates that for every hour an infant is data are needed to identify and characterize key contextual exposed to ruptured membranes, the risk of transmission issues that affect the selection ofinterventions. increases by 2 percent. Although surveillance is essential for an optimally strategic Breastfeeding Transmission through breastfeeding is likely which the information it yields is effectively deployed.As noted associated with an elevated viral load in the breast milk,which below,countries with concentrated epidemics should prioritize in turn is associated with maternal plasma viral load andCD4 interventions that are targeted to the populations at highest T cell levels. Mastitis has also been associated with increased risk.InLatinAmerica,however,whereinformationonnational risk of vertical transmission. Meta-analyses suggest that the AIDS funding is strongest, the proportion of limited preven- cumulative probability ofHIV infection increases from 0.6 per- tion resources that is not targeted to the populations at highest cent at age 6 months to 9.2 percent at age 3 . A risk of infection varies from less than 5 percent to more than study in Malawi, however, indicates that most transmission 50 percent .This range strongly suggests that occurs in the early breastfeeding months,with an incidence per resource allocation is frequently not based on available epi- month of0.7 percent at age 1 to 5 months,0.6 percent at age 6 demiological and effectiveness data. to 11 months,and 0.3 percent at age 12 to 17 months (Miotti Table 18.3summarizes information about the effectiveness and others 1999).In one study,infants who were breastfed in ofthe interventions discussed below. combination with receiving other supplementary foods were twice as likely to be infected at age 6 months than infants fed Cost-Effectiveness Estimates for Prevention Interventions. exclusively on breast milk or on formula (Coutsoudis and oth- How countries spend funds and which interventions they
