Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


at age 6 months than infants fed Cost-Effectiveness Estimates for Prevention Interventions. exclusively on breast milk or on formula (Coutsoudis and oth- How countries spend funds and which interventions they ers 2001). The hypothesis is that antigens and bacterial con- prioritize should be guided by estimates of the relative cost- taminants present in supplemental fluids and foods consumed effectiveness of such interventions. Unfortunately, reliable by infants who are not exclusively breastfed may cause inflam- estimatesofcost-effectivenessarelargelylacking,foranumber mation and microtrauma to the infant’s intestinal gut,thereby of reasons.ThemainreasonisthatHIVpreventioninterven- facilitating viral transmission.Another hypothesis is that mixed tions are difficult to force into a typology that clearly distin- the mother,which could increase milk viral load (Semba and counseling component of VCT has a strong information- others 1999). sharingelementthatoverlapswith(a)information,education, Decisions about breastfeeding are further complicated by and communication (IEC) through the media; (b) peer recent data indicating possible increased mortality among interventions;and(c)thecounselingcomponentof STItreat- breastfeeding mothers (Nduati and others 2001) and by the ment. Similarly, the psychological support offered through stigma associated with not breastfeeding in countries where counselingiscomparabletosupportprovidedthroughsupport abstaining from breastfeeding is tantamount to disclosing a groupsortointerventionsdesignedtoincreasesocialsupport. woman’s HIV status. Suchoverlapandduplicationamongcomponentsof different interventionscomplicateeffortstoestimateboththeeffective- nessandthecost-effectivenessofdifferentinterventions. Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness Several authors have recently reviewed estimates of cost- of Prevention Interventions effectiveness for the prevention interventions described here Below we discuss the need for ongoing surveillance and con- (Creese and others 2002; Jha and others 2001; Marseille and textual data to determine the effectiveness ofHIV interventions others 2002;Walker 2003).These reviews address a number of 336 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others Table 18.3 Effectiveness of HIV Interventions Intervention Outcome Effect Citations School-based education Sexual debut The number of students reporting early Hayes and others 2003; Stanton and sexual debut was significantly lower in the others 1998 intervention group in both studies. Multiple sex partners The number of students reporting multiple sex Fawole and others 1999; Hayes and others partners was significantly lower in the 2003 intervention group in both studies. Condom use Condomusewassignificantlyhigherinthe Fawole and others 1999; Harvey, Stuart, interventiongroupinthreeofthefourstudies and Swan 2000; Hayes and others 2003; andnonsignificantlyhigherinonestudy. Stanton and others 1998 HIV incidence The study found no significant differences Hayes and others 2003 in HIV incidence. STI prevalence and incidence The study found no significant differences Hayes and others 2003 in STI prevalence and incidence. Abstinence education Condom use The study found no significant differences Jemmott, Jemmott,
