Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


yllareneg era CEI Box 18.2 Comprehensive Sex Education Versus Abstinence-Only Education The available data on sex education suggest the following: • Abstinence-only education is not effective in promoting • Sex education,including condom promotion,does not healthy sexual behaviors.Programs that promote both encourage or increase sexual activity . postponement of intercourse and contraceptive use • Sexeducationreducesriskandpositivelyaffectssexu- were more effective in changing behaviors than those al behaviors. In general, sex education programs that stressed abstinence alone.None of the abstinence- increase knowledge about AIDS and related issues, only programs that have been evaluated demonstrated increase intention to use condoms, and increase con- an overall positive effect on sexual behavior, nor did dom use among sexually active youths (Kim and they affect contraceptive use among sexually active others1997). participants . Source:Authors. methodological issues that will not be repeated here. The the absence of studies to guide the level of investment in reviews agree that the availability ofcost and cost-effectiveness IEC,the only reasonable alternative seems to be to imple- analyses for HIV/AIDS prevention strategies is limited and that ment IEC on the basis ofdata derived from relative levels of the need for such knowledge for planning and decision-making knowledge and understanding in the population.For exam- purposes is urgent. ple,ifonly 25 percent ofthe sexually active population were Table18.4 summarizes available cost-effectiveness estimates able to describe how HIV is transmitted and prevented, for the four UNAIDS epidemic profiles that are described later clearly more IEC would be needed,but if75percent ofthe in table 18.5.The estimates of cost per disability-adjusted life population understood the basic facts about HIV/AIDS,the year(DALY)savedassumeauniform20DALYslostperinfected need for additional funding would be diminished. adult(MurrayandLopez1996)and25DALYslostperinfected • School-based sex education.School-based sex education pro- increasing proportion of people living with HIV/AIDS in ple and reinforce healthy norms in a school setting developing countries who will have access to antiretroviral (Peersman and Levy 1998).Limited data have shown differ- therapy over the coming years. ences in students who have been exposed to school-based sex education (summarized intable18.3).Box18.2reviews General Interventions Relevant for All Modes ofTransmission theeffectivenessofabstinence-only education and compre- The following are general interventions not specifically target- hensive sex education, subsets of school-based sex educa- ing the mode oftransmission: tion.In light ofmore recent controlled studies that have not shown an effect on condom use,STIs,or HIV infection,any • Information, education, and communication.This interven- cost-effectiveness estimate is extremely speculative. tion includes education on HIV/AIDS and condom use • Voluntary counseling and testing. This intervention enables
