Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


use,STIs,or HIV infection,any • Information, education, and communication.This interven- cost-effectiveness estimate is extremely speculative. tion includes education on HIV/AIDS and condom use • Voluntary counseling and testing. This intervention enables through pamphlets, brochures, and other promotional people to know their HIV status and provides counseling materials in classroom or clinic settings or through the supporttohelpthemcopewiththeoutcome.Knowledgeof radio, television, or press. In general, discerning the effec- serostatus may lead individuals to avoid engaging in risky tiveness of IEC alone is difficult, because IEC is often behaviors (Sweat and others 2000).Cost-effectiveness esti- included in condom promotion and distribution interven- matesofVCTvarywidely,andaswithmanyotherprevention tions.Here we consider the effectiveness of IEC in concert interventions,theseestimatesareextremelysensitivetothe with condom promotion and distribution.Of all available prevalenceofHIVinthepopulationthatisseekingtesting. prevention interventions, providing information and edu- • Peer-based programs. Peer interventions use influential cation about HIV/AIDS is perhaps the most difficult to members ofa targeted community to disseminate informa- assess for cost-effectiveness.Numerous studies have shown tion or teach specific skills.Such interventions have gener- that information alone is typically insufficient to change risk ally been found to be effective in reducing unsafe behaviors. behavior.Accurate information,however,is indisputably the Work on the cost-effectiveness of peer-based interventions basis for informed policy discourse—a vital ingredient in in developing countries has been minimal.In Chad,Hutton, the fight against fear-based stigma and discrimination. In Wyss,andN’Diekhor(2003)revieweddataon12prevention 344 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others interventions and integrated them into a comparative analy- strategies tooptimizetheeffectivenessandcost-effectiveness sis.Their findings suggest that peer education for sex work- ofcondomprogramsisurgentlyneeded. ers is likely to be highly cost-effective and to entail one-fifth • STI screening and treatment.The latest analyses suggest that the cost ofthe next most favorable intervention,blood safe- STI control may be most effective as an HIV prevention ty. However, the estimated cost-effectiveness for the same strategy when initiated earlier in the course ofnational epi- intervention directed toward young people and high-risk demics and when sexual risk behaviors are high (Orroth and men is 33- to 36-fold lower. others 2003). In most developing countries, the greatest benefits from treating STIs almost certainly accrue from Interventions to Prevent Sexual Transmission Below we dis- averting the morbidity and mortality caused directly by STIs cuss the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of interventions rather than indirectly because ofreduced HIV transmission. that target sexual transmission ofHIV: Estimates of the cost-effectiveness of STI treatment purely as a way to reduce HIV transmission vary widely. • Condom promotion,
