Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


indirectly because ofreduced HIV transmission. that target sexual transmission ofHIV: Estimates of the cost-effectiveness of STI treatment purely as a way to reduce HIV transmission vary widely. • Condom promotion, distribution, and social marketing. Condompromotion,distribution,andsocialmarketingvary Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission The existing byepidemicprofile.Theevidenceoncondompromotionand data on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of HIV inter- distributionprogramsindicatesthatsuchprogramsresultin ventions target MTCT in order ofdecreasing cost-effectiveness significantlyhighercondomuseandsignificantlylowerSTI as follows: incidence(seetable18.3).Giventhecentralrolethatcondom promotion,distribution,andsocialmarketinghasplayedin • Avoidance of unwanted pregnancies among infected mothers. HIV prevention programs,the lack of data on the relative One of the most effective strategies to reduce HIV among cost-effectivenessofsuchprograms20yearsintotheirimple- infantsistoprovidebettercontraceptionservices.Seebox18.3 mentationisstriking.Itisbeyonddisputethattheuseof a fordetails. condom by sexual partners who are HIV-discordant is • Use ofantiretroviral therapy.Evidence indicates that the pro- extraordinarily cost-effective, given the low cost and high vision of antiretroviral drugs to infected mothers signifi- effectivenessofthecondominpreventingHIVtransmission. cantly reduces vertical transmission (see table 18.4). The Informationontherelativecostsandeffectivenessofdiffer- provision of antiretroviral therapy to prevent MTCT is entapproachestoincreasingcondomusebyserodiscordant highly cost-effective, to the point of being cost-saving for sexualpartnersisnotavailable,withtheshortageofinforma- women who already know that they are infected. When tionbeingfarmoreacuteforeffectivenessthanforcosts.In screening of women is involved,cost-effectiveness declines the absence of empirical evidence, decision makers are as HIV prevalence falls, because of the larger number of reduced to formulating policy on the basis of theory and women who must be screened to identify an HIV-positive commonsense.Eveninefficientuseofcondomsbyserocon- woman (Rely and others 2003). cordantcouplesislikelytobehighlycost-effectivebecauseof • Feedingsubstitution.Whereasinhigh-incomecountriesthe pregnancies. However, more reliable information on breastfeedingforHIV-infectedmotherstopreventpostnatal Box 18.3 Preventing Mother-to-Child Transmission: Antiretroviral Therapy or Contraception? The differential effect of contraceptive delivery versus available, this number would be reduced to 49. If both antiretroviral therapy in preventing HIV can be shown by strategies were adopted, the number of infected infants comparing the provision ofeffective contraception and of would be further reduced to 25. nevirapine to a population of 1,000 HIV-infected The greatest difference between providing antiretrovi- women.In the absence of an intervention,approximately ral therapy and providing contraception is the number of 150 infants would be infected with HIV during delivery infants orphaned in the future because their mothers die .If nevirapine were available,the number of of HIV infection. Three models all come to this conclu- infected infants would be reduced to 82 (the expected sion (Reynolds and others 2004; Stover and others 47percent decline).Ifeffective contraceptive services were forthcoming;Sweat and others 2004). Source:Authors. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 345 HIV transmission,in developing countries the feasibility of through a blood safety program that ensures (a)a national this approach is often limited by such
