Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


Source:Authors. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 345 HIV transmission,in developing countries the feasibility of through a blood safety program that ensures (a)a national this approach is often limited by such factors as cost,sus- blood transfusion service;(b) the recruitment of voluntary, by sociocultural factors . Prolonged HIV;and (d) the reduction ofunnecessary and inappropri- breastfeeding more than doubles the likelihood of MTCT ate transfusions . Available evidence indi- (Nduati and others 2000).Because evidence indicates that cates that HIV screening is effective in reducing HIV infec- mixed feeding (breast milk and formula or other sub- tions (see table 18.4).Blood screening for HIV is costly but stance) has a higher risk of transmission than exclusive has been shown to be cost-effective in numerous studies in breastfeeding (Coutsoudis and others 1999), mothers developing countries (see table 18.3) (Foster and Buve 1995; should be counseled on the superiority of early weaning Hutton,Wyss, and N’Diekhor 2003; Watts, Goodman, and over mixed feeding. Even fewer data are available on the Kumaranayake 2000).The evidence appears to support the cost-effectiveness offeeding substitution. WHO and UNAIDS recommendations that all countries, regardless of the nature of the epidemic in the country, Prevention ofBloodborne Transmission Below we discuss the should implement a comprehensive blood safety program. effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of harm reduction for • Universal precautions. A critical component of standard injecting drug users,implementation ofblood safety practices, infectioncontrolinhealthcaresettingsisaprohibitionon and provision ofsterile injections: reusing needles and syringes. A controversy has recently • Harm reduction for injecting drug users. Harm reduction arisenamongresearcherswhocontendthatHIVinfections involves a combination of health promotion strategies for have been significantly misclassified because of the under- users, including needle and syringe exchange programs, countingofcasesthatresultfromunsafeinjectionpractices ready access to effective drug treatment and substitution, by misattributing such cases to heterosexual transmission and provision of counseling and condoms. Brazil, which (Gisselquistandothers2003).However,aftermuchinvesti- from reaching projected levels,has relied on strong official Human Services concluded that even though transmission support for harm reduction as a cornerstone ofits national causedbyunsafeinjectionsmayhavebeenunderreported,it prevention program (Mesquita and others 2003).A limited neverthelessdoesnotaccountforanappreciableamountof number of studies have shown significant reductions in HIV transmission (WHO and UNAIDS 2003). Cost- HIV incidence among those exposed to needle exchange effectivenessanalysesindicatethatacombinedpolicystrat- programs, and several studies have shown significant egy of single-use syringes and interventions to minimize reductions in needle sharing (see table 18.3). Methadone injection use could reduce injection-related infections by maintenance is both safe and effective as a treatment for asmuchas96.5percent,or8.86millionDALYsbetween2000 drug addiction (National Consensus Development Panel and2030,atanaveragecostofUS$102perDALY.Additional
