Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


sharing (see table 18.3). Methadone injection use could reduce injection-related infections by maintenance is both safe and effective as a treatment for asmuchas96.5percent,or8.86millionDALYsbetween2000 drug addiction (National Consensus Development Panel and2030,atanaveragecostofUS$102perDALY.Additional on Effective Medical Treatment of Opiate Addiction 1998) cost-effectiveness studies are needed to guide decisions and may help reduce the risk of HIV transmission by regardingtheoptimalchoiceoftechnologyinthisarea. enabling individuals to avoid the drug-using behaviors that To prevent bloodborne transmission of HIV and other 1998;Needle and others 1998).However,the effect ofdrug others who might experience occupational exposure to treatment modalities on the rate of HIV transmission is blood or body fluids are advised to take universal precau- currently limited by laws inmany countries that prohibit or tions.This approach,which treats all bodily fluids as poten- restrict the use of methadone maintenance or other drug tially infectious,includes the use ofgloves,gowns,and gog- substitution strategies. The evidence supporting the cost- gles; the proper disposal of waste; and the use of sterile effectiveness of needle exchange programs in high-income injection and other infection control practices . countries is strong. However, little has been published in Studies have demonstrated that the use of protective gear, relation to developing countries,partly because these pro- such as gloves,reduces the likelihood of blood exposure in grams have not been as widely implemented as hoped. health care settings. Given the low cost ofsyringes,the extremely high efficiency Althoughthecost-effectivenessofimplementinguniversal of HIV transmission by this route, and the demonstrated precautionsincreasesasHIVprevalenceincreases,universal effectiveness of harm reduction programs in changing precautions are unlikely to be cost-effective in resource- syringe-sharing behavior, needle exchange programs limited settings especially where HIV prevalence is low. should be one ofthe most cost-effective interventions. Postexposure prophylaxis with antiretroviral agents is • Implementation of blood safety practices. Transmission of considered the standard of care after occupational needle- HIV can be virtually eliminated in health care settings stick exposure to blood from an HIV-infected person. 346 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others Cost-effectivenessanalysesofpostexposureprophylaxishave peoplewithlowerlevelsofriskbehavior.However,thedifference beenconductedonlyinhigh-incomecountriesandhavecon- intheeffectivenessbetweenthetwofallsasepidemicsbecome cludedthatthisinterventionisnotcost-effective(Low-Beer moregeneralized,and as the average and maximum size ofthe andothers2000;Pinkerton,Holtgrave,andBloom1998). connected components (number ofpeople linked to each other directly or through others by their sexual or injecting risk behavior). Thus, in heavily affected countries, or those where PREVENTION IN THEORY AND PRACTICE: USING the virus has the potential to spread rapidly,preventioninter- EPIDEMIC PROFILES AND CONTEXTUAL FACTORS ventionsarelikelytobecomeextremelycost-effectiveevenwhen TO INFORM PREVENTION GUIDELINES targetedatindividualswithrelativelylowlevelsofriskbehavior. Consequently, countries with low-level and concentrated epi- Prevention studies
