Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


and individual-level interventions that target General Prevention Guidelines by Type of Epidemic key populations Generally,itismoreimportanttochangethebehaviorofpeople • IEC, including limited education through the mass media whohavehighlevelsofriskbehaviorthanitistochangethatof and sex education in schools Table 18.5 Epidemic Profiles Highest prevalence in a key Prevalence in the general Extent of HIV infection populationa(percent) population (percent) WHO region Low level (cid:4)5 (cid:4)1 Middle East and North Africa Concentratedb (cid:5)5 (cid:4)1 East Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Central Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, South Asia Generalized low level (cid:6)5 1–10 Sub-Saharan Africa Generalized high level (cid:6)5 (cid:6)10 Sub-Saharan Africa Source:Adapted from UNAIDS 2004. a. Key populations include sex workers, men who have sex with men, and drug injecting users. b. We consider three types of concentrated epidemics depending on the key population most affected: sex workers, men who have sex with men, or drug injecting users. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 347 Box 18.4 Thailand’s 100 Percent Condom Program Thailand’s HIV prevalence,fueled primarily by high rates • government-distributed condoms of commercial sex work and low levels of condom • STI testing and treatment use,began to rise rapidly in the late 1980s.Beginning in • surveillance and tracking of infections to points of 1989,the Thai government initiated a nationwide condom origin distribution and education campaign focusing on com- • strong political and financial commitment mercial sex workers and their clients to ensure 100 percent • active involvement ofprovincial and local governments. condom use in all commercial sex encounters. Elements thought to contribute to the program’s success include Despite this unprecedented success,evidence indicates that enforcement of the 100 Percent Condom Program is • government-mandated 100 percent condom use in not as strong today as when it was initially implemented. commercial sex establishments A recent study in Bangkok found that 89 percent of sex • mass condom promotion advertising campaign workers used condoms,a decline from 96 percent in 2000 • education in commercial sex workplaces . Source:Authors. Box 18.5 Uganda HIV/AIDS Prevention Program Like many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa,Uganda expe- • implementing interventions to empower women and rienced a rapid increase in HIV incidence and a general- girls ization of the epidemic in the late 1980s and early 1990s. • having a strong focus on youths By 1991,overall HIV prevalence was 21 percent (Low-Beer • engaging in active efforts to fight stigma and discrimi- and Stoneburner 2003); however, the trajectory of nation Uganda’s epidemic has differed markedly from that
