Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


“disinhibition”ofrisk behavior that is asso- be protected from abuse,and to have property rights following ciated with greater availability of antiretroviral therapy,by the the death ofa spouse. spread ofdrug-resistant HIV,or by increases in the incidence of exposure to partners with HIV infection because of increased Generalized High-Level Epidemic. In a generalized high-level survival.These sometimes opposing effects ofoffering therapy epidemic,such as in some countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (for may differ to such a degree that the net effects of widespread instance,Botswana and Zimbabwe),an attack on all fronts is therapy on transmission rates may vary among risk groups and required. Prevention efforts should focus on broadly based, across geographic regions. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 349 Table 18.6 Effect of Antiretroviral Therapy on Transmission Dynamics Area or behavior affected Treatment effects expected to decrease transmission Treatment effects expected to increase transmission Viral load Decreased infectiousness of the treated partner is substantial even As survival increases, the incidence of exposure to with monotherapy (Musicco and others 1994). Transmission after partners with HIV infection may increase (Hammer exposure to individuals with a viral load of less than 1,500 copies and others 1997). per milliliter is extremely rare (Quinn and others 2000). No cases of sexual transmission from a partner with undetectable viremia have been reported. Prophylaxis Decreased susceptibility may occur during postexposure prophylaxis None. (Cardo and others 1997). Drug resistance Impaired fitness and decreased viral load during drug-resistant Impaired virological responses to therapy in the person viremia (Deeks and others 2000) appear to allow persistent who is infected by a resistant virus may partially offset decreases in infectiousness even after drug resistance has the beneficial effect on infectiousness (Little and others occurred (Leigh Brown and others 2003). 2002; Grant, Kahn, and others 2002). However, primary infection with a resistant virus may also be associated with slower progression of the disease (Grant, Hecht, and others 2002). Risk behavior Treatmentmayprovideincentivesfor HIVtestingandcounseling, Decreased fear of HIV and disinhibition of risk behavior whichhasbeenassociatedwithdecreasedriskbehaviorand HIV are possibilities (Katz and others 2002). Risk behavior by andalsoindirectlybyincreasingthevisibilityofpeoplelivingwith may increase (Stolte and others 2001). HIV/AIDS. Risk reduction counseling during treatment programs may reduce risk behavior. Sexual networks Decreased fear of HIV may foster more informed risk behavior, Decreased fear of HIV may disinhibit risk behavior, reduce including increased use of testing and more thoughtful partner serosorting, and increase mixing between higher- and selection, including serosorting and sorting by risk level lower-risk groups in
