Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


for hospitalization, nor is evidence had symptoms of chronic depression.While results have not available to determine the most cost-effective combination of been replicated in resource-constrained countries, an assess- palliative care strategies.Most people living with HIV/AIDS do mentofclinic-basedpsychosocialsupportandcounselingserv- incur some end-of-life costs in the formal health care sector.In icesinnorthernThailandshowedthat50%ofPLWHAbecame accounted for 39 and 18 percent, respectively, of the costs of how to live with the disease (Tsunekawa and others 2004). care in the last year of life, whereas community home-based Althoughfewdataareavailableonthecostsof variousstrate- care accounted for 42percent (Uys and Hensher 2002). gies,interventionsforpsychosocialsupportappeartobecost- Higginson and others’(2003) meta-analysis concludes that effective—especiallywhereinnovativesolutions,suchasgroup overall evidence demonstrates a positive effect of home-based counseling sessions, are implemented.Although studies indi- palliative care, especially its effect on pain management and cateanimprovedqualityof lifeforthesepatients,littleinfor- symptom control. Available data do not permit estimating a mationisavailableonthecostoftheinterventions.Additional cost per DALY of community-based palliative care programs, evaluation research is needed to guide decisions about how but a review of available studies suggests that palliative care muchtoinvestinpsychosocialsupport. provided by health professionals in the home is unlikely to be cost-effective in low-income countries. However, low-cost, Nutrition Programs and Food Security. Strong evidence community-based models have been developed that require indicates that malnutrition and AIDS work in tandem at both minimal external resources and function almost like care coop- the individual and the societal levels. Infection with HIV eratives among affected households.These models are likely to increases the risk ofmalnutrition in the individual,while mal- be highly cost-effective. nutrition worsens the impact of HIV and AIDS. Similarly, HIV/AIDS can both cause and be worsened by food insecurity. Symptom-Based Care. Pain management is extremely This reciprocity must be considered when planning specific importantinHIVandisaddressedinchapter52.Diarrhea,nau- program responses. sea,vomiting,andskinproblemsareallsymptomsthataretar- Protein deficiency is a well-known cause of cell-mediated getedfortreatmentinpalliativecare.Oralrehydrationfordiar- immunodeficiency . HIV-infected individuals rhealtreatmentcostspenniesperepisode.Nauseaandvomiting need to consume more energy than uninfected individuals:as areprevalentinpeoplewithAIDSandcanleadtoanorexiaand much as 10 percent greater consumption for asymptomatic weightloss(UNAIDS2000).Treatingnauseacostsanestimated individuals and 20to 30 percent more for symptomatic indi- US$1.75perepisode(Willbondandothers2001),andcontin- viduals.Malnutrition alters the susceptibility of individuals to uous treatment of nausea and vomiting in end-stage patients HIV infection and their vulnerability to its various sequelae, costsaboutUS$2perday(WorldBank1997). increases the risk ofHIV transmission from mothers to babies, Approximately 90 percent of people with HIV suffer from and accelerates the progression of HIV infection (Gillespie, some form of skin condition.These conditions include infec- Haddad,and Jackson 2001). tions,drug reactions,scabies,pressure sores,and cancers.Skin Small studies ofadults with AIDS,including those on anti- often becomes dry in the middle and late
