Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


Asia); viruses such as cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex,and herpes zoster;andcancerssuch as Kaposi sarcoma Role ofAntiretroviral Therapy in Relation to Opportunistic and non-Hodgkinlymphoma. Infections. Antiretroviral therapy is effective in reducing viral The range of complications arising from continued HIV load and partially enabling immune restoration, thereby pre- infection varies from country to country,reflecting the differ- venting the onset and recurrence of opportunistic infections. ences in infectious agents that populations have encountered If taken strictly according to directions, antiretroviral therapy earlier in life or are exposed to when immunosuppressed. In can induce a sustained recovery of CD4 cell reactivity against high-income countries, the most common opportunistic opportunistic pathogens in severely immunosuppressed infections are PCP, esophageal candidiasis, cytomegalovirus patients (Li and others 1998).The effectiveness ofantiretroviral retinitis,cryptococcal meningitis,toxoplasma encephalopathy, therapy is determined by its ability to rapidly reduce viral load cryptosporidium diarrhea, and human herpes virus–8 and and to sustain low levels of viral activity.This viral activity is Kaposi sarcoma (Bacellar and others 1994;Hoover and others what has an independent effect on increasing or decreasing sus- 1993; Lanjewar and others 1996; Selik, Starcher, and Curran ceptibility to opportunistic infections (Kaplan and others 2001). 1987). In resource-limited countries, because of the higher Initiating antiretroviral therapy can also have detrimental background prevalence of infectious agents, it is more com- effects by causing complications from latent or undiagnosed mon to encounter tuberculosis,cryptococcal meningitis,toxo- opportunistic infections, especially in resource-poor settings. plasma encephalopathy, infectious diarrhea, and nonspecific One of the challenges in initiating antiretroviral therapy in wasting (slim disease) (Hira and others 1998;Hira,Dore,and resource-limited settings is that patients tend to present late Sirisanthana 1998a;Sengupta,Lal,and Srinivas 1994). intheir illness,usually when they have an opportunistic infec- The time from HIV infection to manifestation of the first tion that prompts them to seek medical care,or in the case of AIDS-defining illness varies within populations. In high- countries with lax pharmaceutical policy,when they buy anti- income countries,reports on the natural history of untreated retroviral therapy from a private pharmacy. It is well docu- HIV infection suggest that AIDS occurs between 7 and 10 years mented that initiating antiretroviral therapy in severely after infection (Alcabes and others 1993;Lui and others 1988). immunosuppressed patients can result in illnesses associated The time can be as short as 24 months (Anzala and others with reconstitution of the immune system (Shelburne and 354 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and
