Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


viral proteins into their functional forms and inhibits reverse transcriptase, which prevents HIV thereby rendering the resulting viral particles non- from infecting cells and duplicating itself. infectious (Peiperl,Coffey,and Volberding 2005). Source:Authors. In recent years, the most volatile parameter in cost- prescribed protease inhibitor–based regimen fails within a year effectiveness analyses for HIV/AIDS has been the prices ofanti- (Deeks and others 1999).As a result,the cost-effectiveness ofa retroviral drugs, which have dropped by about two orders of regimen is a function not only of its effectiveness in isolation, magnitude for some LMICs. Price reductions have not been but also of its impact on the effectiveness of future regimens. consistent across countries, nor have they necessarily been Thus,the comparative cost-effectiveness ofdifferent sequences larger for the poorest countries. This variability in pricing ofregimens needs to be considered. greatly complicates the establishment of national guidelines The effectiveness ofantiretrovirals depends on not only the regarding which regimens to prescribe under which circum- benefits conferred but also the associated side effects,the toxic- stances, because the ranking of regimens varies among and ity level ofthe drugs,and patients’adherence to the drug regi- within countries as relative prices change. Box 18.6 discusses men.The ability ofcare providers to detect incipient toxicity at the three classes ofdrugs used in antiretroviral therapy. an early stage also influences the magnitude ofside effects and Because of their higher manufacturing costs and their toxicities. In low-income settings with limited laboratory morerecentintroductionintothemarket,proteaseinhibitors capacity,a greater proportion ofside effects will not be detect- are more expensive than either nucleoside reverse transcrip- ed until they become severe. As a result, the relative cost- tase inhibitors or nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase effectiveness profiles will change depending on the availability inhibitors.They are also more difficult to manufacture,mak- oftoxicity monitoring. ing them less attractive to generic manufacturers. Although Initiating antiretroviral therapy has a proven benefit for the difference is less marked, nucleoside reverse transcriptase patients with a CD4 count of fewer than 350 cells per cubic inhibitors tend to cost less than nonnucleoside reverse tran- millimeter (Palella and others 2003). In patients with a scriptaseinhibitors. higher CD4 count, the benefits of antiretroviral therapy are Ranking different antiretroviral therapy regimens by their believed to be outweighed by the toxicities that may accrue cost-effectiveness is more complex than doing so for most ther- from continued drug exposure (Mallal and others 2000). apeutic situations, because a high proportion of patients will Concertedresearcheffortsareneededtogaugeboththeaver- develop resistance to orintolerance of
