Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


complex than doing so for most ther- from continued drug exposure (Mallal and others 2000). apeutic situations, because a high proportion of patients will Concertedresearcheffortsareneededtogaugeboththeaver- develop resistance to orintolerance of initial therapy and will age costs of care and the survival benefits of identifying need to stop their initial regimen and then initiate a second patients and initiating antiretroviral therapy while their (and perhaps a subsequent) regimen, if available. One U.S. immune function is still competent,compared with the costs cohort study suggests that for 50 percent of patients the and survival benefits associated with starting care late, on HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 357 presentationofanopportunisticinfection—asiscurrentlythe ability to adhere to the prescribed therapy,including limited norm in LMICs. education and the consequent poorer understanding of their diseasestate,unstablehousingandfinancialcircumstances,a limitednumberoftreatmentoptions,andclinicianswithlim- Drug Resistance. Drug resistance occurs as the virus evolves itedantiretroviraltherapytreatmentexperience(Kitahataand to escape the inhibitory effects of antiretroviral drugs. The others 1996).Those factors,in addition to the toxicity of the capacity of HIV to mutate is extraordinary, as the wide therapy, influence adherence and future disease progression diversity ofHIV variants that occurs worldwide demonstrates. rates(Duranandothers2001)andleadtoanincreaseindrug Viral diversification is driven by low-fidelity enzymes (which resistance.Thus,poorlycoordinatedscale-upofantiretroviral have a high rate of mutation) that carry out replication of the therapy in some developing countries has the potential to viral genome. jeopardize both the duration of clinical benefit for the first Drug resistance resulting from being infected by a drug- wave of patients who receive substandard care and future resistant HIV strain is known as primary drug resistance. response rates as the prevalence of drug resistance increases Secondarydrugresistancedevelopsasaconsequenceof treat- (Harries and others 2001). ment.PrimaryHIVdrugresistancetonucleosidereversetran- StudiesinIndia,Mexico,Senegal,andUgandapointtopoor scriptase inhibitors, nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase adherence (which for some classes of drugs can be adherence inhibitors, and protease inhibitors has been reported of less than 95 percent), inadequate doses and regimes, and (Salomonandothers2000;Wegnerandothers2000).Thefirst poor monitoring as factors that contribute to more rapid reports of transmission of drug resistance have typically development of antiretroviral therapy resistance (Oyugi and occurredwithinafewyearsofadrug’sintroductionintoclin- Bangsberg 2004,Laniece and others 2004,Bautista and others ical practice. The proportion of newly infected people who 2003,Liechty and Bangsberg 2003).Bycontrast,experiencesin acquire drug-resistant HIV has implications for the choice of Haiti and Uganda suggest that it is possible to achieve adher- first-lineregimen.Primaryresistanceinrecentlyinfectedindi- enceratesindevelopingcountriesequaltoorbetterthanthose viduals in high-income countries is stable or has been in observed in high-income countries (Farmer and others 2001; decline since 2000, following a rise between 1996 and 1999. Mitty and others 2002). Almost nothing is
