Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


stable or has been in observed in high-income countries (Farmer and others 2001; decline since 2000, following a rise between 1996 and 1999. Mitty and others 2002). Almost nothing is known regarding primary drug resistance among those recently infected in low-income countries, although this question will become more important with the Second-Line and Subsequent Therapies. Studies from high- increasedavailabilityofantiretroviraltherapyinresource-lim- income countries have unequivocally demonstrated that the itedsettings. probability that an antiretroviral therapy regimen will achieve Drug resistance is associated with increases in plasma viral viral suppression diminishes with each subsequent regimen RNA levels and attenuation ofthe responses ofCD4 counts to (Deeks and others 1999).Similarly,the mean duration ofviral suggest that drug resistance does not completely offset the ben- subsequent regimens (Deeks and others 1999).This finding is efits of therapy (Deeks and others 1999;Ledergerber and oth- entirely expected because failing a previous regimen is associ- ers 1999). Individuals with drug-resistant HIV typically have ated with lower adherence,higher toxicity,or side effects and plasma viral RNA levels that remain 3- to 10-fold lower than increased resistance, all of which increase the probability of pretreatment levels.Furthermore,patients with drug resistance similar problems occurring with subsequent regimens. Thus, experience more rapid immunological decline and disease pro- the expected survival benefit per month ofantiretroviral ther- gression if they discontinue their drugs (Nijhuis, Deeks, and apy declines with each change of regimen. In contrast, the Boucher 2001). monthly cost oftherapy rises as a patient moves from first-line to more expensive protease inhibitor–based second-line and subsequent therapies. Given this steadily declining cost- ImportanceofAdherencetoPrescribedTherapy. Withcer- effectiveness, wealthier countries are likely to offer a greater tain drugs, resistance can develop in as little as two weeks if number ofregimen changes than poorer countries. therapy is suboptimal (which can be less than 90 percent adherence). Conversely, patients who adhere to therapy can obtain continued viral suppression for many years without Laboratory Monitoring of Immune Function the need for second- or third-line options. Research has to Guide Therapy shownthatdrugadherenceisoneofthemostimportantpre- dictors of continued treatment response (Mannheimer and Laboratory monitoring determines when antiretroviral therapy others 2002).Patients in resource-limited countries are likely should be initiated and when it should be changed because of tobesubjectedtoanumberof influences that challenge their toxicity, lack of efficacy, or resistance. The optimal frequency 358 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others and precision of monitoring depends on numerous factors, monitoring or body mass
