Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


358 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others and precision of monitoring depends on numerous factors, monitoring or body mass index monitoring rather than being principally the following: compared with no monitoring at all. • the expected rate ofchange ofvariables ofinterest TestingforPrimaryResistance. Testingforresistanceinindi- • the expected frequency of events, such as development of vidual patients is still costly, because of both the cost of the resistance,adherence failure,and side effects diagnostic kit and the sophisticated laboratory capacity • the relative cost of monitoring versus the cost of providing requiredtoperformthetests.Becauseprimaryresistanceisfar ineffective treatment less prevalent in LMICs than in high-income countries, no • the magnitude of the secondary effects of monitoring serious consideration is being given at this time to initiating (motivating prevention,motivating adherence). individualresistancetestinginthedevelopingworld.However, the choice of optimal first-line and subsequent treatment WHO has suggested a pragmatic approach to monitoring, strategies should be guided by information about the preva- with inexpensive,easy-to-measure parameters (bodyweight or lence of primary resistance to different antiretroviral drugs body mass index, body temperature, hemoglobin, liver in a particular country, which indicates that population- income countries. More specialized markers—namely, CD4 antiretroviral-naivepeoplelivingwithHIV/AIDSisimportant. count, viral load, and resistance genotyping—would be restricted to sentinel sites and tertiary care services (Gutierrez Monitoring Response to Therapy. Ideally,therapeutic failure and others 2004),at least initially. should be detected as soon as possible to permit the imple- nowstartingtobemirroredinthecostsofmonitoringtestsas ance, or poor adherence. Therapeutic failure leads to rising newtechnologiesareintroduced,collectivebargainingisunder- viral load and falling immune competence and to the subse- taken,andinternationalpressuremountsondiagnosticmanu- quent development ofopportunistic infections.Unfortunately, facturers to provide more favorable pricing for LMICs. earlier detection comes at a price:testing for increases in viral CommercialcytometricCD4measurementsarenowavailable load, which can be detected soonest, is more expensive than to some developing countries at less than US$5 per test CD4 testing,which in turn is more expensive than the less sen- (R.Göhde,personal communication,2004).Viralloadtestingis sitive monitoring of total lymphocyte count, which is more still significantly more expensive, but even those prices have expensive than monitoring body mass index or waiting until dropped to US$20 following negotiations on behalf of low- clinical signs of failure appear. Where facilities for detecting incomecountriesbytheWilliamJeffersonClintonFoundation. early failure are absent,first-line therapy should be replaced by Evenwhenthepotentialsavingsbecomeanoperationalreality a completely new combination at failure, usually a protease indevelopingcountries,thecostsoflaboratorymonitoringwill inhibitor–based combination. stillrepresentanimportantproportionofthecostsofproviding antiretroviraltherapy. Monitoring Toxicity. Available antiretroviral drugs have sig- nificant toxicity. Such toxicity is often insidious, progressing Monitoring to Guide Initiation ofAntiretroviral Therapy. If
