Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


usually a protease indevelopingcountries,thecostsoflaboratorymonitoringwill inhibitor–based combination. stillrepresentanimportantproportionofthecostsofproviding antiretroviraltherapy. Monitoring Toxicity. Available antiretroviral drugs have sig- nificant toxicity. Such toxicity is often insidious, progressing Monitoring to Guide Initiation ofAntiretroviral Therapy. If unnoticed until the patient’s health has been seriously laboratory monitoring is performed, its optimal frequency impaired. Examples include zidovudine-associated anemia, must be determined.The closer patients get to an antiretrovi- nevirapine-associated impaired liver function,and didanosine- ral therapy threshold, the more often they must be tested to associated pancreatitis. Fortunately, the most commonly detect a CD4 decline that falls within a specific CD4 range.As encountered serious toxicities can be detected either on clinical use ofantiretroviral therapy expands in LMICs and as the costs examination or with inexpensive laboratory tests.Data on the ofdrugs fall relative to the costs oflaboratory monitoring,col- relative cost-effectiveness of different toxicity monitoring lecting empirical data and constructing models to compare dif- regimens are unavailable. Current guidelines identify what ferent monitoring strategies is becoming increasingly urgent. monitoring should be conducted in conjunction with specific In the absence of capacity to perform CD4 counts,several antiretroviral drugs,depending on whether laboratory capacity studies suggest that total lymphocyte count can be used as a is available . proxybecauseofthecorrelationbetweenthetwocounts(Badri Unfortunately, in the absence of a quantitative analysis of andWood2003).Researchhasalsoshownthatfallingbodymass the costs of monitoring and the benefits associated with early index is highly predictive of disease progression (Pistone and detection of toxicity,it is difficult to provide guidance on the others2002).Inlightofthosefindings,thecost-effectiveness of minimum laboratory capacity that should accompany the CD4 monitoring in developing countries must be considered delivery ofspecific treatment combinations.Clearly,extremely in terms ofits incremental improvement over total lymphocyte low-cost monitoring tests are warranted for toxicities that HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment | 359 occur frequently.The preeminent example is anemia monitor- RESEARCH AGENDA ing for patients receiving zidovudine. Hemoglobin levels can As in many other areas of public health in developing coun- be monitored for less than US$0.02 per test, which is almost tries, a profound tension exists between (a) the need for certainly cost-effective given that the incidence of anemia research to discover new technologies and interventions for with zidovudine therapy is approximately 10 percent in both prevention and care and (b) the need for research to learn advanced-stage patients and that anemia frequently progresses how to effectively apply the technologies that are currently to life-threatening levels ifnot detected. available. The most important barrier to control is lack of Box 18.7 Interventions in the Pipeline or in
