Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


effectively apply the technologies that are currently to life-threatening levels ifnot detected. available. The most important barrier to control is lack of Box 18.7 Interventions in the Pipeline or in Trial The following interventions are currently being developed conducted to assess whether acyclovir reduces HIV or evaluated: infectiousness in individuals infected with both HSV-2 and HIV. • Microbicides. Most microbicide products are currently • Tenofovir for preexposure use.Studies are now enrolling in preclinical development; however, 18 products are participants at three West African sites and will soon small phase 1 safety and acceptability trials. Three States. phase 3 effectiveness trials are currently under way. • Antiretroviral therapy to prevent sexual transmission. • Diaphragms. The safety and effectiveness of the A phase 3, randomized, controlled, multisite trial to diaphragm and Replensgel in preventing HIV and STIs assess whether antiretroviral therapy can prevent among women are being tested in an ongoing phase 3 sexual transmission of HIV in serodiscordant couples randomized controlled trial in South Africa and will begin in Brazil, India, Malawi, Thailand, and Zimbabwe.Two trials,in the Dominican Republic and Zimbabwe. Madagascar,are planned to test the diaphragm’s effec- • Vaccines.Although preliminary results from a phase 3 tiveness against bacterial STIs. Several other trials in clinical trial in Thailand found that AIDSVAX failed Sub-Saharan Africa are planned to test the acceptability to protect against infection,several other vaccines are and safety ofthe diaphragms plus microbicides. being developed. Merck and GlaxoSmithKline have • Circumcision. Two randomized controlled trials are unveiled sizable vaccine programs and moved products under way in Kenya and Uganda to examine whether into human testing. An International AIDS Vaccine circumcision confers protection among adult men. Initiative U.K.-Kenya team is in the midst of interme- • Community-basedVCT.ProjectAcceptisacommunity- diate human trials of DNA/MVA (modified vaccinia based VCT trial in 32 communities in South Africa, virus Ankara), and Aventis Pasteur is taking ALVAC- Tanzania, and Zimbabwe and 14 communities in AIDSVAX into the final phase of trials. The South Thailand.Communitiesarerandomizedtoreceiveeither African AIDS Vaccine Initiative is preparing for the a community-based VCT intervention or a standard country’s first trials,India’s prime minister has pledged tionhasthreemajorstrategies:tomakeVCTmoreavail- Union is broadening its vaccine research for HIV. able in community settings,to engage the community • Behavior change programs for people with HIV.In recent • HSV-2 treatment.One study in six countries will deter- proposed implementing prevention interventions that mine the efficacy of twice-daily acyclovir in reducing target people with HIV (De
