Chapter
KEYWORDS: hiv, aids, prevention, therapy, countries, transmission, treatment, antiretroviral, hiv aids, infection, rep, interventions, care, risk, drug


with HIV.In recent • HSV-2 treatment.One study in six countries will deter- proposed implementing prevention interventions that mine the efficacy of twice-daily acyclovir in reducing target people with HIV (De Cock,Marum,and Mbori- susceptibility to HIV infection among high-risk,HIV- Ngacha 2003;Janssen and others 2001),although evi- negative, HSV-2 seropositive women and men who dence on the most effective strategies to encourage have sex with men. A companion study will also be safer behavior among people with HIV is lacking. Source:Authors. 360 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stefano Bertozzi, Nancy S. Padian, Jeny Wegbreit, and others knowledge about how best to implement packages of existing the prolongation of high-quality life from antiretroviral interventions at the appropriate scale to maximize the effect of therapy—all without damaging existing and often fragile prevention and care interventions and to protect the human health care infrastructure that must also address other health rights of those affected by the epidemic.Accurate surveillance concerns. Although simplified regimens, such as delivering data are needed on risk behaviors,and effectiveness research is multiple drugs in a single tablet and fewer doses per day,are needed to discern whatinterventions work whereand how they desirable everywhere, they are especially important in low- ing interventions have been conducted using large prospective ing tests for antiretroviral therapy toxicity and for immunolog- cohorts,with the result that,for many interventions,convinc- ical and virological responses to treatment are especially ing data on effectiveness are not available.Finally,research on needed in low-income countries, which otherwise must cen- policy or structural interventions,which by definition must be tralize testing—an especially difficult prospect when transport conducted on a population level, is also insufficient. These and communications systems are poorly developed. interventions include the development and testing ofsuch pol- icy tools as changing the tax structure,regulating the sex indus- try, and guaranteeing property rights and access to credit for CONCLUSION women. Box 18.7 lists new prevention interventions in the pipeline. Despite the glaring deficits in AIDS research, the magnitude Although numerous promising interventions are listed,results and seriousness of the global pandemic calls for action in the for most of these strategies are at best years away. Centuries absence of definitive data.The appropriate mix and distribu- hence,when future generations study the history of our time tion of prevention and treatment interventions depends on and the epidemic that killed 50 million or perhaps many more, the stage ofthe epidemic in a given country and the context in the
