Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: pneumonia, acute, respiratory, tract, respiratory tract, bronchitis, admission, patients, infections, viral, common, include, care, upper, aureus


free information in English and Mandarin on the novel coronavirus COVID- 19. The COVID-19 resource centre is hosted on Elsevier Connect, the company's public news and information website. Elsevier hereby grants permission to make all its COVID-19-related research that is available on the COVID-19 resource centre - including this research content - immediately available in PubMed Central and other publicly funded repositories, such as the WHO COVID database with rights for unrestricted research re-use and analyses in any form or by any means with acknowledgement of the original source. These permissions are granted for free by Elsevier for as long as the COVID-19 resource centre remains active. Respiratory Infections, Acute (cid:1)2017ElsevierInc.Allrightsreserved. Introduction abacterialetiologynecessitatingantimicrobialtherapy.Some commonURTIsaredescribedinthefollowingparagraphs. Acute respiratory tract infections are important sources of morbidity, mortality, and loss of workforce days throughout AcuteCoryza (CommonCold) the world. Patients at the extremes of age or with preexisting cardiopulmonarydiseaseorimmunesuppressionareatpartic- The common cold is a symptom complex characterized by ularrisk.Despiteadvancesinourunderstandingofmicrobial nasal congestion, sneezing, rhinorrhoea, pharyngitis, and pathogensandthedevelopmentofnewantimicrobialagents, cough.Over200differentviralagentsincludingcoronaviruses, acute respiratory tract infections continue to place an enor- respiratory syncytial viruses, parainfluenza, and influenza mousburdenonglobalhealthexpenditure.Broadlyspeaking, viruses are known to cause coryza although rhinovirus is the acuterespiratorytractinfectionscanbedividedintoinfections most common etiological agent. Transmission is by hand– that predominantly affect the upper respiratory tract and the nose–hand inoculation or by droplet spread; the incubation lower respiratory tract. Anatomically, thevocal cords serve as period is typically 48–72h. The illness may last for up to thedividinglinebetweenthesetwoareaswiththeupperrespi- 1week but in up to 25% of patients, it persists for 2weeks. ratory tract (nasopharynx, peri-tonsillar structures, sinuses, Immunity is short-lived and virus-specific; most adults will larynx, and epiglottis) being proximal to the cords and the suffer between two and four coryzal illnesses annually. Chil- lower upper respiratory tract (bronchial tree and pulmonary drentendtohavemorefrequentcolds(6–8peryear)andciga- parenchyma) being below the cords. Unlike any of the other rette smokers also have more frequent viral URTIs. Physical vital organs, the lung is exposed daily to a large amount of findings are generally confined to the upper respiratory tract pathogenspresentinairandispotentiallyvulnerabletoinfec- and include nasal mucosal edema and pharyngeal erythema. tionandinflammation.Foroptimalgasexchange,therespira- Therapyisprincipallysupportiveandincludesbedrest,parace- torytracthasavastsurfacearea(150m2),averythindelicate tamol(0.5–1g,4–6hourly)forsystemicsymptomsandfever epithelium,andextensivebloodflow.Inherentinthisstructure andnasaldecongestantsinsomecases.Thebenefitsofvitamin isanenormousimmunologicalburden.The11000–15000l Ctherapyremainunproven(DouglasandHemila,2004;Sasa- ofairinhaleddailycontainamyriadofpathogens,pollutants, zukietal.,2006).Similarly,datasupportingthewideuseofthe andallergens.Inthenormallung,manyinhaledmicrobesare plant extract, echinacea, in coryza are lacking (Linde et al., trapped in the mucus layer coating the nasal epithelium and 2006). Complications of coryza are predominantly due to upperrespiratorytract.Oncetrapped,theycanbetransported secondarybacterialinfectionssuchassinusitis(0.5%ofcases), byciliarymotiontothepharynxandswallowed.Fororganisms otitismedia(2%ofcases),bronchitis,andpneumonia. that evade mucociliary clearance, further protective innate immune mechanisms act locally to facilitate clearance of AcutePharyngitis inhaled pathogens and to
