Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: pneumonia, acute, respiratory, tract, respiratory tract, bronchitis, admission, patients, infections, viral, common, include, care, upper, aureus


immune disorder or Streptococcuspneumoniae(60%) Gramnegativebacteria(50%) respiratorydisordersuchascysticfibrosis.Supportivetherapy Haemophilusinfluenzae(10%) Staphylococcusaureus(20%) with analgesia, antipyretics, adequate hydration, and assis- Mycoplasmapneumoniae(10%) S.pneumoniae(15%) tancewithexpectorationofviscidsecretionsmayberequired. Viral(10%) Anaerobesandfungi(10%) Antimicrobial treatment in acute bronchitis is controversial. S.aureus(3%) Others(5%) The benefits of such treatment have been marginal in many Legionellapneumophila(2%) Others,e.g.,Chlamydia studies, perhaps because of the viral nature of many cases. pneumoniae(5%) However,morerecentguidelinesfromtheAmericanCollege ofChestPhysicianssuggestthatwidespreaduseofantibiotics for the treatment of acute bronchitis is not justified, and efforts to curtail their use should be encouraged (Braman, 48h after hospital admission. It is estimated to occur in 1% 2006). ofallpatientsadmittedtothehospitalandcarriesamortality rateapproaching33%.Upto60%ofpatientsintheintensive Pneumonia care setting develop pneumonia while being ventilated and thisformofpneumoniaisreferredtoasventilator-associated Pneumonia may be defined as inflammation of the pneumonia(VAP).ThespectraofcausativeorganismsinCAP substanceofthelungsandthetermgenerallyimpliesparen- andnosocomialpneumoniaareshowninTable1. chymalinflammationcausedbyinfection.Globallyitisesti- mated that 5million children under the age of 5years die Clinical features from pneumonia each year (95% in developing countries). Patientswithpneumoniamaypresentwithaconstellationof There are approximately 4million cases of community- symptomsandsigns.Feverorhypothermiaispresentinabout acquired pneumonia (CAP) annually in the United States, 40–50%ofcases.Othersymptomsincluderigors(15%),pleu- 800000 of which require hospital admission. Pneumonia ritic pain (30%), and new cough with or without purulent is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States and sputum(80%).Examinationmayrevealauscultatorycrackles isthemostcommoncauseofdeathfrominfectiousdiseases. (80%), signs of consolidation (30%), tachypnea (45–70%), In the United Kingdom, the incidence is 12 cases per 1000 and tachycardia (50%). These symptoms and signs may be populationperyear.About1caseper1000requireshospital maskedorabsentintheelderly. admission with approximately 10% of these cases requiring Theinitialapproachtothepatientwithpneumoniashould intensive care admission. Admission rates are higher in the includeanassessmentofseverityandtheneedforhospitaliza- elderly (9.62 per 1000 cases). About 25% of all deaths in tion, identification of a likely pathogen, and institution of the elderly are related to pneumonia although this is often empiricantibiotictherapy.Specificcluestothelikelyetiology the terminal illness in patients with serious concomitant canoftenbeobtainedfromhistoryandphysicalexamination disease. In the outpatient setting, mortality rates for pneu- andthesearesummarizedinTable2. monia remain low, in the range of less than 1–5%. In patients requiring hospitalization, the mortality rate Investigations approaches 12% overall, but increases in specific popula- Patientswithmildpneumoniaareusuallytreatedintheoutpa- tions such as thosewith bacteremia andthosefrom nursing tient setting and require less investigations than those with home settings. Pneumonia necessitating intensive care moreseverepneumonia.Themainobjectivesofinvestigation admission has a mortality rate approaching 40% overall. in a patient with a clinical diagnosis of pneumonia are to obtain radiological confirmation of the diagnosis, to exclude Classification of pneumonia otherconditionsthatmimicpneumonia,toobtainamicrobio- Pneumonia can be classified according to the site affected. It logicaldiagnosis,toassesstheseverityofthepneumonia,and can be localized, affecting just one lobe or segment (lobar), toidentifythedevelopmentofcomplications.Theseinvestiga- or diffuse, affecting lobules and bronchi and bronchioles tionsshouldincludethefollowing: (bronchopneumonia). In general terms, lobar pneumonia is seen in previously healthy people
