Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


Influenza A(H7N2) Virus Masato Hatta,1 Gongxun Zhong,1 Yuwei Gao,1 Noriko Nakajima,1 Shufang Fan,1 Shiho Chiba, Kathleen M. Deering, Mutsumi Ito, Masaki Imai, Maki Kiso, Sumiho Nakatsu, Tiago J. Lopes, Andrew J. Thompson, Ryan McBride, David L. Suarez, Catherine A. Macken, Shigeo Sugita, Gabriele Neumann, Hideki Hasegawa, James C. Paulson, Kathy L. Toohey-Kurth, Yoshihiro Kawaoka During December 2016–February 2017, influenza A viruses Until recently, only 1 major influenza A virus outbreak of the H7N2 subtype infected ≈500 cats in animal shelters had been reported in cats (6). This changed in December in New York, NY, USA, indicating virus transmission among 2016 with the outbreak of low pathogenic avian influenza cats. A veterinarian who treated the animals also became in- A viruses of the H7N2 subtype in animal shelters in New fected with feline influenza A(H7N2) virus and experienced York. Approximately 500 cats were infected in December respiratory symptoms. To understand the pathogenicity and 2016–February 2017; most of which experienced a mild ill- transmissibility of these feline H7N2 viruses in mammals, ness with coughing, sneezing, and runny nose from which we characterized them in vitro and in vivo. Feline H7N2 sub- they recovered fully. Severe pneumonia developed in 1 el- type viruses replicated in the respiratory organs of mice, fer- rets, and cats without causing severe lesions. Direct contact transmission of feline H7N2 subtype viruses was detected thanized. A veterinarian who had treated an infected animal in ferrets and cats; in cats, exposed animals were also in- also became infected with the feline influenza A(H7N2) fected via respiratory droplet transmission. These results virus and experienced a mild, transient illness, suggest- suggest that the feline H7N2 subtype viruses could spread ing the potential for these viruses to infect humans. While among cats and also infect humans. Outbreaks of the feline this manuscript was being prepared, Belser et al. reported caused a mild disease in mice and ferrets, but was not trans- Influenza A viruses are endemic in humans and enzo- mitted among ferrets (7). We assessed feline H7N2 subtype otic in other mammalian species including swine and viruses isolated from infected cats during the outbreak for horses; occasional infections of other mammalian species their replicative ability, pathogenicity, and transmissibility including whales, seals, sea lions, felidae in zoos, and in mammals; in contrast to the findings recently published other species have been reported (1). Reports of influ- by Belser et al. (7), we detected
