Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


lions, felidae in zoos, and in mammals; in contrast to the findings recently published other species have been reported (1). Reports of influ- by Belser et al. (7), we detected productive infection of enza A virus infections in dogs and cats were rare until co-housed ferrets, although with low efficiency. We also 2004, when equine influenza viruses of the H3N8 subtype conducted extensive pathology and transmission studies in caused outbreaks in greyhounds in Florida (2). Since then, cats, and detected feline virus transmission via respiratory influenza viruses of the H3N8 and H3N2 subtypes have droplets to exposed cats. Our study provides additional data caused several outbreaks in dogs in the United States and on the risk that the feline H7N2 subtype viruses pose to South Korea (3–5). public health. Wisconsin, USA (M. Hatta, G. Zhong, Y. Gao, S. Fan, S. Chiba, K.M. Deering, T.J. Lopes, G. Neumann, K.L. Toohey-Kurth, Cells and Viruses (M. Ito, M. Imai, M. Kiso, S. Nakatsu, Y. Kawaoka); The Scripps pendix ( Auckland, New Zealand (C. A. Macken); Japan Racing imal shelter in New York in December 2016. We obtained Association, Tochigi, Japan (S. Sugita) A/chicken/New York/22409–4/1999 (H7N2, A/chicken/ DOI: 1These authors contributed equally to this article. Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 1, January 2018 75 RESEARCH NY/99) virus from the Agricultural Research Service, US Appendix Figure 1), and infected them intranasally with 106 sequences obtained in this study to GenBank. We amplified naive animal with each infected animal. We collected nasal the feline virus in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) washes from the infected ferrets and nasal swabs from the cells and the A/chicken/NY/99 virus in 10-day-old embry- infected cats on day 1 after infection, and from the exposed onated chicken eggs. animals on day 1 after exposure and then every other day (for up to 11 days). We determined virus titers in the nasal Growth Kinetics of Viruses in Cell Culture washes and swabs by performing plaque assays in MDCK We infected cells with viruses at a 0.005 multiplicity of in- cells. We monitored all animals daily for disease symptoms fection, incubated them for 1 hour at 37°C, washed twice, and changes in bodyweight and temperature for 14 days. and cultured with 1× minimal essential medium contain- We performed airborne transmission experiments by us- ing 0.3% bovine serum albumin and trypsin treated with ing ferret isolators (Showa Science, Tokyo, Japan) (9–11)
