Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


with 1× minimal essential medium contain- We performed airborne transmission experiments by us- ing 0.3% bovine serum albumin and trypsin treated with ing ferret isolators (Showa Science, Tokyo, Japan) (9–11) or L-1-tosylamide-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone at regular cat cages. In these settings, there was no directional 33°C and 37°C (37°C and 39°C for chicken embryo fi- airflow from the infected to the exposed animals. We inocu- broblast cells) for various periods. We determined virus lated 3 animals per group intranasally with 106 PFU (500 μL) titers at the indicated time points by use of plaque assays of viruses. One day after infection, we placed 3 immunologi- in MDCK cells. The statistical analyses are described in cally naive animals (exposed animals) each in a cage adja- the online Technical Appendix. cent to an infected animal. This setting prevented direct and indirect contact between animals but allowed spread of influ- Infection of Animals enza virus by respiratory droplet. We spaced the ferret cages To determine the pathogenicity of the viruses in infected 5 cm apart and the cat cages 35 cm apart. We monitored the mice, we anesthetized three 6-week-old female BALB/c animals and assessed virus titers as described above. mice (Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA) for each virus with isoflurane and inoculated intranasally Results with 10-fold serially diluted virus in a 50-µL volume. The mice were monitored daily for 14 days and checked for Genetic and Phylogenetic Analysis of Feline changes in body weight and morbidity and mortality. We Influenza(H7N2) Viruses Isolated in Animal euthanized animals if they lost more than 25% of their Shelters in New York, December 2016 initial bodyweight. We obtained swabs (collected on the same day) from 5 cats To determine the pathogenicity of the viruses in infected that experienced influenza-like symptoms during the out- ferrets and cats, we inoculated 6-month-old female ferrets break at an animal shelter in New York, NY, in December (Triple F Farms, Sayre, PA, USA; 3 per group; serologically 2016. After inoculation of these samples into MDCK cells, negative by hemagglutination inhibition assay for currently we isolated 5 pleomorphic influenza A viruses of the H7N2 circulating human influenza viruses), and unvaccinated 4- to subtype (Table 1; online Technical Appendix Figure 2). 5-month-old female specific-pathogen-free cats (Liberty Re- The HA consensus sequences of the 5 isolates (established search, Waverly, NY, USA; 3 per group) intranasally with by Sanger sequence analysis) displayed >99.9% similar-
