Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


A/feline/NY/16 and A/chicken/NY/99 influenza A(H7N2) viruses, New York, NY, USA. Three cats per group were infected intranasally with 106 PFU of viruses and monitored for bodyweight and temperature changes. avian H7N2 subtype viruses in ferrets, 3 animals per group NY/99 virus. One day later, we housed 1 naive ferret with (each placed in a separate cage) were infected intranasally each of the infected ferrets (direct contact transmission ex- with 106 PFU (500 μL) of A/feline/NY/16 or A/chicken/ periment), or placed naive ferrets in wireframe cages (within Figure 4. Immunohistochemistry findings in cats infected with influenza A(H7N2) virus, New York, NY, USA. Shown are representative sections of nasal turbinates and lungs of cats infected with the indicated viruses on days 3 and 6 postinfection. Three cats per group were infected intranasally with 106 PFU of virus, and tissues were collected on days 3 and 6 postinfection. Type A influenza virus nucleoprotein (NP) was detected by a mouse monoclonal antibody to this protein. For nasal turbinate sections: –, no NP-positive cells; +/–, NP- positive cells detected in 1–2 focal regions; +, NP-positive cells detected in >2 focal regions; 2+, NP-positive cells in large regions. For bronchus and alveolar sections: –, no NP-positive cells; +/–, >5 NP-positive cells; +, >6 NP-positive cells. NP-positive cells were detected in focal, but not in diffuse bronchial and alveolar sections. For all analyses, the entire sections were evaluated. Scale bars indicate 50 μm (nasal turbinates) or 100 μm (lung). Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 1, January 2018 81 RESEARCH Figure 5. Pathology findings in cats infected with A/feline/NY/16 influenza A(H7N2) virus on day 6 postinfection, New York, NY, USA. A) In lungs, moderately severe histopathologic changes are present in the lower airways. The lamina propria of bronchi (B) and bronchioles (Br) and the surrounding interstitium are infiltrated by numerous histiocytes, lymphocytes, and plasma cells (*), which also extend into and expand neighboring alveolar septa. The infiltrates extend into and expand nearby alveolar septa. The lumina of bronchioles are filled with numerous foamy macrophages, viable and degenerating neutrophils, proteinaceous fluid, and sloughed respiratory epithelial cells. Hyperplasia of bronchiole-associated lymphoid tissue (open arrow) and perivascular edema (solid arrow) are present. Scale bar indicates 500 µm. B) In nasal cavities, copious amounts of exudate are present comprising numerous degenerating and necrotic neutrophils, cellular debris, proteinaceous fluid, and strands of mucin. The respiratory epithelium covering the nasal
