Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


serocon- cal Appendix Table 2). A/chicken/NY/99 virus bound to version and virus isolation in 2 pairs (Table 4). Respiratory both α2,6- and α2,3-linked sialosides, consistent with the droplet transmission of A/feline/NY/16 occurred in 2 pairs dual avian/human receptor-binding specificity of influen- of animals, with high virus titers detected in the nasal secre- za viruses isolated from land-based poultry (1). Of note, tions of the exposed animals on days 9 and 11 postexposure, A/feline/NY/16 virus bound strongly to α2,3-linked sialo- respectively; both of the exposed animals also seroconverted sides (i.e., avian-type receptors) with negligible binding (Table 4). In the third transmission pair, the exposed animal to human-type receptors. did not shed virus or seroconvert. Taken together, we dem- Next, we examined the prevalence of α2,3- and α2,6- onstrated that A/feline/NY/16 virus has the ability to transmit linked sialosides in the feline airway and intestines of an among cats via contact and respiratory droplets; the relative immunologically naive cat by using lectins that detect contribution of these modes of transmission to the H7N2 sub- α2,3-linked (i.e., MAA I and MAA II) and α2,6-linked type virus outbreaks in cat shelters in New York is unknown. sialosides (i.e., SNAI). MAA I and MAIA II bound to ep- ithelial cells throughout the feline airway, whereas SNA Receptor-Binding Specificity of Feline and binding was detected only in the trachea and bronchus Avian H7N2 Subtype Viruses (Figure 7), consistent with the findings of other research Avian influenza viruses isolated from their natural reser- groups (20–22). We did not detect sialosides in the cat voir (i.e., wild aquatic birds) are often restricted in their intestine. The predominance of avian-type receptors in Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 1, January 2018 83 RESEARCH Table 3). A/feline/NY/16 and A/chicken/NY/99 were sen- sitive to all of the NA inhibitors tested (Technical Appen- dix Table 3), consistent with the absence of amino acid residues in the NA protein that are known to confer resis- tance to NA inhibitors. Hence, NA inhibitors could be used to treat persons infected with feline H7N2 subtype viruses. Discussion In our study, we demonstrated that a feline H7N2 sub- type virus isolated during an outbreak in an animal shel- ter in New York in December 2016 replicated well in the respiratory organs of mice and ferrets but did not cause severe symptoms. The efficient replication of the feline H7N2 subtype viruses in the respiratory
