Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


December 2016 replicated well in the respiratory organs of mice and ferrets but did not cause severe symptoms. The efficient replication of the feline H7N2 subtype viruses in the respiratory organs of sev- eral mammals, combined with the ability of these viruses to transmit among cats (albeit inefficiently) and to infect 1 person, suggest that these viruses could pose a risk to human health. Close contacts between humans and their pets could lead to the transmission of the feline viruses to stress and limited space may facilitate virus spread) should be monitored closely for potential outbreaks of in- fluenza viruses. Our findings of mild disease in mice and ferrets are consistent with the recent report by Belser et al. (7) who studied the H7N2 subtype virus isolated from an infect- ed veterinarian. We also assessed feline H7N2 virulence in cats and detected efficient virus replication in both the Figure 6. Receptor-binding specificities of influenza A viruses, New upper and lower respiratory organs of infected animals, York, NY, USA. A) A representative human virus, A/Kawasaki/ whereas an avian H7N2 subtype virus was detected mainly 173-PR8(H1N1) is shown for comparison with B) the avian in the nasal turbinates. influenza A(H7N2) virus A/chicken/NY/99 and C) the feline influenza Belser et al. (7) reported that intranasal or aerosol A(H7N2) virus A/feline/NY/16. Receptor-binding specificities of the infection of ferrets with the H7N2 virus isolated from avian and feline viruses were compared with those of the human virus in a glycan microarray containing α2,3- and α2,6-linked the infected veterinarian did not result in the serocon- sialosides. Error bars represent SDs calculated from 4 replicate version of co-housed or exposed animals, although na- spots of each glycan. RFU, relative fluorescence units. A complete sal wash samples from some of the co-housed ferrets list of the glycans used is shown in online Technical Appendix Table contained low titers of virus; these findings may sug- 2 ( gest limited virus transmission that was insufficient to establish a productive infection. In contrast, we detected the upper respiratory tract of felines may have led to the feline H7N2 virus transmission to co-housed ferrets in 1 selection of feline H7N2 virus HA proteins with preferen- of 3 pairs tested; this difference may be explained by the tial binding to α2,3-linked sialosides. amino acid differences in the PA, HA, and NA proteins of the feline and human H7N2 isolates (online Technical Sensitivity to
