Characterization of a Feline
KEYWORDS: virus, feline, viruses, influenza, cats, infected, chicken, infection, cells, new, animals, york, contact, respiratory, transmission


be explained by the tial binding to α2,3-linked sialosides. amino acid differences in the PA, HA, and NA proteins of the feline and human H7N2 isolates (online Technical Sensitivity to Neuraminidase Inhibitors Appendix Table 4) or by the small number of animals To test whether infections with the feline H7N2 viruses used in these studies. We also performed transmission could be treated with neuraminidase (NA) inhibitors, studies in cats and detected feline H7N2 subtype virus we assessed the sensitivity of A/feline/NY/16 and A/ transmission via direct contact and respiratory droplets. chicken/NY/99 to several NA inhibitors (i.e., oseltami- However, the group size used is a potential limitation of vir, zanamivir, and laninamivir) by determining the 50% our study. inhibitory concentration (IC ) of the NA enzymatic ac- 50 Cats are not a major reservoir of influenza A viruses, tivity. We used A/Anhui/1/2013 (H7N9) virus as an but can be infected naturally or experimentally with influ- NA inhibitor–sensitive control and its NA inhibitor– enza viruses of different subtypes (23). Serologic surveys resistant variant, A/Anhui/1/2013-NA-R294K, as an NA suggest high and low rates of seroconversion to seasonal inhibitor–resistant control (online Technical Appendix 84 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 24, No. 1, January 2018 Characterization of a Feline Influenza A(H7N2) Virus Figure 7. Distribution of α2,3- and α2,6-linked sialosides in the respiratory organs of a cat, New York, NY, USA. The α2,3- and α2,6- linked sialosides in the respiratory organs of a naïve cat were detected with biotinylated Maackia amurensis lectin I or II (MAA I, MAA II) or Sambucus nigra lectin (SNA I), respectively. Inset shows closer view of MAA III binding with alveolar epithelium in the lung. Plus signs (+) indicate that sialosides were detected. Scale bars indicate 50 μm. spectively. Natural infections most likely result from close the spread and biologic properties of these viruses should contact with infected humans or animals, and most of these be monitored carefully. infections appear to be self-limiting. Few cases of human infections with influenza viruses Acknowledgments of the H7 subtype were reported until 2013, and they typi- We thank Susan Watson for scientific editing; Peter J. Jester, cally caused mild illness; however, infection of a veterinar- Alexander Karasin, Kelly E. Moore, Zachary Najacht, Erin M. ian with a highly pathogenic avian H7N7 virus had fatal Plisch, Robert G. Presler, and Backiyalakshmi Ammayappan consequences (24,25). Since 2013, influenza viruses of the Venkatachalam for
