Megacolon in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: colon, colitis, ofthe, ulcerative, megacolon, ischemic, elderly, ulcerative colitis, patients, case, transverse, abdominal, descending, fig, patient


Megacolon in the Elderly Ischemic Inflammatory? or IRVING B. MARGOLIS, M.D., RICHARD S. FARO, M.D., EARL M. HOWELLS, M.D., CLAUDE H. ORGAN, JR., M.D. presentation in the elderly is characterized by signs of an acute abdomen, massive colonic dilatation, and systemic toxicity. Bloody diarrhea may be seen prior to the onset of dilatation. Ischemiashouldbeconsideredasanetiologicfactor Case Reports in "colitis" in the elderly patient with segmental dilatation particularly if it follows a "low flow state." The rectum is Case 1. This 69-year-old man presented with abdominal pain, usually uninvolved. Barium enema may confirm segmental distention, and melena of seven day's duration. The patient ex- involvement and later demonstrate stricture. Three patients perienced similarcomplaintsfivemonthspreviouslyandevaluation with ischemic megacolon are presented. The diagnosis was at another hospital on two occasions revealed probable ulcerative suspected preoperatively inonlyone. Incontrastto ulcerative colitis. Proctocolectomyhadbeenadvised,butthepatientrefused. colitis, these patients show a more abrupt onset and run a Significant findings on physical examination included an oral fulminant course. In patients who recover, there is lower temperature of36.10, pulse rate of 130, abdominal distention, and relapse rate than young patients with ulcerative colitis. When a palpable mass extending from left upper to lower quadrants. resection is indicated, all attempts should be made to spare Black liquid stool was noted on rectal examination. Abdominal therectum. Loopileostomyanddecompressivecolostomyoffer films (Fig. 1) revealed marked dilatation of the transverse colon. anexcellenttemporizingmeasure toassistthe patientthrough Following 24 hours of intravenous hydration and observation, no the acute phase ofthe illness. improvementinthedistentionwasobserved.Operativeintervention was mandated and a loop ileostomy and decompressive right sr TOXIC MEGACOLON" IS A CONDITION most clini- colostomywereperformed.Transoperatively,thepatientsustaineda silent subendocardial infarction from which he recovered satis- 1 cians associate withfulminant ulcerative colitis factorilypostoperatively. Abiopsyofthetransversecolonobtained in the young adult. When such presentations occur in atthetimeofoperativedecompression revealedasegmentofcolon the elderly numerous diagnostic and therapeutic prob- showing marked edema. Proctoscopic examination one month lems are posed. postoperatively revealed normal rectal mucosa to the 13 cm level. Colonic dilatation mimicking "toxic megacolon," A biopsy at 8 cm showed chronic inflammation but, on retrospec- secondary to ischemic colitis, was first described by tive review, was within normal limits. Barium enema revealed marked stricture ofthe descending and transverse colons (Fig. 2). Rosatointwopatients whohadfull thicknessischemic Visceral angiography revealed minimal stenosis ofthe celiac trunk necrosis of the transverse colon.9 Kaminski's study andcomplete occlusion ofthe inferior mesenteric artery. suggests that the presence of dilatation of the colon Three months postoperatively a subtotal colectomy with end on abdominal films during the
