Megacolon in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: colon, colitis, ofthe, ulcerative, megacolon, ischemic, elderly, ulcerative colitis, patients, case, transverse, abdominal, descending, fig, patient


Kaminski's study andcomplete occlusion ofthe inferior mesenteric artery. suggests that the presence of dilatation of the colon Three months postoperatively a subtotal colectomy with end on abdominal films during the course of ischemic ileostomy was performed. Ileoproctostomy was not performed colitis indicates a full thickness colon infarction.5 because ofpossible rectal involvement. Pathologic examination of the resected specimen revealed mucosal ulceration and stricture Thepurposeofthispaperistopresentthreepatients of the descending colon. Further proximal sections showed a we have encountered and managed with documented progressive changetowardnormalcolonicmucosa. Thepatienthas ischemic colitis who developed the radiographic fea- remained asymptomatic for three years following the second pro- tures of "toxic megacolon" without full thickness cedure. The finaldiagnosis wasischemic colitis. necrosisofthedilatedsegmentofcolon, andtoidentify the problems indiagnosis and treatmentofthis entity. Comment The limited initial operative procedure in this criti- Reprintrequests: IrvingB. Margolis, M.D.,CreightonUniversity cally ill patient permitted him to recover from the acute SchoolofMedicine, DepartmentofSurgery, 601 North30thStreet, phase of the illness. Intestinal continuity was not re- Omaha, Nebraska68131. storedbecause ofthepossibilityofrectalinvolvement. Submitted forPublication: December 15, 1978. Hadtheischemicetiologyoftheprobleminthispatient 0003-4932/79/0700/0040 $00.75 © J. B. LippincottCompany Vol. 190*No. I MEGACOLON IN THE ELDERLY 41 been recognized at the time, coloproctostomy using the ascending colon could have been performed. Case 2. This 55-year-old man, sustained a cardiac arrest at home andrespondedtocardiopulmonaryresuscitation. Successfulcardio- version for ventricular fibrillation was carried out on admission to the emergency room. He was transferred to ICU in a comatose state with flail chest secondary to resuscitation. A tracheostomy wasperformedtostabilizetheflailchestonthesecondhospitalday. Overthenexttwoweekshedevelopedintermittentsepsis(thought to be pulmonary in origin) and abdominal distention. Abdominal films obtained early in the course revealed excessive gas in the small and large bowel which was compatible with paralytic ileus. Hissensoriumslowlycleared, buttheabdominaldistentionpersisted. Bariumenemaandproctosigmoidoscopy werewithinnormallimits. ofthe transverse colon to a diameter of8 cm. Over the next two weeks, the colonic diameter progressed to 15 cm (Fig. 3). On the routine chest x-ray. Exploratory laparotomy revealed moderate fecal contamination, a0.5 cm perforation ofthe descending limb ofthe splenic flexure, and massive distention ofthetransverse andascendingcolons. The ascending and transverse colons were resected and ileostomy and mucous fistula ofthe descending colon established. The peritonitis slowly improved and the patient was discharged on the eightieth hospitalday. Theinitial pathologyreportonthe resectedcolonwas FIG. 2. Case 1. Barium enema one month after decompression revealing marked strictureofthedescendingandtransverse colons. "perforated ulcerative colitis (toxic megacolon) of the ascending and transverse colon" (Fig. 4a). One year later, the patient was admitted for examination ofthe distal colon. Barium enema and colonoscopy with biopsy of the remaining colon were
