Megacolon in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: colon, colitis, ofthe, ulcerative, megacolon, ischemic, elderly, ulcerative colitis, patients, case, transverse, abdominal, descending, fig, patient


to deep ulceration in the trans- colon" should include good quality plain abdominal verse colon may have contributed to the development films and proctosigmoidoscopy withbiopsy. Spotfilms of megacolon. The length of the strictured segment ofthe left upper quadrant may be helpful in revealing varied from 2 cm (Case 2) to 50 cm (Case 3). Involve- the diameter of the splenic flexure. The findings of 44 MARGOLIS AND OTHERS Ann.Surg.*July 1979 normal-appearing rectal mucosa excludes ulcerative for toxic megacolon in ulcerative colitis. After a two colitis. Although ischemiculceration oftherectumcan monthrecoveryinterval, endoscopyandbariumenema occur, it is unusual.6 can be performed. At this time, severely ischemic Better histologic criteria are now available for areas will haveundergone stricture formation. Interval interpretationofendoscopicbiopsyinischemiccolitis.12 colectomy with ileosigmoid or ileorectal anastomosis Our pathologists originally were quite liberal with the may then be performed restoring gastrointestinal diagnosis ofulcerative colitis inthesepatients. Careful continuity. histologicexaminationisthemostimportantdiagnostic procedure in this disease and should yield the correct References diagnosis. 1. Diethelm,A.G.,Nickle,W.F.,Jr.andWantz,G.E.:Ulcerative The role ofbarium enema examination in diagnosis Colotis in the Elderly Patient. Surg. Gynecol. Obstet., 126: ofthis condition is difficult to define. Barium examina- 1223, 1968. 2. Earle, E. and Rowe, R. J.: Ulcerative Disease of the Large tion should be avoided in the acute phase of this Intestine in Patients More than 50 Years Old. Dis. Colon. disease forfear ofperforation ofthe acutely distended Rectum., 15(l):33, 1972. bowel and because its possible etiologic role in the 3. Evans, J. G. and Acheson, E. D.: An Epidemiological Study toxic megacolon of ulcerative colitis. Once the acute of Ulcerative Colitis and Regional Enteritis in the Oxford Area. Gut, 6:311, 1965. processhasresolved, contraststudies arequitevaluable 4. Gebbers, J. 0. and Otto, H. F.: Ulcerative Colitis in the in delineating strictured segments. Elderly. Lancet, 2:714, 1975. Arteriography plays a minor role in the diagnosis of 5. Kaminski, D. L., Keltner, R. M. and Willman, V. L.: Ischemic thisproblem. Manypatientswithdocumentedischemic Colitis. Arch. Surg. 106:558, 1973. colitis with normal visceral angiography have been re- 6. Kilpatrick, A. M., Farman, J., Yesner, R., et al.: Ischemic Proctitis. JAMA 205(2):64, 1968. ported and the changes seen in some patients are not 7. Marston, A., Pheils, M. T., Thomas, M. L., et al.: Ischemic specific. Magnification techniques with focus on the Colitis. Gut, 7:1, 1966. smaller colonic vessels may be useful in the future. 8. Rogers,B.H.G.,Clark,L. M.andKirsner,J.B.:TheEpidemi- The treatment of ischemic megacolon is primarily ologic and Demographic Characteristics of Inflammatory Bowel Disease: An Analysis
