Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


structural variants result mostly from single amino acid agencies and the governments of affected countries need to substitutions in the (cid:1)or (cid:2)chains.Often these are innocuous, understand the future extent of the problem and to develop but in some cases they may alter the stability or functional programs to control and manage these diseases. properties of the hemoglobin and lead to a clinical disorder. They are designated by letters of the alphabet or by the place Normal Hemoglobin names where the condition was first discovered.Even though Hemoglobin (Hb), the pigment in the red blood cells that researchers have identified more than 700 structural hemoglo- transfers oxygen to the tissues, changes structure during bin variants,only three (Hb S,Hb C,and Hb E) are widespread. The homozygous state for the sickle cell gene results in sickle Platt 1998).Even though Hb SC disease is milder than sickle cell anemia,whereas the compound heterozygous state for the cell anemia,it is associated with many complications,including sickle cell and Hb C genes results in Hb SC disease.Hb SC dis- a higher frequency ofproliferative retinopathy. cations.Hb E,the commonest variant globally,is innocuous in Thalassemias. The homozygous or compound heterozygous its heterozygous and homozygous states,but because it is syn- states for (cid:2) thalassemia also run a variable course, although thesized less effectively than Hb A, it interacts with (cid:2) tha- without transfusion,death usually occurs in the first few years lassemia to produce an extremely common condition called Hb (Weatherall and Clegg 2001b).With adequate transfusions and E (cid:2)thalassemia,which is becoming an increasingly important the administration of drugs to remove iron, children may The thalassemias are classified according to the ineffectively are expensive,and even when they are available in poorer coun- only the (cid:1) and (cid:2) thalassemias are sufficiently common to be childhood or adolescence from iron overload.The situation is important. further complicated because the common (cid:2) thalassemias of intermediate severity—notably Hb E (cid:2)thalassemia—exhibit a Clinical Features clinical spectrum ranging from transfusion-dependent disease The inherited hemoglobin disorders are characterized by an to a condition compatible with normal survival and growth extremely diverse series of clinical syndromes of varying into adult life without treatment. severity. The (cid:1) thalassemias are equally heterogeneous. The extremely common milder forms (termed (cid:1)(cid:5) thalassemias Sickle Cell Anemia and Related Disorders. The clinical fea- because some (cid:1) chains are produced) produce only a mild tures ofsickle cell disorders reflect the red blood cells’propen- hypochromic anemia in homozygotes.In contrast,the (cid:1)otha- sity to
