Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


The clinical fea- because some (cid:1) chains are produced) produce only a mild tures ofsickle cell disorders reflect the red blood cells’propen- hypochromic anemia in homozygotes.In contrast,the (cid:1)otha- sity to assume a sickle shape in deoxygenated blood,leading to lassemias,so called because ofthe absence of(cid:1)chain synthesis, shortened red cell survival and a tendency to block small blood result in stillbirth in their homozygous states following preg- vessels(Bunn 1997;Serjeant 1992).Even though patients may nancies with toxemic and postpartum complications. The adapt to their anemia, their illness is interspersed with acute compound heterozygous states for (cid:1)(cid:5) and (cid:1)o thalassemias episodes, including: attacks of bone pain; sequestration of result in Hb H disease, which varies in severity and may be blood into the lungs,liver,or spleen;or thrombosis ofcerebral transfusion dependent. vessels,which may cause a stroke.They are extremely prone to The thalassemias are extremely heterogeneous at the molec- infection, particularly during early childhood, and to a wide ular level: more than 200 different mutations of the (cid:2) globin range of chronic complications. For reasons not yet under- genes have been found, and the (cid:1) thalassemias are almost as stood, the severity of the disease varies extensively. Even in varied. Every severely affected population in the world has a populations in eastern Saudi Arabia and parts of India,which few common mutations unique to a particular region,together have a high frequency of(cid:1)thalassemia and an unusual ability with varying numbers ofrare ones. to produce Hb F in adult life,both of which,when inherited Population Genetics and Dynamics with sickle cell disease, result in a milder form of the illness, morbidity is still high. The high gene frequencies for the hemoglobin disorders are Although little is known about mortality from “sickling” attributable to the effects of natural selection. Although disorders in developing countries,in Sub-Saharan Africa many severely affected homozygotes would,in the absence ofmedical children die early because ofthese conditions(Akinyanju 2001; interventions,have died early in life,asymptomatic heterozy- Fleming and others 1979). Fleming and others, working in gotes for Hb S,Hb C,and probably (cid:2)thalassemia and Hb E,as rural Nigeria,found that even though more than 2 percent of well as those with mild forms of(cid:1)thalassemia,are more resist- all newborns had sickle cell anemia,it was absent in the ado- ant to severe malarial infection than normal persons.Hence,in lescent and adult populations. At the same time, they found environments in which malaria was common, carriers were that urban centers in Nigeria,where medical care was available, protected
