Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


normal persons.Hence,in lescent and adult populations. At the same time, they found environments in which malaria was common, carriers were that urban centers in Nigeria,where medical care was available, protected and survived to have more children,and the gene fre- had an increasing number of affected adults, and by the late quencies rose until they were balanced by loss of severely 1970s, a significant improvement in survival had clearly fol- affected homozygotes from the population. Although some lowed the introduction of antimalarial measures (Molineaux decline in frequency among immigrant populations may occur and others 1979). Both in Jamaica and in the United States, because of lack of exposure to malaria and outbreeding, this death appears to peak between one and three years ofage,usu- decline will occur over many generations,and even if malaria ally from infection. Recent U.S. data suggest that the median were completely eradicated, an equally long time would pass age ofadult death is 42 for men and 48 for women (Dover and before any significant fall occurred in the global frequency. 664 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Olu Akinyanju, Suthat Fucharoen, and others Changesresultingfromvariationinselectionorinpopula- The gene for Hb S is distributed throughout Sub-Saharan tiondynamicswill,however,besmallcomparedwiththeeffect Africa,theIndiansubcontinent,andtheMiddleEast,wherecar- ofthedemographicandepidemiologicaltransitionsthatmany rier frequencies range from 5 to 40 percent or more. Hb E countries have recently undergone. For example, thalassemia is found in the eastern half of the Indian subcontinent and wasnotidentifiedinCyprusuntil1944,whenmajorimprove- throughout Southeast Asia, where carrier rates may exceed mentsinpublichealthrevealedthatthediseasewascommon.By 60percent.Thalassemiaisfrequentinabroadbandfromthe theearly1970s,estimatesindicatedthat,intheabsenceofsteps MediterraneanbasinandpartsofAfrica,throughouttheMiddle tocontrolthedisease,inabout40yearsapproximately78,000 East, the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and Melanesia units of blood would be required each year to treat all the and into the Pacific islands. The (cid:1)(cid:5) thalassemias occur right severelyaffectedchildren,40percentofthepopulationwouldbe acrossthetropicalzone,reachingextremelyhighfrequenciesin carriers,andthecosttothehealthsystemwouldequalorexceed somepopulations,whereasthe(cid:1)othalassemiasarerestrictedto theisland’shealthbudget(WeatherallandClegg2001b). partsofSoutheastAsiaandtheMediterraneanbasin(table34.1). Several World Health Organization (WHO) workshops Global Distribution and Frequency have attempted to estimate the global burden of the thal- of the Hemoglobinopathies assemias and important structural hemoglobin variants Figures 34.1a and 34.1b show the global distributions of the (Angastiniotis and Modell 1998;Weatherall and Clegg 2001b; hemoglobinopathies.Table 34.1shows approximate carrier fre- WHO 1989,1994).There are perhaps 270 million carriers and quencies by region. 300,000 to 500,000 annual births of infants with sickle cell Hb E Hb S Source: Weatherall and Clegg 2001b. Note: Structural hemoglobin variants are Hb E (innocuous unless interacting with (cid:1) or (cid:2) thalassemia) and Hb S (causing sickle-cell disease in the homozygous state). Figure 34.1a Global Distribution of Hemoglobinopathies Hb E and Hb S Inherited
