Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


crises is the total during one year for all the individuals in an age group. Those who die during the interval are assumed to die in equal numbers at the midpoint of each of the five years and, therefore, to suffer half as much disability from chronic anemia and half as many pain crises in that year as those of the same age who survive the year. Blanks in the table indicate that clinical events are rare in the corresponding age groups and their numbers are not well recorded. The totals of acute and chronic clinical events are therefore probably slight under-estimates. Forthesecondsourceofdisability,evenmildcrisesshouldbe hemoglobin.Eventhoughresearchdirectedattheircorrection weighted considerably worse than background anemia, and bymeansofsomaticcellgenetherapyisongoing,thistechnol- severecrisesrequiringhospitalizationshouldbeweightedworse ogywillprobablynotbegenerallyapplicableforsometime,and still:valuesof0.2and0.5,respectively,areassumed.Thenum- whenitisdeveloped,itmaybeextremelyexpensive.Thus,for berofcrisesandthesharethatareseverevarywithage,withpeak themoment,themajorapproachestothecontrolandmanage- severity at ages 21 to 45 for a mean disability weight of 0.35. mentofthesediseasesarepopulationscreening,geneticcoun- Becauseeachcrisislastsonly7to10days,orabout0.023year,the selingandprenataldiagnosis,andmanagementofsymptoms. lossper1,000birthsineachfive-yearagegroupneverexceeds10 DALYsandmakesnodifferencetothetotalburden. Prevention The third source ofdisability may carry disability weights of 0.135 for a leg ulcer,0.276 for stroke survivors,0.279 for acute Programs to reduce the number ofseriously affected individu- chest syndrome, and 0.567 for retinopathy, but disability als follow two approaches. First, population screening and weights for a number ofother conditions are unknown.Even if counseling programs can be established to educate populations acute conditions last one month with an average disability about the risks of having children with similarly affected weight of 0.5, they add less than 10 DALYs in any five-year partners. Data about the effectiveness of this approach are interval. These conditions occur much less frequently than extremely limited.In an early study in Greece,people’s knowl- painful crises, but chronic ones may last much longer, con- edge of their genetic makeup had no effect on marriage pat- tributing more or less to the burden than pain crises but adding terns ; however,a recent study in little to mortality losses.Table 34.2therefore includes only the the Islamic Republic of Iran found that about 50 percent of estimated losses from background anemia and the frequencies, affected couples decided to separate,and births with severe (cid:2) but not the DALY losses,ofpainful crises and other events that thalassemia fell to about 30 percent ofthose expected (Samavat add negligibly to the burden. and Modell 2004).The reasons for this remarkable discrepancy require further investigation. CONTROL AND TREATMENT The second preventive approach also involves population screeningor screening in prenatal clinics.If women are found Withtheexceptionof thefewpatientswhocanobtainabone to be carriers,their partners are screened,and following coun- marrowtransplant,nocureexistsfortheinheriteddisordersof seling they are offered a prenatal diagnosis and termination
