Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


anemia are at high risk from infec- depending on the disease. The severe forms of (cid:2) thalassemia tion early in life;therefore,diagnosis as early as possible is vital. require lifelong blood transfusions.The family of(cid:2)thalassemia Excellent evidence, at least in developed countries, indicates intermediate diseases ranges from transfusion-dependent that prophylactic penicillin significantly reduces early morbid- forms to symptomless carrier traits. Hb E (cid:2) thalassemia, the ity and mortality. commonest hemoglobinopathy in Asia,varies in severity from Even though many children adapt well to their anemia, forms that require regular or intermittent transfusions to many eventually develop sickle cell crises . The milder anemia that does not require lifelong transfusions most common form,the so-called painful crisis,is character- Weatherall and Clegg’s (2001b) review of studies in Asia and treatment with analgesics, oxygen, and infection control. indicates that the medical communitydoes not always appreci- More life-threatening crises,including stroke,marrow aplasia ate these subtleties and that many patients who receive regular associated with viral illness,and pulmonary crises with severe their early management been more effective. testing of the cerebral blood flow can anticipate neurological Thus,thosemanagingpatientswithsevereformsof (cid:2)tha- complications that can be prevented by regular transfusions lassemia must make absolutely sure in infancy that regular (Adams and others 1998),which can be continued indefinitely. 670 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Olu Akinyanju, Suthat Fucharoen, and others Because most aplastic crises result from human parvovirus Several simple, cheap tests are available for diagnosing iron infection, the development of a vaccine would be a great deficiency, but (cid:1) thalassemia presents more of a problem. advantage.The other acute complication,splenic sequestration Screening tests will identify those heterozygous for (cid:1)o thal- causing rapid enlargement ofthe spleen,is associated with pro- assemia or homozygous for (cid:1)(cid:5)thalassemia but will miss most blood transfusion, plus sometimes splenectomy. A variety of restricted distribution of(cid:1)othalassemia,these distinctions are apism,aseptic necrosis ofthe femoral or humoral heads,renal mon. Further diagnosis of the (cid:1) thalassemias requires DNA failure, and recurrent hematuria. At every age patients with analysis. sickling disorders seem to be more prone to infection that often Severalsimpleandcheapscreeningtestsareavailableforsick- are more frequent and anemia worsens during pregnancy. A genotype by hemoglobin electrophoresis. Neonatal screening that the long-term administration of hydroxyurea reduces widelyforadultscreening,isunreliableinthefirstmonthsoflife. the frequency of crises and prolongs life in adult sufferers Throughout Asia,screening for Hb E is also necessary,either . with a one-tube dye test or by hemoglobin electrophoresis.The Although milder,Hb SC disease is clinically important,par- Hb E trait is
