Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


sufferers Throughout Asia,screening for Hb E is also necessary,either . with a one-tube dye test or by hemoglobin electrophoresis.The Although milder,Hb SC disease is clinically important,par- Hb E trait is missed by measuring cell size or osmotic fragility. ticularly because of the relatively high incidence of ocular Initial Diagnosis of More Severe Hemoglobinopathies. The complications. initial diagnosis of (cid:2) thalassemia is usually clinical. It can be confirmed by finding typical thalassemic changes of the Requirements peripheral blood, together with an elevated level of Hb F. A variety ofcheap tests for measuring Hb F levels are available,or Screening and diagnosis for the hemoglobin disorders requires HPLC analysis can be used. Hemoglobin electrophoresis or relatively simple laboratory techniques combined with a well- HPLC is used to diagnose (cid:1)o thalassemia homozygotes and organized program for their application in the community. children with Hb H disease. Sickle cell anemia, Hb SC disease, or combinations of the Screening and Carrier Detection. Unlike many genetic dis- sickle cell gene with forms of(cid:2)thalassemia can all be identified eases, carrier screening for the main hemoglobin disorders is by hemoglobin electrophoresis and can be confirmed by a fam- well established,accurate,and inexpensive.The initial screen- ily study. ing for thalassemia usually measures the mean cell volume and the mean cell hemoglobin.Thresholds below which the likeli- Further Analysis. More detailed confirmatory analysis, hood ofsome form ofthalassemia is great are well established. including identification ofthe underlying mutation,is required The diagnosis of(cid:2)thalassemia is confirmed by finding a raised for the (cid:2)thalassemias as a prerequisite for prenatal diagnosis. level ofHb A using high-performance liquid chromatography 2 A variety ofapproaches to mutation analysis based on the poly- (HPLC) or cheaper forms of chromatography or quantitative merase chain reaction, which amplifies particular regions of hemoglobin electrophoresis. Ideally, the initial blood count DNA,are available,but because every population has a number should use an electronic cell counter,and the Hb A should be 2 of less common mutations, a central reference laboratory in measured using HPLC. However, the equipment for HPLC each country must be able to sequence the (cid:2) globin genes. analysis is expensive,and the cost per sample is approximately Rapid DNA-based techniques for identifying the different US$2. For this reason, several more economical approaches deletion and nondeletion forms of(cid:1)thalassemia are also avail- have been developed (Fucharoen and others 2004).The initial able (Weatherall and Clegg 2001b). screening can be done using a single-tube osmotic fragility test, which,even though it
