Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


of(cid:1)thalassemia are also avail- have been developed (Fucharoen and others 2004).The initial able (Weatherall and Clegg 2001b). screening can be done using a single-tube osmotic fragility test, which,even though it may result in a relatively high number Facilities and Organization. To provide an adequate labora- of false positive results, usually gives fewer false negatives. tory service, each country with a high incidence of (cid:2) thal- Commercial kits for osmotic fragility testing have recently been assemia or sickle cell anemia (a carrier rate equal to or greater produced, and at least one variety has been validated in than 1 to 2 percent) requires at least one central reference lab- Thailand.Further validation ofthis approach is required before oratory to carry out accurate hemoglobin and DNA analyses. it can be recommended.Various cheaper methods for measur- Peripheral hospital laboratories with expertise in screening ing the Hb A level are available. tests and their quality control are also required. When the red cell indices suggest thalassemia or an osmotic Generalpediatricians,pediatricianswithaspecialinterestin fragility test is positive but the Hb A level is normal,it is vital blooddiseases,orpediatriciansorotherclinicianswhodevote to distinguish between iron deficiency and (cid:1) thalassemia. theirentiretimetothemanagementofsuchdiseasesmaycare Inherited Disorders of Hemoglobin | 671 forchildrenwithseverehemoglobindisorders.Aproblemarises routinely immunize patients with polyvalent pneumococ- forolderpatients,whomustoftenchangetheirdoctorsduring cal, meningococcal, and Haemophilus influenzae vac- adolescence.Thereisaseriousdearthof physicianstrainedto cines. However, the effectiveness of regimens of this type careforolderpatients.Ideally,everycountrywithahighinci- has not been clearly established even for splenectomized dence of inherited hemoglobin disorders should have centers patients. speciallydesignatedfortreatingpatientsofallages.Suchcenters • Splenectomy.Each year,2 to 3 percent ofpatients with severe requireoutpatienttransfusionfacilities,spaceforparentstowait (cid:2)thalassemia require splenectomy.When patients who have whiletheirchildrenarebeingtransfused,inpatientfacilities,and received suboptimal treatment first receive standard treat- accesstobasiclaboratorydiagnosticservices.Centersinvolved ment, the proportion needing splenectomy can be much in prenatal diagnosis require access to appropriate obstetric higher—up to 30 percent in the first one or two years services.Theadvantageofspecialistcentersiscontinuityofcare. . Because of the spleen’s natural tendency to Patients with chronic disease must have confidence in their atrophy,splenectomy is required only in patients with sickle medicaladvisers.Suchconfidencecanbeachievedonlyifthey cell anemia who are having repeated splenic sequestration seethesamestaffovertheentirecourseoftheirillness. episodes or who develop hypersplenism. As concerns personnel,a WHO working group has recom- • Bone marrow transplantation. Given the continuing mended one doctor, three nurses, one laboratory technician, improvement in results, bone marrow transplantation is one counselor,and one administrative assistant for every 50 to now a realistic option for patients with severe forms of (cid:2) 100 patients .Overall,the workload is higher in thalassemia and sickle cell anemia who have histocompati- centers for thalassemia than
