Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


now a realistic option for patients with severe forms of (cid:2) 100 patients .Overall,the workload is higher in thalassemia and sickle cell anemia who have histocompati- centers for thalassemia than for sickle cell anemia, largely ble related donors and, in particular, are relatively free of because of the lesser need for regular blood transfusions for complications,particularly chronic hepatitis and severe iron those with the latter condition.However,sickle cell anemia is loading . Marrow transplantation requires associated with more acute inpatient episodes per year. specialized facilities and a trained staff,and the initial capital The other major role of centers of this type is education, expenditure is high, but it should be considered wherever including training other clinicians, medical students, coun- the serious hemoglobinopathies are a major problem ifthe selors, nurses, and others needed to provide information to alternative is lifetime treatment. local communities. • Prenatal diagnosis programs.Ifprenatal diagnosis programs A number of publications describe treatment protocols are part of an existing genetic and diagnosis service, fetal to use in managing patients (Weatherall and Clegg 2001b; sampling will involve only marginal costs.If they must be WHO 1985, 1987, 1989, 1994). Treatments include the set up from scratch,they require at least two obstetricians following: trained in fetal medicine, access to ultrasound, and a spe- cialist nurse. Disposable or reusable sampling equipment • Blood transfusion.Although regular transfusion is required is also required, together with suitable sterile facilities for most frequently for managing the thalassemias,it is increas- amniocentesis, facilities for termination of pregnancy in ingly being applied for the prophylaxis ofserious complica- the first or second trimesters, and access to experienced tions of sickle cell anemia. Treatment centers need to bereavement counselors.Access to a laboratory able to carry cooperate closely with national blood transfusion programs. out mutation analysis is also required. Washed or otherwise leukocyte-depleted blood should • Other treatments.Patients with hemoglobinopathies require always be used. Blood has to be screened for hepatitis B, folate supplements.Those infected with hepatitis C require hepatitis C, HIV, and—in some populations—malarial treatment with antiviral agents.Those with endocrine dam- parasites.Blood requirements for patients with thalassemia age caused by iron loading may require hormone replace- range from 500 to 1,500 liters per 100 patients per year, ment therapy. depending on their age distribution. • Iron chelation. Transfusion-dependent thalassemic patients In addition, centers for hemoglobin disorders require a and patients with sickle cell anemia maintained on transfu- trained counselor or clinical psychologist to
