Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


distribution. • Iron chelation. Transfusion-dependent thalassemic patients In addition, centers for hemoglobin disorders require a and patients with sickle cell anemia maintained on transfu- trained counselor or clinical psychologist to handle both sion for prophylactic purposes require 30 to 50 milligrams genetic and social issues.They should interact with local pub- per kilogram per day of desferrioxamine infused subcuta- lic health organizations to disseminate information about neously by pump. One pump is required per patient. inherited hemoglobin diseases to schools and to the commu- Regular assessment of body iron and assessment for com- nity at large.Many countries have parent support groups.The plications are essential. Thalassemia International Federation, an international body • Immunization and other prophylactic measures. Every child run largely by parents and lay members,provides advice and with sickle cell anemia should receive oral prophylactic support for national parent associations and hemoglobinopa- penicillin from the time of diagnosis. Some centers now thy programs. 672 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Olu Akinyanju, Suthat Fucharoen, and others COSTS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF DIAGNOSIS cost oftreatment,or 2 percent ofthe discounted lifetime cost. ANDMANAGEMENT Similarly,Scriver and others (1984) estimate the costs of pre- venting an affected birth in Canada as less than annual treat- Defining the full costs oftreating patients with inherited disor- ment costs and about 4 percent oflifetime costs. ders of hemoglobin is difficult,and comparing them between countries is even harder.The variables that confound such esti- Treatment. Investigators have made several estimates of the costs oftreating the (cid:2)thalassemias.Approximate annual costs obtaining donated blood,widely varying practices in screening ofcare in Thailand in 2003 were as follows (authors’estimates blood for pathogens, and differing costs of drugs and equip- updated from unpublished Thai sources): ment. WHO working parties and others have produced approximate data (Alwan and Modell 1997;WHO 1985,1987, 1989,1994). • homozygous (cid:2) thalassemia: US$19.84 million for patients in their first year oftreatment and US$17.7 million per year for patients in subsequent years oftreatment Thalassemias • Hb E (cid:2) thalassemia: US$100.3 million for patients in the Information about the economic aspects ofthe thalassemias is first year of treatment and US$92.4 million for patients in sparse,including the costs and effectiveness of different inter- subsequent years oftreatment ventions, three of which are discussed here: screening and • homozygous (cid:1)othalassemia:US$727,000 counseling, treatment using transfusions and chelation, and • Hb H disease:US$7.49 million. cure by means ofbone marrow transplant. The life expectancy of a child in
