Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


sees each an infant presents with symptoms of the disease. Without child for 20 minutes four to six times a year.Table 34.6 shows treatment,pneumococcalinfectionistheleadingcauseofdeath the costs of personnel and penicillin. Other recurrent costs, beforeagefive.Penicillinbymonthlyinjectionordailyoraldose such as those for syringes, will be low in comparison. No fromaboutagefourmonthstofouryearsreducesbacteremia allowance is made for capital costs.The marginal cost ofdetect- by 83 to 86 percent (D. Bonds, personal communication, ing sickle cell disease in newborns who have already been September28,2004;Gillandothers1989,1995;Panepintoand screened for other conditions such as phenylketonuria is only others 2000). Prophylaxis also reduces the case-fatality rate about US$3.30 (D. Bonds, personal communication, Data from the United States show that neonatal screening not have sickle cell disease depends on prevalence and is not for sickle cell disease followed by the use of appropriate included in the estimates.It becomes unimportant as more of prophylactic treatment prevents deaths (Tsevat and others the population is at risk. 1991). With 16 percent of the U.S. population being African On average, preventing a death costs about US$8,000 to American, without screening and treatment 13 deaths would US$12,000 by means of injection and about US$5,000 more occur per million infants. Six of these deaths could be pre- when oral penicillin is used. Because death would typically vented by targeting only African Americans, and two more occur between one and two years of age, each death averted could be prevented by universal screening.Ignoring disability saves 29 DALYs and costs about US$270 to US$400 per DALY. and discounting at 3 percent,we find that targeted screening Penicillin prophylaxis is probably more cost-effective than any costs US$6,709 per life year saved, or somewhat more per other intervention. It is standard practice in Jamaica and the DALY.At more than US$30,000 per life year saved, universal United States and can be recommended for middle-income screening would not be cost-effective compared with targeted countries where the prevalence is high enough—in the general testing(Panepinto and others 2000). population or in those ofAfrican origin—to justify screening. Data from a Jamaican cohort of 315 children with sickle cell disease allow for a similar cost-effectiveness analysis in a Application to Other Countries. The limited data available middle-income country (Hambleton 2004a,2004b).They sug- indicate that specialized treatment centers and neonatal screen- gest that treatment averts seven to eight deaths,or that a newly ing programs are effective approaches toward the control of diagnosed child’s chances ofdying before age four are reduced sickle cell anemia.Although these
