Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, cell, thalassemia, disease, sickle, sickle cell, treatment, hemoglobin, age, costs, countries, disorders, screening, cid thalassemia, year


averts seven to eight deaths,or that a newly ing programs are effective approaches toward the control of diagnosed child’s chances ofdying before age four are reduced sickle cell anemia.Although these conclusions should be valid by 2.4 percentage points.Because bacteremia becomes less fre- for developing countries,many uncertainties remain.In partic- quent with age,few cases occur—and little is known about the ular,data on the causes of infection in infants with sickle cell mortality risk—after childhood. disease in Africa are sparse.Because the spectrum of infection 676 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Olu Akinyanju, Suthat Fucharoen, and others may be different,the value ofpenicillin prophylaxis in Africa is • Option six: based on option four or five but includes the unknown. availability ofa bone marrow transplant program. Laboratory diagnosis is well defined,is cheap,and does not differ depending on the level of available technology. The Options one and two,though still commonly practiced in major uncertainty is whether the increasing indications for many countries,offer little prospect ofreducing the frequency prophylactic transfusion in developed countries will be mir- of serious forms of thalassemia. Overall, that reduction is rored in other populations. best achieved by option five, which combines maximum possibilities for reducing the frequency of severe disease with Other Treatments. As indicated in the discussion of the bur- the best possible care for affected children. Although thal- for which treatment may be life saving,such as transfusion for the effect ofprenatal screening is likely to be lower for the large aplastic crises.For painful crises,intervention (analgesics and mainland populations of Asia if this policy is implemented, possibly hospitalization) is only palliative.Because of the lack which is why this option includes best-practice treatment. ofinformation on costs and ofconsensus on the associated dis- Limited studies also suggest that families that undergo prenatal abilities with and without treatment,we have not assessed the diagnosis tend to settle at the population norm for the number cost-effectiveness ofany ofthese treatments. ofchildren that they subsequently have and that their views on their ability to have unaffected children are extremely positive. For those countries or groups in which termination of preg- OPTIONS FOR CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT nancy is unacceptable for religious or cultural reasons,option OF INHERITED HEMOGLOBIN DISORDERS four is recommended. Option six, which is possible only in countries where bone marrow transplantation is available, Even though much more work is needed on both the scientific should be exploited by any country with a
