Percutaneous insertion of a cerebral protection device to prevent cerebral embolism
KEYWORDS: cerebral, tavi, procedure, device, protection, cerebral protection, committee, stroke, evidence, protection device, tavi procedure, artery, prevent, aortic, nice


stroke. 2.3 During the TAVI procedure, before the valve is inserted, a cerebral protection device is inserted percutaneously through the radial or femoral artery. Depending on the type of device used, it is placed into the aortic arch or into the brachiocephalic (innominate) and left common carotid arteries. It is deployed to protect the ostia of the brachiocephalic (innominate) artery and the left common carotid artery. It may also protect the left subclavian artery, depending on the type of device used. It works either by filtering dislodged debris from the blood, or by deflecting dislodged debris away from the cerebral circulation to the systemic circulation. The device is removed at the end of the TAVI procedure. 2.4 The evidence review identified 3 types of cerebral protection devices. One is a deflector system that covers all 3 main branches of the aortic arch. The 2 other types cover the brachiocephalic trunk and the left common carotid artery; 1 is a filter system, the other is a deflector system. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 To inform the committee, NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 9 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 2 systematic reviews and meta-analyses, 4 randomised controlled trials, 1 non-randomised comparative study, 1 patient-level pooled analysis and 1 case series, and is presented in table 2 of the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.2 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key efficacy outcome to be: reduction in TAVI-related embolic strokes. 3.3 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: vascular damage and bleeding. 3.4 Patient commentary was sought but none was received. Committee comments 3.5 There are different types of devices available to prevent cerebral embolism during TAVI, and they work in different ways. The committee noted that most of the evidence it reviewed came from 1 type of device, and that the technology is evolving. 3.6 Embolic stroke following TAVI is rare, but when it happens it can be devastating. The studies reviewed by the committee had limited statistical power to evaluate rare outcomes. 3.7 Using a cerebral protection device does not eliminate the risk of embolic stroke following TAVI. 3.8 Detecting cerebral lesions resulting
