Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


ABSTRACT Thyroid cancer is the second most common malignancy to co-occur in pregnancy. Further, the rising prevalence of treated thyroid cancer in women of child-bearing age means that survivors of thyroid cancer are frequently presenting for obstetric care, occasionally in the setting of persisting structural disease. To ensure that optimal health outcomes are achieved for mother and child, it is essential that pre-pregnancy issues are comprehensively addressed, and that management decisions during pregnancy remain both patient and child focused, best achieved through a woman-centered multidisciplinary team. As new data emerge regarding the impact of radioactive iodine on fertility, careful balancing of risk and benefits of this treatment is required. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Thyroid nodules are common in women of childbearing age. Thyroid nodules may be detected due to symptoms of local compression (either due to larger size, or pressure on the trachea or esophagus), but are more commonly detected incidentally on imaging performed for other reasons. As well as determining if compressive symptoms are present, all thyroid nodules must be risk-stratified for the presence of malignancy. A third factor is to determine whether the nodule is functional (i.e., autonomously producing thyroid hormone), however this cannot be reliably assessed during pregnancy as it is dependent on radionucleotide imaging which is contra-indicated during pregnancy. In general, the investigation or treatment of any new or co-existent medical conditions in pregnancy should be weighed against the separate risks and benefits to both the mother and fetus. Although most thyroid nodules will not grow during pregnancy, and therefore permit management decisions to be deferred to after birth (thus prioritizing fetal wellbeing), a small proportion of cases will require emergent management within pregnancy to prioritize maternal wellbeing ( 1 ). Thyroid carcinomas generally develop from follicular epithelial cells (termed differentiated thyroid cancer, DTC) and present morphologically as papillary (PTC) or follicular (FTC) subtypes. Anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is a rare, highly aggressive de-differentiated variant of DTC. Rarely, parafollicular, neuro-endocrine derived C-cells can give rise to medullary thyroid cancers (MTC). Thyroid lymphoma and metastases from other solid organ cancers are rare. In general, DTC has an greater than 98% 10 year survival in women of child-bearing age ( 2 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY OF THYROID NODULES AND THYROID CANCER Thyroid Nodules There is a clear female preponderance for the development of thyroid nodules that
