Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


in women of child-bearing age ( 2 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY OF THYROID NODULES AND THYROID CANCER Thyroid Nodules There is a clear female preponderance for the development of thyroid nodules that is demonstrated in studies from varied ethic groups, and in populations that are iodine-replete and iodine deficient ( 3 - 5 ). Thyroid nodules are also more prevalent with increasing age ( 6 ). This may partly be explained by exposure to female reproductive hormones, as studies have demonstrated associations with increasing thyroid nodularity and multiparity, older age at menopause, and the presence of uterine fibroids ( 6 - 9 ). In a single study, use of oral contraceptive hormones was associated with reduced thyroid volume, but not a change in thyroid nodularity ( 10 ). Carcinoma of the Thyroid Gland The increased prevalence of thyroid nodules in females is matched by an increased prevalence of thyroid cancer amongst women. SEER data from the United States cancer registry reports thyroid cancer incidence at 21 cases per 100,000 females, compared to 7.1 per 100,000 males ( 11 ). When stratified by age, it is evident that this gender-based divergence is seen as early as puberty ( Figure 1 ). The peak incidence of thyroid cancer amongst females occurs in midlife (age 35-59), and occurs earlier than the peak incidence in males (age 65-75), which corresponds with exposure to female reproductive hormones. ATC and MTC have equal incidence between genders. Figure 1. Incidence of thyroid cancer by age- and gender- in the United States. Data source: SEER 18 (2010-2014). https://seer.cancer.gov/faststats Although epidemiological data would suggest a strong link between exposure to female reproductive hormones and development of thyroid cancer, firm evidence linking reproductive factors to thyroid cancer risk is less clear. Some studies have shown a small (or transient) increase risk of DTC following pregnancy compared to nulliparous women ( 12 ). Age of menarche, menopause, and menstrual cycle patterns present conflicting data ( 12 ), however in general, longer exposure to reproductive hormones appears associated with increased thyroid cancer risk ( 13 - 15 ). Conversely, extended periods of breastfeeding (resulting in prolonged reductions in cirulating estradiol), have been associated with with decreased incidence of thyroid cancer ( 14 , 16 , 17 ). Incidence of Thyroid Carcinoma in Pregnancy Multiple studies confirm that carcinoma of the thyroid gland is the second most frequent pregnancy-associated cancer, behind carcinoma of the breast.
