Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


, 17 ). Incidence of Thyroid Carcinoma in Pregnancy Multiple studies confirm that carcinoma of the thyroid gland is the second most frequent pregnancy-associated cancer, behind carcinoma of the breast. Registry studies suggest that thyroid cancer is present in between 14-27 per 100,000 mothers giving birth ( 18 , 19 ). In most cases, this represents newly diagnosed thyroid cancer during pregnancy, which is usually organ-confined. However, a combination of increasing diagnosis of thyroid cancer amongst young women and excellent prognosis has resulted in an increasing cohort of survivors of thyroid cancer requiring obstetric care ( 20 ). This is demonstrated by data from Taiwan, showing thyroid cancer prevalence amongst women (175 cases per 100,000 women) is 9-fold higher than the incidence (18 cases per 100,000 women) ( 21 ). Occasionally, pregnancy occurs in a woman with known or suspected metastatic disease. A recent study from the USA reports that a historical diagnosis of thyroid cancer was the most common cancer present in women presenting for obstetric care ( 22 ). IMPACT OF A PREGNANCY ON NUMBER AND SIZE OF THYROID NODULES Impact of Pregnancy Hormones on Thyroid Follicular Epithelium Pregnancy represents a stimulatory environment for thyroid follicular cells. The pregnancy hormone human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) is a heterodimeric glycoprotein. Although the beta subunit is unique, the alpha subunit is common to follicle stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). As a result, this structural homology causes cross-stimulation of the TSH receptor by HCG, leading to physiological TSH-independent stimulation of the TSH-receptor, predominantly in the first trimester when HCG levels are highest. As well as contributing to gestational hyperthyroidism, in this way HCG mediated TSH-receptor signaling acts to stimulate growth of the thyroid follicular epithelium ( 23 ). Sustained activation of the signaling cascade mediated by the TSH-receptor has been associated with an increased risk of thyroid cancer in large observational studies. However, it is not known whether more limited periods of increased TSH-receptor signaling, such as would occur during pregnancy, materially contributes to thyroid cancer risk ( 24 ). Iodine (not a pregnancy hormone) is a trace element required for normal maternal thyroid function and fetal thyroid development and function. Pregnancy increases maternal demands for iodine and a daily intake of approximately 250-300mcg is recommended ( 25 ). Iodine excess and iodine deficiency states are both associated with an increased prevalence of thyroid nodules ( 3 ,
