Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


a daily intake of approximately 250-300mcg is recommended ( 25 ). Iodine excess and iodine deficiency states are both associated with an increased prevalence of thyroid nodules ( 3 , 26 ). Changes in Number and Size of Thyroid Nodules During Pregnancy As previously outlined, the hormonal environment of pregnancy is associated with the development of new thyroid nodules, and with potential growth of existing thyroid nodules. Using ultrasound screening, thyroid nodules are demonstrated in 3-21% of pregnant women ( 26 - 28 ), although most nodules are small (<1cm) and not detectable clinically ( 26 ). Prospective studies of pregnant women show an increase in thyroid nodule number and size during pregnancy. In a study of 221 women in China using repeated sonographic evaluation, an increase in nodule volume during pregnancy was shown in 15% of women in whom nodules were already present at baseline evaluation. New thyroid nodules were detected in 13% of the cohort. Post-partum, the number of women with thyroid nodules had increased from 15% to 24% ( 26 ). All nodules had a benign sonographic appearance. Similarly, a study of 726 pregnant women in Belgium identified a 3% incidence of thyroid nodules at baseline (determined by two-step screening with palpation followed by ultrasound). Of those with nodules, 60% showed an increase in size of at least 50%. Further, 20% (4/20) of women with regular sonographic surveillance developed new nodules during pregnancy ( 27 ). PRESENTATION OF A NEW THYROID NODULE IN THE PREGNANT PATIENT A thyroid nodule usually comes to attention in pregnancy following the identification of a palpable abnormality. Screening for thyroid nodules in asymptomatic individuals without risk factors, both in the pregnant and non-pregnant population, is not recommended ( 29 ). Thyroid nodules should be assessed using a triple assessment, including clinical assessment, sonographic risk stratification, and biopsy (in selected cases). Scintigraphy, which is part of the standard workup for functional nodules in the non-pregnant population, is contra-indicated in pregnancy due to the risk of ionizing radiation to the fetus. Important historical factors that increase the chance of a nodule being malignant include the presence of: A familial cancer syndrome, including multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2), familial PTC, Cowden’s syndrome, familial adenomatosis polyposis, and Carney Complex. Neck irradiation in childhood, e.g., treatment for cancers of the head and neck Exposure to ionizing radiation in early life (age <18 years) On clinical examination, a
