Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


and Carney Complex. Neck irradiation in childhood, e.g., treatment for cancers of the head and neck Exposure to ionizing radiation in early life (age <18 years) On clinical examination, a palpable lump should be characterized. The presence of a large, very firm or rapidly growing nodule should raise concern for malignancy. Neck lymph nodes should be evaluated. Symptoms and signs of compression of local adjacent structures should be sought. Many thyroid nodules are functional, however the determination of the functional status of a thyroid nodule in pregnancy is limited. Firstly, although TSH should be checked, a low TSH may reflect gestational hyperthyroidism and should be interpreted with reference to the current gestational age. Most functional nodules progress slowly, therefore a pre-pregnancy TSH level which is at, or below, the lower limit of the reference range may provide a helpful clue. Secondly, radioactive isotopes used for thyroid scintigraphy readily cross the placenta, and the radiation exposure to the fetus does not justify the use of this modality in pregnancy. Therefore, conclusive determination of whether a thyroid nodule is functional (and thus of very low malignant potential), or non-functional, during pregnancy is usually not possible. Serum biomarkers for thyroid cancer are not currently in routine use. Although serum calcitonin is highly sensitive for the diagnosis of MTC ( 30 ), it is not validated for use in pregnancy, especially as calcitonin levels rise over the course of a normal pregnancy. Further, its use in assessment of thyroid nodules in non-pregnant women is not universally established. Carcino-embryonic antigen, also a marker of MTC, can rise during pregnancy, and should be interpreted with caution ( 31 ). Neck ultrasound is the definitive tool for assessment of thyroid nodules, and is safe in pregnancy. A high-frequency linear transducer is optimal to provide detailed characterization of the sonographic features, including size, echogenicity, shape, margins, the presence of calcification, and the presence of abnormal lymph nodes in the central and lateral neck. All nodules should be risk stratified according to a validated scoring system, such as from the American Thyroid Association ( 32 ) or the American College of Radiology ( 33 ). If fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) is required, this can be safely performed in all trimesters of pregnancy, with indications identical to that of the non-pregnant population ( 32 ). Nodules with higher risk features, such as larger size, growth in pregnancy, suspicion of extra-thyroidal
