Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


trimesters of pregnancy, with indications identical to that of the non-pregnant population ( 32 ). Nodules with higher risk features, such as larger size, growth in pregnancy, suspicion of extra-thyroidal extension, presence of large-volume nodal metastases, or suspicion for MTC or ATC should be considered for biopsy and surgery during pregnancy. However, for smaller nodules without any high-risk features, consideration should be given to deferring biopsy (and any planned intervention) until the post-partum period, as several studies have confirmed that there is no survival benefit for surgery during pregnancy for low risk DTC ( 34 ). IMPACT OF PREGNANCY ON A NEW DIAGNOSIS OF THYROID CANCER Impact of Pregnancy on Outcome of Thyroid Cancer A diagnosis of thyroid cancer during pregnancy has the same excellent long term survival outcomes as seen in other settings. Large retrospective studies in the US population between 1962-1999 (35-37) show similar mortality data irrespective of the diagnosis setting (inside or outside pregnancy) or the timing of surgery (during pregnancy or post-partum). Although these studies have the benefit of long follow up periods, they are inherently retrospective. Further, the ability of these studies to assess impact of pregnancy on thyroid cancer recurrence is limited, not only due to their retrospective nature, but also due to lack of availability of highly sensitive thyroglobulin assays and high resolution neck ultrasound in historic series ( 34 ). In contrast, recent studies suggest that thyroid cancer diagnosed in pregnancy may have a higher risk of recurrence. A retrospective study from Italy showed higher rates of persistent or recurrent thyroid cancer in women diagnosed either during pregnancy or within 12 months after birth (60% persistent or recurrent disease), compared to women diagnosed with thyroid cancer more than 12 months after a pregnancy (4% persistent or recurrent disease) or women who were never pregnant (13% persistent or recurrent disease) ( 38 ). However, it is important to note that most of the pregnant women with thyroid cancer underwent surgery in the second trimester (73%), and it is possible that a more limited surgical approach in this setting may have confounded these results. Similarly, a second retrospective Italian study found a higher rate of persistent or recurrent disease in women with thyroid cancer diagnosed within two years of a pregnancy (11%), compared to women diagnosed more than two years after a pregnancy (1%) or those who were never pregnant (5%) ( 39 ).
