Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


diagnosed within two years of a pregnancy (11%), compared to women diagnosed more than two years after a pregnancy (1%) or those who were never pregnant (5%) ( 39 ). A pathology study from Australia found that DTC diagnosed within 12 months of pregnancy were more likely to be larger, and have nodal metastases than matched controls ( 40 ). Overall, these data should reassure clinicians and patients that the impact of pregnancy on a newly diagnosed thyroid cancer is low, with excellent overall survival outcomes. Epidemiological and clinical data would suggest that the stimulatory milieu of pregnancy may contribute to a slightly higher overall risk of recurrence, which should be taken into consideration when planning follow up strategies. Timing of Thyroidectomy Expert consensus affirms that thyroidectomy can safely be performed in the second trimester, but is often more appropriately deferred to the post-partum period ( 34 ). Clinical markers of aggressive pathology, such as large primary size, rapid growth, or bulky lateral neck nodal disease, would support a strategy of earlier surgery. At present, these clinical markers of aggressiveness are detected by specialized thyroid and neck ultrasound, which should occur at first assessment, and subsequently around 20 weeks (to allow for planning of thyroidectomy in the second trimester, if indicated). Suspicion of non-DTC pathology, such as MTC and ATC, should warrant strong consideration of early surgery. The optimal timing of surgery in the peri-partum period is uncertain. Whist many women undergo safe surgery and anesthesia in the second trimester, small risks for mother and fetus remain. However, deferring surgery to the post-partum period potentially disrupts dyadic attachment between mother and child, and may interrupt breast-feeding. As evidence is lacking, patient-centered decision making, with inputs from a multi-disciplinary team, is appropriate. Small case series support a strategy of deferred surgery for low-risk lesions. For example, 19 women with PTC diagnosed around the time of conception were followed sonographically in pregnancy ( 41 ). Nearly 70% were microcarcinomas, and 3 cases had sonographic N1 disease. During pregnancy, 3 tumors had a detectable increase in maximal diameter, while 5 increased in volume. In 2 out of 3 with N1 disease, lymph nodes increased in size although no new nodal disease was detected, and the extent of surgery was not changed. Post-partum, 16 cases proceeded to surgery around 12 months following diagnosis. Maternal Supportive Management During Pregnancy Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is a
