Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


and the extent of surgery was not changed. Post-partum, 16 cases proceeded to surgery around 12 months following diagnosis. Maternal Supportive Management During Pregnancy Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is a trophic factor for follicular thyroid cells and is associated with progression of thyroid cancer ( 23 ). However, there is no evidence to support the practice of pharmacological suppression of TSH to minimize growth of a primary tumor in pregnancy, and exogenous maternal hyperthyroidism is associated with fetal risk. Maintaining maternal serum TSH within the lower half of the pregnancy-specific reference range is a reasonable therapeutic goal, and levothyroxine should be initiated, if required, to achieve this target. Dietary iodine should not be restricted, as it is essential for fetal thyroid development. Maternal physiological demands for iodine increase in pregnancy, and maternal iodine deficiency is associated with development of goiter in the mother. A recent cohort study found that pregnancies complicated by a diagnosis of thyroid cancer prior to or during pregnancy had a higher incidence of venous thromboembolism (odds radio 2.4) and blood transfusions (odds ratio 2.1), however there was no impact on neonatal outcomes ( 42 ). Similarly, the rate of post-partum hemorrhage in women with a history of thyroid cancer was higher than controls (odds ratio 1.23) in a large retrospective observational study, however no other adverse maternal, neonatal, or child outcomes (followed to 80 months post-partum) were found ( 43 ). Measurement of Serum Thyroglobulin During pregnancy, maternal serum thyroglobulin levels are higher than pre-pregnancy. This may be an effect of stimulation of maternal thyrocytes by estrogen and HCG. Therefore, maternal thyroglobulin levels during pregnancy must be interpreted with caution. Maternal serum thyroglobulin levels return to baseline values within 1-6 months of pregnancy ( 44 - 46 ). In general, thyroglobulin status should be assessed no earlier than 6 weeks post-partum. Considerations in the Planning of Radioiodine Therapy Radioactive iodine therapy following total thyroidectomy, either for remnant ablation, or as adjuvant therapy, is recommended for a subset of DTC with higher risk of recurrence ( 32 ). The administration of radioiodine following pregnancy poses unique challenges, both medically and socially. Firstly, radiation safety precautions necessitate that close contact between the mother and her infant (as well as other young children) must be avoided for around 7 days following a radioactive iodine dose (precise recommendations are determined at the time of therapy) ( 47 ). Radioactive iodine
