Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


as other young children) must be avoided for around 7 days following a radioactive iodine dose (precise recommendations are determined at the time of therapy) ( 47 ). Radioactive iodine is contra-indicated in pregnancy, and if administered, the risks to the fetus must be carefully assessed, based on administered dose and gestational age ( 48 ). Secondly, breast tissue expresses the sodium-iodide symporter, which is upregulated during lactation to concentrate iodine in breast milk ( 48 , 49 ). Consequently, to minimize exposure of breast tissue to ionizing radiation, lactation should cease a minimum of 8 weeks before radioactive iodine and should not be recommenced so as to avoid potential breast-milk associated radioactive iodine exposure. In light of this, the timing of radioactive iodine (if required) should be considered, balancing the potential risk of DTC progression without treatment, the benefits of a period of breastfeeding, and family unit dynamics. The literature is conflicting as to whether radioiodine administered early (within 3 months) or late (within 12 months), has any impact on prognosis. For example, a large retrospective database study including more than 9,000 patients diagnosed with high-risk PTC (primary tumor >4cm, N1 disease, positive surgical margins) found that timing of radioactive iodine within the first 12 months did not impact mortality (the median survival in this cohort was 75 months), after adjustment for confounders ( 50 ). In contrast, a small retrospective study of patients with lower risk DTC (235 cases classified as either ATA Low- or ATA-Intermediate- risk) found that deferring radioactive iodine longer than 3 months post-operatively was associated with higher rates of biochemical incomplete or structural incomplete responses compared to earlier radioactive iodine ablation(19% vs 4%) ( 51 ). PRE-CONCEPTION CARE OF WOMEN WITH A HISTORY OF THYROID CANCER Pregnancy following diagnosis and treatment for thyroid cancer is common, and presents specialized management issues. Nonetheless, excellent obstetric outcomes are expected ( 52 ). Pre-conception counselling is recommended for all women with a past history of thyroid cancer. Checklist: Management issues prior to pregnancy in survivors of thyroid cancer. 1. Assessment of thyroid cancer status: Remission? Assessment of disease status: structural and biochemical Potential impact of pregnancy on disease progression 2. Impact of prior radioiodine therapy on timing of conception and future fertility Ensure > 6 months between radioactive iodine and conception 3. Thyroid hormone replacement Pre-pregnancy optimization of levothyroxine replacement Pre-emptive adjustment to levothyroxine dosing following conception
