Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


of conception and future fertility Ensure > 6 months between radioactive iodine and conception 3. Thyroid hormone replacement Pre-pregnancy optimization of levothyroxine replacement Pre-emptive adjustment to levothyroxine dosing following conception Potential for unmasking thyroid hormone insufficiency in women with sufficient pre-pregnancy thyroid hormones from a residual hemithyroid Use of pregnancy supplements that may interfere with levothyroxine absorption Establishment of Thyroid Cancer Status To provide a framework for discussing the potential impact of thyroid cancer on pregnancy, an assessment of disease status is valuable, such as recommended by the ATA in its 2015 guidance ( Table 1 ) ( 32 ). Evidently, counselling and management discussions will differ depending on what treatment has previously been received (total thyroidectomy vs hemithyroidectomy), the presence of any functional thyroid hormone production (if prior hemithyroidectomy only), the timing of any radioactive iodine administration, and the presence of any residual cancer. MicroPTC under active surveillance is a distinct management issue which is discussed separately. Table 1. 2015 American Thyroid Association Risk Stratification for DTC View in own window 2015 ATA Response-to-Therapy classification Description Excellent response No clinical, biochemical or structural evidence of persistent or recurrent thyroid cancer. Biochemical-incomplete response Elevated serum thyroglobulin, or rising anti-thyroglobulin antibodies, in the absence of structural disease identifiable on imaging. Structural-incomplete response Persistent or recurrent thyroid cancer visible on imaging, either in neck or distant metastases Indeterminate response Non-specific biochemical or structural findings that are not able to be classified as benign or malignant (includes stable/declining anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels without evidence of structural disease) 2015 American Thyroid Association Risk Stratification for DTC, tabulated from Haugen et al. (2016). Refer to ATA Guideline ( 32 ) for full discussion of each class and qualifying criteria (Table 13). In women with a history of MTC, the tumor markers calcitonin and CEA are sensitive to detect residual or recurrent disease, and allow for post-operative risk stratification ( 53 ). There are no studies examining whether pregnancy impacts the prognosis of MTC. Discussing Impact of Pregnancy on Risk of Recurrence There is a growing body of evidence reporting the long-term oncological outcomes in the setting of pregnancy following treatment for thyroid cancer. Key studies are reviewed below. Leboeuf et al. ( 46 ) reported outcomes of 36 women between 1997 and 2006, with pregnancy a median 4 years following treatment for DTC. Three women had structural disease present prior to pregnancy, and of these, one
