Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


of 36 women between 1997 and 2006, with pregnancy a median 4 years following treatment for DTC. Three women had structural disease present prior to pregnancy, and of these, one showed growth in a cervical lymph node. A further two women developed recurrence following pregnancy that was not present on pre-operative physical examination. Of the full cohort, 22% had a sustained >20% rise in serum thyroglobulin post-partum. Rosario et al. ( 54 ) describe the outcome of 64 pregnancies, occurring a median of 2.4 years after treatment for DTC. In this cohort, no patient had evidence of structural disease either prior to or following pregnancy. Of the subset 49 women with undetectable thyroglobulin prior to pregnancy, this remained undetectable in the post-partum period. Of the 8 patients with low level thyroglobulin prior to pregnancy, no significant post-partum change was observed. Hirsch et al. ( 55 ) studied the outcome of 63 women, where pregnancy occurred a median of 5 years after treatment for PTC. Of the subset of 6 women with known structural disease prior to conception, 80% were found to have progressed within 12 months of birth (2 with biochemical progression, 3 with structural progression). Of the subset of 5 women with detectable pre-pregnancy thyroglobulin, no significant change was observed post-partum. Of the remaining 39 women with undetectable pre-pregnancy thyroglobulin, no progression was observed. Finally, Rakhlin et al. reported the outcome of pregnancy in 235 women following treatment for DTC ( 56 ), retrospectively grouped into ATA Response to Therapy criteria ( Table 1 ). In the 197 women without structural disease prior to pregnancy, no new structural disease was detected following post-partum evaluation. However, 8% had a significant rise in thyroglobulin. Overall, these data are reassuring that women with an ATA Excellent response to therapy have a very low risk of DTC progression occurring during pregnancy, and a low risk of DTC progression following pregnancy. As such, additional monitoring of thyroid cancer status during pregnancy for these women is not required ( 34 ). However, women with biochemical or structural evidence of disease may have a progression of their thyroid cancer status as a result of pregnancy. Based on the above studies, the degree of disease progression appears minor, only affects a subset of women, and does not appear to have an impact on the outcome of the pregnancy. Reducing the Impacts of Prior Thyroid Cancer Treatment on
