Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


minor, only affects a subset of women, and does not appear to have an impact on the outcome of the pregnancy. Reducing the Impacts of Prior Thyroid Cancer Treatment on Pregnancy. LEVOTHYROXINE REPLACEMENT It is essential that all women who are planning pregnancy receive written instructions for the management of thyroid hormone replacement prior to, and immediately following conception. Requirements for thyroid hormone rise early in gestation, in part as a result of an increase in thyroid-binding globulin. Adequate levels of thyroid hormones are required for healthy fetal development and pregnancy progression. Women previously treated with hemithyroidectomy may unmask relative thyroid hormone deficiency following conception, and may require early initiation of levothyroxine therapy in the first trimester. Women who have been treated with total thyroidectomy will always require an increase in thyroid hormone replacement at conception, of a magnitude between 15-40% of the total weekly dose. A common practice is to advise women to “double the dose” of levothyroxine that they take on two days of the week as soon as pregnancy is confirmed, with further adjustment based on regular thyroid function tests throughout pregnancy ( 34 , 57 ). Women who adhered to this advice were more likely to have TSH at the pregnancy target than those that deferred thyroxine adjustment until the first specialist consultation ( 58 ). Importantly, pregnancy multivitamins, iron supplements, or calcium supplements may interfere with the absorption of thyroxine, and women should be specifically instructed to take such supplements at a different time of day to minimize interference ( 59 ). Women should be reassured that levothyroxine is both safe and essential for a healthy pregnancy, as inadvertent discontinuation in early pregnancy has been reported ( 60 ). In most cases, the TSH target prior to pregnancy (usually targeting the lower half of the normal range) will remain appropriate in pregnancy. Pharmacological suppression of TSH with supra-physiological doses of levothyroxine could be continued in the setting of persistent structural disease, however care should be taken to avoid overt hyperthyroidism, which increases pregnancy risk. In settings where a TSH-suppression strategy has been pursued outside of pregnancy, but in the absence of known structural disease, a careful balancing of risk and benefit should be considered, as although mild hyperthyroidism in pregnancy has not been shown to lead to maternal or fetal complications, greater degrees of hyperthyroidism are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes ( 34 , 61
