Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


although mild hyperthyroidism in pregnancy has not been shown to lead to maternal or fetal complications, greater degrees of hyperthyroidism are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes ( 34 , 61 , 62 ). IMPLICATIONS OF PREVIOUS RADIOIODINE Women should defer conception for at least 6 months after radioactive iodine administration. This period includes the expected time for radioactive iodine to fully decay (approximately 10 weeks), thus avoiding exposing the fetus to gamma-particle emission). A recent large population-based cohort study found that pregnancy occurring within 5 months of radioactive iodine had a higher rate of congenital malformations (odds ratio 1.74, 95%CI, 1.01-2.97; P = .04), which was not seen if conception occurred after 6 months ( 63 ). Deferring pregnancy for at least 6 months has the additional benefit of permitting assessment of the response to radioactive iodine therapy, and to determine that no additional treatment with radioactive iodine would be recommended in the following 15 months (conception, pregnancy and the post-partum period) ( 64 ). Stabilization of levothyroxine replacement can also take a period of months. In the 12 months following radioactive iodine, 8-16% of women experience amenorrhea, and 12-31% have menstrual irregularities ( 65 ). Several studies (including a meta-analysis) have confirmed a small but significant fall in AMH levels following radioactive iodine, and a slightly earlier age of menopause than women who did not receive radioactive iodine (49.5 vs 51 years) ( 65 , 66 ). Most studies have not shown that radioactive iodine has an impact on future fertility ( 65 , 67 , 68 ). However, in a retrospective database study comparing survivors of thyroid cancer, women in the age 35-39 subgroup who received radioactive iodine had a lower birth rate (11 vs 16 births per 1000 woman-years) than women who did not receive radioactive iodine. However, as the time from diagnosis of thyroid cancer to first live birth was also prolonged in this study, it is not clear whether this finding is due to physician recommendation to delay pregnancy, or the biological effects of radioactive iodine ( 68 ). In addition, a recent population case-control study found a higher rate of infertility diagnosis amongst survivors of thyroid cancer ( 69 ), however this analysis did not take into account any disease-specific factors such as type of treatment received. In women with a history of thyroid cancer requiring assisted reproductive techniques, pregnancy outcomes were not different
