Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


not take into account any disease-specific factors such as type of treatment received. In women with a history of thyroid cancer requiring assisted reproductive techniques, pregnancy outcomes were not different compared to controls, although the number of retrieved oocytes was lower ( 70 ). A history of radioactive iodine treatment was not associated with differing rates of clinical pregnancy or live birth rates in this group ( 71 ). A large longitudinal study followed 2,673 pregnancies and did not show an increase in maternal or fetal adverse events in women previously administered radioactive iodine ( 72 ). A population-based cohort study of women with thyroid cancer in Korea, comparing 59,483 women who underwent thyroidectomy alone, with 51,976 women who had thyroidectomy followed by radioactive iodine found no difference in pregnancy or obstetric outcomes in the 9.7% of the cohort where pregnancy occurred ( 63 ). A further systematic review ( 67 ), and meta-analysis ( 73 ), pooling additional studies reported similar findings, providing sufficient time had elapsed following radioactive iodine administration. In men, radioactive iodine may transiently impact testicular function, with a short-term rise in FSH, and decrease in normal sperm morphology seen in prospective studies ( 74 ). It is suggested that men avoid fathering children for 4 months following radioactive iodine ( 75 , 76 ). In men who desire fertility, and who are expected to require high cumulative activities of radioactive iodine, sperm banking should be considered. Surveillance and Monitoring During Pregnancy Based on available data, women with no structural or biochemical evidence of thyroid cancer do not require DTC-specific monitoring during pregnancy. At present, there is no evidence to guide whether additional post-partum surveillance should be instituted beyond that woman’s current surveillance strategy, however consideration of neck ultrasound and serum thyroglobulin at least 6 months post-partum is reasonable. For women with ‘ATA Biochemical Incomplete’ or ‘ATA Indeterminate’ classification, surveillance during pregnancy could include periodic neck ultrasound, and determination of thyroglobulin and Tg-Ab levels. Clear evidence of progression of thyroid cancer could prompt an increase in the level of TSH suppression, or rarely prompt expedited delivery. Management in the context of a multidisciplinary team is advised. CONTINUED ACTIVE SURVELLANCE OF PAPILLARY THRYOID MICROCARCINOMA DURING PREGNANCY Non-operative management of microPTC (<10mm in maximal dimension) is increasing, with emerging data on implications for active surveillance during pregnancy. Shindo et al report 9 women with microPTC followed during pregnancy,
