Thyroid Nodules and Thyroid Cancer Prior To, During, and Following Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, cancer, thyroid cancer, women, pubmed, iodine, nodules, radioactive, radioactive iodine, risk, disease, thyroid nodules, study, free


management of microPTC (<10mm in maximal dimension) is increasing, with emerging data on implications for active surveillance during pregnancy. Shindo et al report 9 women with microPTC followed during pregnancy, finding demonstrable growth in 44% (compared to microPTC growth of 11% in non-pregnant controls) ( 77 ). Ito et al reported outcomes of 50 pregnancies with microPTC, finding growth of >1mm in 8%, reduced size in 2%. The remaining 90% of cases showed no growth in pregnancy, and there were no nodal metastases detected ( 78 ). Oh et al described 13 microPTC in pregnancy, with a single lesion demonstrating growth ( 41 ). The available evidence supports the continuation of active surveillance during pregnancy, monitored with periodic neck ultrasound. However, women contemplating pregnancy who are under active surveillance should be advised that a small number of microPTC will grow during pregnancy, and this may result in anxiety for the patient and clinicians. Further studies are awaited in this population ( 32 ). Germline RET Mutations Women with clinically diagnosed MEN2, or who carry a germline mutation in the REarranged during Transfection (RET) proto-oncogene, should be under the care of a specialized clinical team, and should be offered detailed pre-natal genetic counselling. Individual RET mutations can be characterized for their risk of early-onset MTC, allowing personalized management decisions. The highest risk mutations should prompt consideration of total thyroidectomy in early childhood ( 53 ). The presence of hyperparathyroidism and pheochromocytoma should be biochemically excluded prior to pregnancy in any woman with MEN2. MANAGEMENT OF KNOWN RESIDUAL STRUCTURAL DISEASE IN PREGNANCY Case series of pregnancy in women with co-existent thyroid cancer metastases have been reported. The largest study retrospectively studied a cohort of 124 women from China, aged 16-35 years, with lung metastases from thyroid cancer, stratified by whether pregnancy occurred (n=35) and followed for a median 68-82 months after completing treatment with radioactive iodine ( 79 ). This study found that pregnancy after thyroid cancer had no measurable difference in 5 year or 10-year progression free survival or overall survival. 10-year overall survival in the pregnancy group was 86%, compared to 82% in the non-pregnant group. Although the groups appeared to have similar characteristics, it remains possible that women who chose pregnancy had a lower severity of disease than those who avoided pregnancy. Another study retrospectively described outcomes for 38 women at a large cancer center in the USA (
