Non-Compaction Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, ventricular, patients, heart, non-compaction cardiomyopathy, non-compaction, failure, cardiac, heart failure, icd, testing, left, imaging, arrhythmias, genetic


Non-compaction cardiomyopathy is a congenital disorder of the myocardium that causes cardiomyopathy, a variety of arrhythmias, conduction disorders, and an increased risk of sudden death. Diagnosis includes ECG, cardiac imaging, and genetic testing. Treatment is usually an implantable cardioverter- defibrillator (ICD), antiarrhythmic medications, and standard measures for heart failure. Non-compaction cardiomyopathy is a rare cardiomyopathy resulting from failure of the embryonic ventricular myocardial compaction process, such that the ventricular myocardium consists of an outer layer of normally compact myocardium and an inner non-compacted layer that has retained embryonal characteristics (1). The inner layer is spongy and markedly trabeculated with deep intertrabecular recesses usually most prominent at the left ventricular apex, then elsewhere in the left ventricle, and least commonly in the right ventricle. Although there are likely acquired cases, most cases result from inherited mutations in genes encoding sarcomeric proteins, cytoskeletal proteins, or mitochondrial proteins. Inherited cases are most commonly autosomal dominant or X-linked. In non-compaction cardiomyopathy, the disordered myocardial architecture and associated microvascular abnormalities lead to myocardial fibrosis. The fibrosis predisposes to both systolic and diastolic heart failure and to ventricular tachyarrhythmias, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. The deep intertrabecular recesses produce areas of blood flow stasis predisposing to thromboembolic events, including stroke. Some forms also are associated with atrial tachyarrhythmias (eg, atrial fibrillation, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome), conduction system blocks, early repolarization, long QT interval syndrome, other congenital heart disorders, or skeletal muscular dystrophies. Symptoms and Signs of Non-Compaction Cardiomyopathy Patients may be asymptomatic. Initial symptoms are usually those of heart failure (eg, exertional dyspnea, fatigue, peripheral edema), although some patients present with symptoms of conduction blocks and/or arrhythmias, including palpitations and/or syncope, or sometimes cardiac arrest. Ventricular tachyarrhythmias may be triggered by exercise. Diagnosis of Non-Compaction Cardiomyopathy Cardiac imaging (eg, echocardiography, magnetic resonance imaging with late gadolinium enhancement) Genetic testing Screening of first-degree relatives Diagnosis of non-compaction cardiomyopathy is suspected in patients with manifestations of arrhythmias or conduction disorders in whom standard evaluation (eg, echocardiography) discloses ventricular wall abnormalities, including hypertrophy, distinct layers, and deep trabeculae. However, it is frequently difficult to distinguish the findings in non-compaction cardiomyopathy from normal variations, particularly in patients with physiological or pathological left ventricular hypertrophy, those with other cardiomyopathies, and pregnant patients. Cardiac MRI with late gadolinium enhancement is usually also done and is more sensitive. Each imaging technique uses measurement cutoff criteria to enhance discrimination. Several different consensus criteria (eg, by echocardiography
