Non-Compaction Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, ventricular, patients, heart, non-compaction cardiomyopathy, non-compaction, failure, cardiac, heart failure, icd, testing, left, imaging, arrhythmias, genetic


MRI with late gadolinium enhancement is usually also done and is more sensitive. Each imaging technique uses measurement cutoff criteria to enhance discrimination. Several different consensus criteria (eg, by echocardiography [1, 2] or by MRI [3]) have been developed to facilitate diagnosis. Patients with significant levels of myocardial fibrosis have a worse prognosis. ECG and ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring are done to assess current rhythm status and are repeated annually to guide antiarrhythmic medication or device therapies. Patients with findings suggestive of the disorder should have genetic testing. First-degree family members of patients should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia, and/or heart failure), ECG, and echocardiography initially and repeated every 1 to 3 years. Genetic testing is done if the index case has a mutation identified. Family members who are not carriers of that mutation do not require ongoing testing. Treatment of Non-Compaction Cardiomyopathy Moderation of physical activity Sometimes an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) Usually a beta-blocker Sometimes other antiarrhythmic medications (particularly sotalol or amiodarone) Heart failure therapy (including transplantation) as required Sometimes chronic anticoagulation Patients with non-compaction cardiomyopathy should avoid athletic exertion because such activities foster life-threatening arrhythmias. Prevention of sudden death is by an ICD (see also table Indications for an ICD. An ICD is recommended for patients with (1) Prior ventricular tachycardia with syncope Resuscitated cardiac arrest Severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%) Placement of an ICD may also be useful (class IIa recommendation) for patients with lamin A/C cardiomyopathy who have (1) Both nonsustained ventricular tachycardia and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction Beta-blockers and other antiarrhythmic medications are used to treat tachyarrhythmias as they occur. Anticoagulation is used for patients with atrial fibrillation or stroke who meet standard criteria (see also table CHA2DS2-VASc Score). A recent Heart Rhythm Society consensus statement (1) indicates antithrombotic therapy may also be useful (class IIa recommendation) in patients with evidence of ventricular dysfunction and/or trabecular thrombi. Standard measures for treatment of heart failure are used as required (see also Treatment of Dilated Cardiomyopathy). Key Points Non-compaction cardiomyopathy is a genetic cardiac disorder that causes heart failure, arrhythmias, heart blocks, and thromboembolic disease. Diagnosis is based on clinical factors, arrhythmias, cardiac imaging, and genetic testing. First-degree family members have a significant risk of disease and require screening. Treatment may require an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), antiarrhythmic medications, anticoagulation, and/or heart failure medications.
