Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


ABSTRACT Thyroid hormone (TH) effects are dependent on the quantity of the hormone that reaches the tissues, hormone activation, and the availability of unaltered TH receptors in the cell’s nuclei and cytoplasm. Since TH enters the cell unbound, the concentration of free rather than total hormone reflects more accurately the activity level of TH-dependent processes. Under normal conditions, changes in free hormone level are adjusted by appropriate stimulation or suppression of hormone secretion and disposal. Total TH concentration in serum is normally kept at a level proportional to the concentration of carrier proteins, and appropriate to maintain a constant free hormone level. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Most carrier protein dependent alterations in total hormone concentration in serum are due to quantitative changes in the hormone-binding proteins and less commonly to changes in affinities for the hormone. Since wide fluctuations in the concentration of TH carrier proteins does not alter the hormonal economy or metabolic status of the subject ( 1 ), their function is open to speculation. They are responsible for the maintenance of a large extrathyroidal pool of TH of which only the minute, <0.5% fraction of free hormone is immediately available to tissues. It can be estimated that in the absence of binding proteins the small extrathyroidal T 4 pool would be significantly reduced, if not completely depleted in a matter of hours following a sudden cessation of hormone secretion. In contrast, in the presence of normal concentrations of T 4 -binding serum proteins, and in particular thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), a 24-h arrest in hormonal secretion would bring about a decrease in the concentration of T 4 and T 3 in the order of only 10 and 40 per cent, respectively. Thus, it seems logical to assume that one of the functions of T 4 -binding proteins in serum is to safeguard the body from the effects of abrupt fluctuations in hormonal secretion. The second likely function of T 4 -binding serum proteins is to serve as an additional protection against iodine wastage by imparting macromolecular properties to the small iodothyronine molecules, thus limiting their urinary loss ( 2 ). The lack of high affinity T 4 -binding proteins in fish ( 3 ), for example, may be teleologically attributed to the greater iodine abundance in their natural habitat. Liver perfusion studies suggest a
