Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


affinity T 4 -binding proteins in fish ( 3 ), for example, may be teleologically attributed to the greater iodine abundance in their natural habitat. Liver perfusion studies suggest a third function, that facilitating the uniform cellular distribution of T 4 , allowing for changes in the circulating thyroid hormone level to be rapidly communicated to all cells within organ tissues ( 4 ). A fourth function, modeled after the corticosteroid-binding globulin ( 5 ), is targeting the amount of hormone delivery by site specific, enzymatic, alteration of TBG. Indeed neutrophil derived elastase transforms TBG into a heat resistant, relaxed, form with reduced T 4 -binding affinity ( 6 ). TBG was found to have a putative role on the testicular size of the boar. In fact, Meishan pigs with histidine rather than an asparagine in codon 226 have a TBG with lower affinity for T 4 , smaller testes and earlier onset of puberty ( 7 , 8 ). In normal man, approximately 0.03 per cent of the total serum T 4 , and 0.3 per cent of the total serum T 3 are present in free or unbound form ( 3 , 9 ). The major serum thyroid hormone-binding proteins are thyroxine-binding globulin [TBG or thyropexin], transthyretin [TTR or thyroxine-binding prealbumin (TBPA)], and albumin (HSA, human serum albumin) ( 10 ). Several other serum proteins, in particular high density lipoproteins, bind T 4 and T 3 as well as rT 3 ( 9 , 11 ) but their contribution to the overall hormone transport is negligible in both physiological and pathological situations. In term of their relative abundance in serum, HSA is present at approximately 100-fold the molar concentration of TTR and 2,000-fold that of TBG. However, from the view point of the association constants for T 4 , TBG has highest affinity, which is 50-fold higher than that of TTR and 7,000-fold higher that of HSA. As a result, TBG binds 75% of serum T 4 , while TTR and HSA binds only 20% and 5%, respectively ( Table 1 ). The distribution of the iodothyronine metabolites among the three serum binding proteins is distinct ( 12 ). According to their affinity, T 4 > tetraiodothyroacetic acid (TETRAC or T 4 A) = 3,3’,5’-triiodothyronine (reverse T 3 or rT 3 ) > T 3 > triiodothyroacetic acid (TRIAC or T 3 A) = 3,3’-diiodothyronine (T 2 )
