Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


of molecular biology have traced these abnormalities to polymorphisms or mutations in genes encoding TBG and TTR and HSA (see Chapter on Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum). THYROXINE-BINDING GLOBULIN (TBG) The Molecule, Structure and Physical Properties TBG is a 54 kD acidic glycoprotein migrating in the inter-α-globulin zone on conventional electrophoresis, at pH 8.6. The term, thyroxine-binding globulin, is a misnomer since the molecule also binds T 3 and reverse T 3 . It was first recognized to serve as the major thyroid hormone transport protein in serum in 1952 ( 16 ). Since TBG binds 75% of serum T 4 and T 3 , quantitative and qualitative abnormalities of this protein have most profound effects on the total iodothyronine levels in serum. Its primary structure was deduced in 1989 from the nucleotide sequence of a partial TBG cDNA and an overlapping genomic DNA clones ( 17 ). However, it took 17 years to characterize its three dimensional structure by crystallographic analysis ( 18 ) ( Fig. 1 ). Figure 1. Structure of the TBG molecule: Reactive loop (in yellow). Insertion occurs following its cleavage by proteases to give an extra strand in the main sheet of the molecule but the T4-binding site can still retain its active conformation. This is in keeping with other findings showing that the binding and release of T4 is not due to a switch from an on to an off conformation but rather results from an equilibrated change in plasticity of the binding site. So, the S-to-R change in TBG results in a 6 -fold decrease but not a total loss of affinity. The important corollary is that that the release of thyroxine is a modulated process as notably seen in response to changes in temperature ( 19 ). (Courtesy of Dr, R.W. Carrell), TBG is synthesized in the liver as single polypeptide chain of 415 amino acids. The mature molecule, minus the signal peptide, is composed of 395 amino acids (44 kD) and four heterosaccharide units with 5 to 9 terminal sialic acids. The carbohydrate chains are not required for hormone binding but are important for the correct post-translational folding and secretion of the molecule ( 20 , 21 ) and are responsible for the multiple TBG isoforms (microheterogeneity) present on isoelectric focusing ( 22 , 23 ). The isoelectric point of normal TBG ranges from pH 4.2 to 4.6, however,
