Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


are responsible for the multiple TBG isoforms (microheterogeneity) present on isoelectric focusing ( 22 , 23 ). The isoelectric point of normal TBG ranges from pH 4.2 to 4.6, however, this increases to 6 when all sialic acid residues are removed. The protein is very stable when stored in serum, but rapidly loses its hormone binding properties by denaturation at temperatures above 55°C and pH below 4. The half-life of denaturation at 60°C is approximately 7 min but association with T 4 increases the stability of TBG ( 24 - 26 ). TBG can be measured by immunometric techniques or saturation analysis using one of its iodothyronine ligands ( 26 - 28 ). The tertiary structure of TBG was solved by co-crystallizing the in-vitro synthesized non-glycosylated molecule with T 4 and speculations regarding the properties of TBG and its variants have been confirmed ( 18 , 19 ). The molecule caries T 4 in a surface pocket held by a series of hydrophobic interactions with underlying residues and hydrogen bonding of the aminoproprionate of T 4 with adjacent residues ( Figure 1 ). TBG differs from other members of the SERPIN family in having the upper half of the main ß-sheet completely opened. This allows the reactive center peptide loop to move in and out of the sheet, resulting in binding and release of the ligand without cleavage of TBG. Thus the molecule can assume a high-affinity and a low-affinity conformation, a model proposed earlier by Grasberger et al ( 29 ) and confirmed crystallographically ( 18 ). This reversibility is due to the unique presence of P8 proline in TBG, rather than a threonine in all other SERPINs, limiting loop insertion. The coordinated movements of the reactive loop, hD, and the hormone-binding site allow the allosteric regulation of hormone release. Gene Structure and Transcriptional Regulation The molecule is encoded by a single gene copy located in the long arm of the human X-chromosome (Xq22.2) ( 30 , 31 ). The gene consists of 5 exons spanning 5.5kbp ( Fig. 2 ). The first exon is a small and non-coding. It is preceded by a TATAA box and a sequence of 177 nucleotides containing an hepatocyte transcription factor-1 (HNF-1) binding motif that imparts to the gene a strong liver specific transcriptional activity ( 32 ). The numbers and size of exons, their boundaries and types of intron splice junctions as
