Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


motif that imparts to the gene a strong liver specific transcriptional activity ( 32 ). The numbers and size of exons, their boundaries and types of intron splice junctions as well as the amino acid sequences they encode are similar to those of other members of the SERPIN family, to which TBG belongs ( 32 ). These include cortisol-binding globulin and the serine protease inhibitors, α1-antitrypsin (α1AT) and α1-antichymotrypsin (α1ACT). Figure 2. A. Genomic organization and chromosomal localization of thyroid hormone serum binding proteins. Filled boxes represent exons. Location of initiation codons and termination codons are indicated by arrows. B. Structure of promoter regions with the location of cis-acting transcriptional regulatory elements. Reproduced with permission from Hayashi and Refetoff, Molecular Endocrinology: Basic concepts and clinical correlations, Raven Press Ltd. 1995. Biological Properties The TBG molecule has a single iodothyronine binding site with affinity slightly higher for T 4 than for T 3 ( 33 ) ( Table 1 ). Optimal binding activity requires the presence of the L-alanine side chain, an unsubstituted 4'-hydroxyl group, a diphenyl ether bridge, and halogen (I or Br) constituents at the 3,5,3' and 5' positions ( 34 ). Compared to L-T 4 , 3,3’,5’-triiodothyronine (rT 3 ) binds to TBG with ~40% higher affinity, D-T 4 with half that of the L-isomer and tetraiodothyroacetic acid with ~25%. A number of organic compounds compete with thyroid hormone-binding to TBG. Most notable are: 5,5‑diphenylhydantoin ( 35 ), 1,8-anilinonaphthalenesulfonic acid, and salicylates ( 36 ). While reversible flip-flop conformational changes of TBG allow for binding and release of the hormone ligand, cleavage of the molecule by leukocyte elastase produces a permanent change in the properties of the molecule. This modified form has reduced T 4 -binding and increased heat stability ( 6 ). Denatured TBG does not bind iodothyronines but can be detected with antibodies that recognize the primary structure of the molecule ( 26 ). In euthyroid adults with normal TBG concentration, about one-third of the molecules carry thyroid hormone, mainly T 4 . When fully saturated, it carries about 20 µg of T 4 /dl of serum. The biologic half-life is about 5 days, and the volume of distribution is similar to that of albumin ( 37 , 38 ) ( Table 1 ). TBG is cleared by the liver. Loss of sialic acid accelerates its removal through interaction with the asialo-glycoprotein receptors reducing the half
