Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


37 , 38 ) ( Table 1 ). TBG is cleared by the liver. Loss of sialic acid accelerates its removal through interaction with the asialo-glycoprotein receptors reducing the half live by 500-fold ( 24 ). However, it is unknown whether desialylation is a required in the normal pathway of TBG metabolism. Physiology TBG concentration in the serum of normal adults ranges from 1.1 to 2.1 mg/dl (180 - 350 nM), 14 - 26 µg T 4 /dl in terms of maximal T 4 -binding capacity. The protein is present in serum of the 12th week old fetus and in the newborn until 2-3 years of age it is about 1.5 times the normal adult concentration ( 39 - 41 ). TBG levels decline slightly reaching a nadir during mid-adulthood and tend to rise with further advance in age ( 42 ). Variable amounts of TBG, though much smaller than those in serum, have been detected in amniotic fluid ( 43 ), cerebrospinal fluid ( 44 ) and urine ( 45 ). Estrogen excess, either from an endogenous source (hydatidiform mole, estrogen-producing tumors, etc.) or exogenous (therapeutic or birth control use) is the most common cause of increased serum TBG concentration. The level of several other serum proteins such as corticosteroid-binding globulin, testosterone-binding globulin, ceruloplasmin, and transferrin, are also increased ( 46 ). This effect of estrogen is mediated through an increase in the complexity of the oligosaccharide residues in TBG together with an increase in the number of sialic acids resulting in prolonged biological half-life ( 47 , 48 ). Androgens and anabolic steroids produce an opposite effect ( 49 , 50 ). Although sex hormones affect the serum level of TBG, gender differences are small except during pregnancy during which concentrations are on the average 2.5-fold the normal value ( 28 , 51 ). Extreme changes in TBG concentration (low or high) alters the accuracy of immunometric measurements of free iodothyronines and particularly that of T 3 ( 52 ). Acquired TBG Abnormalities Altered synthesis, degradation, or both are responsible for the majority of acquired TBG abnormalities ( 38 ). Severe terminal illness is undoubtedly the most common cause for acquired decrease in TBG concentration. Interleukin-6, a stimulator of acute phase reactants, is a candidate for mediation of this effect ( 53 ). In vivo studies in man showed a reduction in the turnover of TBG in hypothyroidism
