Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


of acute phase reactants, is a candidate for mediation of this effect ( 53 ). In vivo studies in man showed a reduction in the turnover of TBG in hypothyroidism and an increase in hyperthyroidism ( 37 , 38 ). Thus, alterations in the degradation rate, rather than changes in the rate of synthesis, may be responsible for the changes of TBG concentration observed in these two conditions. Partially desialylated TBG, has slow electrophoretic mobility (sTBG, not to be confused with the variant TBG-S), and was found in the serum of some patients with severe liver disease ( 54 ) and may be present in relatively higher proportion than TBG in serum of patients with a variety of non-thyroidal illnesses and particularly those with compromised hepatocellular function ( 55 ). This is not surprising considering that sTBG is removed by the asialoglycoprotein receptors present in abundance on liver cells ( 24 , 56 ). Patients with the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein (CDG) syndrome show a characteristic cathodal shift in the relative proportion of TBG isoforms compatible with diminished sialic acid content ( 57 ). This inherited syndrome presenting psychomotor retardation, cerebellar hypoplasia, peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, and variably, retinitis pigmentosa, skeletal abnormalities and lipodystrophy ( 58 ), manifests also abnormalities of charge and mass in a variety of serum glycoproteins ( 59 ). TRANSTHYRETIN (TTR) The Molecule, Structure and Physical Properties TTR is a 55kD homotetramer which is highly acidic although it contains no carbohydrate. Formerly known as thyroxine-binding prealbumin (TBPA), for its electrophoretic mobility anodal to albumin, was first recognized to bind T 4 in 1958 ( 60 ). Subsequently it was demonstrated that TTR also forms a complex with retinol-binding protein and thus plays a role in the transport of vitamin A (retinol, or trans retinoic acid) ( 61 , 62 ). TTR circulates in blood as a stable tetramer of identical subunits, each containing 127 amino acids ( 63 ). Although the tetrameric structure of the molecule was demonstrated by genetic studies ( 64 , 65 ), detailed structural analysis is available through X-ray crystallography ( 66 , 67 ) ( Fig. 3 ). Each TTR subunit has 8 ß-strands four of which form the inner sheet and four the outer sheet. The four subunits form a symmetrical ß-barrel structure with a double trumpeted hydrophobic channel that traverses the molecule forming the two iodothyronine binding sites. Despite the apparent identity
