Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


outer sheet. The four subunits form a symmetrical ß-barrel structure with a double trumpeted hydrophobic channel that traverses the molecule forming the two iodothyronine binding sites. Despite the apparent identity of the two iodothyronine binding sites, TTR usually binds only one T 4 molecule because the binding affinity of the second site is greatly reduced through a negative cooperative effect ( 69 ). The TTR tetramer can bind four molecules of RBP that do not interfere with T 4 -binding, and vice versa ( 70 ). TTR can be measured by densitometry after its separation from the other serum proteins by electrophoresis, by hormone saturation, and by immunoassays. Figure 3. X-ray structure of TTR. The molecule is a homotetrameric protein composed of four monomers of 127 amino acids. Structurally, in its native state, TTR contains eight stands (A-H) and a small α-helix. The contacts between the dimers form two hydrophobic pockets where T4 binds (T4 channel). As shown in the magnified insert, each monomer contains one small α-helix and eight β-strands (CBEF and DAGH). Adapted from a model; PDB code 1DVQ ( 68 ). Gene Structure and Transcriptional Regulation TTR is encoded by a single gene copy located on human chromosome 18 (18q11.2-12.1) ( 63 , 71 ) ( Fig. 2 ). The gene consists of 4 exons spanning for 6.8kbp. Knowledge about the transcriptional regulation of the human TTR gene comes from studies of the mouse gene structural and sequence homology which extends to the promoter region ( 72 , 73 ). In both species a TATAA box and binding sites for HNF-1, 3 and 4 are located within 150 bp from the transcription start site. Although TTR in serum originates from the liver ( 74 ), TTR mRNA is also found in kidney cells, the choroid plexus, meninges, retina, placenta, pancreatic islet cells and fetal intestine ( 75 - 78 ). TTR constitutes up to 25% of the total protein present in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid where it binds 80% of T 4 ( 79 ) . Biological Properties Despite the 20-fold higher concentration of TTR in serum relative to that of TBG, it plays a lesser role in iodothyronine transport. In the presence of normal levels of TBG, wide fluctuations in TTR concentration or its removal from serum by specific antibodies has little influence on the concentration of free T 4 ( 80 ). Some of the properties
