Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


wide fluctuations in TTR concentration or its removal from serum by specific antibodies has little influence on the concentration of free T 4 ( 80 ). Some of the properties of TTR are summarized in Table 1 . The first T 4 molecule binds to TTR with a Ka of about 100‑fold higher than that for HSA and about 100-fold lesser than that for TBG. Properties necessary for optimal binding activity include iodines at the 3' and 5' positions and a desamino acid side chain which explain the lower T 3 and higher T 4 A affinities relative to that of T 4 ( 34 , 81 ). Non-iodothyronine ligands are also differentially bound, the most notable example being the flavonoid compounds which have a markedly higher binding affinity for TTR than for TBG ( 82 ). Among drugs that compete with T 4 -binding to TTR are ethacrynic acid, salicylates, 2,4-dinitrophenol, penicillin ( 83 , 84 ) and perﬂuoroalkyl substances ( 85 ). The latter have with near equal affinity to TTR and TBG. Barbital also inhibits iodothyronine binding to TTR. Only 0.5% of the circulating TTR is occupied by T 4 . TTR has a relatively rapid turnover (t1/2 = 2 days) and a distribution space similar to that of HSA and TBG ( 86 , 87 ) except that it also exists in CSF. Hence, acute diminution in the rate of synthesis is accompanied by a rapid decrease of its concentration in serum. Physiology Normal average concentration in serum is 25 mg/dl, and corresponds to a maximal binding capacity of approximately 300 µg T 4 /dl. Changes in TTR concentration have relatively little effect on the serum concentration of serum iodothyronines ( 80 , 88 ). There is a distinct reciprocal relationship between acquired changes in TBG and TTR concentration related to gender, age, glucocorticoids, estrogen and androgens ( 42 , 51 , 89 - 91 ). Acquired TTR Abnormalities The reduction or serum TTR concentration surpasses that of TBG in major illness, nephrotic syndrome, liver disease, cystic fibrosis, hyperthyroidism, and protein-calorie malnutrition ( 10 , 92 - 94 ). Increased serum TTR concentration can occur in some patients with islet cell carcinoma ( 95 ). Studies on the metabolism of TTR in man, utilizing radioiodinated purified human TTR, indicate that diminished TTR concentration associated with severe illness or stress is due to a decrease in the
