Thyroid Hormone Serum Transport Proteins
KEYWORDS: pubmed, tbg, serum, binding, thyroxine-binding, free, ttr, clin, globulin, hormone, human, proteins, free article, article, pmc free


on the metabolism of TTR in man, utilizing radioiodinated purified human TTR, indicate that diminished TTR concentration associated with severe illness or stress is due to a decrease in the rate of synthesis or an increase in the rate of degradation, or both ( 86 , 87 ). HUMAN SERUM ALBUMIN (HSA) The Molecule, Structure and Physical Properties HSA is a 66.5 kD protein synthesized by the liver. It is composed of 585 amino acids with high content of cystines and charged amino acids but no carbohydrate ( 96 ). The three domains of the molecule can be conceived as three tennis balls packaged in a cylindrical case. Gene Structure and Transcriptional Regulation HSA is encoded by a single gene copy located on human chromosome 4 (4q11-q13) ( 97 ). The gene contains 15 exons, 14 of which are coding ( 98 ) ( Fig. 2 ). The promoter region of the HSA gene has been most intensive studied. The transcriptional regulation has been best characterized in rodents that share 90% sequence homology with the corresponding human gene, including a distal enhancer element 10 kbp upstream from the promoter region ( 99 ). Binding sites for hepatocyte enriched nuclear proteins, such as HNF-1, C/EBP, and DBP have been identified ( 100 - 102 ). Biological Properties HSA associates with a wide variety of substances including hormones and drugs possessing a hydrophobic region, and thus the association of TH to HSA can be viewed as nonspecific. Of the several iodothyronine-binding sites on the HSA molecule, only one has a relatively high affinity for T 4 and T 3 . Yet these are 10,000-fold inferior to those of TBG ( 27 ). Fatty acids and chloride ions decrease their binding to HSA ( 27 ). The biologic t1/2 of HSA is relatively long ( 103 ). Some of its properties are summarized in Table 1 . More than half of the total protein content in serum is HSA. As a result, it is the principal contributor to the maintenance of the colloid osmotic pressure ( 96 ). It has been suggested that HSA synthesis may be, in part, regulated by a feedback mechanism involving alteration in the colloid osmotic pressure. Indeed, down-regulation of HSA gene expression has been recently observed during the infusion of macromolecules in the rat ( 104 ). Physiology Because of the low affinity and despite the high capacity
