GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


Advance Access Publication Date: 31 January 2026 Investigation Genomics and reproductive biology of Leptopilina malgretoutensis (sp. nov.): an asexual parasitoid of Caribbean Drosophila Amelia R.I. Lindsey ,1,*Chia-Hua Lue ,2Jeremy S. Davis ,3Lydia J. Borjon ,4,5Stephanie E. Mauthner ,5 Laura C. Fricke,1Anna Youtsey,4,5Lauren Eads,4Molly Murphy,4Melissa K. Drown,6,8Christopher Faulk ,6 Matthew L. Buffington ,7,*William Daniel Tracey Jr. 4,5,* 7Systematic Entomology Laboratory, ARS/USDA c/o Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of Natural History, Washington, DC 20560, United States 8Present address: Oxford Nanopore Technologies, New York, NY 10013, United States ; Matthew L. Buffington. Systematic Entomology Laboratory, USDA-ARS, c/o National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, 10th & Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20013, United States. Email: ; William Daniel Tracey. The Linda and Jack Gill Center for Biomolecular Science, Drosophila and parasitic wasps in the genus Leptopilina have long been a model for understanding host–parasite interactions. Indeed, para- sitic wasps are important drivers of ecological and evolutionary processes broadly, but we are generally lacking information about the diver- sity, natural history, and evolution of these relationships. We collected insects from the Caribbean Island of Saint Lucia, home to the eastern Caribbean dunni subgroup of Drosophila: a clade long appreciated for its recent patterns of speciation and adaptation. Here we present an integrative approach that incorporates natural history, taxonomy, physiology, and genomics to describe Leptopilina malgretoutensis Buffington, Lue, Davis & Tracey sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Figitidae), a virulent parasitoid of dunni group flies, specifically Drosophila antillea. Leptopilina malgretoutensis is nested within an early-branching clade of Leptopilina, offering insights into the evolution of this important genus of Drosophila parasitoids. We present a high-quality assembly for this wasp’s 1Gbp genome, and for its bacterial endosymbiont: Wolbachia strain “wLmal.” Furthermore, we show that wLmal induces parthenogenesis in the wasp, and that these wasps are reliant upon their Wolbachia infections to produce female offspring. Finally, comparisons to historical museum specimens indicated that Leptopilina mal- gretoutensis had been collected approximately 40 years prior from the nearby island of Guadeloupe, and these wasps were also asexually reproducing. This work represents one of only a handful of studies in which field biology, taxonomy, systematics, genomics, and experimental biology are integrated into a species description: showcasing the possibilities for biodiversity research in the genomic era. Keywords: dunni; cardini; Wolbachia; parthenogenesis; Saint Lucia; Antilles; host-parasite; Animalia Introduction more effort to find and describe the ecology and unique biology of new parasitoid species is needed to better
