GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


sechellia-simulans (Hollocher 1996; Dworkin (GPS: lat 13.924, lon −60.959, elevation 308.7 m, Fig. 1). Each trap- and Jones 2009)). Another such clade is the D. dunni group—a sub- ping site was checked daily for 3 d and insects were collected off group of the larger D. cardini group that is endemic to the the fruit each time. Flies were collected using either cardboard Caribbean islands, particularly the Lesser Antilles (Heed and mailing tubes for vertical trapping or mouth aspiration, and wasps Krishnamurthy 1959; Hollocher et al. 2000). This subgroup is were collected by mouth aspiration while they searched for larvae characterized by species or subspecies with distinct abdominal in the bait. pigmentation endemic to just 1 or 2 major islands in this Collection: colony establishment and archipelago—frequently just 25 to 50 km apart. As such, this maintenance group represents an excellent model for the study of peripatric speciation and morphological evolution across archipelagos After collection, flies and wasps were transferred to individual rear- (Hollocher 1996; Hollocher et al. 2000). Despite years of appreci- ing vials with instant fly media (Formula 4-24 Instant Drosophila ation for the dunni group as a model, little is known about the Medium, Blue; Carolina Biological Supply Company). Isofemale lines parasitoid complex of these Caribbean flies. of Drosophila antillea and Drosophila willistoni were initiated using flies To better understand the ecology of dunni group Drosophila, and collected at STL3 (see results). Two wasps were collected from STL6 to investigate their potential parasitoids, we (JSD, SEM, WDT) con- (STL6 wasp 1 and wasp 2) and each was left in vials with developing ducted an expedition to the islands of the Lesser Antilles from STL3 Drosophila willistoni larvae to establish colonies. These vials February through May of 2019. We traveled among the islands were then shipped back to Indiana University Bloomington under aboard the sailing vessel Sea Salt (a 42-foot Fountaine Pajot USDA APHIS Importation Permit Number P526P-19-01355. Since Catamaran), which also served as a mobile laboratory. We de- 2019, wasps have been maintained continuously on host cultures scribe here the results of the flies and associated parasitoids col- of D. willistoni on Bloomington fly food medium and further reared lected from the island of Saint Lucia. Other results of our in an IU USDA-regulated containment facility number 5035. The col- expedition will be described elsewhere. We describe a new species ony established from wasp 2 (STL6-2) has
