GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


results of our in an IU USDA-regulated containment facility number 5035. The col- expedition will be described elsewhere. We describe a new species ony established from wasp 2 (STL6-2) has had consistently poor fer- of Drosophila parasitoid: Leptopilina malgretoutensis Buffington, Lue, tility, making it difficult to work with experimentally. Thus, all Davis, and Tracey sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Figitidae). Leptopilina experiments and results described here were performed on the col- malgretoutensis appears to be endemic to the Lesser Antilles, and ony established from wasp 1 (STL6-1). Inspection of preserved wasps we find that it has high virulence against dunni group flies, particu- from the wasp 2 colony confirms that it is of the same species that is larly Drosophila antillea, also collected on Saint Lucia. To the best of described here (see Results), and COI barcoding revealed the 2 col- our knowledge, this is the first host–parasitoid association re- onies were identical at the COI locus . corded for the cardini and dunni group Drosophila. We find that Taxonomy: imaging the wasps reproduce via thelytokous parthenogenesis (the asex- ual reproduction of females) and that this is caused by infection Voucher specimens were sent to 2 of us (CHL and MB) for identifica- with a bacterium: a parthenogenesis-inducing Wolbachia sym- tion. These specimens were compared with specimens deposited in biont. We report de novo genome assemblies for Leptopilina malgre- the USNM as well as those on loan from Goran Nordlander (Uppsala malgretoutensis has the largest Leptopilina genome reported to-date Carton were shared with MB, and his work with G. Nordlander in (∼1Gbp) and will serve as a useful resource for understanding the the mid-1980s. These notes revealed an undescribed Leptopilina evolution of Drosophila–Leptopilina relationships in the Caribbean from Guadeloupe that matched the species described herein. We islands, island speciation events, and parasitoid genome evolu- are therefore including these older specimens in the description. tion more broadly. Images were acquired using a Hitachi 3000 desktop Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM), after a 120 nm coating of Au–Pd from a Cressington sputter-coater. Light micrographs were shot using a Materials and methods Macropod 3D Pro camera setup. All type specimens collected in Collection: field sites and field rearing this study are housed in the USNM (registration numbers below); After sailing from Walliabou Bay of Saint Vincent and the additional types, examined by G. Nordlander, reside in the Uppsala Soufrière and Marigot Bays of Saint Lucia. Verbal
