GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


numbers below); After sailing from Walliabou Bay of Saint Vincent and the additional types, examined by G. Nordlander, reside in the Uppsala Soufrière and Marigot Bays of Saint Lucia. Verbal permission for Terminology for these descriptions follows Lue et al. (2016). the collection of Drosophila and their parasitoids was obtained in Taxonomy: systematics of Leptopilina a February 2019 meeting with Dr. Hannah Romain of the Saint Lucia Ministry of Agriculture. Sampling was conducted in 2019 Lue et al. (2016)provided a detailed description of the species lim- on Saint Lucia and leveraged baited trapping with either banana its of Leptopilina. Species in this genus are common throughout the or calabasa, a locally available cucurbit fruit (likely Cucurbita Holarctic Region and have recently been investigated for their bio- moschata). Calabasa and banana traps contained chopped fruit logical control potential of pestiferous Drosophilidae (Stacconi mixed with water and baker’s yeast that had been kept in a closed et al. 2015; Abram et al. 2022). Some 29 species are currently recog- bucket for one or more days to ferment. The Calabasa bait was nized worldwide . While most described species chosen based on communication with Hope Hollecher who found are endemic to the Holarctic Region, many undescribed species it to be particularly attractive to dunni group Drosophila. Traps remain in collections, awaiting description. A relatively common were set at 2 separate sites from which flies and wasps in this trait among Neotropical Leptopilina is polychromatic antennal study derive. The first site, known as STL3 was placed on 24 segments, specifically black/brown, cream, and orange-colored February 2019 with a total of 2 calabasa traps on a short trail lead- segments. These traits are either rare or wholly missing from ing off the main road near Ladera resort and Hotel Chocolat (GPS: the Paleotropics and Australia (Buffington, Lue, pers. obsv.). This lat 13.83, lon −61.05, elevation 289.6 m, Fig. 1). The second site, is mentioned here as the new species, herein described, has Species description of asexual Drosophila parasitoid | 3 Fig. 1. Collections on Saint Lucia: field notebook entry from JSD on 1 March 2019: “…a 40-minute brisk hike, in which I found 0 wasps in the traps —[bummer]. Until I remembered I had set out one more trap off the path a little that I had not checked yet. And [nevertheless], my lucky [telson] finds the wasp we needed sitting in this cup. I
