GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


out one more trap off the path a little that I had not checked yet. And [nevertheless], my lucky [telson] finds the wasp we needed sitting in this cup. I managed to nab it and was pretty excited leaving here.” a) Map of Saint Lucia , annotated with (i) locations of the STL3 and STL6 trap placements, (ii) the route and mooring locations (Soufrière in the south, and Marigot in the north) of the Sea Salt, and (iii) Malgretoute: the location of the La Soufrière Volcano. b) The STL6 calabasa trap. c) The inside of a calabasa trap. rather unique color patterns among the antennal segments. This pupariation for the D. antillea species (which avoids pupariation character makes this species relatively straightforward to diag- on the side of the culture vials). Five naïve L. malgretoutensis female nose from other Leptopilina. wasps were placed into each infection vial and were allowed to in- fect the larvae for 24 h. During the infection period, the vials were Biology: virulence assessment closed with Flugs (Genesee Scientific cat.no.49-102) dampened To test the virulence of L. malgretoutensis on Drosophila host spe- with honey and water (1:1 mixture) to ensure that the adult wasps cies, infection vials were established at a wasp-to-larvae ratio of had access to food. After the infection period, the wasps were re- 1:10 (typically 5 female wasps and 50 Drosophila larvae). Two isofe- moved, and the vials were incubated as described above. male lines from 2 Drosophila species that were collected from the Uninfected mock control vials were treated in the same way but island of Saint Lucia were assessed: Drosophila willistoni (line were not exposed to wasps. The vials were assessed daily for the STL3 iso3) and Drosophila antillea (line STL3 iso1). To collect the emergence of adult insects. Adult flies eclosed after 10 to 14 d, age-matched larvae, 20 to 30 male and female adult flies were and adult wasps eclosed after 25 to 30 d. Any newly eclosed adult placed in embryo collection cages. The embryo collection plates flies and wasps were counted and removed from the vials. The dif- (60 mm × 15 mm) contained 5 mL of Drosophila banana food me- ference between the total number of adults and the initial number dium (Archon Scientific) and a small amount of yeast paste (active of larvae (i.e. those that were missing or dead) in each vial was re-
