GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


adults and the initial number dium (Archon Scientific) and a small amount of yeast paste (active of larvae (i.e. those that were missing or dead) in each vial was re- dry yeast mixed with water). The embryo collection cages were corded. In experiments to investigate oviposition frequency, infec- maintained in an incubator set at 25 °C and 75% humidity on a tions were performed as above, but larvae and pupae were 12 h/12 h light/dark cycle. Embryos from a restricted 12-h recovered from the vials, counted, and dissected under a stereo- egg-laying window were allowed to develop in the incubator for microscope in Phosphate Buffered Saline on the third or fifth day 3 d until they reached the size of 2nd instar larvae. Larvae were following infection. The presence or absence of wasp eggs and lar- carefully collected so as to not damage them. Fifty larvae were vae was noted. All detected wasp offspring were counted in cases of placed into individual vials containing Drosophila banana food superparasitism. The difference between the total number of dis- and a small cotton dental plug that was inserted into the center sected larvae/pupae and the initial number of larvae (i.e. those of the food. The cotton plug was necessary to provide a place for that were missing or dead) in each vial was recorded. 4 | Lindsey et al. Biology: western blots for Wolbachia detection Genomics: Oxford Nanopore library preparation and sequencing Active Wolbachia infection was assessed with western blot follow- ing published protocols . Positive and negative DNA was extracted from a pool of ∼100 adult female wasps using controls included individual Drosophila melanogaster from previ- a Gentra PureGene Tissue Kit (Qiagen). 3 ug of DNA was end ously validated Wolbachia-infected and -uninfected stocks (RRID: prepped using NEBNext FFPE Repair Mix (M6630), NEBNext Ultra BDSC_145) . Individual insects were homoge- II End repair/dA-tailing Module (E7546), and NEBNext Quick nized with a pestle in 1.7 mL microcentrifuge tubes containing ly- Ligation Module (E6056) and subsequently library prepped using sis buffer (150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH8) the ONT supplied SQK- LSK110 kit. Sequencing took place on an with HALT protease inhibitor cocktail (Thermo Scientific) and Oxford Nanopore Minion over 3 d with nuclease wash followed 5 mM EDTA). Homogenates were pelleted via centrifugation by reloading after 24 h. The sequencing computer was built with (8,000 × g for 1
