GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


species were combined. The treat- 2013), alignment files were converted and sorted with samtools ment conditions of each generation were as follows: G un- v1.10 , and finally pilon was called for polishing to mated females received 6 d of rifampicin treatment. The G generate an updated assembly. Four rounds of pilon polishing offspring were almost all female and also received 6 d of rifam- were performed, each time mapping the short reads to the most picin treatment, after which they produced F offspring. In order recent pilon output prior to pilon correction. Manual curation of to mate Wolbachia depleted males and females, a separate gen- the assembly and identification of cytoplasmic genomes was in- eration of G females was treated with rifampicin to produce G formed by results derived from running blobtools (Challis et al. 1 2 females that would eclose at the same time as the F males. 2020). We discarded contigs that were deemed anomalous for These G females then received 6 d of rifampicin treatment the following reasons: (i) less than 5,000 bp in length with no and were then mated to F males. Subsequent generations (F BUSCOs (because >5k reads were used during assembly, these 0 1 to F ) were sexed and propagated by attempting sibling mating are very likely to be chimeric and/or haplotigs), or, (ii) having blast (when possible, see Results) without further rifampicin hits to nonarthropod taxa across the length of the contig, unusual treatments. sequencing coverage(<15X; >800X), and unusual GC content Species description of asexual Drosophila parasitoid | 5 (outside of 23% to 33%). Next, we checked the previously purged reads derived from the mixed pool of wasps. RNA-seq reads contigs and recovered those that encoded for Leptopilina rRNAs. were mapped to a hard-masked version of the reference genome Assemblies were assessed with BUSCO v.5.3.2 (Simão et al. 2015) using STAR v2.5.3a (Dobin and Gingeras 2015). GeMoMa was against the hymenoptera_odb10 database in genome mode (“-m called with the following additional parameters: tblastn = TRUE, genome”). Finally, NCBI’s Foreign Contamination Screen (FCS) AnnotationFinalizer.n = false, AnnotationFinalizer.r = SIMPLE, was used to detect and remove other contaminants (Astashyn AnnotationFinalizer.t = true, AnnotationFinalizer.p = LMAL, pc = et al. 2024). Specifically, a small number of adaptor sequences true, o = true. To generate annotations for Leptopilina clavipes and were found and trimmed from the ends of contigs. Three contigs Ganaspis kimorum, we
