GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


small number of adaptor sequences true, o = true. To generate annotations for Leptopilina clavipes and were found and trimmed from the ends of contigs. Three contigs Ganaspis kimorum, we ran the same annotation pipeline on hard- had adaptor sequence in the middle (>5,000 bp from the ends): masked assemblies, only without the RNA-seq data. Protein se- for these, the adaptor sequence was removed and the contig split quences from each genome were clustered into orthologous into 2 separate contigs, as per NCBI/FCS recommendations groups using OrthoFinder v.2.5.4 (Emms and Kelly 2019). For genes . represented by multiple transcript variants, only the longest iso- form was used in clustering. Genomics: mitogenome Genomics: Wolbachia genome A complete mitogenome was assembled (see Supplementary File 1 for details), annotated with MITOS2 , and A single contig was identified to be a Wolbachia genome, based on manually rearranged to start at COX1 as per convention. size, circularity, and Blobtools results. Genome completeness was MITOS2 parameters included the RefSeq 63 Metazoa reference assessed with BUSCO v5.3.2 (Simão et al. 2015) against the rickett- and the invertebrate mitochondrial translation code. Manual cur- siales_odb10 database in genome mode (“-m genome”). Genome ation was facilitated by comparison to published mitochondrial annotation and phylogenetics were performed by running the genomes from Leptopilina boulardi (KU665622.1), Leptopilina syphax Wolbachia Phylogeny Pipeline (WHOP; (MT649407.1), and Leptopilina myrica (PP848115.1). A phylogeny of gerthmicha/WHOP). In brief, the pipeline takes a pro- Leptopilina was constructed based on COX1 (“COI”) sequences vided database of bacterial genomes (Wolbachia strains and available from the DROP database . A subset of Rickettsiales outgroups) plus additional genomes provided by the available Leptopilina sequences was selected based on (i) sam- the user, annotates them with Prokka v1.14.6 , pling across the genus, (ii) limiting the total number of sequences clusters protein sequences into orthogroups with OrthoFinder for any given species, (iii) length of the barcoding region se- v2.5.4 (Emms and Kelly 2019), aligns the single-copy orthologs quenced, and (iv) checking for open reading frame. In total, 55 se- with MAFFT L-INS-i v7.487 (Katoh and Standley 2013), removes re- quences were used for phylogenetic reconstruction. These combining genes with PhiPack v1.1 (Bruen and Bruen 2005), and include an outgroup (Ganaspis kimorum), previously sequenced bar- then concatenates the alignments prior to phylogenetic recon- codes for the Leptopilina malgretoutensis STL6 colonies (see “Colony struction with IQtree v2.2.3 . IQtree was first Establishment and Maintenance”
