GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


sequenced bar- then concatenates the alignments prior to phylogenetic recon- codes for the Leptopilina malgretoutensis STL6 colonies (see “Colony struction with IQtree v2.2.3 . IQtree was first Establishment and Maintenance” for details) , and run with a preanalysis model optimization step (-m LG + I + G4 the COI sequence derived from the mitogenome assembly. -pre -redo -fast), followed by final reconstruction with the selected Nucleotide sequences were aligned with MAFFT v7.511 (Katoh model and 1,000 bootstrap replicates. The wLmal genome was re- and Standley 2013) using the L-INS-i alignment algorithm and a oriented to start at dnaA and proksee ( five-point gap open penalty (-op 5). Comparison to the translated et al. 2023)) was used for visualization. Prophage regions were amino acid alignment verified that codon relationships were main- identified with VirSorter2 v.2.2.4 , and Phigaro tained, and we did not need to back-translate an amino acid align- v.2.3.0 , and other mobile elements were ment. Ends of the nucleotide alignment were trimmed such that all identified with mobileOG-db v.1.0.1 , all imple- sequences were represented at all positions. Phylogenetic recon- mented in proksee with default parameters. To aid in manual an- struction was then performed with IQtree v1.6.11 (Nguyen et al. notation of wLmal we leveraged the orthogroup relationships 2015) using a preanalysis model optimization step to select the final between wLmal and wMel generated by WHOP to check for specif- model (here, TIM3 + F + I + G4) plus 1,000 “ultrafast” bootstraps. ic proteins. Additionally, we used blastp and tblastn with default parameters to query against the protein sequences or genome, re- Genomics: repeat identification spectively, for a select number of functionally relevant Wolbachia Repetitive DNA content was estimated using RepeatModeler2 proteins not found in wMel. All manual annotation queries and using the curated Dfam database release 3.5 matches are in Supplementary Tables 5and 6. July 2021 , combined with the Repbase Data visualization RepeatMasker database downloaded on October 26, 2018. RepeatMasker was run with the newly identified library to anno- Data visualization was carried out in R version 4.1.3 (R Core Team tate the assembly with the following parameters: RepeatMasker 2014) and leveraged Paul Tol’s “Medium-contrast qualitative color v4.1.2-pl -pa 24 -s [sensitive mode] [using rmblast 2.11.0+] -lib ul- scheme,” (R: khroma ). Newick files from timatefamilies.fa ultimateGenome.fasta. Each repeat library was phylogenetic reconstructions were visualized in FigTree v1.4.4 also mapped against all other species
