GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


(see methods). Morphological description Coloration with head, mesosoma, and metasoma black to dark Leptopilina malgretoutensis Buffington, Lue, Davis brown, legs light brown. Sculpture on the vertex, lateral surface and Tracey sp. nov. of the pronotum, and mesoscutum absent, surface smooth. Species Diagnosis. Leptopilina malgretoutensis is distinguishable Antenna. Female antenna composed of scape, pecidel, and 11 from other Leptopilina species by a number of characters, includ- flagellomeres (F1 to F11). F1 to F4 subcylindrical, slightly ex- ing: flagellomere colors, in which F1 to F4 are honey-brown, panded distally, smooth, nonclaval segments. F5 to F11 claval Fig. 2. Leptopilina malgretoutensis. a) Lateral view, b) lateral view of mesosoma, and c) wing vein pattern. Species description of asexual Drosophila parasitoid | 7 Fig. 3. SEM images of Leptopilina malgretoutensis. a) Top view of mesoscutum, b) Lateral-posterior view of mesosoma, c) antennal clava, ventral view; campaniform sensillae, white arrow, compared to d) antennal clava, dorsal view, where there are no campaniform sensillae, e) scutellar plate, and f) metepimeron; arrow “A,” metapectal cavity; arrow “B,” posterior ridge. segments, abruptly broader than nonclaval segments, distinctly absent. Ocelli small, ratio of maximum diameter of lateral ocellus barrel-shaped, with slightly more erect, dense setae; claval seg- to shortest distance between lateral ocelli 0.2 to 0.4. Anterior ocel- ments with placoidal sensillae distributed evenly around each lus far from posterior ocelli, clearly separating anterior ocellus segment. Single campaniform sensillae present ventro-apically from anterior margins of posterior ocelli. Relative position of an- on F6 to F10 (ventral view, arrow, Fig. 3c; compare to the dorsal tennal sockets intermediate, ratio of vertical distance between in- view in Fig. 3d). Articulation between flagellomeres in antenna ner margin of antennal foramen and ventral margin of clypeus to moniliform, segments distinctly separated by narrow neck-like vertical distance between anterior ocellus and antennal rim 2.0– articulation. Male antenna composed of 13 flagellomeres, F1 as 4.0. Median keel absent. Vertical carina adjacent to ventral margin long as F2, slightly curved, excavated distally; campaniform sen- of antennal socket absent; facial sculpture absent, surface sillae on all flagellomeres. smooth. Facial impression absent, face flat. Antennal scrobe ab- Head. In the anterior view, broadly triangular. Pubescence on sent. Anterior tentorial pits small. Vertical delineations on lower head sparse, with single setae scattered over face. Sculpture along face absent. Ventral clypeal margin laterally, close to anterior lateral margin of occiput absent. Gena (measured from the com- mandibular articulation, straight. Ventral
