GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


single setae scattered over face. Sculpture along face absent. Ventral clypeal margin laterally, close to anterior lateral margin of occiput absent. Gena (measured from the com- mandibular articulation, straight. Ventral clypeal margin medial- pound eye to the posterolateral margin of the head) short, ratio ly straight, flat, with 4 to 6 setae overhanging base of mandibles. of length of gena to length of compound eye in dorsal view <0.3. Clypeus smooth. Malar space adjacent to anterior articulation of Sculpture of gena absent, smooth. Lateral margin of occiput even- mandible evenly rounded, smooth. Malar sulcus present, com- ly rounded, not well defined. Occiput (except extreme lateral mar- posed of single groove. Eye removed from lateral ocelli, ratio of gin) smooth. Carina issuing from lateral margin of postocciput distance between compound eye and posterior mandibular 8 | Lindsey et al. articulation to distance between posterior ocellus and compound anterior end of metapleural carina. Posteroventral corner of me- eye <1.2. Compound eyes, in dorsal view, moderately protruding tapleuron (in lateral view) not extended posteriorly. Anterior from surface of head. Pubescence on compound eyes absent. impression of metepimeron absent. Posterior margin of metepi- Orbital furrows absent. Lateral frontal carina of face absent. meron distinct, separating metepimeron from propodeum, Postero-dorsal aspect of vertex smooth. Hair punctures on lateral with distinct ridge (Fig. 3f, arrow B). Anteroventral setal pit of aspect of vertex absent. Posterior surface of head deeply im- lower metapleuron present, with foamy setae. Subalar area pressed around postocciput. broadened anteriorly, narrowed posteriorly. Prespiracular pro- Mouthparts. Apical segment of maxillary palp with pubes- cess present, blunt, lobe-like, polished, at end of polished pre- cence, consisting of one long erect seta. Apical seta on apical seg- spiracular groove; posteroventral corner of prespiracular ment of maxillary palp longer than twice length of second groove extended to distinct lobe. Dorsellum absent. Anterior im- longest apical seta. The maxillary palp composed of 4 segments. pression of metepisternum, immediately beneath anterior end of Last 2 segments of maxillary palp (in normal repose) straight. metapleural carina, present. Pubescence consisting of few hairs Apical segment of maxillary palp about 1.5 times as long as pre- on posterior part of metepisternum, few sparse hairs on propo- ceding segment. Left mandible with 3 teeth; scattered setae deum, but with distinct posterior swatch of foamy setae at mid- dorsally. line of metapleuron. Mesosoma. Long auburn-golden setae present, originating Pubescence posterolaterally on metacoxae sparse, with
