GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


teeth; scattered setae deum, but with distinct posterior swatch of foamy setae at mid- dorsally. line of metapleuron. Mesosoma. Long auburn-golden setae present, originating Pubescence posterolaterally on metacoxae sparse, with single from anterior inflection of pronotum, extending to anterior mar- postero-dorsal button of dense pubescence. Microsculpture on gin of mesoscutum; rest of pronotum glabrous (Fig. 3a and b). hind coxa absent. Longitudinal ridge on posterior surface of meta- Anteroventral inflection of pronotum narrow. Pubescence on lat- tibia absent. Metafemoral tooth present, elongate, with adjacent eral surface of pronotum absent. No ridges present posterior to serrate ridge posteriorly. Ratio of first metatarsal segment to re- pronotal plate. Anterior flange of pronotal plate distinctly pro- maining 4 segments less than 10; metatarsus 5 distinctly elongate truding anteriorly, completely smooth. Ridges extending poster- relative to 2 through 4. iorly from lateral margin of pronotal plate absent. Lateral Wing vein M absent. Pubescence of fore wing present, long, pronotal carina absent. Crest of pronotal plate absent. Dorsal moderately dense on most of surface. Apical margin of female margin of pronotal plate (in anterior view) spatulate. fore wing rounded. Rs + M of forewing defined but nebulous at Submedian pronotal depressions open laterally, deep. Lateral point of origin from basal vein at posterior third. Mesal end of margin of pronotal plate defined all the way to dorsal margin of Rs + M vein situated closer to anterior margin of wing, directed to- pronotum. Width of pronotal plate narrow, not nearly as wide wards middle of basalis. Vein R1 forming marginal cell complete- as head. ly. Basal abscissa of R1 (the abscissa between 2r and the wing Mesoscutal surface convex, evenly curved. Sculpture on me- margin) of forewing as broad as adjacent wing veins. Coloration soscutum absent, entire surface smooth, shiny, with sparse long of wing absent; entire wing hyaline. Marginal cell of fore wing hairs. Notauli absent. Median mesoscutal carina absent. membranous, similar to other wing cells. Areolet absent. Hair Anterior admedial lines absent. Median mesoscutal impression fringe along apical margin of fore wing present, long or very absent. Parascutal carina early straight. long (Fig. 2c). Mesopleuron entirely smooth. Subpleuron entirely smooth, Propodeal spurs absent. Lateral propodeal carinae present, not glabrous. Lower pleuron entirely smooth, glabrous. Epicnemial reaching scutellum. Ventral end of lateral propodeal carina reach- carina absent. Lateroventral mesopleural carina present, marking ing nucha, carinae separated from each other, elbowed at mid- an abrupt
