GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


the STL3 collection site) and then deter- host strain that was also collected on Saint Lucia. Data are plotted as mean ± SEM; n = 8 infection vials, n = 3 uninfected control vials. b) mined the proportion of wasps and flies that emerged from the in- Percentage of host larvae that contained wasp larvae, wasp eggs, or both, fection vials. The results clearly indicated a high degree of after exposure to L. malgretoutensis. The majority of D. antillea hosts were virulence of L. malgretoutensis on D. antillea (76.5% ± 5.6% wasp infested with wasp offspring, whereas many D. willistoni hosts showed no eclosion) relative to D. willistoni (20% ± 3.8% wasp eclosion) as sign of infection. c) Histogram of the number of wasp offspring found in host species (Fig. 4a). To gain insight into the causes behind this each host larva. Drosophila antillea hosts were frequently superparasitized, containing multiple wasp larvae and/or eggs. Many D. willistoni hosts were difference in virulence, we investigated oviposition frequencies uninfected or contained only a single wasp offspring, and were very rarely in D. willistoni and in D. antillea by dissecting fly larvae and pupae superparasitized. In (b) and (c) data are plotted as mean ± SEM; n = 6 3 to 5 d after wasp infection. Our results indicated that fewer wasp infection vials. eggs and larvae were present in D. willistoni larvae relative to D. an- tillea (Fig. 4b). In addition, we did not see evidence of encapsulated wasp eggs, or dead larvae within infected D. willistoni larvae, sug- Wolbachia mediates obligate thelytokous gesting that immune evasion is unlikely to be an explanation for parthenogenesis in Leptopilina malgretoutensis the difference in virulence. Surprisingly, many of the infected D. antillea larvae and pupae were found to contain multiple While maintaining L. malgretoutensis wasp lines, we noticed that wasp offspring (Fig. 4c), indicating a tendency of L. malgretoutensis the cultures were primarily female (>95%). And, in one generation to superinfect this host species. One infected D. antillea larva was of passaging, the cultures became entirely female. Fearing that we even observed to contain 11 wasp progeny. In contrast, super- would lose the culture, we infected flies with these female wasps infection was only rarely observed in D. willistoni. The frequent in an attempt to obtain haploid male offspring that could be ma- superinfection of D. antillea is clear evidence that L. malgretoutensis ted back
