GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


observed in D. willistoni. The frequent in an attempt to obtain haploid male offspring that could be ma- superinfection of D. antillea is clear evidence that L. malgretoutensis ted back to their mothers to obtain more diploid females. has a strong drive to lay eggs within this native fly species of However, the cultures generated by the virgin female wasps Saint Lucia. Combined, our results indicate that L. malgretoutensis were again entirely female. This indicated that this species of is effective at oviposition within D. antillea, and it also displays a wasp was capable of asexually producing females (i.e. thelytokous high virulence on D. antillea hosts relative to D. willistoni strains parthenogenesis). Furthermore, the observation that males were that both originated on Saint Lucia. We note that some of these rarely obtained in the cultures was unlikely to be strictly a conse- differences in virulence could be due to distinct larval behaviors quence of the wasps having especially high rates of fertilization of the 2 host species. Anecdotally, we observed that D. antillea (which gives rise to female offspring in arrhenotokous, sexual, larvae have a more roving pattern of foraging within infection haplodiploids). In many parasitic wasp species, including a suite vials, whereas the D. willistoni larvae had an apparently stronger of other Leptopilina sp., thelytokous parthenogenesis is mediated tendency to burrow into the food. We observed both D. willistoni by vertically transmitted bacterial symbionts such as Wolbachia and D. antillea larvae rolling in response to wasp attacks, and at (α-proteobacteria: Rickettsiales) (Wachi et al. 2015; Ma and a similar frequency. However, we also observed D. willistoni Schwander 2017; Chen et al. 2022). We tested for the presence of burrowing into agar in rolling assays (eg Mauthner et al. (2025)), Wolbachia infection by western blot, targeting a Wolbachia specific again supporting the notion that burrowing may be protective in protein and found that indeed the wasps were infected with this this species. microbe (Supplementary File, Supplementary Fig. 1). 10 | Lindsey et al. Leptopilina malgretoutensis genome sequencing and assembly We generated a genome assembly for Leptopilina malgretoutensis based on nanopore long read sequencing (Table 1, Supplementary Tables 1 to 3). The draft assembly with Flye lever- aged all nanopore reads longer than 5,000 bp (Supplementary Table 1) and generated 1,666 contigs totaling just over 1Gbp in to- tal length (Table 1; Supplementary File, Supplementary Fig. 2). The assembly was then
