GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


longer than 5,000 bp (Supplementary Table 1) and generated 1,666 contigs totaling just over 1Gbp in to- tal length (Table 1; Supplementary File, Supplementary Fig. 2). The assembly was then polished with illumina short reads: short- read mapping rates were very high (98.9% of reads mapped). After polishing, separating cytoplasmic genomes, removing haplotigs, purging contaminants, and removing otherwise spurious contigs, the ultimate nuclear genome assembly was 1,411 contigs and ∼995Mbp in size with an N50 of >1.8Mbp (Table 1). The longest contig in the assembly was close to 13Mbp in length. Assembly quality was assessed with BUSCO. Just under 90% of the hymen- opteran BUSCO proteins were complete, similar to other assem- blies in the genus (Table 2). We recovered 2 cytoplasmic genomes: mitochondrion and Wolbachia. Additional low-coverage bacterial sequences that were purged from the assembly belonged to typical associates of the fly food and microbiome Fig. 5. Leptopilina malgretoutensis reproduces by symbiont-mediated thelytokous parthenogenesis. a) Schematic depicting the production of (Supplementary Results in File 1 and Supplementary Table 3). male progeny after 2 generations of antibiotic treatment (“+rif”), which No other symbionts were identified in the contigs (e.g. Cardinium, supports the hypothesis of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis. b) Spiroplasma, etc. (Duron et al. 2008; Kageyama et al. 2012; Schematic of antibiotic treatment and crossing scheme to test for sexual Perlmutter and Bordenstein 2020)). Thus, we determine that reproduction after symbiont depletion, and an attempt to generate a sexual, symbiont-free strain. c) Percentage of female and male offspring Wolbachia is likely the cause of thelytokous parthenogenesis. in each generation. Data is plotted as mean ± SEM. For generations G2 to F2, n = 4–8 infection vials; for generations F3 to F6, n = 1 infection vial. Mitogenome We assembled a complete mitochondrial genome for Leptopilina malgretoutensis (Fig. 6, Supplementary Table 3). Using the barcod- To determine if a microbe was responsible for the asexual pro- ing sequence region from the mitochondrial genome, plus repre- duction of females, we used antibiotic treatment with rifampicin sentative sequences across the genus, we reconstructed a to remove the infection and assess changes in the offspring sex ra- phylogeny of Leptopilina sp. (Fig. 6a). Leptopilina malgretoutensis se- tio derived from unmated females (Fig. 5a). After treating un- quences were all identical and formed a monophyletic group mated adult females (G ) with rifampicin, they were allowed to 1 more than 10% divergent from the next most closely
