GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


quences were all identical and formed a monophyletic group mated adult females (G ) with rifampicin, they were allowed to 1 more than 10% divergent from the next most closely related spe- parasitize host larvae. Their broods (G ) were almost entirely fe- 2 cies in the dataset, further supporting its designation as a new male (98.6% ± 2.6% female). Critically, Leptopilina are largely proo- species. Importantly, Leptopilina malgretoutensis is sister to a clade vigenic: all their eggs develop and mature during the pupal period within the genus that contains all other species for which genome . This means that symbiont-mediated effects are sequences are available (Leptopilina clavipes, Leptopilina boulardi, likely established much earlier, and treating adults is “too late” (as and Leptopilina heterotoma). Annotation of the mitochondrial gen- has been seen in other wasps ). Thus, we per- ome revealed that gene order was largely conserved as compared formed a second generation of rifampicin treatment: G 2 to other Leptopilina species . rifampicin-treated females produced offspring (F ) that were al- most all male (99.7% ± 0.3% male), a clear indicator of symbiont- Gene annotation mediated parthenogenesis. We attempted to generate a symbiont-free sexually reprodu- Annotation of the repeat-masked Leptopilina malgretoutensis gen- cing line of wasps (Fig. 5b) but were unsuccessful. Specifically, ome revealed 16,402 genes (Table 3), which is in-line with annota- symbiont-depleted males and treated G females were crossed tions of closely related species (Table 2). To better understand to assess sexual reproduction, but offspring continued to be al- genome evolution, we clustered protein sequences (n = 78,896 in most all male (F to F , 91.2% ± 1.5 and 98.5% ± 0.6% male, respect- total) of the 4 Leptopilina species plus outgroup species Ganaspis ki- 1 2 ively), indicating no sexual reproduction (Fig. 5c). After antibiotic morum (Kraaijeveld et al. 2016; Khan et al. 2020; Wey et al. 2020; treatment was discontinued, rare female progeny that were al- Hopper et al. 2024; Sosa-Calvo et al. 2024). As expected with a lowed to reproduce produced sex ratios that gradually returned small set of closely related species, we identified orthologs for to being almost entirely female (F to F , 80 and 100% female, re- most genes: 97.1% of the genes were clustered into 13,659 3 4 spectively), and unmated females were again able to produce fe- orthogroups, each of which contained 5.6 genes on average. male offspring
