GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


but recently re-assigned . pipeline. 66.81% of the nearly 1Gbp genome assembly was identi- L. clavipes. These genomes contained 2,727, 2,742, and 1,718 fied as repetitive (Fig. 7, Supplementary Table 4). Retroelements families respectively, and between 88% and 91% of these families and DNA transposons only constituted 9.57% and 5.09% of the were found in L. malgretoutensis. Furthermore, while only 78% to length of the assembly, respectively. The majority of the repeat 80% of the L. malgretoutensis repeats were identified in these other content (48.97% of the assembly) was categorized as unclassified Leptopilina genomes, an even lower percentage of the Ganaspis repetitive elements. To determine if this large repetitive fraction kimorum repeats were present (73.3 to 77.5%). Finally, the compar- was unique to Leptopilina malgretoutensis we ran the same de novo isons within the clade of L. boulardi, L. heterotoma, and L. clavipes, in- repeat identification pipeline on the 3 other Leptopilina species dicate high levels of shared repeats (85.8 to 93.9%). All together, and the outgroup Ganaspis kimorum (Supplementary Table 4). these data indicate that (i) the ancestor of the 4 Leptopilina species Indeed, the other Leptopilina species were less repeat dense with here acquired repetitive elements that are not present in Ganaspis 35.40%, 48.01%, and 57.27% repeat content for L. clavipes, boulardi, kimorum, (ii) many of the repeats have since been lost in L. boulardi, and heterotoma, respectively. Similar to Leptopilina malgretoutensis, L. heterotoma, and especially in L. clavipes. the majority of these repetitive elements were unclassified. In Wolbachia strain wLmal fact, the overall size and makeup of the Leptopilina malgretoutensis genome was much more similar to the outgroup Ganaspis kimorum We identified a circular Wolbachia genome in our assembly, here- (Fig. 7a and b). However, the Ganaspis kimorum and Leptopilina mal- inafter strain “wLmal” (Table 4). A single contig was sequenced at gretoutensis genomes contained approximately double the amount 344× coverage and blast results from blobtools revealed similarity of nonrepetitive genome as compared to the other Leptopilina (black to Wolbachia strain wHa from Drosophila simulans across most of bars in Fig. 7b). Thus, while Leptopilina malgretoutensis had the lar- the contig. BUSCO genome completeness metrics were very gest repetitive content in the genus (both by total length and per- high, with 99.2% of Rickettsiales BUSCOs present in single copy centage), repeat content alone does not completely explain the (Table 4). Phylogenetic reconstruction based on core single-copy overall
