GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


and per- high, with 99.2% of Rickettsiales BUSCOs present in single copy centage), repeat content alone does not completely explain the (Table 4). Phylogenetic reconstruction based on core single-copy overall difference in genome size relative to the other congenerics. orthologs revealed that wLmal is closely related to Drosophila infect- To understand the large differences in repeat content across ing Wolbachia strains (e.g. wMel, wHa, wRi, wAu) in Wolbachia the Leptopilina genomes, we performed an all-vs-all analysis in Supergroup A (Fig. 8a). This is notable not only due to the host–para- which we mapped each species’ repeat library to all other species’ sitoid relationship of Leptopilina and Drosophila, but also because the genomes (Fig. 7c). Then we determined how many of the unique parthenogenesis-inducing “wLcla” strain from Leptopilina clavipes is repeat families were present to infer if there was simply a differ- quite divergent, and nested within a different major Wolbachia clade: ence in the number of repeat occurrences (eg family size), or, if en- Supergroup B (Lindsey et al. 2016; Fricke and Lindsey 2024b). The size tire repeat families had been gained or lost across the clade. The (∼1.2Mbp) and coding content of the wLmal genome are quite typical most repeat dense genomes, Ganaspis kimorum and Leptopilina mal- of an insect-infecting Wolbachia strain (Lindsey 2020; Kaur et al. 2021) gretoutensis, contained 3,563 and 4,002 repeat families, respective- (Fig. 8b, Table 4). Two putative prophage regions were identified. The ly, likely indicating a gain of repeats in the Leptopilina common first (1,00,3471 bp to 1,051,238 bp) is partial and is likely remnants of ancestor. Accordingly, while 84.1% of the Ganaspis kimorum repeat a Wolbachia “WO” prophage. This prophage region contains some families occur in the Leptopilina malgretoutensis genome, only 82.5% phage structural elements (primarily proteins for the tail) and of the Leptopilina malgretoutensis repeat families occur in Ganaspis what looks to be part of a “Eukaryotic Association Module” (EAM), kimorum. There appears to have been a large loss of repeat families a region associated with WO phages, which often contains proteins in the ancestor of the clade containing L. boulardi, L. heterotoma, for manipulating host reproduction and cell biology (Bordenstein and L. clavipes, and additional loss in the lineage leading to and Bordenstein 2016). The second predicted prophage region 12 | Lindsey et al. Fig. 6. Mitochondrial phylogeny and genome of Leptopilina malgretoutensis. a) Phylogenetic reconstruction of Leptopilina, based on 480
