GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


the same clade as Leptopilina longipes emerged only females: we can conclude that this species is parthenogenetic.” 14 | Lindsey et al. Fig. 8. Wolbachia strain wLmal. a) Phylogenetic relationships of Wolbachia strains and Rickettsiales relatives based on 127 core single-copy orthologs. b) Map of the complete wLmal genome. Each concentric circle is annotated with a different set of genomic information. The innermost circle is annotated with a basepair marker, the second circle indicates GC content, the third circle indicates prophage regions identified by VirSorter, and the outermost circle shows the coding regions of the genome. Abbreviations: Type IV Secretion system (T4SS), noncoding RNA (ncRNA), coding sequences (CDS). Putative effector proteins are indicated with the gene name where possible, otherwise the wLmal CDS number is indicated and the wMel homologs can be found in Supplementary Table 5. c) Gene models in the prophage region contain remnant WO phage structural proteins and a suite of effector proteins homologs. Notably the 2 pifB coding sequences are present in an inverted repeat. Open reading frames labeled with numbers (e.g. 1,167) are gene annotation IDs, provided to benchmark the region. Species description of asexual Drosophila parasitoid | 15 In summary, our data indicate that L. malgretoutensis was previously example, L. malgretoutensis may prefer other host species in the collected ∼40 years ago on the nearby island of Guadeloupe and also wild, may encounter D. antillea at lower rates, and or may be one reproduced via thelytokous parthenogenesis. of several wasps competing for D. antillea hosts (e.g. multiparasit- ism). Much broader host-range testing and assessments of parasit- ization frequencies in nature will be necessary to determine if these Discussion wasps are specialized on a particular group or species, or if perhaps Our study represents a comprehensive description of Leptopilina they are more generalist Drosophila parasitoids, akin to Leptopilina malgretoutensis, the first parasitoid recorded of dunni group heterotoma . The low parasitization rates on Drosophila from their native range. By integrating classic tax- D. willistoni suggest some level of specialization, but this remains onomy and systematics approaches with genomics and experi- to be tested robustly. Of note, even though D. willistoni is not as mental biology, we were able to generate a more comprehensive good a host for L. malgretoutensis, we maintained the wasp colonies view of the biology and evolution of this newly described species. on this species. This decision was driven by the relative
