GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


host for L. malgretoutensis, we maintained the wasp colonies view of the biology and evolution of this newly described species. on this species. This decision was driven by the relative ease of rear- Furthermore, historical records and museum specimens enabled ing D. willistoni relative to D. antillea, which enabled production of a the discovery that asexually reproducing Leptopilina malgretouten- larger absolute number of wasps. Similarly, notes from Yves Carton sis have also been found on another island in the Antilles. This indicated that the now extinct L. malgretoutensis colony “PB10-5” was work represents one of a limited number of studies in which de- maintained on Drosophila melanogaster (“this species was reared in the scription of a new metazoan species is coupled with genome se- laboratory conditions on D. melanogaster larvae”), which is more closely quencing (Kanzaki et al. 2018; Koehler et al. 2021; Köhler et al. related to D. willistoni than to D. antillea. Alas, there are no details 2021a, 2021b; Sullivan et al. 2022). Indeed, this is the fifth such ex- available regarding how well L. malgretoutensis PB10-5 parasitizes ample in insects (Pohl et al. 2012; Brandão-Dias et al. 2022; D. melanogaster, but it was clearly sufficient for maintaining a col- Heckenhauer et al. 2023; Rázuri-Gonzales et al. 2024), wherein ony. In our own attempts at rearing L. malgretoutensis on D. melano- body size often precludes whole genome sequencing of holotypes. gaster, we found that consistently fewer wasp progeny were Despite the interest in speciation patterns of the dunni group obtained relative to D. willistoni hosts (although we did not rigorous- Drosophila, the proximal ecological or evolutionary mechanisms ly investigate this difference experimentally). There are clearly driving morphological and species diversity in this group remain many unresolved questions about the biology of this newly identi- unresolved. One study found elevated nonsynonymous substitu- fied wasp species. tion rates in the pigmentation gene yellow in 2 members of this In addition to the numerous avenues to explore the evolution- group . This is consistent with selection for pig- ary ecology of L. malgretoutensis-host relationships on Saint Lucia, mentation diversity, but no studies have yet identified the select- it will also be of interest to test virulence patterns across the island ive agent responsible for this pattern. Importantly, melanization chain. For example, are L. malgretoutensis wasps as effective when is a process in many insect lineages that is critical in both the
