GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


agent responsible for this pattern. Importantly, melanization chain. For example, are L. malgretoutensis wasps as effective when is a process in many insect lineages that is critical in both the de- infecting dunni group flies that are native to other islands of the velopment of cuticle pigmentation as well as in immune re- Antilles chain? Are L. malgretoutensis wasps that originate from sponses that occur during encapsulation of foreign pathogens Guadeloupe as virulent on D. antillea? Indeed, the island of (Sugumaran and Barek 2016). In Drosophila, melanization is a well- Guadeloupe where Carton collected L. malgretoutensis is home to studied response to infection by eukaryotic parasites (including the dunni group fly Drosophila arawakana. It would be of interest Leptopilina) and is linked to the same genetic pathways as pigmen- to know how the virulence of Guadeloupian wasps relates to tation production (Russo et al. 1996; Carton et al. 2008; Dolezal Saint Lucian wasps on fly species from the various islands. 2023). In one study in Drosophila falleni, selection for a reduced Indeed, every major island from Puerto Rico to Grenada hosts number of abdominal spots resulted in higher infection rates by exactly 1 of the 7 known species from the dunni subgroup, with a parasitic nematode (Dombeck and Jaenike 2004). In other insects no 2 species occurring together on the same island (Wilder and there are similar links between the levels or patterns of cuticular Hollocher 2003). Further sampling will be necessary to determine melanization and resistance to parasites (Siva-Jothy 2000; Wilson if L. malgretoutensis is present on all of these islands. Differences in et al. 2001; Lindsey and Altizer 2009; Dubovskiy et al. 2013; Krams virulence might derive from the recency of wasp establishment on et al. 2016; Tan et al. 2018). As such, it has been postulated that a given island, patterns of co-evolution with a given host species, Drosophila abdominal coloration may vary in some systems and or shifts in the host-parasitoid complex across the archipel- primarily due to selection by parasitism (Kohler et al. 2007; ago. An interesting possibility is that L. malgretoutensis may be a Since adult flies of the D. antillea species are among the more The island biogeography of L. malgretoutensis may also play highly pigmented flies of the dunni group, and D. willistoni is defi- a role in the evolution of its reproductive mode. Our antibiotic cient in its melanization response ,
