GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


play highly pigmented flies of the dunni group, and D. willistoni is defi- a role in the evolution of its reproductive mode. Our antibiotic cient in its melanization response , we were in- curing experiments indicated that our L. malgretoutensis colony terested in the possibility that D. antillea might be particularly derived from Saint Lucia is unable to revert to sexual reproduc- resistant to infection by endemic parasitoids. However, we in- tion. The inability to restore sex is a strong indicator of a so- stead found the opposite. L. malgretoutensis wasps were highly called “virginity mutation,” which is well described in several virulent on D. antillea hosts. In contrast, L. malgretoutensis was other wasp species with symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis less effective at using D. willistoni as a host, but it appears this is (Gottlieb and Zchori-Fein 2001; Stouthamer and Mak 2002; mediated by behavior, as a relatively small proportion of D. willis- Stouthamer et al. 2010; Russell and Stouthamer 2011; Ma et al. toni were parasitized, and we witnessed these larvae burrowing 2014, 2021; Kraaijeveld et al. 2016). There are multiple hypoth- into the media—a previously described anti-parasitism behavior eses for the evolutionary pressures that lead to virginity muta- . Nevertheless, our findings open the door to fu- tions (Stouthamer et al. 2010; Neiman et al. 2014; van der Kooi ture studies to explore the potential mechanism of L. malgretoutensis and Schwander 2014; Ma and Schwander 2017), but in brief, virulence on dunni group flies. Furthermore, while L. malgretoutensis they are mutations that result in the decay or loss of sexual func- is clearly virulent on D. antillea in the laboratory; the actualized tion, to the point that the animal becomes reliant upon the PI host-range of L. malgretoutensis in nature is entirely unknown. For symbiont for the production of female offspring. Related to 16 | Lindsey et al. this, it is notable that the colony of L. malgretoutensis derived from different clades. In contrast, we did not find any evidence in Guadeloupe collections in the 1980s was all female. However, we wLmal for the PifA protein, a structural transformer mimic that in- able to revert to a sexual mode). Indeed, some other populations know the exact mechanism of parthenogenesis induction em- of parasitic wasps with PI Wolbachia have significant within- ployed by wLmal (eg 1 vs 2 step, apomixis vs gamete duplication, species polymorphism and vary in which Wolbachia strain
