GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


em- of parasitic wasps with PI Wolbachia have significant within- ployed by wLmal (eg 1 vs 2 step, apomixis vs gamete duplication, species polymorphism and vary in which Wolbachia strain they etc. ). And, given the diversity of PI mechan- have, if they are asexually reproducing, and if they have a so- isms found across Wolbachia (Ma and Schwander 2017), it is quite called virginity mutation (Ma and Schwander 2017; van der possible that wLcla and wLmal are not using precisely the same Kooi et al. 2017). Thus, it may be that populations of L. malgretou- toolset. Closer inspection of meiosis and early embryonic mitoses tensis on different islands vary in whether they are sexually re- in L. malgretoutensis will be key to understanding how wLmal producing, and if asexual reproduction is fixed or reversible. causes PI, and what the role of PifB, or other proteins, might Notably, asexual reproduction across many taxa appears to be play in this process. more common on islands (Hörandl 2009; Vrijenhoek and Parker Altogether, the description of L. malgretoutensis and its repro- 2009), and thus L. malgretoutensis in the Lesser Antilles may also ductive biology will enable future explorations of host–parasitoid provide a tractable system to understand the evolution of repro- and host–symbiont interactions, especially in the context of speci- ductive mode in the context of biogeography. ation and island biogeography. We hope this work inspires the While there are many other examples of species with virginity much-needed integration of more species descriptions coupled mutations, our findings are quite curious in that the Wolbachia to physiological, behavioral, and ecological investigations. genome here also contains what appears to be functional genes for inducing cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI). Paradoxically, the CI phenotype only manifests with sexual reproduction: males Data availability with CI-Wolbachia produce modified sperm that cause lethality All sequences related to this project have been deposited under in embryos derived from females without a compatible DDBJ/ENA/GenBank BioProject PRJNA1150626. The L. malgretou- Wolbachia strain . We have several hypoth- tensis BioSample is SAMN43291974, and the wLmal BioSample eses for why these Wolbachia encode for CI loci despite inducing is SAMN43291989. Sequencing read accessions are as follows: parthenogenesis. First, the cif loci may have undergone some SRR30339708 for Oxford Nanopore Technologies Long Reads (all, form of neofunctionalization: perhaps these proteins are no long- including <5 kbp), SRR30339709 for WGS Illumina Reads, and er involved in sperm–egg incompatibility as
