GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


Oxford Nanopore Technologies Long Reads (all, form of neofunctionalization: perhaps these proteins are no long- including <5 kbp), SRR30339709 for WGS Illumina Reads, and er involved in sperm–egg incompatibility as in CI but are impact- SRR30339707 for RNA-seq Illumina Reads. The assembled and an- ing other host processes. Indeed, it appears that the presence of notated L. malgretoutensis mitochondrial genome has been depos- cifs is not necessarily an “honest signal” for the ability of a strain ited under PV928959.1. The wLmal Wolbachia Genome is available to induce CI (Martinez et al. 2021; Amoros et al. 2025). under CP185405.1, and the L. malgretoutensis nuclear Whole Alternatively, it might be that the transition to parthenogenesis Genome Shotgun project has been deposited at DDBJ/ENA/ is more recent, and CI is no longer under selection. Perhaps the GenBank under the accession JBMIRX000000000. The version de- cifs are en route to be eliminated from the genome. “Recent” is, scribed in this paper is version JBMIRX010000000. of course, difficult to determine quantitatively, especially in is- Supplemental material available at GENETICSonline. land systems where there are often strong bottlenecks that can drive rapid evolution . Finally, it might be that if the PI phenotype has lower penetrance and occasional males Acknowledgments are produced. These males might mate with incompatible conspe- The research expedition of the sailing vessel Sea Salt was con- cifics (that either have no Wolbachia or an incompatible strain) and ceived in conversations with W. Daniel Tracey Sr. (now deceased), induce CI, perhaps reducing competition for the asexual matri- and we dedicate this study to his memory. We are very thankful to line. However, we see 2 issues with this scenario. First, lower pene- Amalia Rowan the first mate on the Sea Salt without whose assist- trance of PI phenotypes is typically due to the loss of Wolbachia (eg ance our collection expedition could not have taken place. We are due to higher temperatures, or in the lab, antibiotics), which leads thankful for Dr. Hannah Romain (Saint Lucia Ministry of to the production of males. In this case, the occasional males pro- Agriculture) for granting permission to collect insects on Saint duced by PI mothers might not have sufficient Wolbachia to induce Lucia. We are also thankful to Michael Gerth for making the CI. Second, because the PI females transmitting Wolbachia to the WHOP pipeline available and to Keith Hopper for sharing the next generation
