GENETICS, 2026, 233(1), iyag029
KEYWORDS: leptopilina, species, malgretoutensis, drosophila, genome, wolbachia, wasps, fig, absent, wasp, leptopilina malgretoutensis, female, present, saint, antillea


also thankful to Michael Gerth for making the CI. Second, because the PI females transmitting Wolbachia to the WHOP pipeline available and to Keith Hopper for sharing the next generation would never need to rescue CI, there would be Ganaspis assembly prior to its release. no selection pressure to maintain CI function. Despite the peculiarity of a PI Wolbachia strain encoding for CI genes, all 4 loci associated with host reproductive manipulation Funding (cifA, cifB, and 2 copies of pifB) are found in the EAM of phage WO: a classic signature of Wolbachia genomes and reproductive ef- Research reported in this publication was supported by the evidence for multiple prophage infections all point towards recent Agriculture to LCF (NIFA 2023-67034-40496), a gift from Dr. dynamism in the wLmal genome. Many Wolbachia genes mediat- Wenmei Shi and the Linda and Jack Gill Institute for ing host reproductive switches are horizontally acquired from Neuroscience Research Stipend to WDT. Mention of trade names other Wolbachia strains, likely due to the WO phage (Bordenstein or commercial products in this publication is solely for the pur- and Bordenstein 2016; Lindsey et al. 2018). For this reason, it pose of providing specific information and does not imply recom- was not surprising that the 2 PI Wolbachia strains from Leptopilina mendation or endorsement by the USDA. USDA is an equal both encoded for PifB proteins, despite the strains belonging to opportunity provider and employer. Species description of asexual Drosophila parasitoid | 17 Conflicts of interest Dolezal T. 2023. How to eliminate pathogen without killing oneself? Immunometabolism of encapsulation and melanization in MKD works for Oxford Nanopore Technologies. Drosophila. Front Immunol. 14:1330312. fimmu.2023.1330312. Dombeck I, Jaenike J. 2004. Ecological genetics of abdominal pigmen-
