Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


Advance access publication 9 February 2022 Approach to the Patient Approach to the Patient With Lipodystrophy Lindsay T. Fourman,1, and Steven K. Grinspoon1, . Abstract Lipodystrophy constitutes a spectrum of diseases characterized by a generalized or partial absence of adipose tissue. Underscoring the role of healthy fat in maintenance of metabolic homeostasis, fat deficiency in lipodystrophy typically leads to profound metabolic disturbances including insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, and ectopic fat accumulation. While rare, recent genetic studies indicate that lipodystrophy is more of the etiology and management of generalized and partial lipodystrophy disorders. We bring together the latest scientific evidence and clin- ical guidelines and expose key gaps in knowledge. Through improved recognition of the lipodystrophy disorders, patients (and their affected family members) can be appropriately screened for cardiometabolic, noncardiometabolic, and syndromic abnormalities and undergo treatment with targeted interventions. Notably, insights gained through the study of this rare and extreme phenotype can inform our knowledge of more common disorders of adipose tissue overload, including generalized obesity. Key Words: lipodystrophy, Dunnigan variety lipodystrophy, HIV-associated lipodystrophy, metreleptin, tesamorelin Abbreviations: AGL, acquired generalized lipodystrophy; APL, acquired partial lipodystrophy; AZT, zidovudine; BMI, body mass index; CGL, congenital general- ized lipodystrophy; D4T, stavudine; FPLD, familial partial lipodystrophy; FPLD1, Köbberling-type lipodystrophy; FPLD2, Dunnigan variety lipodystrophy; GH, growth hormone; HbA , glycated hemoglobin A ; IGF-1, insulin-like growth factor 1; LMNA, lamin A/C; NAFLD, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease; PCOS, polycystic ovary 1c 1c syndrome; PPARG, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ; RYGB, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass; TZD, thiazolidinedione. Case Presentations performance-enhancing drugs (Fig. 1). Laboratory evaluation demonstrated dysglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia despite Case 1 intensive medical management. She also was found to have a The patient is a 35-year-old woman who first noted changes fasting leptin level of 2.6 ng/mL (normal, 3.3-18.3 ng/mL) and in fat distribution at puberty characterized by loss of fat in adiponectin 2 mcg/mL (normal, 5-37 mcg/mL) (Table 1). The her extremities and buttocks along with expansion of the patient indicated that her father and paternal grandfather both submandibular and dorsocervical fat pads. She also observed had a similar fat distribution as well as type 2 diabetes mellitus areas of hyperpigmentation involving her antecubital and diagnosed in young adulthood. popliteal fossa. Despite having a normal body mass index (BMI), she was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus at age 18 years requiring exogenous insulin administration in add- Case 2 ition to metformin. Her insulin requirements rapidly escal- The patient
