Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


she was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus at age 18 years requiring exogenous insulin administration in add- Case 2 ition to metformin. Her insulin requirements rapidly escal- The patient is a 54-year-old man who has a long-standing ated to more than 200 U per day yet her glycated hemoglobin history of HIV infection diagnosed in 1999. He was started A (HbA ) remained persistently elevated above 8% with on antiretroviral therapy at the time of initial diagnosis with 1c 1c resultant diabetic neuropathy. She also developed hyperten- regimens that have included zidovudine (AZT), stavudine sion treated with lisinopril, hypertriglyceridemia treated with (D4T), and nelfinavir. Over the years, he experienced loss fenofibrate and pravastatin, and hepatic steatosis. Owing to of fat in his arms, legs, and buttocks. He also has developed discontent with her fat distribution, the patient underwent substantial fat accumulation in his abdomen and breasts. several liposuction surgeries as a young adult involving re- Other comorbidities included hypertension, dyslipidemia, moval of submandibular, dorsocervical, and mons pubis fat. prediabetes, hepatic steatosis, and bipolar disorder. His cur- On transferring her diabetes care to a new endocrinologist, rent medication regimen consisted of elvitegravir, cobicistat, she was immediately suspected to have lipodystrophy based emtricitabine, tenofovir, amlodipine, lithium, and bupropion. on her appearance and was referred to our clinic for further He referred himself to our clinic based on concerns regarding evaluation. his central fat distribution. The patient reported diffuse muscle aches, low energy, and in- On physical exam, the patient was found to have blood satiable hunger. On examination, she was found to have blood pressure of 135/86 mm Hg and BMI of 26.1. He had mild pressure of 110/70 mm Hg and BMI of 22.3. She had scant lipoatrophy of the face and limbs and considerable central subcutaneous fat except for the face and mons pubis region. adiposity disproportionate to his BMI with a waist circum- Muscles in her upper and lower extremities appeared hypertro- ference of 108.2 cm and a waist-hip ratio of 1.1 (see Fig. 1). phied though the patient denied prolonged exercise or use of Laboratory evaluation demonstrated mild dysglycemia and Received: 24 November 2021. Editorial Decision: 4 February 2022. Corrected and Typeset: 8 March 2022 Downloaded from by guest on May muscularity of her upper and lower extremities, which is most evident on the lateral view. B, Case 2: The patient has mild lipoatrophy of the lower
