Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


by guest on May muscularity of her upper and lower extremities, which is most evident on the lateral view. B, Case 2: The patient has mild lipoatrophy of the lower extremities and buttocks with profound abdominal lipohypertrophy. Cross-sectional magnetic resonance imaging at L4 revealed significant visceral adiposity and a high visceral to subcutaneous fat ratio. Both patients provided written consent for their photographs to be published. hypertriglyceridemia. Leptin level was normal with a low- Pathophysiology normal adiponectin (see Table 1). Though modern medicine has been primarily focused on the detriments of excess adiposity, the lipodystrophy syndromes underscore the role of healthy fat depots in the mainten- Background ance of normal metabolic homeostasis. In this regard, under Lipodystrophy (Greek derivative: “lipo” = fat and “dys- physiologic conditions, adipose tissue is the primary site for trophy” = derangement) refers to a heterogeneous group of storage of excess calories and serves to buffer postprandial disorders characterized by a selective deficiency of adipose fluxes in circulating lipids (4). Adipose tissue also synthesizes tissue in the absence of nutritional deprivation or a catabolic and secretes hormones and adipokines, particularly leptin state. Specific lipodystrophy syndromes may be categorized and adiponectin, to regulate critical processes including en- into 4 broad groups according to extent of fat loss (general- ergy intake and insulin sensitivity (5). ized vs partial) and etiology (genetic vs acquired). Lack of adi- In patients with lipodystrophy, genetic or acquired defects pose tissue predisposes to systemic insulin resistance, ectopic in adipocyte differentiation, survival, and/or function render fat deposition, and hormonal derangements (eg, leptin defi- adipose tissue unable to perform its critical roles (6). An in- ciency). In turn, people with lipodystrophy are predisposed to ability to trap and store nonesterified fatty acids postprandially a high burden of metabolic and cardiovascular comorbidities promotes systemic insulin resistance (7). Moreover, lipids including type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic fatty liver “overflow” to other organs including the liver, muscle, and disease (NAFLD), polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), pancreas, which results in local end-organ damage (8). Lastly, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerosis. Major causes of mortality low leptin contributes to hyperphagia, reduced energy ex- in this population include heart disease, liver disease, kidney penditure, and insulin resistance, perpetuating lipotoxicity failure, acute pancreatitis, and sepsis (1). and related metabolic sequelae (9). In general, the severity of Apart from HIV-associated lipodystrophy, lipodystrophy metabolic dysfunction in lipodystrophy is proportionate to syndromes have been historically regarded as rare
