Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


(1). and related metabolic sequelae (9). In general, the severity of Apart from HIV-associated lipodystrophy, lipodystrophy metabolic dysfunction in lipodystrophy is proportionate to syndromes have been historically regarded as rare disorders the extent of fat loss (Fig. 2) (10). with prevalence estimates ranging from 1 in 1 million for fa- Though lipodystrophy and obesity represent extremes of adi- milial partial lipodystrophy to 1 in 10 million for congenital pose tissue deficiency and excess, respectively, both states are generalized lipodystrophy (2, 3). However, recent studies of characterized by insulin resistance, ectopic fat accumulation, large clinical care cohorts suggest that lipodystrophy may and cardiometabolic complications (10). Despite this apparent be more common than previously recognized with a genetic paradox, it has been posited that cardiometabolic sequelae prevalence of disease as high as 1 in 7000 (3). As these findings in both conditions result when the capacity of adipocytes to indicate that lipodystrophy is often underdiagnosed, it is im- accommodate additional energy stores is exceeded. While perative for clinicians to become familiar with the signs, symp- interindividual factors that govern the limits of adipose tissue toms, and workup of this group of disorders so that affected expansion are not well known, the extremely low threshold patients and their relatives can be appropriately triaged and at which the storage capacity of adipocytes is exceeded in managed. lipodystrophy results in a severe phenotype. Accordingly, Downloaded from by guest on May lipodystrophy serves as a paradigm to understand the patho- adipose tissue or with severe insulin resistance dispropor- genesis of adipose tissue overload in diverse patient popula- tionate to BMI. Clinical assessment should include a detailed tions and may yield critical insights into far more common fat medical history including a family history. Patients should be disorders, including generalized obesity (10-12). queried about time course of altered fat distribution including onset and duration, cardiometabolic comorbidities, presence of hyperphagia, and a history of an autoimmune disease or Clinical Assessment HIV to differentiate between lipodystrophy subtypes and to Lipodystrophy is a clinical diagnosis that should be suspected stratify the severity of disease (Table 2). A detailed repro- in patients with regional or generalized lack of subcutaneous ductive history should be obtained, including timing of pu- berty and menstrual cycle regularity. Table 1. Patient laboratory results In addition to history, physical examination is essen- tial to assess body fat distribution. In this regard, areas of Case No. 1 2
