Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


cycle regularity. Table 1. Patient laboratory results In addition to history, physical examination is essen- tial to assess body fat distribution. In this regard, areas of Case No. 1 2 lipoatrophy may be characterized by scant subcutaneous fat, enhanced muscular definition, and prominence of veins. Areas BMI 22.3 26.1 of lipohypertrophy may also be observed in cases of partial Waist circumference, cm 79.1 108.2 lipodystrophy involving sites such as the abdomen, neck and Hip circumference, cm 87.0 101.1 chin, lower extremities, and mons pubis. Physical examination Waist-hip ratio 0.9 1.1 should also an include an assessment of blood pressure as HbA , % 9.8 6.1 well as stigmata of insulin resistance (eg, acanthosis nigricans, 1c Total cholesterol, mg/dL 236 185 hirsutism, acromegaloid features) and hypertriglyceridemia HDL-C, mg/dL 36 53 (eg, eruptive xanthoma). Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry may be used to further ascertain and quantify body compos- Triglycerides, mg/dL 634 347 ition. In one study, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry images LDL-C, mg/dLa 123 63 that highlighted an individual’s 2-dimensional fat distribution Leptin, ng/mL 2.6 12.2 (“fat shadow”) allowed trained readers to distinguish pa- Adiponectin, mcg/mL 2 5 tients with lipodystrophy from control individuals with 85% sensitivity and 96% specificity (13). All laboratory values were obtained from fasting patients. Laboratory testing should be obtained to characterize the Abbreviations: BMI, body mass index; HbA , glycated hemoglobin 1c A ; HDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; LDL-C, low-density severity of metabolic dysfunction in patients suspected of 1c lipoprotein cholesterol. lipodystrophy. Assays to be performed include fasting blood aLDL-C was measured directly in case 1 (triglycerides > 500 mg/dL) and calculated in case 2. glucose and insulin, HbA , lipids, and liver function tests. 1c Figure 2. Pathophysiology of cardiometabolic dysfunction in lipodystrophy. Lipodystrophy is broadly defined by a generalized or partial absence of adipose tissue, except in some patients with HIV-associated lipodystrophy, who may present with lipohypertrophy alone. In general, lack of fat may stem from impaired adipocyte differentiation or augmented adipocyte death secondary to genetic or acquired factors. Deficient adipose tissue may lead to a complex cascade of altered adipokines, metabolites, and energy flux, which collectively promotes insulin resistance and resultant cardiometabolic dysfunction. AGPAT2, 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2; BSCL2, Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy 2 protein; CIDEC, cell death–inducing DFFA-like effector C; LMNA, lamin A/C; NEFAs, nonesterified fatty acids; PPARG, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor . Figure was created with BioRender.com. γ Downloaded from by guest on May In select cases,
