Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


DFFA-like effector C; LMNA, lamin A/C; NEFAs, nonesterified fatty acids; PPARG, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor . Figure was created with BioRender.com. γ Downloaded from by guest on May In select cases, an oral glucose tolerance test may be used lipodystrophy (14). Genetic testing should be pursued in to diagnose more subtle insulin resistance or dysglycemia. cases that appear to be familial. Liver ultrasound with elastography may be used to evaluate The differential diagnosis for lipodystrophy varies by for hepatic steatosis and fibrosis. A 24-hour urine collec- whether generalized vs partial lipodystrophy is suspected. For tion or spot urine for protein-to-creatinine ratio should generalized lipodystrophy, alternative diagnoses to consider also be performed because proteinuric kidney disease is include causes of generalized fat loss such as starvation, an- common. Gonadal steroids, gonadotropins, and pelvic ultra- orexia nervosa, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, cancer cach- sound should be obtained as clinically indicated, including exia, thyrotoxicosis, adrenal insufficiency, AIDS wasting, in the context of PCOS-like symptoms. Electrocardiogram chronic infections, and diencephalic syndrome (children). and echocardiogram should also be ascertained in individ- For partial lipodystrophy, other diagnoses to rule out include uals with suspected congenital generalized lipodystrophy, truncal obesity, Cushing syndrome, and multiple symmetric progeroid disorders, or familial partial lipodystrophy be- lipomatosis. Genetic or autoimmune insulin receptoropathies cause of a heightened prevalence of cardiomyopathy, or as are another potential etiology of severe insulin resistance clinically indicated. Fasting leptin levels may support a diag- disproportionate to BMI that should be considered in the nosis of lipodystrophy if low, though this finding is neither differential diagnosis of lipodystrophy. However, unlike sensitive nor specific. Notably, since leptin levels are pro- lipodystrophy, which leads to partial (postreceptor) insulin portionate to total body fat, levels may be normal in partial resistance characterized by hypertriglyceridemia and hepatic steatosis in the context of increased hepatic de novo lipo- genesis, patients with insulin receptoropathies are strikingly Table 2. Common clinical features of lipodystrophy spared of these complications because of a near-total blockade of hepatic insulin signaling with consequent blunting of hep- Essential feature atic de novo lipogenesis (15). Generalized or regional absence of adipose tissue Comorbidities Lipodystrophy Subtypes Type 2 diabetes mellitus Once generalized or partial lipodystrophy is suspected, the Hypertension specific lipodystrophy subtype should be elucidated based on Dyslipidemia Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease This knowledge has implications for the individual’s risk of Polycystic ovary syndrome cardiometabolic and nonmetabolic comorbidities, prognosis, Infertility and treatment. For patients
