Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


depots. In con- Familial partial lipodystrophy trast, adipose deficiency in CGL1 typically spares mechanical Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) is a group of inherited fat (2). Besides AGPAT2 and BSCL2, other genes that have disorders characterized by regional loss of adipose tissue rarely been implicated in CGL include caveolin-1 (CAV1) and that typically occurs in childhood or adolescence. Fat may cavin-1 (CAVIN1) (16). accumulate in other adipose depots, including the head and neck. Though we would expect men and women to carry Acquired generalized lipodystrophy (Lawrence syndrome) pathogenic mutations equally as often, as with other forms Acquired generalized lipodystrophy (AGL) is a rare disorder of lipodystrophy, most individuals diagnosed with FPLD are with a female predominance characterized by generalized fat women. In this regard, lipodystrophy is more likely to go loss that occurs after birth and usually before adolescence (20). unnoticed in men and to be mistaken for a muscular phys- Onset may be insidious over months to years or may be more ique. Furthermore, women with FPLD are at greater risk of rapid in some patients. Fat loss often involves the palms and metabolic dysfunction, which may relate to the finding that soles, whereas retro-orbital fat tends to be preserved (20). In women have significantly more fat stores than men under about one-quarter of cases, loss of subcutaneous fat is pre- normal physiologic circumstances (10, 23). ceded by the appearance of diffuse subcutaneous inflammatory FPLD1 (Köbberling-type lipodystrophy) is characterized by nodules that are histologically consistent with panniculitis. fat loss exclusively confined to the extremities, typically noted These lesions gradually resolve, leaving behind depressed areas in childhood, with normal or increased distribution of fat in of lipoatrophy that ultimately progress to generalized loss of fat the face, neck, and trunk (24). Truncal obesity with an in- (21). AGL is hypothesized to be caused by an autoimmune de- creased waist to hip ratio is common (24, 25). In some cases, struction of adipocytes and has been linked to autoimmune dis- a palpable “ledge” involving the upper extremity and gluteal orders including juvenile dermatomyositis, Sjögren syndrome, regions that delineates the boundary between normal (prox- and rheumatoid arthritis. However, roughly one-half of pa- imal) and lipoatrophic (distal) fat areas has been observed tients with AGL have no concurrent autoimmune disease (20). (25). While the pathogenesis of FPLD1 remains poorly under- Several cases have also been reported as a rare complication of stood, the condition
