Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


AGL have no concurrent autoimmune disease (20). (25). While the pathogenesis of FPLD1 remains poorly under- Several cases have also been reported as a rare complication of stood, the condition appears to be polygenic. In one study, immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy (22). patients with FPLD1 had a heightened burden of common Figure 3. Conceptual approach to lipodystrophy diagnosis. Lipodystrophy is categorized into 4 broad groups according to extent of fat loss (generalized vs partial) and etiology (genetic vs acquired). This flowchart provides a conceptual approach to the patient with suspected lipodystrophy, paying particular attention to classic presentations of the most common lipodystrophy subtypes. Not all lipodystrophy subtypes and clinical presentations are shown. Progeroid features in the presence of partial lipodystrophy should lead to consideration of familial etiologies as indicated by the flow diagram, but it should be noted that progeria may also be seen in association with generalized forms of disease. BMT, bone marrow transplantation; C3, complement 3; CGL, congenital generalized lipodystrophy; FPLD, familial partial lipodystrophy; MPGN, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Figure was created with BioRender.com. Downloaded from by guest on May alleles shown to be associated with insulin resistance in the erythematosus and dermatomyositis, and may also be trig- general population, suggesting shared biologic mechan- gered by infections. Unique to APL, most affected individuals isms between FPLD1 and more common forms of metabolic have been reported to have low complement 3 levels and the syndrome (26). Individuals with suspected FPLD1 should be presence of the polyclonal immunoglobulin complement 3 ruled out for a heterozygous pathogenic mutation in peroxi- nephritic factor. Moreover, one-quarter of patients were some proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARG) that defines found to develop membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis FPLD3 as this lipodystrophy subtype may present with a over the course of their disease, which is a key determinant of similar distribution of fat (27, 28). their overall prognosis (32). FPLD2 (Dunnigan variety lipodystrophy) is an autosomal Besides the cephalothoracic variety of APL, subcutaneous dominant condition characterized by gradual subcutaneous fat loss has been reported as a rare and late complication of fat loss from the extremities and trunk with fat accumula- allogenic bone marrow transplantation in childhood. This tion in the neck and chin. Patients with this lipodystrophy form of lipodystrophy is characterized by loss of fat in the subtype may be mistaken for having Cushing syndrome extremities and gluteal region with preserved or increased fat (2). Furthermore, affected individuals may have
