Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


characterized by loss of fat in the subtype may be mistaken for having Cushing syndrome extremities and gluteal region with preserved or increased fat (2). Furthermore, affected individuals may have a muscular in the cheeks, neck, and abdomen. Total body irradiation and physique that corresponds to true hypertrophy of type 1 intensive chemotherapy were associated with disease in small and 2 muscle fibers on biopsy along with downregulation of reports (34-36). myostatin (29). Despite this increase in muscle mass, in de- tailed exercise studies, patients were found to experience in- HIV-associated acquired partial lipodystrophy creased muscle fatigability due to mitochondrial dysfunction HIV lipodystrophy was first described in 1998 coinciding (30). In contrast to FPLD1, which begins in childhood, the with the introduction of highly effective antiretroviral therapy onset of FPLD2 is typically around puberty (25). Moreover, (37). While its incidence is less common today with the use of whereas FPLD1 is characterized by central adiposity, fat loss newer agents, its prevalence remains high among long-term Patients with FPLD2 have pathogenic mutations in lamin portant (38). Three subtypes of HIV lipodystrophy have A/C (LMNA), encoding a nuclear protein that interacts with been described: lipoatrophy, lipohypertrophy, and a mixed chromatin to mediate key biologic functions. LMNA muta- syndrome (39). Unlike other forms of lipodystrophy, regional tions may lead to premature adipocyte death, which in turn fat accumulation may occur in the absence of loss of subcuta- reduces adipose tissue storage capacity over time (2). Given neous fat (40), and thus a deficiency in adipose tissue is not the ubiquitous nature of this gene, mutations have been impli- required for diagnosis. cated in other dystrophic disorders including Emery-Dreifuss In HIV-associated lipodystrophy, lipoatrophy may involve muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, dilated the face, limbs, abdomen, or buttocks, whereas lipohypertrophy cardiomyopathy, Charcot-Marie Tooth neuropathy type 2B, may involve the abdomen, breasts, or dorsocervical region. and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (31). Given its Localized or generalized lipoma (lipomatosis) may be occa- association with cardiac disease, screening for cardiomyop- sionally observed (41). Visceral adiposity is common des- athy and conduction system abnormalities is prudent in pa- pite BMI in the normal or overweight range (42). Metabolic tients with FPLD2 at the time of diagnosis. sequelae including dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, and Other less common genes that have been ascribed to FPLD hepatic steatosis have been reported among both lipoatrophic include PPARG (FPLD3), perilipin 1 (PLIN1; FPLD4), and and lipohypertrophic
