Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


intolerance, and Other less common genes that have been ascribed to FPLD hepatic steatosis have been reported among both lipoatrophic include PPARG (FPLD3), perilipin 1 (PLIN1; FPLD4), and and lipohypertrophic subtypes (43-45). cell death inducing DFFA-like effector C (CIDEC; FPLD5). Risk factors for HIV-associated lipodystrophy are not en- Complex genetic syndromes that include partial lipodystrophy tirely understood but may relate to the interplay of viral, have also been reported, some of which are associated with host, and antiretroviral therapy–specific factors (38, 46). progeroid features (2). Notably, prolonged exposure to thymidine nucleotide re- verse transcriptase inhibitors (eg, D4T, AZT) have been Non–HIV-associated acquired partial lipodystrophy consistently linked to subcutaneous fat loss, likely due to (Barraquer-Simons syndrome) inhibition of mitochondrial DNA polymerase-γ and subse- Owing to the relatively high prevalence of HIV infection, quent mitochondrial dysfunction. Male sex, older age, low HIV-associated acquired partial lipodystrophy (APL) repre- CD4+ T-cell count, and high plasma HIV viral load have sents the most common form of lipodystrophy. In the absence also been associated with increased lipoatrophy risk (41). of HIV, APL is often characterized by gradual loss of fat in Characteristics predisposing to lipohypertrophy are less the upper extremities, thorax, and upper abdomen. Fat loss clear, but female sex and older age have been posited in typically proceeds in a cephalocaudal sequence during child- some studies (41). hood or adolescence (32). The lower extremities are spared, and excess fat often accumulates in the lower abdomen, glu- Treatment teal region, hips, thighs, and calves (32). Analogous to AGL, females are more commonly affected (32). Patients with There are currently no therapies to reverse the underlying fat APL tend to have less severe metabolic dysfunction, likely deficit in lipodystrophy. Instead, treatment is primarily fo- due to preservation of the insulin sensitive gluteofemoral fat cused on ameliorating the cardiometabolic and nonmetabolic depot (10). However, in one recent study, a subset of patients comorbidities that occur with these disorders (1). with APL were shown to develop significant multisystemic comorbidities over time, suggesting the need for continued Lifestyle Modification monitoring (33). As with AGL, APL has been associated Based on expert consensus, the cornerstone of lipodystrophy with autoimmune diseases, in particular systemic lupus management is lifestyle changes that limit the energetic load Downloaded from by guest on May on residual fat stores, which in turn will reduce circulating discomfort at injection sites, headache, and weight loss (57). nonesterified fatty acids,
