Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


energetic load Downloaded from by guest on May on residual fat stores, which in turn will reduce circulating discomfort at injection sites, headache, and weight loss (57). nonesterified fatty acids, insulin resistance, and ectopic fat de- Importantly, hypoglycemia may occur, particularly in pa- position (1). In adults, caloric restriction has been shown to tients well controlled on antihyperglycemic agents. Thus, lower triglycerides and glucose (47), but may be challenging blood glucose should be closely monitored and prophylactic to achieve in individuals with hyperphagia. In children, cal- reduction of diabetes medications should be considered fol- oric restriction to minimize metabolic complications must be lowing initiation and uptitration of leptin replacement (1). In balanced against the energy requirements of normal growth. patients with acquired generalized lipodystrophy, rare cases In general, a diet with balanced macronutrient composition is of T-cell lymphoma on metreleptin have been described, but advised. However, very low-fat diets should be considered for are thought to relate to the underlying disease process rather patients with hypertriglyceridemia-induced pancreatitis, and than the treatment itself (1). Nonetheless, close monitoring carbohydrate-restricted diets may be valuable in the context for hematologic abnormalities in treated patients is advised of diabetes (1). It should be noted that BMI is not an accurate (12). As a complication of metreleptin therapy, a small pro- tool to stratify cardiometabolic disease risk in patients with portion of individuals have been reported to develop neutral- lipodystrophy, and caloric restriction should be considered izing antileptin antibodies, leading to worsening metabolic even at a normal or low-normal BMI (48). control and severe infections. Understanding risk factors and encouraged to limit alcohol intake (risk of hepatic steatosis) active area of investigation (58). and tobacco use (risk of cardiovascular disease), and to main- In the United States, metreleptin is approved as an ad- tain an active lifestyle in the absence of contraindications. In junct to diet for the treatment of generalized but not partial the latter regard, individuals with forms of lipodystrophy as- lipodystrophy. In contrast, in Europe and Japan, metreleptin sociated with cardiomyopathy should undergo cardiac evalu- is approved in both forms of lipodystrophy, and specifically ation before initiation of an exercise regimen. Furthermore, in cases of partial lipodystrophy that have not achieved ad- avoidance of contact sports is important in patients with CGL equate metabolic control with other agents. A randomized, complicated by hepatosplenomegaly or lytic bone lesions (1). placebo-controlled trial of metreleptin is
