Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


of contact sports is important in patients with CGL equate metabolic control with other agents. A randomized, complicated by hepatosplenomegaly or lytic bone lesions (1). placebo-controlled trial of metreleptin is currently underway to further elaborate on the efficacy and safety of metreleptin Restoration of Adipose Tissue Distribution or and to inform the risk-benefit analysis in the context of partial Function lipodystrophy (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT05164341). Leptin Replacement Therapy As leptin is a key adipokine made by subcutaneous adipose Tesamorelin tissue, metreleptin (recombinant human methionyl leptin) In HIV-associated lipodystrophy, patients have blunted is a pillar of therapy in non–HIV-associated lipodystrophy. growth hormone (GH) secretion in proportion to the extent Beginning with a landmark study in 2002 (49), metreleptin of abdominal fat accumulation. Specifically, detailed physio- has been shown to ameliorate numerous pathologic processes logic studies have shown reduced GH secretion per pulse with in lipodystrophy, including hyperphagia, insulin resistance, normal pulse frequency (59). Since GH increases lipolysis and and hypertriglyceridemia (Fig. 4). Furthermore, metreleptin suppresses de novo lipogenesis, low GH secretion has been therapy has been linked to improvements in nonalcoholic posited to potentiate abdominal fat accumulation and hepatic steatohepatitis severity (50), cardiac hypertrophy (51), pro- steatosis in this patient population (60). In this context, the teinuria (52), reproductive function (53), overall quality of novel GH-releasing hormone analogue tesamorelin was de- life (54), and mortality (55). Interestingly, while a reduction in veloped as a strategy to restore physiologic GH pulsatility in hyperphagia undoubtedly contributes to the metabolic bene- patients with HIV-associated lipodystrophy (61). In 2 large, fects of this agent on glucose and lipid metabolism even when significantly reduce visceral fat by nearly 20% without modu- caloric intake is held constant (56). lating subcutaneous fat in patients with HIV and abdominal Metreleptin is particularly effective among patients with adiposity (62). Smaller but nonetheless statistically significant generalized lipodystrophy in whom endogenous leptin levels reductions were also seen in waist circumference, likely due to tend to be lowest (14). As metreleptin addresses a key mech- preservation of subcutaneous fat. Tesamorelin was also noted anism of disease pathogenesis in this disease subtype, it is gen- to decrease triglycerides by roughly 15% and to improve erally advised that therapy be initiated early on to prevent quality of life (62). These benefits were achieved with insulin- cardiometabolic sequelae (1). In individuals with generalized like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels that remained within the lipodystrophy, marked improvements in
