Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


of life (62). These benefits were achieved with insulin- cardiometabolic sequelae (1). In individuals with generalized like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels that remained within the lipodystrophy, marked improvements in glycemic and lipid physiologic range (Fig. 5) (63). Furthermore, tesamorelin profiles are seen as quickly as the first week (52) with declines responders (defined as individuals with visceral fat reduc- in HbA and serum triglycerides by approximately 25% and tion ≥ 8%) had concurrent improvements in HbA , hepatic 60%, re 1c spectively, over 1 year (14). The use of metreleptin transaminases, and adiponectin, which is consis 1 t c ent with to treat partial lipodystrophy is more controversial given a the known role of visceral fat in the pathogenesis of meta- patients (14). Nonetheless, studies have shown that carefully additionally shown that tesamorelin reduced liver fat and selected individuals with more severe metabolic complica- prevented hepatic fibrosis progression among patients with tions (HbA > 8%, triglycerides > 500 mg/dL) and lower HIV-associated NAFLD in concert with favorable changes in 1c baseline leptin levels (< 4 ng/mL) may benefit (14, 56). hepatic gene expression (66, 67). The use of metreleptin among patients with lipodystrophy Tesamorelin is well tolerated, with side effects that include has been shown to be generally safe and well tolerated. Side injection site reactions, arthralgias, myalgias, and peripheral effects of metreleptin include localized skin reactions and edema in a minority of patients (62). Though GH is known to Downloaded from by guest on May Figure 4. Metabolic effects of metreleptin in non–HIV-associated lipodystrophy. Metreleptin leads to sustained improvements in glycemic control, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis among individuals with non–HIV-associated lipodystrophy. In the representative data shown, patients with generalized or partial lipodystrophy who had metabolic dysfunction and low baseline leptin levels (< 8.0 ng/mL in males; < 12.0 ng/mL in females) were treated with open-label metreleptin for up to 3 years. Metreleptin statistically significantly reduced A, HbA (–2.1% ± 0.5%); B, triglycerides 1c (–35.4% ± 13.7%); and C, ALT (–45 ± 19 U/L). The most rapid decrements occurred in the first 4 months of therapy followed by slower but continued improvements throughout the follow-up period (57). Mean and SEM are shown. ALT, alanine transaminase; HbA , glycated hemoglobin A . 1c 1c increase insulin resistance, meticulous physiology studies have thereby attenuate the underlying deficit in subcutaneous fat shown no worsening of glycemic control with tesamorelin that is present
