Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


A . 1c 1c increase insulin resistance, meticulous physiology studies have thereby attenuate the underlying deficit in subcutaneous fat shown no worsening of glycemic control with tesamorelin that is present in this patient population. Indeed, numerous (61). Nonetheless, in a small number of patients, glucose small studies have shown that TZDs improve insulin resist- levels may increase, and thus optimization of glycemic control ance, glucose intolerance, and hypertriglyceridemia among before initiation of therapy and periodic blood glucose moni- individuals with lipodystrophy, particularly in those with toring while on treatment may be useful. Patients receiving partial subtypes (73-80). Statistically significant improve- tesamorelin should undergo routine assessment of IGF-1; a ments in hepatic steatosis (76, 79) and PCOS (77) have also dose reduction may rarely be needed to maintain levels within been reported, consistent with findings in the general popu- the normal range. In addition, patients on tesamorelin should lation that pioglitazone may ameliorate NAFLD in the con- undergo age-appropriate cancer screening before and while text of prediabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus (81). Despite on therapy given theoretical concerns that GH may potentiate these benefits, enthusiasm for TZDs has been somewhat cancer growth, though tesamorelin specifically has not been tempered by inconsistent effects to expand lipoatrophic fat shown to increase cancer risk. Tesamorelin is the only medi- stores, with some reports further demonstrating exacerba- cation approved in the United States to treat abdominal fat tion of fat accumulation in lipohypertrophic areas (1, 74, accumulation in HIV. Tesamorelin has not been studied in 78). Moreover, potential side effects of this drug class in- the context of other lipodystrophy syndromes characterized clude weight gain, bone loss, and bladder cancer. Lastly, by increased visceral adiposity and is not currently approved some experts have cautioned that the benefits of TZDs outside the context of HIV. in lipodystrophy may be relatively short-lived (12). Thus, while TZDs may be efficacious in select patients with Pharmacologic Management of Cardiovascular lipodystrophy, they should be used with careful monitoring Risk Factors and continual risk-benefit assessment. Treatment of cardiometabolic complications is a key tenet of In patients that remain hyperglycemic despite noninsulin lipodystrophy management to minimize lifelong risk of ad- antihyperglycemic agents, insulin may be needed to achieve verse cardiovascular events. adequate glycemic control. Concentrated insulins (eg, U-500) should be considered in patients with high insulin Insulin Resistance requirements due to severe insulin resistance (1). Key side Despite limited evidence in
