Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


adequate glycemic control. Concentrated insulins (eg, U-500) should be considered in patients with high insulin Insulin Resistance requirements due to severe insulin resistance (1). Key side Despite limited evidence in lipodystrophy, metformin is gen- effects include weight gain, hypoglycemia, and injection site erally considered the first-line agent for the management of reactions. insulin resistance and diabetes in this context given its efficacy of prediabetes among the general population, metformin re- The main goals of treatment for dyslipidemia in lipodystrophy duced progression to diabetes as compared to placebo, though are to lower cardiovascular disease risk and to prevent to a lesser degree than an intensive lifestyle intervention (68). hypertriglyceridemia-induced pancreatitis. It is generally advised Furthermore, in patients with HIV-associated lipodystrophy to manage lipids in accordance with general population guide- and baseline dysglycemia, metformin improved insulin resist- lines. However, stricter lipid targets have been espoused in society ance, weight, and blood pressure (69-71). The most common guidelines given the enhanced risk of cardiovascular disease (eg, side effect of metformin is gastrointestinal discomfort, which low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] < 100 mg/dL, non– can be mitigated by gradual dose uptitration. high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [non-HDL-C] < 130 mg/dL, Beyond metformin, thiazolidinediones (TZDs) have been and triglycerides < 200 mg/dL) (1). To manage elevated LDL-C, the most well-studied class of antihyperglycemics in patients we have a low threshold to initiate statin therapy using a patient- with lipodystrophy (1, 72). Interest in these agents stems centered approach. Statin therapy is definitively indicated in pa- from their mechanism of action as PPARγ analogues, which tients with lipodystrophy who have comorbid type 2 diabetes in theory may promote adipogenesis and lipid storage, and mellitus (82, 83). Downloaded from by guest on May Figure 5. Metabolic effects of tesamorelin in HIV-associated lipodystrophy. A, In 2 large, phase 3, placebo-controlled trials of patients with HIV and increased abdominal adiposity, tesamorelin led to a statistically significant reduction in visceral fat (–15.4%) while preserving subcutaneous fat over 26 weeks (62). B, Tesamorelin also led to declines in triglycerides (–43 mg/dL; 95% CI, –54 to –21 mg/dL), total cholesterol (–5 mg/dL; 95% CI, –10 to –1 mg/dL) and non-HDL cholesterol (–7 mg/dL; 95% CI, –10 to –3 mg/dL) vs placebo (62). C, In patients with HIV and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, tesamorelin-treated individuals experienced a substantial decline in liver fat compared to placebo-treated controls over 1 year (–37%; 95% CI, –67% to –7%) (66).
