Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


with HIV and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, tesamorelin-treated individuals experienced a substantial decline in liver fat compared to placebo-treated controls over 1 year (–37%; 95% CI, –67% to –7%) (66). D, Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels among individuals with HIV-associated abdominal fat accumulation have been shown to increase relative to placebo, but typically remain within the normal physiologic range (z score < 2.0) (63). Data are mean difference and 95% CI in B and mean and SEM in C and D. Asterisks indicate statistical significance as defined by P less than .05. HDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; non–HDL-C, non–high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. To manage hypertriglyceridemia, lifestyle modifications Hypertension are the first-line management, which includes reduction in Hypertension in patients with lipodystrophy should be man- excess body weight, avoidance of alcohol, and augmenta- aged in accordance with standard guidelines. In this regard, tion of physical activity. Diets rich in complex carbohydrates, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin- monounsaturated fats, and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty receptor blockers are advised as first-line agents in patients acids are recommended, unless triglycerides exceed 1000 mg/ with diabetes (1). dL, in which case a very-low fat diet is advised. Medications should be reviewed to identify potential exacerbating agents Surgical Management such as oral estrogens, which should be limited as able. As Metabolic surgery poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus may potentiate In several case reports, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) sur- hypertriglyceridemia, glycemic control should also be opti- gery has been shown to have beneficial metabolic effects in mized as described earlier (83, 84). partial lipodystrophy syndromes, particularly FPLD1 and 2 For patients with elevated triglycerides despite life- (85-88). As in cases of generalized obesity, favorable changes style interventions, medical therapy is advised. Because in insulin resistance and glycemic control with RYGB in hypertriglyceridemia is considered a risk-enhancing factor for lipodystrophy have been ascribed to reduced caloric intake cardiovascular disease, a statin may be used to address car- and changes in gut hormone responses (87). Despite this diovascular disease risk (83). The omega-3 fatty acid eicosa- promising early evidence, further studies are needed to define pentaenoic acid (EPA, 4 g/day) may also be added in patients patients with lipodystrophy in whom surgical management is with known or high risk of atherosclerotic disease (84). If most effective. Metabolic surgery should not be considered in triglycerides are above 500 mg/dL, a fibrate should be added patients with generalized lipodystrophy or severe lipoatrophy.
