Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


atherosclerotic disease (84). If most effective. Metabolic surgery should not be considered in triglycerides are above 500 mg/dL, a fibrate should be added patients with generalized lipodystrophy or severe lipoatrophy. for more effective triglyceride-lowering given the elevated risk of pancreatitis. Notably, dual use of statins and fenofibrates is Cosmetic treatment associated with higher rates of rhabdomyolysis compared to Altered fat distribution in patients with lipodystrophy may statins alone, and gemfibrozil specifically should be avoided cause distress related to body image, particularly in female in the context of combination therapy (83). In patients with patients (12, 89, 90). To address lipoatrophy, autologous fat extreme hypertriglyceridemia, plasmapheresis has been used transfer, dermal fillers, or muscle grafts may be employed (1). given the diminished efficacy of pharmacologic agents in this While areas of lipohypertrophy in partial lipodystrophy may setting, but may need to be repeated frequently (1). also cause discontent, we advise against liposuction, which Downloaded from by guest on May removes protective subcutaneous fat stores and in turn may in 80% of cases of this lipodystrophy subtype (96, 99). Her contribute to progression of metabolic dysfunction (12, 91, body fat distribution (lipoatrophy of the extremities and but- 92). As an example, in one prior study, healthy normal-weight tocks; lipohypertrophy of the face, neck, and mons pubis), women undergoing abdominal liposuction were found to have muscle hypertrophy, timing of onset at puberty, and auto- a statistically significant increase in visceral fat within 6 months somal dominant mode of inheritance are typical of the diag- (91). nosis. As with many patients with lipodystrophy, her localized excess adiposity was a considerable source of distress, and Management of Nonmetabolic Comorbidities as such she underwent multiple liposuction surgeries before lipodystrophy have been reported to have a high prevalence limited subcutaneous fat depots likely exacerbated her disease of chronic pain (93), fatigue (20, 30), and mood disorders and shifted her toward a generalized lipodystrophy pheno- including depression and anxiety (93, 94). As such, a holistic type. Accordingly, we recommended a 1200-kcal diet low in approach to the patient is essential. Screening for these con- carbohydrates and high in monounsaturated and polyunsat- ditions should be routinely incorporated into their endocrine urated fats. We also prescribed her metreleptin therapy at a care with subspecialty referral as indicated. dose of 5 mg daily subcutaneously. At 6 months following the initiation of metreleptin, her HbA declined from 9.8% Controversies and uncertainties to
