Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


a care with subspecialty referral as indicated. dose of 5 mg daily subcutaneously. At 6 months following the initiation of metreleptin, her HbA declined from 9.8% Controversies and uncertainties to 6.9% with a reduction in insulin from 1c more than 200 units While the management of lipodystrophy is geared primarily daily to approximately 30 units daily. Triglycerides also im- toward optimization of cardiovascular disease risk, the true proved from 634 mg/dL to 216 mg/dL. She noted a substan- prevalence of atherosclerosis and related events in this popula- tial reduction in hyperphagia concordant with attenuation of tion remains uncertain. In particular, while patients with CGL metabolic dysfunction. She had no side effects to metreleptin bear a substantial burden of metabolic disease, rates of clin- though her fatigue and muscle weakness persisted unchanged. ically overt coronary heart disease seem lower than would be Importantly, had her lipodystrophy been diagnosed sooner, expected by most reports (eg, 3 of 33 patients in one registry) she may have been counseled against liposuction and/or initi- (95). However, individuals in these prior studies were pre- ated on metreleptin therapy earlier in life, which in turn may dominantly young and did not undergo routine assessments have greatly reduced her lifetime burden of cardiometabolic for subclinical coronary artery disease, which may have led dysfunction. to underestimates of the true disease prevalence (96). Unlike in CGL, an increased risk atherosclerotic vascular disease in Case 2 patients with FPLD2 has been well described. Specifically, in The patient’s altered fat distribution with marked one kindred study, LMNA mutation carriers had statistically lipohypertrophy of the abdomen and mild lipoatrophy significantly more coronary heart disease compared to un- of the limbs and buttocks is consistent with a diagnosis of affected family members (34.8% vs 5.9%), which often was HIV-associated lipodystrophy. His long-standing HIV in- diagnosed before age 55 years (97). Despite recognition of an fection with exposure to first-generation nucleoside reverse increased risk of coronary heart disease in this patient popu- transcriptase inhibitors (eg, AZT, D4T) supports this diag- lation, screening tools to identify the patients who are most nosis. Notably, his central adiposity, disproportionate to his susceptible—and thus require the most aggressive therapeutic BMI in the nonobese range, puts him at heightened risk of interventions—have not yet been established. cardiometabolic disease (100). Furthermore, given that HIV Beyond uncertainties surrounding cardiovascular disease risk infection itself is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, more assessment,
