Advance access publication 9 February 2022
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, fat, patients, disease, insulin, generalized, partial, metabolic, risk, patient, metreleptin, resistance, adipose, loss, insulin resistance


of interventions—have not yet been established. cardiometabolic disease (100). Furthermore, given that HIV Beyond uncertainties surrounding cardiovascular disease risk infection itself is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, more assessment, the optimal medical management of cardiometabolic aggressive lipid-lowering therapy may be warranted in this risk factors in patients with lipodystrophy also remains contro- patient compared to what standard risk prediction calcu- versial. As an example, limited data are available pertaining to lators would suggest (101). Accordingly, we opted to start prevention and treatment of diabetes in this patient population, pitavastatin 2 mg daily orally. This moderate-intensity statin including the utility of newer classes of drugs such as glucagon- was selected because it does not interact with his HIV medi- like peptide 1 (GLP1) receptor agonists and sodium-glucose cation cobicistat, a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitor. To cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors. While these agents have address his visceral and hepatic fat accumulation, we also ini- been shown to have emerging cardiovascular benefits among tiated tesamorelin SV 1.4 mg daily subcutaneously after con- people with type 2 diabetes mellitus in the general population firming that age-appropriate cancer screening was normal. (98), their efficacy and safety in the context of lipodystrophy After 6 months on tesamorelin, the patient’s IGF-1 increased requires further study. In addition, although aggressive lipid- from 78 ng/mL to 150 ng/mL with a reduction in waist cir- lowering may be advisable in this patient population, the role cumference from 110 cm to 105 cm. Triglycerides also de- of PCSK9 inhibitors as an adjuvant to statin therapy has not yet clined on therapy from 347 mg/dL to 182 mg/dL with stable been assessed. Lastly, while metreleptin and tesamorelin have glycemic control. been shown to have beneficial metabolic effects in non-HIV and HIV patients, respectively, the effects of these agents on athero- Conclusion sclerotic end points remains unknown. The lipodystrophy syndromes are a collection of dis- orders characterized by a generalized or partial deficiency Back to the Cases of subcutaneous fat, often leading to insulin resistance and Case 1 cardiometabolic dysfunction. While rare, recent evidence The patient underwent genetic testing, which revealed a het- suggests these conditions are more common than previously nosis of FPLD2. Substitutions in p.R482 have been implicated all patients with lipodystrophy, assessment and optimization Downloaded from by guest on May of traditional cardiovascular risk factors is imperative. 6. Nolis T. Exploring the pathophysiology behind the more Leptin replacement is
