e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


article are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed or endorsed by the publisher This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e948795-1 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Zhang Q. et al: Postoperative dysphagia management in hemifacial spasm © Am J Case Rep, 2025; 26: e948795 Introduction and enhancing cortical electrical input. This mechanism plays a critical role in the re-establishment and recovery of swal- Hemifacial spasm (hemifacial spasm) is a prevalent primary lowing reflex control, as well as in promoting functional re- cranial nerve disorder, with an incidence of approximately 11 organization of the motor cortex . In addition, NMES has per 100 000 individuals . Microvascular decompression is been shown to improve blood circulation in swallowing-relat- currently acknowledged as the most efficacious treatment for ed structures, facilitate the recovery of voluntary movement the condition, particularly when pharmacological therapies and and sensory function in the orofacial and pharyngeal regions, botulinum toxin injections prove ineffective . According to and prevent disuse atrophy of the muscle groups involved in the literature, the incidence of postoperative cranial nerve pal- swallowing . Electroencephalographic studies have dem- sies ranges from 8% to 10% . Among these, glossopharyn- onstrated that both passive NMES alone and NMES combined geal nerve dysfunction can lead to postoperative dysphagia, with voluntary muscle contraction training significantly enhance result in cricopharyngeus muscle dysfunction, primarily pre- fect than NMES alone . The enhanced efficacy observed senting as dysphagia, aspiration, and choking , significant- with the combined approach may be attributed to additional ly impairing the patient’s quality of daily life. stimulation involving the primary somatosensory cortex. This effect is likely due to the involvement of higher-order cogni- Several comprehensive rehabilitation therapies for treating cri- tive cortical control required during combined therapy, which copharyngeal dysfunction exist, including swallowing training, may facilitate improved neuromuscular control of the stimu- neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), cricopharyngeal lated skeletal muscles . Transcranial magnetic stimulation balloon dilation (CBD), botulinum toxin injection, and cricopha- (TMS) is a noninvasive technique used to assess treatment-in- ryngeal myotomy rehabilitation . A previous study evaluat- duced neuroplastic changes. The amplitude
