e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


balloon dilation (CBD), botulinum toxin injection, and cricopha- (TMS) is a noninvasive technique used to assess treatment-in- ryngeal myotomy rehabilitation . A previous study evaluat- duced neuroplastic changes. The amplitude of motor evoked ed the efficacy of a cricopharyngeal dysfunction rehabilitation potentials (MEP) induced by TMS is a well-established and re- protocol in which patients performed a voluntary, task-oriented liable method for evaluating the impact of swallowing inter- swallowing exercise guided by a balloon with graded volumes. ventions on corticobulbar excitability . Recent studies have This balloon, which traverses the cricopharyngeus muscle dur- shown that the amplitude of affected submental MEP evoked ing voluntary swallowing, moves as the muscle opens, in con- by ipsilateral cortical pulses significantly differs between dila- trast to passive dilation, which has been shown to be less ef- tion and control groups, suggesting that CBD therapy enhanc- fective . This approach resulted in long-term improvements es excitability in the affected projections of patients with uni- in swallowing function, as evidenced by increased function- lateral brainstem stroke . al oral intake scale (FOIS) scores, enhanced cricopharyngeus muscle opening, and greater hyoid bone excursions, all mea- The videofluorographic swallowing study (VFSS) is one of sured via videofluoroscopy . Additionally, manometry stud- method to evaluate swallowing. Also known as the modified ies confirmed its efficacy in prolonging cricopharyngeus mus- barium swallowing test, it is often considered the “criterion cle relaxation time, strengthening pharyngeal propulsion, and standard” to diagnose dysphagia by most swallowing clini- restoring resting pressure of the cricopharyngeus muscle . cians . Various volumes and textures of food and liquid lowing and cricopharyngeal muscle function are attributed not and degree of swallowing impairment are obtained from the only to mechanical changes in the cricopharyngeal sphincter radiographic images. Judgments are also made regarding the but also to neuroplastic changes upstream. This hypothesis coordination and timing of swallowing events by this meth- underpins the current investigation into the effects of com- od . FOIS is an observer-rated ordinal scale used to as- bined CBD therapy on neural excitability in individuals with sess oral intake, with scores ranging from 1 (indicating the dysphagia following stroke. NMES is a form of low-frequency most severe impairment) to 7 (representing normal oral in- current stimulation that delivers predetermined electrical im- take). It is primarily used to evaluate the level of oral intake pulses of appropriate intensity to the neuromuscular junction in patients with swallowing
