e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


stimulation that delivers predetermined electrical im- take). It is primarily used to evaluate the level of oral intake pulses of appropriate intensity to the neuromuscular junction in patients with swallowing disorders. A score of £5 on the or motor endplate. This stimulation induces depolarization of FOIS indicates the presence of dysphagia, meaning that the the axonal membrane in peripheral motor neurons, thereby patient is unable to consume regular food or requires modi- generating action potentials that propagate along the axons fied diets or alternative feeding methods . Postoperative NMES elicits muscle contractions or simulates voluntary motor ly rare. To enhance recognition of this condition and to pro- activity, ultimately aiming to improve or restore the function vide a series of effective rehabilitation strategies, we report of the stimulated muscle or muscle groups . Furthermore, and discuss this case in detail. low-frequency electrical stimulation can activate ascending afferent pathways in sensory neurons, triggering reflex arcs This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e948795-2 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Zhang Q. et al: Postoperative dysphagia management in hemifacial spasm © Am J Case Rep, 2025; 26: e948795 Case Report Once the hotspot was determined, the TMS intensity was ini- tially set to 100% and gradually reduced. The minimum mag- A 72-year-old man with a 10-year history of hemifacial spasm netic stimulation intensity that elicited MEP with an ampli- and a past medical history of hypertension presented with in- tude exceeding 50 μV in the suprahyoid muscle group at rest voluntary twitching of the left eyelid, which gradually spread in at least 5 out of 10 trials was defined as the resting motor to the left side of the face and mouth corner, progressively threshold for that side. Based on previous studies, unilater- worsening over time. He had received various treatments, in- al TMS stimulation induces MEPs in both the ipsilateral and cluding medications, botulinum toxin injections to the face, contralateral suprahyoid muscle groups, with the larger am- and acupuncture, with limited effectiveness. plitude typically corresponding to the contralateral side . Therefore, we stimulated the hotspot at 120% of the resting On July 22, 2024, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the fa- motor threshold to obtain MEP from the cortical representa- cial nerve revealed a close relationship between the left tri- tion areas of the bilateral suprahyoid
