e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


imaging (MRI) of the fa- motor threshold to obtain MEP from the cortical representa- cial nerve revealed a close relationship between the left tri- tion areas of the bilateral suprahyoid muscle groups. The max- geminal nerve’s pre-pons segment and a local blood vessel, imum amplitude of MEP was measured 3 times, and the av- with no significant abnormalities on the brain MRI. On July 24, erage value was used to calculate the amplitude of ipsilateral 2024, the patient underwent microvascular decompression via MEPs and contralateral MEPs . the suboccipital retrosigmoid approach, under general anesthe- sia. The procedure was performed according to standard proto- The patient’s swallowing function was assessed, as shown in cols. During surgery, a tortuous, dilated posterior inferior cer- Table 1. Based on the aforementioned assessment, the following ebellar artery was observed compressing the facial nerve root. comprehensive rehabilitation treatment plan was implemented. The artery looped around the nerve root and compressed the root exit zone of the brainstem. Additionally, the left vertebral Nutritional Management artery was positioned superiorly and posteriorly to the poste- rior inferior cerebellar artery. After decompression, the vessels The patient’s daily caloric requirement was estimated to be facial nerve compression mark was identified. Teflon felt was Guidelines for Oropharyngeal Dysphagia” . This was con- placed between the artery and the brainstem for further sepa- verted into equivalent food portions: 100 g of eggs, 200 g of ration. Intraoperative monitoring of brainstem auditory evoked lean pork, 100 g of fish, 300 g of rice, and 500 g of vegetables, potentials showed normal results, and abnormal facial muscle or other foods with similar caloric and nutritional content. The responses disappeared. The dura mater was watertight sutured, family was instructed to prepare the food into a puree using with intermittent suturing of the muscle and subcutaneous tis- a blender and administer it via a nasogastric tube in 3 meals sues, and the skin was closed with continuous subcuticular su- a day. Based on the patient’s assessment results, the feeding tures. On the first postoperative day, the patient developed dys- method was adjusted as needed. When oral intake is possible, phagia, presenting with difficulty swallowing food and choking. the European Society for Swallowing Disorders’ volume-viscos- A nasogastric tube was inserted for feeding. A repeat brain MRI ity swallowing test guidelines were referenced . The fam- was performed, showing no significant abnormalities. ily was advised to offer 5 mL
