e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


was inserted for feeding. A repeat brain MRI ity swallowing test guidelines were referenced . The fam- was performed, showing no significant abnormalities. ily was advised to offer 5 mL per mouthful as a safe swallow- ing volume, with each mouthful to be swallowed before the We used the CCY-I type magnetic stimulator with a 7-cm diam- next. Water intake was provided via nasogastric tube at 200 eter figure-8 coil (Wuhan Yirui Medical Equipment Co, Ltd) to to 300 mL per session, 4 to 5 times per day, with a 3-h inter- perform single-pulse stimulation for detecting MEP from the val between each. The water amount could be adjusted based cortical projection areas of the bilateral suprahyoid muscles. on the liquid content in the solid foods provided at each meal. The patient was positioned seated, with surface electrodes placed over the muscle belly of the bilateral suprahyoid mus- Swallowing Training cles, and ground electrodes attached to the bilateral mastoid processes. The TMS coil was positioned 2 to 4 cm anterior to Swallowing training involved oropharyngeal muscle strength- the vertex of the skull and moved within 4 to 6 cm toward ening exercises, sensory stimulation, and tongue retraction ex- the contralateral hemisphere, targeting the cortical represen- ercises. The exercises focused on improving muscle strength, tation of the suprahyoid muscle group . Starting at 30% resistance, or both. For example, tongue exercises required the of the maximum output intensity, single-pulse stimulation patient to hold the tongue gently between the teeth and then was gradually increased to determine the shortest latency swallow saliva while maintaining the tongue in a straight posi- and largest amplitude of the MEP, which identified the corti- tion . Other techniques included the Mendelsohn maneu- cal representation area for the contralateral suprahyoid mus- ver and Shaker exercises , as well as oral taste training, cle group, referred to as the “hotspot”. Using the same meth- temperature training, and proprioception stimulation through This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e948795-3 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Zhang Q. et al: Postoperative dysphagia management in hemifacial spasm © Am J Case Rep, 2025; 26: e948795 Table 1. Comparison of functional assessment before and after treatment. Before treatment After treatment Assessment Items Change (July 24, 2024) (Aug 4, 2024) Oral, facial, and Mouth: Reduced sensation, right Mouth:
