e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


hemifacial spasm © Am J Case Rep, 2025; 26: e948795 Figure 1. Before treatment, the cricopharyngeus muscle was not open (red arrow) and the bolus could not pass down. CBD Synchronized NMES Figure 2. After treatment, the cricopharyngeus muscle was open (red arrow) and the bolus could pass smoothly. VitalStim neuromuscular electrical stimulation equipment (Chattanooga Ltd, Hixson, TN, USA) was used for this patient. bolus (see Figures 1, 2). The issues of cricopharyngeus muscle Prior to treatment, the patient’s neck skin was cleaned with relaxation, insufficient tongue-pharyngeal complex movement, 75% medical alcohol (or saline for those allergic to alcohol), to poor epiglottic inversion, and delayed laryngeal closure were reduce interference and improve conductivity. The treatment all markedly improved. The FOIS score reached level 6, indicat- electrodes were placed on both sides of the anterior neck, be- ing complete oral intake with no special preparation required, tween the chin and the upper part of the suprahyoid muscles. although occasional coughing still occurred with drinking. Before starting CBD synchronized NMES, the nasogastric tube was removed. A 14 Fr balloon catheter was inserted through The patient developed dysphagia after undergoing microvas- the patient’s nostrils into the esophagus. At the esophageal cular decompression for hemifacial spasm. Glossopharyngeal inlet, water was gradually injected into the balloon in accor- nerve palsy is a potential cause of the dysphagia and is consid- dance with the patient’s dilation tolerance (refer to Table 2 for ered a rare postoperative complication. The primary symptoms volume). The patient was instructed to perform a swallowing included dysphagia, aspiration, and choking. The assessment re- action as the intensity of electrical stimulation on the supra- vealed several issues, including the absence of the pharyngeal hyoid muscles reached its peak at the same time. The balloon reflex, impaired cricopharyngeus muscle relaxation, bolus leak- was then swallowed, and the therapist gently retracted the age, aspiration, insufficient tongue-pharyngeal complex move- balloon, repeating the process multiple times. This intermittent ment, poor epiglottic inversion, delayed laryngeal closure, insuf- traction of the cricopharyngeus muscle was designed to pro- ficient pharyngeal peristalsis, and pharyngeal contraction. These gressively dilate the cricopharyngeal muscle. Each session last- findings indicate a primarily pharyngeal-phase neurogenic dys- ed 20 min, once daily, for a total of 10 sessions. This case re- phagia. Based on these characteristics, a comprehensive reha- port was written in accordance with the SCARE guidelines . bilitation approach combining CBD and synchronous NMES of
