e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


sessions. This case re- phagia. Based on these characteristics, a comprehensive reha- port was written in accordance with the SCARE guidelines . bilitation approach combining CBD and synchronous NMES of the suprahyoid muscles was developed. Research on this syn- chronous therapy is rare. However, CBD has been confirmed Discussion as effective in treating cricopharyngeal dysfunction caused by various neurological conditions, like stroke and traumatic brain In this case, post-treatment assessments showed improve- injury . Moreover, the nasally inserted CBD catheter avoids ments in swallowing function. VFSS revealed increased cri- further restricting the patient’s tongue movement, which would copharyngeus muscle opening and successful passage of the be a concern with an oral insertion method. This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e948795-5 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Zhang Q. et al: Postoperative dysphagia management in hemifacial spasm © Am J Case Rep, 2025; 26: e948795 A recent study has shown that CBD improves swallowing func- Electroencephalographic studies have shown that NMES com- tion via 2 mechanisms. One is passive dilation, which increas- bined with volitional muscle contraction induces greater cor- es muscle compliance by mechanical stretching, promoting the tical activation – particularly within the primary sensory cor- elongation of muscle fibers and reducing the opening resis- tex – than does passive NMES alone. This enhanced cortical tance of the cricopharyngeus muscle. The other is active di- engagement likely facilitates improved control of stimulated lation, in which the patient actively swallows during balloon skeletal muscles and promotes neuroplasticity, contributing to inflation, triggering the active contraction of the suprahyoid the functional restoration of deglutition . muscles, resulting in upward and forward movement of the tongue-pharyngeal complex . This active movement helps A previous study has shown that combining CBD with NMES stretch the cricopharyngeus muscle and facilitates its open- for the treatment of dysphagia in patients following nasopha- ing. By stimulating the local muscles and training the opening ryngeal cancer radiation resulted in more significant improve- and closing of the cricopharyngeus muscle, the therapy acti- ments in swallowing function than did either treatment meth- vates both sides of the cortical areas and rebuilds the corti- od alone . This finding further supports the effectiveness cal-brainstem swallowing reflex pathway, ultimately promot- of this combined approach for managing dysphagia. ing swallowing recovery . In the present case, the patient’s
