e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: swallowing, muscle, patient, dysphagia, nmes, treatment, case, stimulation, cbd, hemifacial, hemifacial spasm, spasm, cricopharyngeus, oral, cricopharyngeus muscle


. This finding further supports the effectiveness cal-brainstem swallowing reflex pathway, ultimately promot- of this combined approach for managing dysphagia. ing swallowing recovery . In the present case, the patient’s FOIS improved from level 1 Conclusions to level 6, with marked reductions in aspiration and choking. The post-treatment activation effect, which promotes swallow- Although swallowing disorders after microvascular decompres- ing recovery, was reflected in the MEP of the suprahyoid mus- sion for hemifacial spasm are rare, their occurrence can sig- cles on both sides, as induced by TMS. CBD-induced dilation nificantly affect a patient’s quality of life. Clinically, a compre- likely reconstructs or repairs the damaged neuromuscular con- hensive rehabilitation approach combining catheter balloon nections of the cortical pathways, modulating neuroplasticity dilation with synchronous neuromuscular electrical stimula- and leading to increased bilateral MEP after treatment, which tion NMES of the suprahyoid muscles may offer a promising correlated with positive therapeutic outcomes. These findings and effective treatment strategy to rapidly alleviate the pa- align with previous research in which patients with aspiration tient’s distress. often show a decline in ipsilateral and contralateral MEPs, as opposed to patients without aspiration . Karatzetzou et Acknowledgements al further explored the correlation between the MEP of the suprahyoid muscles and swallowing function after stroke The authors thank the patient, his family, and the rehabili- and found that MEP amplitudes were significantly associated tation therapists involved. We would also like to thank the with the severity of dysphagia. Science and Technology Fund Project of Guizhou Provincial Health Commission for providing financial support. NMES enhances the strength and coordination of swallow- ing-related muscles by reversing the typical motor unit re- Declaration About Informed Consent cruitment order – preferentially activating fast-twitch type II muscle fibers. In the present case, NMES was applied synchro- We obtained written informed consent from the parents or nously with CBD to facilitate cricopharyngeal muscle opening. guardians of all the patients. The study was approved by the The electrically induced rapid contraction of the suprahyoid local Ethics Committee and was conducted according to the muscles contributed to mechanical traction on the cricopha- Declaration of Helsinki. ryngeus, augmenting the effect of balloon dilation . This combined intervention not only achieves mechanical expan- Department and Institution Where Work Was Done sion but also leverages NMES-induced muscle training effects tion. Furthermore, NMES activates afferent sensory pathways via stimulation of the glossopharyngeal, trigeminal, and vagus Declaration of Figures’
