Short-term circulatory support with left ventricular assist devices as a bridge to cardiac
KEYWORDS: patients, support, lvad, transplantation, series, heart, failure, procedure, case series, acute, case, left, reported, heart failure, device


transplantation or recovery 1 Guidance 1.1 Limited evidence on the safety and efficacy of short-term circulatory support with left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) as a bridge to cardiac transplantation or recovery appears adequate to support the use of this procedure provided that the normal arrangements are in place for audit and clinical governance. 1.2 Clinicians should ensure that patients fully understand the high complication rates associated with this procedure and that the procedure is a temporary measure. In addition, use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. 1.3 Publication of further research will be useful, particularly on the use of this procedure in patients with cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 The management of patients with end-stage heart failure or acute heart failure from naturally reversible causes is challenging; it may involve combination medical therapy (including inotropic support), intra-aortic balloon pumping and heart transplantation. 2.1.2 Short-term circulatory support with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) may be indicated for patients with end-stage heart failure (of any aetiology) who are awaiting a donor heart for transplantation, and for patients with a severe acute heart failure syndrome from which myocardial recovery is anticipated (such as acute myocarditis). An LVAD is sometimes used if weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass after cardiac surgery fails. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 A number of LVADs that increase cardiac output by providing mechanical support to the failing left ventricle are available. The choice of device depends on the patient's body size, the length of time support is required, the degree of support needed and the type of blood flow desired. 2.2.2 Implantation of an LVAD is done under general anaesthesia through a chest incision; surgery usually takes several hours. The inflow pipe of the LVAD is inserted into the left side of the heart, usually the left ventricle, and the outflow pipe is inserted into the systemic arterial system, usually the aorta. The LVAD pumps oxygenated blood from the failing left ventricle into the systemic arterial system under pressure. 2.3 Efficacy 2.3.1 In the active arm of a non-randomised controlled study, 78% (32/41) of patients survived for a mean of 215 days with LVAD support. In another comparative study, 81% (13/16) of patients survived to transplant (duration of support not stated). One case series showed that at 30 days of bridging to transplantation with an LVAD, survival was 83%, falling
