Short-term circulatory support with left ventricular assist devices as a bridge to cardiac
KEYWORDS: patients, support, lvad, transplantation, series, heart, failure, procedure, case series, acute, case, left, reported, heart failure, device


in 31% (4/13) of patients in one series. 2.4.4 Other complications reported during LVAD support were renal failure, respiratory failure and haemolysis. For more details, refer to the 'Sources of evidence' section. 2.4.5 The Specialist Advisers noted that adverse events relating to the procedure include bleeding, infection, device malfunction, haemolysis, peripheral ischaemia and perforation of a ventricle or the aorta. In addition, they noted that theoretical complications include device-related thrombosis and device-related strokes. 2.5 Other comments 2.5.1 This guidance refers to patients for whom other treatments such as intra-aortic balloon pumping would be ineffective, who are considered eligible for heart transplantation, or who have acute severe heart failure that is likely to be reversible (such as acute myocarditis). It was noted that other patients might potentially benefit from this procedure, such as patients who cannot be weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass after cardiac surgery and patients with cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction. 2.5.2 It was noted that a number of different devices are available for this procedure and that the technology is evolving rapidly. Some devices include a right-ventricular assist device (biventricular assist devices). The Institute may review this guidance upon publication of further evidence. 2.5.3 It was also noted that implantation of an LVAD could unmask previously subclinical right ventricular dysfunction. 2.5.4 These recommendations exclude circulatory support with left ventricular devices as destination therapy. 3 Further information 3.1 NICE has published a guideline on chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management. 3.2 The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Programme has produced a report on the Evaluation of the ventricular assist device programme in the UK (EVAD), which was published in November 2006.
