TheAmericanJournalofPathology,Vol.169,No.3,September2006
KEYWORDS: cid, cells, cid cid, cell, tumor, liver, metastatic, ht-, organs, tumor cells, tumor cell, arrest, circulating, carcinoma, using


Germany).Permanentcatheterswereintroducedintothe showed that specific cell adhesions mediated by differ- leftheartviathecarotidarteryandtherightheartviathe ent integrins and selectin ligands at the tumor cell sur- jugular vein. After a wide median laparotomy was per- faces appear to be required for successful tumor cell formed, the left liver lobe was careful mobilized without arrestwithinthehepaticmicrocirculation,19,20withtumor disturbing hepatic microcirculation. Using a heated op- cell adhesion modulated by the integrity of cytoskeletal eratingtable,animalswerefixedunderanuprightmicro- components.21 scope and positioned on their left side. This positioning This observation of specific adhesive interactions allowed a partial luxation of the mobilized left liver lobe withinthehepaticmicrocirculationsuggestedaninvolve- that was placed on a specific holder to investigate its ment of this step in the organ-specificity of metastasis lowersurface.Duringtheexperimentstheliverwascon- formation. Therefore, the direct intravital observation of tinuouslyirrigatedwithisotonicsalinesolution. metastatic tumor cell adhesion and invasion of colon Alternatively, the anterior chest wall was removed in carcinoma cells with different metastatic properties into mechanically ventilated animals without disturbance of thehostorganparenchymawasusedtoinvestigatetheir lung surfaces (careful avoidance of atelectases). An ar- specificityindifferentpotentialtargetorgans.Cellswere tificial pleura was placed on the left upper lobe or the abletopassallcapillarybedsoftheinvestigatedorgans rightlowerlobeenablingadirectobservationoftheven- without size restriction. We found that circulating tumor tilated and perfused lung in situ with minimal moving cellscanspecificallyadherewithinthemicrovasculature artifacts.Moreover,theanteriorsurfaceoftheleftkidney, of liver and lungs, leaving remaining perfused vessel mesentericmicrocirculationclosedtothesmallintestine, lumen. In contrast, in other organs (kidney, mesenteric, theabdominalrectusmuscle,abdominalskin(fromsub- muscle, skin) no or only single cells were able to arrest cutaneous side), or the ventral part of the spleen were within their microvasculature. Within the spleen circulat- prepared for the investigation similarly to the liver ing tumor cells were trapped, but diffuse fluorescence surface. 1066 Schlu¨teretal AJPSeptember2006,Vol.169,No.3 Figure1.Semiquantitativedeterminationofthenumbersofadherentandmigratedcells.Thirtymicroscopicfieldswereanalyzedwithina5-minuteobservation period.Thenumbersofadherentandmigratedcellswerecountedineachinterval.Thisprocedurewasrepeatedevery5minutes.Thenumbersofarrestedcells andrelativemigrationrateswerecalculatedasdescribedwithinthetext. An upright epifluorescence microscope (Zeiss, were used for further investigation and semiquantita- Oberkochen,Germany)wasusedwitha20-foldobjective tive analysis of these interactions. First, occurrence of that was located over a glass slip covering the organ cellrollingwasmonitored.Inaddition,thelatencywas surfaces. The microscope was connected with a video measured until first stable tumor cell adhesions were enhancer-zoomlenssystemandalow-lightcharge-cou- observed within the host organ microcirculation. The pleddevicevideocamera(Peiper,Du¨sseldorf,Germany) localization of stable tumor cell adhesions within the allowing real-time imaging via a separate monitor. Fluo- vascular tree and in relation to the diameter of the rescenceimageswererecordedusingatimer-containing involved vessels was evaluated. If tumor cells were S-VHS video system for further analysis.23 In some ex- able to arrest within the microvessels, the diameter of periments Vybrad-DiI (Molecular Probes, Leiden, The the involved vessel was determined compared to the Netherlands)wasusedforintravitalstainingofendothe- diameter of the adherent tumor cell. Furthermore, re- lial cells, resulting in nonhomogenous in vivo labeling
