TheAmericanJournalofPathology,Vol.169,No.3,September2006
KEYWORDS: cid, cells, cid cid, cell, tumor, liver, metastatic, ht-, organs, tumor cells, tumor cell, arrest, circulating, carcinoma, using


Vybrad-DiI (Molecular Probes, Leiden, The the involved vessel was determined compared to the Netherlands)wasusedforintravitalstainingofendothe- diameter of the adherent tumor cell. Furthermore, re- lial cells, resulting in nonhomogenous in vivo labeling maining blood flow within this vessel or its occlusion withintheliversinusoids. was investigated using fluorescence-labeled dextran or fluorescein isothiocyanate. A semiquantitative anal- In Vivo Observation of Metastatic Tumor Cell ysisoftumorcelladhesionandextravasationwasper- formed throughout a 30-minute observation period Adhesion (lung, 20 minutes), and the numbers of adherent cells For intravital observation of adhesive interactions be- werecountedforeachofthe5-minuteintervals.Using tween circulating tumor cells and the host organ micro- a standardized procedure, all fields were analyzed in circulation,singlecellsuspensionsofCalceinAM(Molec- each observation period and average numbers of ad- ular Probes) fluorescence-labeled tumor cells (1 (cid:2) 106 herent cells, migrated cells, and total cells observed cellsinCDrats,0.5(cid:2)106tumorcellsinnuderats)were were counted (Figure 1).18–21 The numbers provided injected intra-arterially throughout 60 seconds. Previ- represent the total numbers of cells within 30 micro- ously, we have shown that the route of cell application scopicfieldsforeach5-minuteperiod.Inaddition,the (left heart, right heart, portal vein) did not influence the latency of tumor cell invasion into host organ paren- adhesive or migratory behavior within the liver sinu- chyma was determined. Relative migration rates were soids.18Thistechniquedidnotinterferewithcardiocircu- calculatedaspercentageofcellswithinthehostorgan latory or pulmonary functions of the animals. In case of parenchymainrelationtothetotalnumberofobserved the lung microcirculation, injection time was 120 cells.19,20 In case of the pulmonary microcirculation, seconds. we were unable to differentiate between adherent and Anoff-lineanalysiswasusedtodeterminetumorcell migrated cells, and therefore the numbers of arrested behavior within the target organs. Various parameters cells were counted in this organ. Organ-SpecificMetastaticAdhesion 1067 AJPSeptember2006,Vol.169,No.3 Forthedifferentiationoffreemovingandrollingtumor cells,wetriedtousetheformulathatwasintroducedby Ley and Gaehtgens24,25 for the description of leukocyte behavior.Thisformulacalculatesacriticalmovingveloc- ity based on the velocity of cells at the center of the involvedmicrovesselandtheratiobetweencelldiameter andvessellumen.Glinskyandcolleagues26adaptedthis formula for investigations on tumor cells within 80- to 100-(cid:1)m arterioles. Applying this method in our method- ologicalsetup,however,didnotresultinreliablediscrim- inationcausedbytheanatomicalconditionswithintherat microcirculation (sinusoids (cid:1)10 (cid:1)m). Because circulat- ingtumorcellsusedinthisstudyhadadiameterthatwas approximatelyonly1to2(cid:1)msmallerthanthediameterof the microcapillaries in liver and lung, central velocities cannotbedetermined.Inaddition,theratioofdiameters thatisusedinthisformulaiscloseto1andthereforealso notapplicableinourinvivosystem. Figure2.Invivocelladhesionwithinliversinusoids.Autofluorescenceof liver parenchyma enabled differentiation between sinusoids and paren- Localization of Tumor Cells within Target chyma.Circulatingcoloncarcinomacellsadheredwithintheliversinusoids. Remainingperfusedvessellumensuggestedspecificadhesiveinteractions Organs withoutmechanicalentrapment.Scalebar(cid:3)20(cid:1)m. To validate the intraparenchymatous localization of the fore electron microscopy, samples were sputtered with observed tumor cells after rapid migration, in some ex- ultra thin layers of carbon and platinum using an argon periments cells were preincubated with BrdU 24 hours plasma sputter coater (Polaron). Dry and coated slices beforeinjectionintotherats.Intravitalmicroscopyofthe wereusedforrasterelectronmicroscopy(LEO1530VP; hepatic microcirculation was performed as described Zeiss SMT, Oberkochen, Germany). Figures were ob-
