Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


the Li-Fraumeni syndrome (TP53 gene germline and somatic mutation), the Lynch syndrome (MSH2, MLH1, MSH6, PMS2, EPCAM genes), the multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) 1 (MEN1 gene), and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP gene, catenin somatic mutations), neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1 gene) and Carney complex (PRKAR1A gene) syndromes ( Table 1 ) ( 1 - 4 ). In recent years several multi-center studies have shed light on the pathogenesis of ACC but ‘multi-omic’ studies have recently revealed that only a minority of ACC cases harbor pathogenic driver mutations. Table 1. Clinical and Genetic Features of Familial Syndromes Associated with ACC View in own window Genetic disease Gene and chromosomal involvement Organ involvement Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome CDKN1C mutation KCNQ10T1, H19 (epigenetic defects) 11p15 locus alterations IGF-2 overexpression Macrosomia, macroglossia, hemihypertrophy (70%), omphalocele, Wilm’s tumor, ACC (15- 20% adrenocortical tumors) Li-Fraumeni syndrome P53(17p13) Soft tissue sarcoma, breast cancer, brain tumors, leukemia, ACC Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome 1 Menin (11q13) Parathyroid, pituitary, pancreatic, bronchial tumors Adrenal cortex tumors (30%, rarely ACC) Familial Adenomatous polyposis APC (5q12-22) Multiple adenomatous polyps and cancer colon and rectum Periampullary cancer, thyroid tumors, hepatoblastoma, rarely ACC SBLA syndrome Sarcoma, breast and lung cancer, ACC Neurofibromatosis NF1 Six or more light brown dermatological spots (" café au lait spots At least two neurofibromas Carney Complex PRKAR1A Lentigines, Atrial Myxoma, and Blue Nevi The clinical features of sporadic ACCs are due to hormonal hypersecretion and/or tumor mass and spread to surrounding or distant tissues. An increasing number of cases (≈ 10-15%) are increasingly been diagnosed within the group of incidentally discovered adrenal masses (incidentalomas). However, the likelihood of an adrenal incidentaloma being an ACC is rather low ( 2 , 6 , 7 ). Approximately 50-60% of ACCs exhibit evidence of hormonal hypersecretion, usually that of combined glucocorticoid and androgen secretion ( Table 2 ). Nearly 30-40% of patients with primary ACC present with a mass-related syndrome as abdominal or dorsal pain, a palpable mass, fever of unknown origin, signs of inferior vena cava (IVC) compression, and signs of left-sided portal hypertension. Rarely, complications such as hemorrhage or tumor rupture may also occur. Lately the number of patients that are identified while being investigated for an adrenal incidentaloma is rapidly increasing ( 5 ). In biochemical studies the first step is the measurement of steroid hormones which is initially guided by the clinical presentation. According to the ESMO-EURACAN (European Society for Medical Oncology—the
