Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


). In biochemical studies the first step is the measurement of steroid hormones which is initially guided by the clinical presentation. According to the ESMO-EURACAN (European Society for Medical Oncology—the European Reference Network for rare adult solid cancers) Clinical Practice Guidelines from 2020 in cases of suspected ACC, an extensive steroid hormone work-up is recommended assessing gluco-, mineralo-, sex- and precursor-steroids ( 6 - 8 ). For all adrenal masses, diagnosis of pheochromocytoma should be excluded by measuring plasma-free or urinary-fractionated metanephrines to avoid intraoperative complications. Table 2. Signs and Symptoms of ACC and Recommended Testing for Confirmation of Hypersecretory Syndromes View in own window Symptoms/Signs Hormonal testing (ENSAT 2005, ESMO-EURACAN - Clinical Practice Guidelines 2020) Hypercortisolism Centripetal fat distribution. Skin thinning – striae. Muscle wasting – myopathy. Osteoporosis. Increased blood pressure (BP), Diabetes Mellitus Psychiatric disturbance Gonadal dysfunction Overnight dexamethasone suppression test (1mg) 24-hour free cortisol, Basal ACTH (plasma), Basal cortisol (serum) [for diagnosis minimum 3 out of 4 tests) Androgen hypersecretion Hirsutism Menstrual irregularity – infertility Virilization (baldness, deepening of the voice, clitoris hypertrophy) DHEA-S Androstenedione Testosterone 17-hyrdoxy-progesterone (17OHPG) Mineralocorticoid hypersecretion Increased BP Hypokalemia Potassium (serum) Aldosterone to renin ratio Estrogen hypersecretion Gynecomastia (men) Menorrhagia (post-menopausal women) 17β-estradiol Non-hypersecretory syndrome PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Although studies of hereditary neoplasia syndromes have revealed various chromosomal abnormalities related to ACC development the precise genetic alterations involved are still unknown. Most common mutations implicated in sporadic ACC are insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), catenin (CTNNB1 or ZNRF3) and TP53 mutations ( 1 , 4 , 9 ). The Wnt/β- catenin constitutive activation and insulin growth factor 2 (IGF2 overexpression) are the most important implicated genetic pathways. Germline TP53 mutations and dysregulation of the Gap 2/mitosis transition and the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) signaling have also been described. Steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) plays an important role in adrenal development and is frequently overexpressed in ACC. Recently, ACC global -omics profiling studies revealed frequent detected genetic and epigenetic alterations, including loss of heterozygosity at 17p13, alterations at the 11p15 locus, and mutations in TP53, CTNNB1, ZNRF34, CDKN2A, RB1, MEN1, PRKAR1A, RPL22, TERF2, CCNE1, and NF1 genes. Decreased expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and/or PMS2 consistent with high microsatellite instability/mismatch repair protein deficiency (MSI-H/MMR-D) status have also been reported ( 4 , 9 ). DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS A palpable mass causing abdominal pain in the presence of IVC syndrome is highly suggestive of an
