Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


50% after 15 minutes, is associated with >90% specificity ( 7 , 8 ). On Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), ACC appears hypo or isointense in relation to the liver on T1-weighted images, and following gadolinium enhancement and chemical shift techniques the diagnostic accuracy obtained can be as high as 85-100% ( 7 , 8 ). Recently Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging with 18F-fluoro-2deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG-PET) has been proposed as possibly the best second-line test to assess indeterminate masses by unenhanced CT exhibiting 95-100% sensitivity and 91-94% specificity that increases further when fused with CT imaging. Furthermore, 18FDG-PET can also be used as a staging procedure identifying metastatic adrenal disease missed by conventional imaging studies including CT of the chest ( 7 , 8 ). With the proper implementation of imaging studies there is no need for any adrenal biopsy. HISTOPATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS The expression of steroidogenic factor 1(SF1) is a valid marker to document the adrenal origin (distinction of primary adrenocortical tumors and non-adrenocortical tumors) with a sensitivity of 98% and a specificity of 100%. If this marker is not available, a combination of other markers can be used which should include inhibin-alpha, melan-A, and calretinin. European Network for the Study of Adrenal Tumors (ENSAT) has shown that KI-67 is the most powerful prognostic marker in both localized and advanced ACC indicative of aggressive behavior and that higher Ki-67 levels are consistently associated with a worse prognosis ( 2 , 6 , 11 , 12 ). Weiss system, based on a combination of nine histological criteria that can be applied on hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides for the distinction of benign and malignant adrenocortical tumors, is the best validated score to distinguish adenomas from ACC although with high inter-observer variability. A reticulin algorithm has been used for diagnosis of ACC which involves an abnormal//absent reticulin framework and at least one of the three following criteria (tumor necrosis, presence of venous invasion and mitotic rate of >5/50 high power field) ( 12 ). Studies have proposed the use of proliferative index (Ki-67 index > 5%) and IGF2 over-expression to confirm the diagnosis of ACC ( 11 , 12 ). It is important to note that no single microscopic criterion on its own is indicative of malignancy and there is subjective variability in the interpretation. PROGNOSIS As survival depends on stage at presentation several different classification histopathological systems have evolved with the reported 5-year survival
