Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


in Europe ( 15 ) and the other from the Cancer Genome Atlas consortium in America, Europe and Australia ( 16 ), with two distinct molecular subgroups, C1A and C1B being associated with poor (5-year survival rate of 20%) and good overall prognosis (5-year survival rate of 91%), respectively. The C1B group is characterized by low mutation rate, and a very low incidence of mutations of the main driver genes of ACC whereas the C1A group is characterized by high mutation rate and driver gene alterations. This group is further divided into a subgroup of aggressive tumors showing hypermethylation at the level of the CpG islands located in the promoter of genes (“CIMP phenotype”). THERAPY The management of patients with ACC requires a multidisciplinary approach with initial complete surgical resection in limited volume disease (stages I, II and occasionally III). Mitotane (1,1-dichloro-2(o- chlorophenyl)-2-(p-chlorophenyl) ethane [o,p’DDD]) is the only currently available adrenolytic medication achieving an overall response of approximately 30%. Surgery The aim of surgery is to achieve a complete margin-negative (R0) resection as patients with an R0 resection have a 5-year survival rate of 40-50% compared to the < 1year survival of those with incomplete resection ( 7 , 14 ). Patients with stage III tumors and positive lymph nodes can have a 10-year OS rate of up to 40% after complete resection. When a preoperative diagnosis or high level of suspicion of ACC exists, open surgical oncological resection is recommended as locoregional lymph removal might improve diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic outcome. However, the wide range of reported lymph node involvement in ACC (ranging from 4 to 73%) implies that regional lymphadenectomy is neither formally performed by all surgeons nor accurately assessed or reported by all pathologists ( 7 , 14 ). Laparoscopic adrenalectomy should be considered for tumors with size up to 6 cm without any evidence of local invasion. Routine locoregional lymphadenectomy should be performed with adrenalectomy for highly suspected or proven ACC and it should include (as a minimum) the peri-adrenal and renal hilum nodes. Preservation of the tumor capsule is essential whereas involvement of the IVC or renal vein with tumor thrombus is not a contraindication for surgery. However, even following an apparently complete surgical resection, 50-80% of patients develop locoregional or metastatic recurrence. Although such patients may be candidates for aggressive surgical resection, routine debulking is not recommended except for control of hormonal hypersecretion (
