Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


50-80% of patients develop locoregional or metastatic recurrence. Although such patients may be candidates for aggressive surgical resection, routine debulking is not recommended except for control of hormonal hypersecretion ( 6 , 7 , 14 ). Ablative therapies particularly targeting hepatic disease are used to decrease tumor load and the hypersecretory syndromes. Individualized treatment decisions are made in cases of tumors with extension into large vessels based on multidisciplinary surgical team. Such tumors should not be regarded ‘unresectable’ until reviewed in an expert center. Mitotane Mitotane has traditionally been used for ACCs obtaining a partial or complete response in 33% of cases mainly by metabolic transformation within the tumor and through oxidative damage. Besides its cytotoxic adrenal action mitotane also inhibits steroidogenesis. Adjuvant mitotane treatment is proposed in those patients without macroscopic residual tumor after surgery but who have a perceived high risk of recurrence (stage III, KI-67%>10%). However, patients at low/moderate risk of recurrence (stage I-II, R0 resection, and Ki-67 ≤ 10%) do not benefit significantly from adjuvant mitotane (results from ADIUVO trial) ( 17 ). When indicated mitotane should be initiated within six weeks and not later than 3 months ( 7 , 14 ). Adjuvant mitotane should be administrated for at least 2 years, but no longer than 5 years. However, the optimal duration of adjuvant mitotane treatment still remains unsolved and mainly dependents on personal preferences and expertise. According to a recent study the present findings do not support the concept that extending adjuvant mitotane treatment over two years is beneficial for patients with ACC at low risk of recurrence ( 18 ). The tolerability of mitotane may be limited by its side effects mainly nausea, vomiting, neurological (ataxia, lethargy), hepatic and rarely hematological toxicity ( 7 , 18 ). Measurement of serum mitotane levels, targeting a range of 14-20 mg/l, seems to correlate with a therapeutic response while minimizing toxicity using variable dosing regimens ( 6 - 8 ). Mitotane causes hyperlipidemia and increased hepatic production of hormone binding globulins (cortisol, sex hormone, thyroid and vitamin D) increasing total hormone concentration while impairing free hormone bioavailability. The induction of hepatic P450- enzymes by mitotane induces the metabolism of steroid compounds requiring high dose glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement. Hormonal excess causes significant morbidity in ACC patients. Although mitotane reduces steroidogenesis it has a slow onset of action necessitating the use of other medications targeting adrenal steroidogenesis
