Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


mineralocorticoid replacement. Hormonal excess causes significant morbidity in ACC patients. Although mitotane reduces steroidogenesis it has a slow onset of action necessitating the use of other medications targeting adrenal steroidogenesis (ketoconazole, metyrapone, aminoglutathemide, and etomidate). As adrenal insufficiency may occur close supervision is required to titrate adrenal hormonal replacement therapy. Cytotoxic Chemotherapy In metastatic ACC or when progression on mitotane, systematic therapy is recommended. Although cisplatin containing regimens have shown some responses, most studies lack enough power and comparisons between different regimens are only few. The most encouraging results originate from the combinations of etoposide, doxorubicin and cisplatin with mitotane (EDP-M) achieving an overall response of 49% of 18 months duration (FIRMA-CT study) ( 19 ). This regimen was equally effective as first line treatment or after failing of the combination of streptozotocin with mitotane and is the currently the preferred scheme. In patients who progress under mitotane monotherapy, EDP treatment is also recommended ( 7 , 19 ). The combination of gemcitabine with capecitabine is used for patients failing EDP- and for non-responding patients. Targeted therapies with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (mainly sunitinib) have only been suggested albeit results have not been great. Although initially promising, treatment with IGF-1R antagonists did not prove to be efficacious suggesting that combination therapies may be the way forward. Radiation Therapy Radiotherapy has a role in symptomatic metastatic disease particularly bone disease with positive responses in up to 50% - 90% of cancer patients. It is a local therapy which is mainly recommended in incomplete resection, recurrent or metastatic disease. Immunotherapy Several Immunotherapy agents that have been evaluated in clinical trials for metastatic ACC patients including the immune checkpoint inhibitors pembrolizumab, nivolumab, and avelumab which are monoclonal antibodies directed toward PD-L1, the ligand-binding partner of PD-1, that is expressed on tumor cells. Four immune checkpoint inhibitors (pembrolizumab, avelumab, nivolumab, and ipilimumab) have investigated the role of immunotherapy in advanced ACC. Despite, the different primary endpoints used in these studies, the reported rates of overall response rate and progression free survival were generally poor ( Table 4 ) ( 20 - 23 ). Three main potential markers of response to immunotherapy in ACC have been described: Expression of PD-1 and PD-L1, microsatellite instability, and tumor mutational burden ( 20 ). However, none of these parameters has been validated in prospective studies. Several mechanisms may be responsible of immunotherapy failure, and a greater knowledge of these
