Current Issues in the Diagnosis and Management of Adrenocortical Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenal, disease, adrenocortical, mitotane, pubmed, tumor, cancer, study, diagnosis, carcinoma, survival, adrenocortical carcinoma, tumors


(25%) patients showed a partial response, one (12.5%) patient had stable disease, and five (62.5%) patients developed progressive disease. Other immunotherapies that have been evaluated include the monoclonal antibodies figitumumab and cixutumumab directed against the ACC-expressed insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) receptor, the recombinant cytotoxin interleukin-13-pseudomonas exotoxin A, and autologous tumor lysate dendritic cell vaccine ( 25 , 26 ). All of these agents have shown modest clinical activity. Figitumumab in particular was evaluated in a phase I trial. in 14 patients with metastatic ACC. The best response to treatment observed in this trial was stable disease seen in 8 of 14 patients. Toxicities were generally mild and included hyperglycemia, nausea, fatigue, and anorexia. Similarly, to figitumumab, cixutumumab (IMC-A12) was evaluated in combination with mitotane in a phase II trial as first-line therapy for patients with advanced or metastatic ACC ( 26 ). The study was terminated early due to slow accrual and limited efficacy. The recorded PFS was only 6 weeks (range: 2.66–48), and in 20 evaluable patients, the best ORR was a partial response (PR) in one patient and stable disease in a further seven. Toxicities observed included grade 4 hyperglycemia and hyponatremia and one grade 5 multiorgan failure. Immune Modulators The potential utility of thalidomide treatment in ACC was evaluated in a retrospective cohort study of the European Networks for the Study of Adrenal Tumors registry ( 27 ). In this study, 27 patients with progressive to mitotane or metastatic ACC were treated with 50–200 mg thalidomide daily. The best response noted was stable disease in two patients, while the remaining 25 patients had progressive disease. The median PFS was 11.2 weeks, with a median OS of 36.4 weeks. Thalidomide was generally well tolerated, with fatigue and gastrointestinal upset being the most commonly observed side effects. Evolving Therapies Active areas of research in this field include combinations of immune checkpoint inhibitors, combination tyrosine kinase and immune checkpoint inhibitors, cancer vaccines, and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists combined with immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov). Targeting mTOR pathway alone with everolimus did not produce significant responses. An extended phase I study of the anti-IGF-1R monoclonal antibody cixutumumab with an mTOR inhibitor showed a partial but short-lived response. Other potential targets are antagonists of β -catenin and Wnt signaling pathway and SF-1 inverse agonists. The application of radionuclide therapy using 131 I-metomidate has recently been explored. However, despite recent advances in dysregulated
