ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Nursing
KEYWORDS: care, patient, quality, patients, healthcare, nurses, nursing, practice, health, cardiovascular, clinical, evidence, data, outcomes, family-centred


long-term success. The scale and spread approach in QI is where smaller incremental steps within services can grow and lead to larger, sustainable organizational change.40 Data over time—run charts and control (Shewhart) charts QI requires change to occur; however, not all changes result in improvement. One of the fundamental tools of QI is to understand the variation in the process over time. This can be done using run charts and control (Shewhart) charts. A run chart is the simplest of charts and consists of a single line plotting data over time with a central median line (➤ Fig. 2.5). Fig. 2.5 Example of a run chart. Run charts provide a valuable tool at the beginning of a project, as they can reveal important information about a process before enough data have been collected to create a control chart. Run charts can be used for: ● Displaying data to monitor performance of one or more process/es. ● Determining if a change has resulted in improvement. ● Demonstrating whether the improved performance has been sustained.41 Control charts also plot a single line of data over time with a central median line but include upper and lower control limits. These limits are calculated based on the data being plotted and can demonstrate if the system is stable (within the control limits) or unstable (outside the control limits) (➤ Fig. 2.6). Fig. 2.6 Example of a control chart. Control charts are used to monitor the redesigned process to ensure it sustains the improved performance (with new upper and lower control limits), reduced variation, and improved results. Data challenges The importance of having access to robust, real-time data for quality management is recognized.42 However, p. 40 there can often be a lag in data being available and good p. 41 evidence being delivered; this is problematic for clinical leaders and policymakers who require this data to effectively drive improvements in cardiovascular care. Healthcare organizations need a modern approach to data management that supports a complete understanding of the patient’s journey, with real-time access to healthcare metrics and data. Additionally, healthcare data can be challenging to access; data can be hidden in information systems and the collections of data available often don’t link together. The result is a delay in the adoption of new systems, inadequate responses to healthcare programmes, and poor engagement and experience. Cardiology nurses need to be aware of data available locally and
