ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Nursing
KEYWORDS: care, patient, quality, patients, healthcare, nurses, nursing, practice, health, cardiovascular, clinical, evidence, data, outcomes, family-centred


same room at the same time. Virtual visits can be one means to ensure continuity of care, and make healthcare systems more patient- and family-centred, as they provide easier access to care and improve effective communication with healthcare providers.68 Optimal delivery of patient- and family-centred care cannot prescind from strategies and interventions that are evidence based and multidimensional in nature. Healthcare providers, which are facing increasing pressure to implement patient- and family-centred care into their practice, have to engage in multidisciplinary aspects of care, from building relationships with patients and families, to engaging in organizational leadership strategies. But they are also constantly challenged by the provision of care under conditions of constrained resources, especially in this modern era where the epidemiological transition has determined a tremendous expansion of individuals with chronic illnesses and an increase in costs. Patient- and family-centred care in cardiovascular conditions Cardiovascular diseases are recognized as a major health problem worldwide. According to the literature, they represent the leading cause of death (see Chapter 1). For example, in the US, they account for 17% of all health expenditure.69 However, the burden of cardiovascular diseases comes not only from mortality but also from the consequences of living with the disease. As an example, coronary artery disease (the most common disease of the heart), is a major cause of disability in developed countries, and also a primary contributor to the development of heart failure, which in turn is the principal cause of hospitalizations in older adults. A patient- and family-centred care approach is increasingly being recognized as an important component of the treatment and management of cardiovascular diseases. Recent developments have heightened the need for further implementation of patient- and family-centred care interventions in cardiovascular nursing and medicine, particularly during the initial periods following an acute cardiac event (e.g. acute coronary syndrome, heart failure, and ventricular arrhythmias). A systematic review found that the highest effectiveness of patient- and family-centred care interventions was reached when delivered to acute patients, for example, those being affected by myocardial infarction. However, there is substantial evidence of positive effects also when patient- and family-centred care is implemented for chronic patients with exacerbations. With regard to this, the experience of Ekman and colleagues (2012) is noteworthy.70 They implemented a randomized controlled trial by recruiting patients with chronic heart failure hospitalized for worsening of symptoms. The study intervention was based on three patient- and family-centred care
