Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


ABSTRACT Thyroid disorders are a major cause of non-communicable diseases in developing nations, with the tropical regions presenting unique challenges due to diverse environmental, socio-economic, and cultural factors. Iodine deficiency remains a significant public health concern, leading to conditions such as endemic goiter and cretinism. The prevalence of iodine deficiency disorders has declined due to salt iodization programs, but inconsistent implementation continues to affect many tropical areas. Autoimmune thyroid diseases, including Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease are influenced by genetic and environmental factors in the tropics with a minor increase in prevalence following iodization. Thyroiditis, often associated with infections and inflammatory conditions prevalent in tropical regions, add to the complexity. Congenital hypothyroidism, the leading cause of preventable intellectual disability, is challenging to address due to limited newborn screening programs. A multifaceted approach is needed to address these concerns, including improving healthcare infrastructure, increasing public awareness, ensuring consistent iodine supplementation, and enhancing training for healthcare providers. These measures can significantly improve thyroid disorder-related outcomes in tropical nations. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Thyroid disorders are one of the leading cause of non-communicable ailments in the developing nations ( 1 ). However, the manifestation and management of thyroid disorders is not uniform across geographic regions. Tropical climate presents a distinct milieu characterized by diverse environmental, socio-economic, and cultural factors that alter the spectrum of thyroid diseases. A confluence of factors ranging from dietary practices to endemic diseases, imparts unique characteristics to the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and management of thyroid disorders. Iodine deficiency disorders (IDDs) remain a significant public health concern in many tropical countries, where suboptimal iodine intake precipitates a spectrum of thyroid abnormalities, including endemic goiter, hypothyroidism, and cretinism. Additionally, the occurrence of autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs), such as Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease, underscores the interplay between genetic susceptibility, environmental triggers, and immune dysregulation. This chapter highlights the altered presentation of thyroid disorders and concerns specific to the tropics. ETIOPATHOGENESIS IN TROPICS Thyroid disorders can be influenced by a variety of environmental factors in tropical countries. These aspects can interact with genetic predisposition and individual health behaviors to impact the functioning of the thyroid gland. Iodine Deficiency Disorders Iodine deficiency significantly contributes to the global thyroid disease burden and leads to various metabolic and growth-related diseases ( 2 ). Though the prevalence of IDDs has decreased with
