Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


symporter (NIS), often accompanied by increased TSH levels. Usually, severe iodine deficiency is required to consistently elevate TSH levels. The thyroid's sensitivity to TSH appears to vary with iodine availability, influencing thyroglobulin secretion and iodine clearance rates. Effective adjustment to iodine deficiency can occur without goiter in certain populations, indicating varying degrees of iodine entrapment and hormone synthesis capacity ( 23 ). THYROID HORMONE PROFILE Iodine deficiency causes thyroid gland enlargement and alters hormone production. The abnormal thyroglobulin in the thyroid releases poorly iodinated compounds such as monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and triiodothyronine (T3), and decreased levels of diiodotyrosine (DIT) and thyroxine (T4). This shift increases the MIT/DIT and T3/T4 ratios, reflecting the severity of iodine depletion. In response to iodine deficiency, the thyroid may secrete T3 and T4 in proportions found within the gland, and preferentially produce T3 or convert more T4 to T3 peripherally. The adaptation is critical as T3 is metabolically more potent and requires less iodine for synthesis, aiding in mitigating iodine deficiency effects ( 23 ). DIAGNOSIS In childhood, thyroid glands are often diffusely enlarged, while in adults, they tend to be nodular. Common laboratory findings include increased radioiodine uptake (RAIU) by the thyroid, normal or low T4 and free T4 (FT4), normal or elevated T3 and TSH, and reduced urinary iodine excretion. RAIU can usually be suppressed with thyroid hormone treatment. Scans with radioiodine or technetium show a mottled isotope distribution. PREVENTION AND TREATMENT The recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for iodine is 150 μg per day for adults and 250 μg per day during pregnancy. Currently, 20-40 mg of iodine per kg salt can provide the RDA. Goiters regress in most cases when treated with iodine ( 24 ). Generally, treatment with iodine is sufficient and surgery can be avoided. However, individuals with goiters that do not regress, exhibit rebound growth after three months, or present with pressure symptoms may require surgical intervention ( 25 ). There is a small but consistent risk of iodine supplementation causing hyperthyroidism, known as Jod-Basedow disease. Despite the risk, the benefits of iodine treatment outweigh the potential drawbacks. Individuals over the age of 50 years with latent thyroid disease, particularly those with multinodular goiters, are more likely to develop this form of thyrotoxicosis. Typically, iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis resolves naturally, sometimes within 12 months, but it can take up to 3–4 years ( 26 ). The implementation of iodized salt programs in
