Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


31 ). Iodized salt is the preferred method for iodine fortification due to its widespread use across all socioeconomic groups. It is consumed consistently year-round and produced in large, centralized facilities, allowing for effective and controlled fortification. Potassium iodate, preferred for its stability in humid conditions, and potassium iodide are the two forms used. Direct iodide supplementation, iodized oils, and iodized breads are other means to prevent IDDs ( 23 ). Collaborative efforts involving governments, non-governmental organizations, and local communities are crucial for sustaining progress in preventing IDDs. AUTOIMMUNE THYROID DISORDERS AITDs arise from an immune system dysregulation, resulting in an immune attack on the thyroid gland. These disorders are T cell-mediated and organ-specific. The prevalence of AITD is around 5%, though the occurrence of antithyroid antibodies might be even higher. AITD primarily manifests in two clinical forms: Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis, both marked by lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid tissue. Clinically, Graves’ disease is characterized by thyrotoxicosis, while Hashimoto’s thyroiditis leads to hypothyroidism. The exact mechanisms initiating the autoimmune response against the thyroid are still not clear. Epidemiological data indicate that an interaction between genetic predisposition and environmental factors is responsible for disrupting immune tolerance and triggering AITD ( 32 ). In the tropics, the prevalence, diagnosis, and management of these disorders are influenced by various regional factors. Hashimoto's Thyroiditis The classic example of AITD is Hashimoto's thyroiditis, also referred to as chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. It is associated with chronic inflammation of the thyroid tissue, and causes hypothyroidism in 20-30% of cases ( 33 ). PREVALENCE In tropical regions, the incidence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis is increasing, which is partially attributed to enhanced iodine intake from iodization programs. While these programs have reduced goiter and cretinism, they have also been linked to an increase in AITD. A study from Sri Lanka found anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies in 10.3%, anti-thyroglobulin (Tg) antibodies in 6.4%, and subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH) int 3%. Median urinary iodine concentration was 138.5 μg/L, indicating iodine sufficiency from universal salt iodization. Despite a high anti-TPO antibody prevalence, SCH remains low. The findings suggest that early post-iodization anti-Tg antibody surge that had gone past 42%, has now settled. Goiter prevalence was 0.6%-1.93% ( 34 ). IODINE CONSUMPTION AND THYROID AUTOIMMUNITY Several explanations have been proposed to elucidate the link between excessive iodine consumption and thyroid autoimmunity. One hypothesis suggests that iodine may be directly toxic to thyroid tissue
