Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


THYROID AUTOIMMUNITY Several explanations have been proposed to elucidate the link between excessive iodine consumption and thyroid autoimmunity. One hypothesis suggests that iodine may be directly toxic to thyroid tissue and stimulate immune effector cells. The role of free radical damage to thyroid tissue is widely recognized as a contributing factor in the onset or exacerbation of AITD. Experimental studies in genetically predisposed animals have shown that Tg becomes more immunogenic when exposed to excess iodine, potentially triggering autoimmune responses ( 35 ). Previous iodine levels impact thyroid response to increased iodine intake and may be linked to the development of thyroid autoimmunity. The prevalence of thyroid antibodies, however, doesn't always predict thyroid disease. Autoimmune diseases have generally risen in recent decades, making data interpretation challenging. Long-term studies suggest that excessive iodine from uncontrolled iodine prophylaxis can lead to autoimmune thyroiditis. Careful monitoring of iodine prophylaxis is recommended to prevent both iodine deficiency and excess ( 36 ). DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT Individuals with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis often present with a painless goiter, which may occur with or without overt hypothyroidism. For asymptomatic persons, it can be discovered incidentally when a goiter prompts evaluation. Others may experience typical hypothyroidism symptoms, including fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance, constipation, depression, muscle pain, heavy menstrual bleeding, and dry skin. The diagnosis of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis can be confirmed by a combination of clinical features, thyroid function test results indicating SCH or overt hypothyroidism and elevated Tg and TPO antibodies ( 37 ). Anti-TPO antibodies are found in 95% of cases with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, while anti-Tg antibodies are elevated in 60% to 80%. Treatment involves administration of levothyroxine to correct hypothyroidism ( 38 ). The challenge in many tropical regions is the limited access to these diagnostic tests, which may delay identification and treatment. Graves' Disease Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism worldwide and involves the immune system producing antibodies (thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins) that stimulate the thyroid gland to produce excess thyroid hormones ( 39 ). PREVALENCE Graves' disease accounts for 70-80% of hyperthyroidism cases in iodine-sufficient regions. In contrast, in areas with iodine deficiency, Graves' disease represents about half of all hyperthyroidism cases, with the other half occurring due to nodular thyroid disease ( 40 , 41 ). In Johannesburg in 1981, the incidence of Graves' disease was 5.5 per 100,000/year, significantly lower than global rates. However, over a decade, there was a 60%
