Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


effect on thyroid health in tropical conditions, but clinical evidence is lacking ( 47 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Thyrotoxicosis is the primary presenting feature of Graves' disease, and in this region, it often manifests at a more advanced stage with various complications. Late presentation can be attributed to missed diagnoses and lack of awareness often arising from financial constraints ( 48 ). Notably, thyrotoxicosis is a significant cause of cardiac morbidity in tropical countries. In Togo, cardiac complications were reported in 46.6% of patients with thyrotoxicosis ( 49 ). Similarly, the heart failure rate was reported to be 42% in Lagos, Nigeria ( 50 ). Ethnicity appears to influence the risk of developing disease complications. For example, Graves' ophthalmopathy is six times more common in Caucasians than in Asians ( 51 ). Additionally, the rare but serious complication of hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic periodic paralysis, is significantly more common in Asian men ( 52 ). The genetic basis of this condition has been extensively researched, revealing variations in certain human leukocyte antigen (HLA) haplotypes such as DRw8, A2, Bw22, Aw19, and B17 in affected Asian patients ( 53 ). TREATMENT Treatment options for graves’ disease include antithyroid medications (e.g., methimazole or propylthiouracil), radioactive iodine therapy (RAI), and surgery. The choice of treatment depends on the severity of the disease, patient preference, and availability of medical resources. In many tropical regions, the lack of access to RAI and surgical facilities limits treatment options, making long-term medication the most feasible approach. In an online global survey conducted in 2023, RAI as the primary treatment for Graves' disease was offered by 13.1% of respondents from Africa and the Middle East and 7.5% of respondents from Latin America, but only in 5% from Asia ( 54 ). Rare cases of resistance to anti-thyroid drugs have also been described in tropical regions ( 55 , 56 ). A possible impairment in intrathyroidal drug accumulation could be responsible ( 57 ). Interestingly, Asians are more predisposed to insulin autoimmune syndrome after exposure to methimazole because of higher prevalence of HLA allele DRB1*04:06 ( 58 ). SUBACUTE THYROIDITIS The term “thyroiditis” refers to a group of inflammatory conditions affecting the thyroid gland. The causes can be diverse including autoimmunity, viral, bacterial and fungal infections, iatrogenic, trauma, radiation and idiopathic chronic sclerosing forms such as Riedel thyroiditis ( Table 1 ) ( 58 , 59 ). Table 1. Tropical Infections of
