Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


suggest a specific cause that alters the epidemiology. Infections can induce thyroid autoimmunity by diverse mechanisms like self-antigen modification, mimicry of self-molecules, superantigen mediated polyclonal T-cell activation, immune complex formation, and induction of expression of MHC molecules on thyroid epithelium. Certain haplotypes like HLA-B*35, HLA-B*18:01 and DRB1* confer susceptibility to SAT in different ethnicities across the world. HLA-B*35 allele has been identified in up to 70% of the cases ( 68 , 69 ), while the alleles HLA-B*18:01 and DRB1*01 have been identified in the remaining cases ( 70 ). In an Indian study, HLA-B*35 was reported positive in 55.56% of cases of SAT ( 71 ). Further research is needed to understand the variations in HLA haplotypes among different ethnic groups and their relationship with SAT. Clinical Spectrum The most common presentation of SAT is temporary thyrotoxicosis followed by transient hypothyroidism and eventual recovery. Permanent hypothyroidism can develop in a minority ( 72 ). The inflammatory process disrupts the thyroid follicles causing an enhanced release of the stored T4 and T3 leading to thyrotoxicosis. Continued damage to the follicles may lead to transient or permanent hypothyroidism. In some cases, the disease can recur ( 73 ). In a prospective study from India, the prevalence of hypothyroidism after 1 year of SAT was 19.86% ( 74 ), while a study from Saudia Arabia reported permanent hypothyroidism in 14.3% ( 75 ). Thyrotoxic features like palpitations, tremulousness, weight loss, heat intolerance and anxiety are present but usually milder in comparison to Graves’ disease ( 76 ). Inflammatory features such as neck pain, fever, malaise, fatigue, myalgia and arthralgia often dominate the clinical presentation. Diagnosis An upper respiratory tract infection is the usual differential diagnosis. Peripheral levels of thyroid hormones, T4 and T3, are elevated with a ratio of T4 (mcg/dl): T3 (ng/ml) > 20. This is reflective of the proportion of stored thyroid hormones within the gland, though the results may vary with the phase of the disease. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is almost invariably elevated, often to values above 100 mm/hr. Diagnosis is confirmed by a suppressed uptake on a 99m-technectium scintigraphy or radioiodine scan. In many tropical countries, nuclear medicine facilities are not widely available. As a result, diagnosis often relies on clinical and biochemical findings along with a non-elevated TSH-receptor antibody (TRAb). Color flow Doppler ultrasonography shows a hypoechogenic, heterogenous gland with low to normal vascularity ( 77
