Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


often relies on clinical and biochemical findings along with a non-elevated TSH-receptor antibody (TRAb). Color flow Doppler ultrasonography shows a hypoechogenic, heterogenous gland with low to normal vascularity ( 77 ). Treatment and Prognosis The condition is self-limiting and milder cases often require no treatment or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) ( 76 ). For more severe symptoms, a course of oral prednisolone is recommended at a starting dose of 20-40 mg per day, and tapered over 4-6 weeks ( 78 ). Thyrotoxic symptoms respond to β -blockers like propranolol. The reader can refer to the chapter on subacute thyroiditis in endotext.com for a detailed review ( 59 ). SILENT AND POSTPARTUM THYROIDITIS Silent thyroiditis, similar to SAT, follows a typical triphasic course: initial thyrotoxicosis, followed by hypothyroidism, and finally, a return to normal thyroid function. The condition is presumed to be autoimmune in nature, as levels of anti-TPO and anti-TG antibodies are usually elevated. Histologically, it is characterized by extensive lymphocytic infiltration, sometimes with the formation of lymphoid follicles. Unlike SAT, silent thyroiditis does not present with symptoms of thyroid inflammation such as neck pain or fever. It is more prevalent in iodine-sufficient areas ( 79 ). Postpartum thyroiditis typically occurs within six months of delivery but can rarely present up to 12 months postpartum. It shares many similarities with silent thyroiditis, including an autoimmune etiology ( 80 ). Neither silent thyroiditis nor postpartum thyroiditis exhibit any unique characteristics specific to tropical regions. VIRAL CAUSES OF THYROIDITIS IN TROPICS Dengue Thyroiditis SAT can rarely develop as a manifestation of expanded dengue syndrome. This condition should be suspected in patients with dengue fever who develop painful thyroid swelling and thyrotoxic features ( 61 , 81 ). SAT following dengue infection is typically self-limited. In symptomatic cases, an important concern is the high risk of bleeding with the use of aspirin because of the associated thrombocytopenia. Additionally, administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in presence of hypovolemic shock can lead to acute kidney injury. Therefore, oral prednisolone may be preferred for treatment of dengue-associated SAT. BACTERIAL CAUSES OF THYROIDITIS Acute Suppurative Thyroiditis Acute suppurative thyroiditis (AST) or acute pyogenic thyroiditis is a rare but potentially life-threatening form of thyroiditis seen more commonly in tropical countries. They are mostly bacterial in origin, though rarely, fungal and parasitic infestations have also been described ( 82 ). ETIOLOGY The thyroid gland is generally resistant to infection
