Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


tropical countries. They are mostly bacterial in origin, though rarely, fungal and parasitic infestations have also been described ( 82 ). ETIOLOGY The thyroid gland is generally resistant to infection due to its rich blood supply, thick fibrous capsule, and high levels of iodine and hydrogen peroxide. However, AST can occur in individuals with pre-existing thyroid disorders or in an immunocompromised state. The route of spread is typically hematogenous or lymphatic, but direct spread from the deep fascial spaces of the neck, anterior perforation of the esophagus, or infected thyroglossal cyst can rarely occur ( 83 ). A systematic review of 200 cases of acute suppurative thyroiditis found that 94 cases were from Asia, 24 from Africa, and five from Latin America, suggesting a higher prevalence in tropical regions. Immunocompromised state and pyriform sinus fistulas were the two most common contributing factors. Other causes included disseminated infections and trauma. In 28% of cases, no apparent etiology was identified, although an undiagnosed pyriform sinus fistula remained a possibility ( 84 ). It is unclear whether poor hygiene conditions and lack of universal medical facilities in tropical regions contribute to the higher incidence of AST. Rare cases of acute emphysematous thyroiditis in immunocompromised individuals due to infection from Clostridia and Escherichia coli have been reported from tropical countries ( 85 , 86 ). DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT Individuals with AST present with high grade fever and constitutional symptoms along with severe pain and tenderness over the thyroid gland. However, thyroid function is usually normal and only a subset have laboratory evidence of thyrotoxicosis. Ultrasonography of thyroid reveals an abscess in the gland and needle aspiration may confirm the diagnosis along with identification of responsible organism. 99m-technetium-pertechnetate scan or radioiodine uptake studies show normal function of the unaffected lobe of the thyroid gland, unlike in SAT, where thyroid activity is diffusely suppressed. In children with AST of the left lobe, a barium swallow should be ordered to rule out pyriform sinus fistula connecting the left lobe of thyroid. The left-sided predominance of pyriform sinus fistulas is thought to be due to asymmetrical development during embryogenesis ( 83 ). Antibiotics guided by the culture and sensitivity of the offending organism should be commenced as soon as possible. Needle aspiration to drain the pus from affected lobe may be necessary. Surgical drainage may be required in lesions not responding to antibiotics. Pyriform sinus fistula is treated
