Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


as possible. Needle aspiration to drain the pus from affected lobe may be necessary. Surgical drainage may be required in lesions not responding to antibiotics. Pyriform sinus fistula is treated by endoscopic cauterization or surgical excision to prevent recurrence ( 87 ). Prognosis is favorable if managed appropriately without loss of thyroid function. For further reading please refer to the relevant chapter on endotext.com ( 88 ). Tuberculosis EPIDEMIOLOGY Tuberculosis of the thyroid is an extremely rare condition, representing less than 1% of all cases of extrapulmonary tuberculosis ( 89 ). The mean age of onset is around third to fourth decade. Its incidence is higher in tropical regions where tuberculosis is endemic. Immunocompromised individuals, such as those with HIV/AIDS, are at greater risk. Thyroid tuberculosis can be secondary to miliary spread as part of disseminated tuberculosis, or can manifest as isolated lesion in the gland ( 90 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Thyroid tuberculosis often presents as a solitary thyroid nodule, with or without a cystic component. It may also present as a thyroid abscess with pain, fever, and other systemic features. The diagnosis can be mistaken as SAT ( 91 ). Pyrexia of unknown origin may occasionally lead to a diagnosis of thyroid tuberculosis. In rare cases, the lesion mimics thyroid malignancy, presenting with dysphagia, dysphonia, and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy ( 89 ). A discharging sinus after thyroid surgery has been reported ( 92 ). While thyroid function is typically not impaired, extensive involvement can lead to thyrotoxicosis from follicular destruction, potentially progressing to hypothyroidism. Associated cervical lymphadenopathy and rare cases of mediastinal lymph node enlargement have also been described (( 93 ). The pathological varieties include multiple lesions in miliary tuberculosis, goiter with areas of caseation, chronic fibrosing forms, and acute pyogenic or cold abscess ( 90 ). DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT Though ultrasonography and computed tomography (CT) scan might aid in localizing the lesion in the gland, the findings are nonspecific and do not help to establish the diagnosis of tuberculosis. Caseous necrosis in fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology or biopsy implies tuberculosis. In many cases, diagnosis is only evident after surgery when the biopsy specimen reveals epithelioid granulomas and caseous necrosis ( 89 , 94 ). While acid-fast bacilli are diagnostic, they are not typically observed in thyroid specimens. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and less commonly culture, can provide microbiologic etiology ( 91 ). An
