Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


acid-fast bacilli are diagnostic, they are not typically observed in thyroid specimens. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and less commonly culture, can provide microbiologic etiology ( 91 ). An X-ray of the chest should be obtained to rule out pulmonary tuberculosis. Therapy with anti-tuberculous drugs often lead to complete resolution of the infection. The choice of anti-tubercular medications and regimen differs in countries and should be guided by national guidelines. In case of a large abscess, especially with compressive features, surgical intervention may be necessary ( 89 ). FUNGAL CAUSES OF THYROIDITIS Fungal infections account for 15% of AST cases, with aspergillus being the most common, followed by candida. Other fungal causes include Cryptococcus neoformans, Pseudoallescheria boydii , and Pneumocystis jiroveci . Suppurative thyroiditis due to opportunistic mycoses predominantly occurs in immunocompromised individuals. Endemic mycoses like coccidioidomycosis, paracoccidioidomycosis, and histoplasmosis are usually restricted to certain geographic regions of the tropics. Thyroid involvement is usually insidious and often accompanies a broader disseminated disease. Symptoms include pain, thyroid swelling, and fever, resembling SAT. Severe involvement can lead to dysphagia and respiratory distress due to esophageal and tracheal obstruction. The condition often starts with thyrotoxicosis and progresses to hypothyroidism, with recovery typically taking weeks to months. The diagnosis is established by demonstration of fungi on FNA. In many cases the etiology becomes apparent on histopathological examination of a surgically removed specimen. Treatment involves antifungal medications, with or without surgery. The mortality rate for disseminated opportunistic fungal infections is high. For more detailed information, refer to the chapter on “Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction” in endotext.com ( 95 ). Aspergillus Thyroid gland is involved in 7-26% of cases disseminated aspergillosis ( 96 ). In the past, this condition was typically identified postmortem in immunocompromised individuals. However, advancements in treatment for underlying conditions and improved antifungal therapies have shifted diagnoses to occur more frequently to antemortem stage ( 97 ). Thyroid involvement may be silent or can mimic subacute thyroiditis. A characteristic manifestation of aspergillosis is vascular invasion with thrombosis and infarction ( 98 ). The presence of aspergillus hyphae in a thyroid specimen, along with areas of pus, necrotic debris, and hemorrhage, confirms the etiology. Fungal culture of the aspirate might be helpful in equivocal cases. Treatment involves antifungal therapy, sometimes combined with surgical intervention. Voriconazole is recommended as the first-line treatment for invasive aspergillosis, while liposomal amphotericin B and isavuconazole are alternative options
