Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


equivocal cases. Treatment involves antifungal therapy, sometimes combined with surgical intervention. Voriconazole is recommended as the first-line treatment for invasive aspergillosis, while liposomal amphotericin B and isavuconazole are alternative options ( 99 ). The mortality rate remains high, particularly in cases of disseminated infection. Candida Candida thyroiditis, is rare and typically results from secondary dissemination in immunocompromised states. Due to coexisting immunosuppression, signs of thyroid inflammation may be minimal. Unlike other fungal thyroiditis, candida infection can be associated with thyroid function abnormalities such as transient thyrotoxicosis followed by hypothyroidism ( 100 , 101 ). Rare cases of thyroid storm leading to heart failure necessitating treatment with plasmapheresis during the thyrotoxic phase has been reported ( 102 ).Treatment comprises systemic antifungal therapy, management of thyroid dysfunction, and potentially surgical intervention. The antifungal options include echinocandins, liposomal amphotericin B, fluconazole, and voriconazole. Resistance to azoles in Candida albicans and Candida tropicalis is an emerging threat in Asia and Latin America ( 103 ). Histoplasma Histoplasmosis is a fungal infection endemic in certain areas of tropics including Central and South America, Africa, and several countries of South East Asia including Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, and India ( 104 ). The infection is associated with exposure to birds or poultry. The condition often presents as SAT, diffuse goiter, or a nodule accompanied by constitutional features like fatigue and weight loss. Diagnosis involves FNA cytology or biopsy to confirm the presence of Histoplasma capsulatum . In biopsy, granulomas may be seen and the fungus appears as oval 2 to 4 micrometers narrow-based budding yeast cells with Gomori methenamine silver or periodic acid. Serology, antigen testing, and molecular techniques like PCR may provide additional information ( 105 ). Treatment ranges from oral itraconazole for non-severe cases to liposomal amphotericin B for severe cases. Posaconazole is another therapeutic option ( 106 ). Coccidioides Coccidioidomycosis, caused by inhaling coccidioides arthroconidia, often presents with flu-like symptoms or pneumonia, with 1-5% of cases disseminating to various organs. Risk factors for extrapulmonary disease include age, African or Filipino ancestry, pregnancy, and immunosuppression ( 107 ). The presentation of thyroid involvement can range from asymptomatic to thyroid nodules, or even features of subacute thyroiditis. Imaging studies, FNA, and serologic testing help to ascertain the diagnosis. Treatment typically includes antifungal medication, and in some cases, surgical removal of the affected thyroid tissue. Choice and duration of therapy is not well-defined but generally involves
