Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


ascertain the diagnosis. Treatment typically includes antifungal medication, and in some cases, surgical removal of the affected thyroid tissue. Choice and duration of therapy is not well-defined but generally involves high-dose fluconazole, with itraconazole or posaconazole as alternative options ( 108 ). PARASITIC THYROIDITIS Parasitic infections of the thyroid gland is extremely rare and characteristically occurs in the setting of disseminated disease in an immunocompromised host. Protozoal infections are caused by Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica , and Cryptosporidium parvum, in tropical regions ( 109 ). Helminthic infections such as Strongyloides stercoralis may cause cystic lesions and resemble thyroglossal cysts ( 110 ). Trypanosoma brucei, which causes African Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), has been linked to elevated TSH and low free T4 levels, mimicking primary hypothyroidism ( 111 ). Trypanosomes can be identified as spindle-shaped cells in blood or FNA fluid. Filariasis can also affect the thyroid, with microfilariae visible in FNA samples. THYROID NEOPLASM Global Trends The global rise in thyroid cancer incidence has raised concerns. Analysis of data from the 2019 Global Burden of Disease study and the UN’s World Population Prospects 2022, suggests that thyroid cancer incidence increased across all income groups, while mortality modestly decreased except in lower-middle-income groups. The divergent trends in thyroid cancer incidence and mortality suggest potential overdiagnosis in higher-income countries, while highlighting the need to reduce health inequalities and improve access to diagnostic and therapeutic services in tropical lower-middle income countries ( 112 ). A study from Central and South America evaluating data between 1997 and 2008, revealed that the incidence of papillary thyroid cancer increased by 9.1-15.0% annually in females, while mortality remained stable. Trends in thyroid cancer among males during this period were stable ( 113 ). Iodine Supplementation and Thyroid Cancer Risk Iodine supplementation has a complex relationship with thyroid cancer. Iodine deficiency decreases the prevalence of follicular thyroid cancer, while populations with adequate iodine intake have higher rates of papillary thyroid cancers ( 114 ). It has been hypothesized, that iodine-induced oxidative stress may lead to genetic alterations, resulting in a higher rate of the BRAF V600E mutation over time in areas with excess iodine intake ( 115 , 116 ). Iodine supplementation has been associated with a decreasing trend in undifferentiated or anaplastic thyroid carcinoma ( 113 , 117 ). Other Factors Environmental radiation exposure, particularly in iodine-deficient areas, is associated with an increased risk of papillary thyroid cancer.
