Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


in undifferentiated or anaplastic thyroid carcinoma ( 113 , 117 ). Other Factors Environmental radiation exposure, particularly in iodine-deficient areas, is associated with an increased risk of papillary thyroid cancer. However, specific data analyzing these factors in tropical nations are lacking ( 118 ). Bisphenol A (BPA), a widely used organic compound in manufacturing processes in tropical countries, acts as an endocrine disruptor by binding to thyroid hormone receptors and inhibiting thyroid hormone-regulated gene expression. A study investigating the link between BPA levels, excessive iodine intake, and papillary thyroid cancer found that both urinary iodine concentration and urinary BPA concentration were higher in individuals with papillary thyroid carcinoma compared to controls. BPA and iodine may interact through shared pathways in the development of papillary thyroid carcinoma ( 119 ). Management Practice patterns for thyroid cancer care differ across countries due to variations in ethnic and racial populations, healthcare systems, economies, and cultures. The expertise and outcomes of thyroid surgery can vary significantly by region. While radioiodine treatment is available in many countries, its accessibility varies. Laboratory services for thyroid function monitoring are generally available, and most countries offer thyroglobulin assays. Recombinant thyrotropin is available in only a few countries, Advanced imaging technologies, such as positron emission tomography (PET), are limited to certain countries ( 120 ). CONGENITAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Congenital hypothyroidism (CH) is the primary cause of preventable intellectual disability. Since the 1970s, newborn screening for CH has been implemented in many parts of the world. Despite its proven benefits, universal screening for CH is yet to be adopted in many resource-limited tropical countries ( 121 – 124 ). Thyroid dysgenesis is identified as the most common cause of congenital CH in North America and Europe ( 125 ). Studies from Asia, however, indicate a higher prevalence of dyshormonogenesis ( 121 , 126 , 127 ). Cord blood screening with a TSH cut-off of 20 mIU/L has been employed for screening in many tropical nations due to its cost‐effectiveness, immediate action, and lower recall rate ( 121 , 128 ). Levothyroxine at a dosage of 10-15 μg/kg should be started immediately after diagnosis ( 129 ). DRUG-INDUCED THYROID DYSFUNCTION Iodine Induced Thyroid Dysfunction A number of medications containing high amounts of iodine are still used in the tropical countries. These include the anti-arrhythmic agent amiodarone (75 mg iodine/tablet), expectorants containing iodinated glycerol (15 mg/tablet), topical antiseptics containing povidone iodine (10 mg/ml),
