Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


iodine are still used in the tropical countries. These include the anti-arrhythmic agent amiodarone (75 mg iodine/tablet), expectorants containing iodinated glycerol (15 mg/tablet), topical antiseptics containing povidone iodine (10 mg/ml), and the anti-amoebic agent iodoquinol (134 mg/tablet). Additionally, traditional and alternative medicines are sometimes rich in iodine. Iodine inhibits T4 and T3 formation and release, predominantly by downregulation of the NIS. A healthy thyroid gland escapes the down-regulation, known as the Wolff Chaikoff effect. However, in the presence of underlying thyroid disorders like Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, non-systemic illnesses like chronic kidney disease, thalassemia major, and exposure to drugs like interferons and lithium, this compensatory mechanism fails, leading to persistent Wolff Chaikoff effect and occurrence of hypothyroidism ( 130 ). The resultant increase in TSH leads to further increase in iodide entry into the gland triggering a vicious cycle and leading to hypothyroidism and goiter. Other Agents Rifampicin, commonly used in tropical countries for tuberculosis, leprosy, and meningococcal prophylaxis, enhances T4 metabolism, and may increase levothyroxine requirement. Hence, close thyroid function monitoring is prudent in such situations. Ethionamide, another anti-tuberculosis drug, inhibits thyroid hormone synthesis and release ( 131 ). Prolonged use of minocycline has been reported to cause blackening of the thyroid ( 132 ). Biotin, frequently used as a hair fall supplement in many tropical countries, occupy the streptavidin-binding sites in biotin-streptavidin two-site sandwich ELISA assay for TSH, leading to falsely low TSH. On the other hand, T4 is measured by competitive immunoassay and therefore, the falsely low signal due to biotin binding to streptavidin-binding sites, is interpreted as falsely elevated T4. Therefore, it is necessary to withhold biotin-containing supplements with doses of up to 10 mg once daily, for 8-h. If biotin intake is more than 10 mg per day, sampling should be delayed for a more extended period (up to 73 h) ( 133 , 134 ). CHALLENGES TO MANAGEMENT IN THE TROPICS Managing thyroid diseases in the tropics presents a unique set of challenges that encompass a range of socio-economic, healthcare infrastructure, and environmental factors. ( Table 2 ). Delayed Diagnosis One of the primary challenges is the late presentation of patients, which is often due to limited access to healthcare facilities. In many tropical regions, healthcare services are scarce, particularly in rural areas, leading to delays in diagnosis and treatment. This delay can result in the progression of thyroid diseases to more severe stages, making management
