Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


services are scarce, particularly in rural areas, leading to delays in diagnosis and treatment. This delay can result in the progression of thyroid diseases to more severe stages, making management more complex. Non-Availability Of Ethnicity Specific Reference Ranges For Thyroid Hormones Inter-population differences in thyroid function are significant, as thyroid hormone reference intervals are influenced by both genetic factors, such as TSH polymorphisms, and environmental factors. Most tropical countries lack population-specific ranges and rely on Western standards. A study found that a small fraction of South Asians could have a functionally normal TSH variant due to a novel TSHβ point mutation, to which some monoclonal antibodies fail to bind, resulting in falsely undetectable TSH levels and potential mistreatment as hyperthyroidism ( 135 ). Iodine Deficiency And National Iodization Policies Several factors, including dietary habits of consuming alternative salts, overheating during cooking, salt packaging, and economic and administrative issues, can hinder the goal of effective iodization. Studies in tropical countries found iodine deficiency in 30 out of 143 countries. Clinical observations in Uganda, Cambodia, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Mali, Burkina Faso, and India still show prevalence of large goiters causing neck compression ( 136 ). Urinary iodine measurement is considered the standard for iodine intake assessment at the population level. The limitations of urinary iodine estimation include specimen integrity issues, sample authenticity concerns, and high pre-analytic variability. To address these limitations, alternative epidemiologic markers of iodine deficiency should be considered, such as percent of newborns with TSH values > 5 mIU/L, serum thyroglobulin measurement, thyroid volume measurement by palpation or ultrasonography. These markers may provide an alternative assessment of iodine status at the population level ( 137 ). Screening Programs For Pregnant Women Untreated hypothyroidism in pregnancy has short- and long-term consequences. While, universal screening for maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy isn't generally agreed upon, testing during pregnancy can be beneficial, particularly in tropical regions where thyroid disorders might be underdiagnosed. Neonatal Screening For Congenital Hypothyroidism Many tropical countries lack national newborn screening programs for congenital hypothyroidism due to inadequate infrastructure for collecting, transporting, and analyzing dried blood spots, as well as challenges in follow-up care. TSH stability in these samples can be compromised by temperature and humidity, and confirmatory tests require advanced equipment and trained personnel. Increasing the use of point-of-care TSH assays and telecommunication could help overcome these obstacles and improve screening efforts. Challenges To Diagnosis And Management Of Thyroid Cancer In
