Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, iodine, thyroiditis, disease, tropical, free, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, deficiency, hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency


and trained personnel. Increasing the use of point-of-care TSH assays and telecommunication could help overcome these obstacles and improve screening efforts. Challenges To Diagnosis And Management Of Thyroid Cancer In the tropics, there is inadequate access to molecular diagnostics and radioactive iodine facilities. Due to unavailability of radioiodine ablative facilities, management of differentiated thyroid cancer relies mostly on surgical management in many places. In cases of indeterminate nodules like BETHESDA 3,4 the use of molecular techniques to detect somatic mutations in 8-gene panel comprising BRAF-V600E, RET/PTC3, RET/PTC1, TERT promoter, HRAS, NRAS, KRAS, and PAX8-PPARG is recommended. However, this is not available in most tropical countries outside research settings, making decision-making difficult and leading to unnecessary surgeries. In cases with medullary thyroid cancers, genetic analysis of RET gene is not easily available and thus prophylactic thyroidectomy is often delayed. Table 2. Challenges and Proposed Solutions to Management of Thyroid Disorders in the Tropics View in own window Challenges Description Solutions Delayed diagnosis Often due to limited healthcare access, leading to advanced disease stages at diagnosis. Improve healthcare infrastructure and community outreach to promote earlier diagnosis. Non-availability of ethnicity-specific reference ranges Lack of local reference ranges for thyroid hormones, causing potential misdiagnosis. Develop local reference ranges based on regional population data. Iodine deficiency and national iodization policies Inadequate iodization and challenges in maintaining iodine intake standards. Implement more robust and monitored iodization programs to ensure optimum iodization avoiding both deficiencies and excess Storage and stability of thyroid medications High temperature and humidity can affect the potency of thyroid medications, making them less effective Levothyroxine tablets should be stored in a cool dry place away from light below 25°C. Ensure adherence to global standards of packaging in tropical nations Infection and thyroid disorders Tropical infections can directly or indirectly affect thyroid gland Focused research and increased awareness to understand and manage the complex interplay between infection and thyroid functioning Drug interactions and thyroid disorders Many drugs used for treatment for tuberculosis and other tropical disorders can potentially affect thyroid functioning and laboratory results Closely monitor for potential drug interactions between thyroid medications and treatments for infectious diseases and other conditions prevalent in tropics Endocrine disrupting chemicals Chemicals in pesticides and herbicides, industrial by-products, and plasticizers can impact thyroid functioning Regulatory measures, monitoring policies, sustainable practices, and focused research can help to mitigate the effect on thyroid disorders Screening programs for pregnant women Inadequate
