European Journal
KEYWORDS: esophageal, electrical, case, electrical cardioversion, cardioversion, esophageal spasm, spasm, dysphagia, motility, patient, esophagus, internal, internal medicine, medicine, disorder


European Journal of Case Reports in Internal Medicine When the Heart Triggers the Esophagus: Esophageal Spasm after Electrical Cardioversion Riccardo Manfredo Campaner1, Marco Enzo Tau1, Francesca Ortelli1, De Perna Maria Luisa2, Tanja Fusi-Schmidhauser1 1Department of Internal Medicine, Ospedale Regionale di Lugano, Ente Ospedaliero Cantonale, Switzerland 2Department of Cardiology, Ospedale Regionale di Lugano, Ente Ospedaliero Cantonale, Switzerland Doi: - European Journal of Case Reports in Internal Medicine - © EFIM 2019 Received: [DATE] Accepted: [DATE] Published: [DATE] How to cite this article: Campaner RM, Tau ME, Ortelli F, De Perna ML, Fusi-Schmidhauser T. When the heart triggers the esophagus: esophageal spasm after electrical cardioversion. EJCRIM 2019;6: doi:. Conflicts of Interests: The Authors declare that there are no competing interest Acknowledgements: Riccardo Manfredo Campaner contributed to the conception and design of the study, and drafting of the manuscript; Marco Tau, Francesca Ortelli and Maria Luisa De Perna contributed to the conception and design of the study, and drafting of the manuscript; Tanja Fusi-Schmidhauser contributed to revision and gave approval of the final version of the manuscript. This article is licensed under a Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 4.0 License ABSTRACT Introduction: “Esophageal spasm” is a generic term widely used to attribute unexplained non-cardiac chest pain and/or dysphagia to an esophageal motility disorder. Patient and methods: The authors present the case of an 86-year-old male patient with complete dysphagia after an elective electrical cardioversion for atrial fibrillation. An upper endoscopy performed shortly after the onset of the clinical picture documented disordered esophageal contractions. The patient became asymptomatic within 12 hours of the administration of a spasmolytic therapy. Discussion: The temporal correlation supports the explanation of a cause-effect relationship between the clinical presentation and the preceding procedure, thus providing elements for clinicians to recognize and treat this particular condition. LEARNING POINTS • This case report suggests that electrical cardioversion may induce clinically relevant esophageal spasms. • When dealing with dysphagia after an electrical cardioversion, an empirical spasmolytic treatment can be considered, if not contraindicated. KEYWORDS Esophageal spasm, dysphagia, electrical cardioversion, atrial fibrillation INTRODUCTION Esophageal motility disorders are a heterogeneous family of disorders characterized by non-propulsive contractions, hyperdynamic contractions or high pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter. Presenting symptoms are more frequently chest pain and dysphagia. Although diagnosis of this kind of motility disorder is established by manometric study according to the Chicago Classification, endoscopy may rarely reveal disordered esophageal contractions. The pathogenesis still remains uncertain but
