European Journal
KEYWORDS: esophageal, electrical, case, electrical cardioversion, cardioversion, esophageal spasm, spasm, dysphagia, motility, patient, esophagus, internal, internal medicine, medicine, disorder


12 hours, as assessed by the speech therapist. DISCUSSION The term “esophageal spasm” has historically emerged to clinically describe a motility disorder of the smooth muscle of the esophagus associated with chest pain and/or dysphagia. Over time, as gastroenterological diagnostic techniques have evolved, various pathological entities have been identified and “Distal Esophageal Spasm” (otherwise known as has become only one of the various forms of motility disorder such as achalasia, nutcracker esophagus, ineffective motility, hypertensive lower sphincter and jackhammer esophagus, which are diagnosed by manometry according to the Chicago Classification. Although esophageal manometry is the gold standard and EGDS is often normal, endoscopic evaluation can sometimes reveal esophageal spasm as a “corkscrew” appearance in the distal esophagus. Therefore, in the absence of other evident causes, according to the presence of dysphagia and the endoscopic appearance, we can legitimately advocate the diagnosis of esophageal spasm, even without manometric demonstration. possibility that the disease was previously present. According to our review of the literature, this represents the first report of esophageal spasm after electrical cardioversion. Tolone et al. described a case of jackhammer esophagus two weeks after catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation, assuming a radiofrequency-induced vagal nerve thermal injury as the provoking factor. Khan and colleagues reported an episode of transient esophageal hypercontractility 4 weeks after lung transplantation, hypothesizing a vagotomy-related gastro- esophageal reflux disease as the causative mechanism. In consideration of the temporal correlation between the electrical cardioversion and the onset of esophageal spasm, we can hypothesize a cause-effect relationship. The well-known association between electric current and muscular contraction leads us to hypothesize that the defibrillating electrical shock somehow triggered an abnormal contraction of the esophageal smooth muscle. The involvement of the distal – retrocardiac – esophageal tract, directly crossed by the current between the antero-posterior plates, could be further suggestive of the cause-effect relationship, with this portion of the tract generally being the most commonly affected by esophageal spasm. may be under-reported and that the exceptionality of our case was the severe presentation. Furthermore, an empirical approach through the administration of a spasmolytic therapy may be considered in the management of dysphagia after electrical cardioversion. Lastly, a cause-effect relationship may justify a different approach to electrical cardioversion in patients with known esophageal motility disease. In this case, antero-lateral pad positioning, when feasible, may prevent complications after the procedure. CONCLUSION We report a case of an esophageal spasm with complete dysphagia
