J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26
KEYWORDS: acute, level, cholecystitis, patients, cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, gallbladder, biliary, surg, acute cholangitis, bile, cholelithiasis, factors, disease, risk


J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26 DOI Defi nitions, pathophysiology, and epidemiology of acute cholangitis and cholecystitis: Tokyo Guidelines Yasutoshi Kimura1, Tadahiro Takada2, Yoshifumi Kawarada3, Yuji Nimura4, Koichi Hirata5, Miho Sekimoto6, Masahiro Yoshida2, Toshihiko Mayumi7, Keita Wada2, Fumihiko Miura2, Hideki Yasuda8, Yuichi Yamashita9, Masato Nagino4, Masahiko Hirota10, Atsushi Tanaka11, Toshio Tsuyuguchi12, Steven M. Strasberg13, and Thomas R. Gadacz14 Kyoto, Japan Abstract Key words Gallstones · Biliary · Bile · Biliary infection · This article discusses the defi nitions, pathophysiology, and Cholangitis · Acute cholecystitis · Guidelines epidemiology of acute cholangitis and cholecystitis. Acute cholangitis and cholecystitis mostly originate from stones in the bile ducts and gallbladder. Acute cholecystitis also has other causes, such as ischemia; chemicals that enter biliary Introduction secretions; motility disorders associated with drugs; infections with microorganisms, protozoa, and parasites; collagen dis- Acute biliary infection is a systemic infectious disease ease; and allergic reactions. Acute acalculous cholecystitis is which requires prompt treatment and has a signifi cant associated with a recent operation, trauma, burns, multisys- mortality rate.1 The fi rst report on acute biliary infec- tem organ failure, and parenteral nutrition. Factors associated with the onset of cholelithiasis include obesity, age, and drugs tion was Charcot’s “The symptoms of hepatic fever” in such as oral contraceptives. The reported mortality of less 1877.2 than 10% for acute cholecystitis gives an impression that it is This section of the Tokyo Guidelines defi nes acute not a fatal disease, except for the elderly and/or patients with cholangitis and acute cholecystitis, and describes the acalculous disease. However, there are reports of high mor- incidence, etiology, pathophysiology, classifi cation, and tality for cholangitis, although the mortality differs greatly prognosis of these diseases. depending on the year of the report and the severity of the disease. Even reports published in and after the 1980s indicate high mortality, ranging from 10% to 30% in the patients, with Acute cholangitis multiorgan failure as a major cause of death. Because many of the reports on acute cholecystitis and cholangitis use differ- ent standards, comparisons are diffi cult. Variations in treat- Defi nition ment and risk factors infl uencing the mortality rates indicate Acute cholangitis is a morbid condition with acute the necessity for standardized diagnostic, treatment, and infl ammation and infection in the bile duct. severity assessment criteria. Historical aspects of terminology Hepatic fever. “Hepatic fever” was a term used for the fi rst time by Charcot,2
