J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26
KEYWORDS: acute, level, cholecystitis, patients, cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, gallbladder, biliary, surg, acute cholangitis, bile, cholelithiasis, factors, disease, risk


infl ammation and infection in the bile duct. severity assessment criteria. Historical aspects of terminology Hepatic fever. “Hepatic fever” was a term used for the fi rst time by Charcot,2 in his report published in 1877. Intermittent fever accompanied by chills, right upper Offprint requests to: Y. Kimura quadrant pain, and jaundice became known as Char- 16 Y. Kimura et al.: Defi nition, pathophysiology, and epidemiology of cholangitis and cholecystitis Acute obstructive cholangitis. Acute obstructive cholan- the most frequent cause of the obstruction, but recently, gitis was defi ned by Reynolds and Dargan3 in 1959 as a the incidence of acute cholangitis caused by malignant syndrome consisting of lethargy or mental confusion disease, sclerosing cholangitis, and non-surgical instru- and shock, as well as fever, jaundice, and abdominal mentation of the biliary tract has been increasing. It is pain, caused by biliary obstruction. They indicated that reported that malignant disease accounts for about emergent surgical biliary decompression was the only 10%–30% of cases of acute cholangitis. Tables 1 and 2 effective procedure for treating the disease. These fi ve show some results of studies on the causes of acute symptoms were then called Reynolds’s pentad. cholangitis. Longmire’s classifi cation.4 Longmire classifi ed patients Risk factors. The bile of healthy subjects is generally with the three characteristics of intermittent fever ac- aseptic. However, bile culture is positive for microor- companied by chills and shivering, right upper quadrant ganisms in 16% of patients undergoing a non-biliary pain, and jaundice as having acute suppurative cholan- operation, in 72% of acute cholangitis patients, in 44% gitis. Patients with lethargy or mental confusion and of chronic cholangitis patients, and in 50% of those with shock, along with the triad, were classifi ed as having biliary obstruction (level 4).12 Bacteria in bile are identi- acute obstructive suppurative cholangitis (AOSC). He fi ed in 90% of patients with choledocholithiasis accom- also reported that the latter corresponded to the mor- panied by jaundice (level 4).13 Patients with incomplete bidity of acute obstructive cholangitis as defi ned by Reynolds and Dargan,3 and he classifi ed acute microbial cholangitis as follows: Table 1. Etiology of acute cholangitis Cholelithiasis 1. Acute cholangitis developing from acute Benign biliary stricture cholecystitis Congenital factors 2. Acute non-suppurative cholangitis Postoperative factors (damaged bile duct, strictured 3. Acute suppurative cholangitis choledojejunostomy, etc.) 4. Acute obstructive suppurative cholangitis Infl ammatory factors (oriental cholangitis, etc.) Malignant occlusion 5. Acute
