J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26
KEYWORDS: acute, level, cholecystitis, patients, cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, gallbladder, biliary, surg, acute cholangitis, bile, cholelithiasis, factors, disease, risk


or more of all causes of replacement therapy, the relative risks (RRs) of chole- cholecystitis (level 4).60 Routine ultrasonography found cystitis were 1.8 (95% confi dence interval [CI], 1.6–2.0) cholelithiasis in 3.5% of pregnant women (level 4),60 but and 2.5 (95% CI, 2.0–2.9) at less than 5 years of it is unknown whether pregnancy increases the risk of treatment and at 5 and more years, respectively cholecystitis. The frequency of cholecystectomy in preg- (level 1a).58 nant women is lower than that in non-pregnant women. This is not because of the lower incidence of cholecys- Ascaris as an etiologic factor. The complications of as- tectomy in pregnant women, but because physicians cariasis include hepatic, biliary, and pancreatic diseases. tend to refrain from performing any operation during Complications in the biliary tract include: (1) choleli- pregnancy. Though there are few reports of patients thiasis with the ascarid as a nidus for stone formation, undergoing cholecystectomy during pregnancy, there is (2) acalculous cholecystitis (3), acute cholangitis (4), no evidence that laparoscopic surgery increases the acute pancreatitis, and (5) hepatic abscess.59 Biliary maternal or fetal risks (level 2c).61 tract disease is caused by the obstruction of the hepatic and biliary tracts by the entry of ascarids from the duo- Acute cholecystitis and four (or fi ve) “Fs”. It has been denum through the papilla. Ascarids entering the biliary said that the patients with cholelithiasis have factors tract usually return to the duodenum in a week, but if such as “4F” and “5F” (fair, fat, female, fertile, and 22 Y. Kimura et al.: Defi nition, pathophysiology, and epidemiology of cholangitis and cholecystitis forty). Common to all individuals with these “4/5Fs” are Pathological classifi cation high levels of estrogen and progesterone. Edematous cholecystitis: fi rst stage (2–4 days). The gall- According to the Framingham Study, which exam- bladder has interstitial fl uid with dilated capillaries and ined the risk factors for cholelithiasis in a 10-year lymphatics. The gallbladder wall is edematous. The gall- follow-up study of 30- to 59-year-old subjects, the risk bladder tissue is intact histologically, with edema in the of cholelithiasis within 10 years was highest among the subserosal layer. 55- to 62-year-old age group, and most of the patients were diagnosed with cholelithiasis in their fi fties and Necrotizing cholecystitis: second stage (3–5 days). The sixties. Although the incidence of cholelithiasis in fe- gallbladder has edematous changes with areas of hem- male patients
