J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26
KEYWORDS: acute, level, cholecystitis, patients, cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, gallbladder, biliary, surg, acute cholangitis, bile, cholelithiasis, factors, disease, risk


in their fi fties and Necrotizing cholecystitis: second stage (3–5 days). The sixties. Although the incidence of cholelithiasis in fe- gallbladder has edematous changes with areas of hem- male patients of all age groups is more than double that orrhage and necrosis. When the gallbladder wall is sub- of male patients, the difference between the incidence jected to elevated internal pressure, the blood fl ow is in men and women tends to shrink with increasing age obstructed, with histological evidence of vascular throm- (level 1b).62 bosis and occlusion. There are areas of scattered necro- Cholelithiasis is one of the main diseases associated sis, but it is superfi cial and does not involve the full with obesity. The Framingham study also confi rms that thickness of the gallbladder wall. cholelithiasis patients tend to be more obese than non- cholelithiasis patients (level 2a).62 However, there is a Suppurative cholecystitis: third stage (7–10 days). The report that this tendency is much more prominent in gallbladder wall has white blood cells present, with ar- female than in male patients.63 Not only obesity but also eas of necrosis and suppuration. In this stage, the active dieting is associated with the risk of cholelithiasis. Dras- repair process of infl ammation is evident. The enlarged tic dieting increases the risk of cholelithiasis in obese gallbladder begins to contract and the wall is thickened people (level 2b).64–67 The incidences of both cholelithia- due to fi brous proliferation. Intrawall abscesses are sis and cholecystitis in obese people (age, 37–60 years; present and involve the entire thickness of the wall. women with a body mass index [BMI] of 34 or higher Pericholecystic abscesses are present. and men with a BMI of 38 or more) are signifi cantly higher that those in non-obese people (cholelithiasis, 5.8% vs 1.5%; Odds ratio [OR], 4.9; women 6.4% vs Chronic cholecystitis. Chronic cholecystitis occurs after 22.6%; OR, 4.7; cholecystitis, 0.8% vs 3.4%; OR, 5.2; the repeated occurrence of mild attacks of cholecystitis, women 4.0% vs 11.2%; OR, 3.4) (level 2b).68 and is characterized by mucosal atrophy and fi brosis of The Framingham Study indicates that the number of the gallbladder wall. It can also be caused by chronic pregnancies in those patients who had cholelithiasis at irritation by large gallstones and may often induce acute entry into a cohort or those in whom the symptoms of cholecystitis. cholelithiasis appeared within 10 years, was signifi cantly
