J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2007) 14:15–26
KEYWORDS: acute, level, cholecystitis, patients, cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, gallbladder, biliary, surg, acute cholangitis, bile, cholelithiasis, factors, disease, risk


at irritation by large gallstones and may often induce acute entry into a cohort or those in whom the symptoms of cholecystitis. cholelithiasis appeared within 10 years, was signifi cantly higher than the number of pregnancies in subjects not Specifi c forms of acute cholecystitis. There are four fulfi lling these criteria (level 2b).62 specifi c forms of acute cholecystitis: (1) acalculous cho- Though the association of “4F” and “5F” with chole- lecystitis, which is acute cholecystitis without cholecys- lithiasis has been relatively closely examined, no study tolithiasis; (2) xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis, which has examined the association of factors other than is characterized by the xanthogranulomatous thicken- obesity and age with the risk of onset of acute ing of the gallbladder wall and elevated intra-gallblad- cholecystitis. der pressure due to stones, with rupture of the the Rokitansky-Achoff sinuses. This rupture causes leakage Pathophysiology and bile entry into the gallbladder wall. The bile is in- In the majority of patients, gallstones are the cause of gested by histocytes, forming granulomas consisting of acute cholecystitis. The process is one of physical ob- foamy histocytes. Patients usually have symptoms of struction of the gallbladder by a gallstone, at the neck acute cholecystitis in the initial stage. (3) emphysema- or in the cystic duct. This obstruction results in increased tous cholecystitis, in which air appears in the gallblad- pressure in the gallbladder. There are two factors which der wall due to infection with gas-forming anaerobes, determine the progression to acute cholecystitis — the including Clostridium perfringens. This form is likely to degree of obstruction and the duration of the obstruc- progress to sepsis and gangrenous cholecystitis; it is of- tion. If the obstruction is partial and of short duration ten seen in diabetic patients. (4) Torsion of the gallblad- the patient experiences biliary colic. If the obstruction der.69 Torsion of the gallbladder is known to occur by is complete and of long duration the patient develops inherent, acquired, and other physical causes. An inher- acute cholecystitis. If the patient does not receive early ent factor is a fl oating gallbladder, which is very mobile treatment, the disease becomes more serious and com- because the gallbladder and cystic ducts are connected plications occur. with the liver by a fused ligament. Acquired factors in- Y. Kimura et al.: Defi nition, pathophysiology, and epidemiology of cholangitis and cholecystitis 23 clude splanchnoptosis, senile humpback, scoliosis, and Prognosis weight loss.
