Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


NLM Citation: Kaur S, Christodoulou J. MECP2 Disorders. 2001 Oct 3 [Updated 2025 Dec 4]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. ® Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: MECP2 Disorders FRCPA, FAHMS Created: October 3, 2001; Revised: December 4, 2025. Summary Clinical characteristics The spectrum of MECP2-related phenotypes in females ranges from classic Rett syndrome to variant Rett syndrome with a broader clinical phenotype (either milder or more severe than classic Rett syndrome) to mild learning disabilities; the spectrum in males ranges from severe neonatal encephalopathy to pyramidal signs, parkinsonism, and macroorchidism (PPM-X) syndrome to severe syndromic/nonsyndromic intellectual disability. • Females: Classic Rett syndrome, a progressive neurodevelopmental disorder primarily affecting girls, is characterized by apparently normal psychomotor development during the first six to 18 months of life, followed by a short period of developmental stagnation, then rapid regression in language and motor skills, followed by long-term stability. During the phase of rapid regression, repetitive, stereotypic hand movements replace purposeful hand use. Additional findings include fits of screaming and inconsolable crying, autistic features, panic-like attacks, bruxism, episodic apnea and/or hyperpnea, gait ataxia and apraxia, tremors, seizures, and acquired microcephaly. • Males: Severe neonatal-onset encephalopathy, the most common phenotype in affected males, is abnormal tone, involuntary movements, severe seizures, and breathing abnormalities. Death often occurs before age two years. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of a MECP2 disorder is established by molecular genetic testing in a female proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous MECP2 pathogenic variant, and in a male proband with suggestive findings and a hemizygous MECP2 pathogenic variant. Email: . 2 GeneReviews ® Management Treatment of manifestations: Treatment is mainly symptomatic and focuses on optimizing the individual's abilities using a multidisciplinary approach that should also include psychosocial support for family members. Risperidone may help in treating agitation; melatonin can ameliorate sleep disturbances. Treatment of seizures, constipation, gastroesophageal reflux, scoliosis, prolonged QTc, and spasticity per standard care. Surveillance: Periodic evaluation by the multidisciplinary team; regular assessment of QTc for evidence of prolongation; regular assessment for scoliosis. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Drugs known to prolong the QT interval. Genetic counseling MECP2 disorders are inherited in an X-linked manner. More than 99% are simplex cases (i.e., a single occurrence in a family), resulting from a de novo pathogenic variant or possibly from inheritance of the pathogenic variant from a parent who has germline mosaicism. Rarely, a MECP2 variant may be inherited from a
