Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


from a de novo pathogenic variant or possibly from inheritance of the pathogenic variant from a parent who has germline mosaicism. Rarely, a MECP2 variant may be inherited from a heterozygous mother in whom favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation results in minimal to no variant is 50%. When the pathogenic MECP2 variant has been identified in the family, heterozygote testing for at-risk female relatives, prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk, and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism, it is appropriate to offer prenatal diagnosis to couples who have had a child with a MECP2 disorder regardless of whether the MECP2 pathogenic variant has been detected in a parent. GeneReview Scope MECP2 Disorders: Included Phenotypes 1, 2 • MECP2 classic Rett syndrome Females • Variant Rett syndrome • Mild learning disabilities • MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy Males • Pyramidal signs, parkinsonism, and macroorchidism (PPM-X) syndrome • Syndromic/nonsyndromic intellectual disability 1. For other genetic causes of these phenotypes see Differential Diagnosis. 2. Note: The allelic disorder MECP2 duplication syndrome is not included in this GeneReview. See Genetically Related Disorders. Diagnosis Note: Duplication of MECP2 (ranging from 0.3 to 4 Mb and larger) is associated with the allelic disorder MECP2 duplication syndrome and is not addressed in this GeneReview. Suggestive Findings in Females A MECP2 disorder should be suspected/considered in females with the following clinical findings suggestive of MECP2 classic Rett syndrome or variant Rett syndrome (based on clinical diagnostic criteria published by Neul et al [full text] prior to the widespread availability of molecular genetic testing), or mild learning disabilities. Clinical findings of MECP2 classic Rett syndrome and variant Rett syndrome MECP2 Disorders 3 • Most distinguishing finding: A period of regression (range: ages 1-4 years) followed by recovery or stabilization (range: ages 2-10 years; mean: age 5 years) • Main findings ⚬ Partial or complete loss of acquired purposeful hand skills ⚬ Partial or complete loss of acquired spoken language or language skill (e.g., babble) ⚬ Gait abnormalities: impaired (dyspraxic) or absence of ability ⚬ Stereotypic hand movements including hand wringing/squeezing, clapping/tapping, mouthing, and washing/rubbing automatisms • Supportive findings ⚬ Breathing disturbances when awake ⚬ Bruxism when awake ⚬ Impaired sleep pattern ⚬ Abnormal muscle tone ⚬ Peripheral vasomotor disturbances ⚬ Scoliosis/kyphosis ⚬ Growth restriction ⚬ Small, cold hands and feet ⚬ Inappropriate laughing/screaming spells ⚬ Diminished response to pain ⚬ Intense eye
