Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


panel) or comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, exome array, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Because the phenotype of MECP2 disorders is broad, females with the distinctive findin gs described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas females and males with a phenotype indistinguishable from many other inherited disorders with intellectual disability and/or neonatal encephalopathy are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). Option 1 include use of single-gene testing or a multigene panel: • Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of MECP2 detects missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. If no pathogenic variant is found, perform gene-targeted deletion/ duplication analysis to detect intragenic deletions or duplications. • Various multigene panels such as Rett/Angelman syndrome panels and more comprehensive childhood- onset epilepsy panels that include MECP2 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) are most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) Th e genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. For this disorder a multigene panel that also includes deletion/duplication analysis is recommended (see Table 1). genetic tests can be found here. MECP2 Disorders 5 Option 2 When the phenotype overlaps with many other inherited disorders characterized by intellectual disability and/or neonatal encephalopathy, comprehensive genomic testing (which does not require the clinician to determine which gene[s] are likely involved) is another option. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. If exome sequencing is not diagnostic, exome array (when clinically available) may be considered to detect (multi)exon deletions or duplications that cannot be detected by sequence analysis. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Table 1. MECP2 Disorders: Molecular Genetic Testing Proportion of Pathogenic Variants
