Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


pediatric psychiatrist. Surveillance Many of the clinical features in females with atypical Rett syndrome (Table 2) evolve with age and hence should be reassessed every six to 12 months. Table 7. MECP2 Disorders: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency • Measurement of growth parameters Feeding • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake Gastrointestinal Monitor for constipation. Respiratory Monitor for evidence of aspiration, respiratory insufficiency. • Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. Neurologic • Assess for new manifestations, e.g., seizures, changes in tone, movement disorders. Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. At each multidisciplinary Speech & language Monitor communication skills. clinic visit; at least annually Psychiatric/ Behavioral assessment for anxiety, attention, & aggressive or self-injurious behavior Behavioral • Physical medicine, OT/PT assessment of mobility, self-help skills Musculoskeletal • Monitor scoliosis. Cardiovascular Monitor for prolonged QTc. Respiratory Apnea/hyperventilation Miscellaneous/ Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite care, home nursing; Other other local resources) & care coordination. OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Because individuals with MECP2 disorders are at increased risk for life-threatening arrhythmias associated with a prolonged QT interval, avoidance of drugs known to prolong the QT interval, including the following, is recommended: MECP2 Disorders 15 • Prokinetic agents (e.g., cisapride) • Antipsychotics (e.g., thioridazine), tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine) • Antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, sotolol, amiodarone) • Anesthetic agents (e.g., thiopental, succinylcholine) • Antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, ketoconazole) ® See CredibleMeds (free registration required) for a more extensive list of drugs to avoid. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation improvement of language and communication skills, and drug trials. For details see www.rettsyndrome.org. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance
