Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance MECP2 disorders are inherited in an X-linked manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Approximately 99.5% of affected individuals represent simplex cases (i.e., a single occurrence in the family). • Female proband. MECP2 molecular genetic testing is recommended for both parents. • Male proband. MECP2 molecular genetic testing is recommended for the mother. (Note: The father of an affected male will not have a MECP2 disorder nor will he be hemizygous for the MECP2 pathogenic variant; therefore, he does not require further evaluation/testing.) • The mother of a proband who is found to be heterozygous for a MECP2 variant may have favorably skewed X-chromosome inactivation that results in her being unaffected or mildly affected. • If the MECP2 pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, possible explanations include a de novo pathogenic variant in the proband or germline mosaicism in a parent. Maternal and paternal germline mosaicism have been reported [Amir et al 1999, Zeev et al 2002, Mari et al 2005]. ⚬ Maternal germline mosaicism was reported in one of nine pregnancies [Mari et al 2005, Venâncio et al 2007]. 16 GeneReviews ® ⚬ Paternal germline mosaicism was reported in five fathers of affected daugthers from 21 families [Zhang et al 2019]. Sibs of a proband. The risk to sibs depends on the genetic status of the parents: • If the mother of the proband has a MECP2 pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. ⚬ Females who inherit the pathogenic variant are at high risk of developing a MECP2 disorder, although skewed X-chromosome inactivation may result in a variable phenotype. ⚬ Males who inherit the variant may have a severe neonatal encephalopathy or, if they survive the firs t year, will most likely have a severe intellectual disability syndrome. • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family) and if the MECP2 pathogenic variant cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the risk to sibs is greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Amir et al 1999, Zeev et al 2002, Mari et al
