Bookshelf_NBK1497
KEYWORDS: variant, syndrome, pathogenic, rett, disorders, rett syndrome, testing, genetic, severe, pathogenic variant, disorder, females, disability, variants, intellectual


risk to sibs is greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Amir et al 1999, Zeev et al 2002, Mari et al 2005, Venâncio et al 2007, Zhang et al 2019]. Offspring of a proband • Each child of a female proband with a MECP2 disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the MECP2 pathogenic variant. Females with more severe MECP2 disorders do not reproduce; mildly affected females have reproduced. • Males with a MECP2 disorder are not known to reproduce. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the genetic status of the proband's mother: if the mother is affected or has a pathogenic MECP2 variant, her family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues First-degree female relatives. Once the pathogenic MECP2 variant has been identified in a proband, it is appropriate to offer testing to all first-degree female relatives regardless of their clinical status. Apparently unaffected sisters of a female proband with a MECP2 disorder may be heterozygous for the MECP2 variant present in their sister but have few to no manifestations because of skewed X-chromosome inactivation. Genetic counseling should address this possibility as clinically unaffected sisters may be at risk of transmitting the pathogenic MECP2 variant to their children. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are mildly affected or are at risk of having a pathogenic MECP2 variant. DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the MECP2 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Males with a MECP2 variant who survive infancy will most likely MECP2 Disorders 17 have severe intellectual disability. The phenotype in a female with a MECP2 variant is difficult to predict and can range from apparently normal to severely affected. Note: Because parental germline
