Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


ABSTRACT Contraception is important for the prevention of unintended pregnancies worldwide. Many contraceptives also have other medical benefits, such as decreasing endometrial and ovarian cancer risk or regulating the pain and bleeding of menstruation. It is essential for all physicians to have a basic knowledge of contraceptives, given that 99% of women in the United States will use contraception at some point in their reproductive lives. This chapter provides an overview of the various hormonal and non-hormonal methods. There is an emphasis placed on efficacy, pharmacology and the mechanism of action for each category of contraceptives. Progestin-only methods include the implant, intrauterine devices (IUDs), injectables and pills. Combined estrogen-progestin methods include pills, patch and vaginal ring. Non-hormonal methods include the copper IUD and barrier methods such as condoms or diaphragms. Non-contraceptive benefits and contraindications for each particular method are also described. Finally, some future developments are discussed. For complete coverage of this and all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our FREE on-line web-textbook, www.endotext.org. INTRODUCTION The global population is at an all-time high at over 7 billion people. A large percentage of this population growth is in less developed countries where access to reproductive health care is limited. However, even in industrialized countries, unintended pregnancies do occur. The rate of unintended pregnancies in the United States is higher than much of the industrialized world and approaches 50%.[i] About 12% of these unintended pregnancies in the U.S. occur in teenagers and 75% occur in women who are poor or low income.[ii] While 2% of U.S. women have an induced abortion every year,[iii] about half of the unplanned pregnancies are carried to term.[iv] The rates of unwanted pregnancy in the United States are at least four times higher than in some countries in Europe and Japan.[v] These differences do not appear to be explained solely by exposure to the risk of pregnancy because other countries such as the Netherlands and Sweden have teenagers who engage in sexual activity earlier than most teenagers in the United States.[vi] The cost of contraception to the consumer and lack of insurance coverage for contraception had been identified as contributors to the high unintended pregnancy rate in the U.S. prior to passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). 3 The ACA contraceptive mandate then required most insurers to cover contraception without cost-sharing beginning in August 2011.[vii] However, not all women have insurance and the politics of
