Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


Act (ACA). 3 The ACA contraceptive mandate then required most insurers to cover contraception without cost-sharing beginning in August 2011.[vii] However, not all women have insurance and the politics of contraceptive coverage are ever shifting. Even without cost sharing, women continue to choose less effective methods and/or use methods incorrectly and inconsistently. While the varied reasons for inconsistent contraceptive use have yet to be fully elucidated, the rate of unintended pregnancies is declining as uptake of contraception, and long-acting reversible contraception (LARC), in particular, increases. 1 Safe and reliable family planning directly improves public health. New methods are an area of ongoing research, such as the development of microbicides, which will fulfill the unmet dual need of contraception and protection against sexually transmitted infections/human immunodeficiency virus in women. Women provided with effective contraception are protected against events that may threaten their personal and professional independence. Pregnancy and childbirth pose substantial health risks that should be actively avoided unless pregnancy is desired. The chance of death due to pregnancy and childbirth varies geographically but is always higher than that associated with currently available methods of contraception.[viii] There is an ever increasing variety of contraceptives available to couples. Each method has its own distinct advantages and disadvantages. The ideal contraceptive would be effective, reversible, easy to use, not coitally dependent, safe, free of side effects, and inexpensive. Because one objectively perfect method does not yet exist, the choice of a family planning method should be individualized to each couple and may change during a woman's reproductive life. Currently, methods may be non-hormonal, progesterone-containing, or estrogen- and progesterone-containing. There have been, and there will continue to be, great strides to modify and optimize these methods. This chapter will serve as a review of contraceptive options with focus on the efficacy, mechanism of action, and non-contraceptive effects. EFFICACY AND EFFECTIVENESS There are inherent risks in our methodology for defining the efficacy of a contraceptive method. If 100 women used a contraceptive method for a year and five became pregnant, we cannot say that the method was 95% effective. We do not know who would have become pregnant without using family planning. Thus, we rely on a failure rate to describe the effectiveness of a method. However, all failure rates are not calculated equally and have different implications. Most estimates of a contraceptive's efficacy refer to the first year of its use. Overall, the longer
