Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


method. However, all failure rates are not calculated equally and have different implications. Most estimates of a contraceptive's efficacy refer to the first year of its use. Overall, the longer a woman uses a contraceptive method, the less likely it is to fail. Thus, the failure rate in the second year is lower than the first and the failure rate in the fifth year is lower than in that of the second. There are two commonly used failure rates to compare contraceptive methods: typical use and perfect use. 'Perfect use' is a measure of efficacy if the method is used perfectly, consistently, and according to specific guidelines. It represents the efficacy of the method in the laboratory setting (method failure rate). 'Typical use' estimates the probability of pregnancy during the first year of using the method in “the real world” setting. This measure of effectiveness takes into account occasional non-use of the method, incorrect use of the method, as well as pure failure of the method. Generally speaking, methods that are coitally dependent, such as condoms and diaphragms, have a larger disparity between typical use and perfect use. The failure rate for perfect use for oral contraceptive pills is approximately 0.3%, but the typical failure rate is about 9%.[ix] Given that it is impossible to predict if women will use a method perfectly, it is appropriate to quote typical-use failure rates in clinical counseling (Table 1). Methods that are long acting and require one visit to a clinician such as an IUD or an implant have very little disparity between perfect use and typical use, and thus are the most effective methods of contraception. View in own window Method Typical Use Perfect Use Implant 0.05 0.05 Male sterilization 0.15 0.1 LNG IUD (52mg) 0.2 0.2 LNG IUD (19.5mg) 0.2 0.2 LNG IUD (13.5mg) 0.4 0.4 Female sterilization 0.5 0.5 Copper IUD 0.8 0.6 Depo Provera 6 0.2 Pill 9 0.3 Patch 9 0.3 Ring 9 0.3 Diaphragm 12 6 Male condom 18 2 Female condom 21 5 Withdrawal 22 4 Fertility awareness 24 0.4-5 No method 85 85 Table 1: Typical use and perfect use one-year failure rates for contraceptive methods 9, [x] , [xi] PHARMACOLOGY Progestins The major portion of the contraceptive effect in systemic hormonal methods is due to the progestin compound. Progestins confer most of the contraceptive benefit by suppressing LH and ovulation. Progestins in oral contraceptives
