Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


of the contraceptive effect in systemic hormonal methods is due to the progestin compound. Progestins confer most of the contraceptive benefit by suppressing LH and ovulation. Progestins in oral contraceptives are derived from 19 nor-testosterone and include norethindrone, norethindrone acetate, ethynodiol diacetate, norgestrel, levonorgestrel, norethynodrel, desogestrel, norgestimate, and gestodene. Progestins should be categorized according to their active structure and their parent compound. There are three molecularly distinct types of progestins: estranes, gonanes, and pregnanes. Estranes include norethindrone, norethindrone acetate, ethynodiol diacetate, and lynestrenol. Gonanes include desogestrel, norgestimate, and gestodene. Gonanes and estranes differ in their half-life and with respect to their estrogenic and anti-estrogenic effects. Pregnanes are used in injectable methods. Drospirenone is a spironolactone analog with anti-mineralocorticoid and anti-androgenic activity.[xii] Progestin-only methods have many documented mechanisms of action, including inhibition of ovulation, thickened and decreased cervical mucus, suppression of mid-cycle peaks of LH and FSH, inhibition of progesterone receptor synthesis, reduction in the number and size of endometrial glands, reduction in ciliary activity within the fallopian tube, and premature luteolysis (decreased functioning of the corpus luteum).[xiii] , [xiv] , [xv] , [xvi] Progestins at high concentrations likely suppress the initiation of folliculogenesis at the level of the hypothalamus. At slightly lower concentrations folliculogenesis can be initiated but the progestin prevents the LH surge at the level of the pituitary and therefore prevents ovulation. At even lower concentrations, progestins alter cervical mucus, tubal motility and/or the endometrium.[xvii] Estrogens Estrogens primarily serve to regulate bleeding, but also inhibit FSH and prevent formation of the dominant follicle.[xviii] In contrast to the long list of progestin formulations, only a few estrogenic compounds are used in hormonal contraceptives: ethinyl estradiol (EE), mestranol, and estradiol valerate. Other estrogens, particularly estetrol, are being tested clinically in contraceptive preparations. EE is pharmacologically active whereas mestranol must be converted into EE before it becomes active. Most contraceptives currently on the market contain 35 micrograms of estrogen or less. Ethinyl estradiol is absorbed rapidly and undergoes extensive hepatic first pass metabolism. Its plasma half-life has been reported to be in the range of 10-27 hours. Its half-life in tissue, such as endometrium, appears to be longer. MECHANISM OF ACTION While there is a great increase in the number of hormonal contraceptive options, most of these methods are a "variation on a theme.” The mechanism of action of hormonal contraception is primarily through the suppression of ovulation, but progestational effects
