Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


hormonal contraceptive options, most of these methods are a "variation on a theme.” The mechanism of action of hormonal contraception is primarily through the suppression of ovulation, but progestational effects include:[xix] Inhibition of ovulation by suppressing luteinizing hormone (LH); Thickening of cervical mucus, thus hampering the transport of sperm; Possible inhibition of sperm capacitation; Hampered implantation by the production of decidualized endometrium with exhausted and atrophic glands. Estrogenic effects include:[xx] Partial inhibition of ovulation in part by the suppression of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), depending on dose; Alteration of secretions and cellular structures of the endometrium within the uterus. PROGESTIN ONLY HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES Current progestin-only methods include an etonogestrel (ENG) subdermal implant, intrauterine devices, depot medroxyprogesterone acetate, and progestin-only pills. Advantages: Progestin-only methods do not have an estrogen component, thereby decreasing the complications attributable to estrogen (such as, cardiovascular disease, venous thromboembolism, and thrombophlebitis). Specific non-contraceptive benefits of these methods include scanty or no menses, decreased menstrual cramps and pain, suppression of pain associated with ovulation, decrease in endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer, and pelvic inflammatory disease, and potential improvement of the pain associated with endometriosis. All progestin-only contraceptive methods are reversible. Non-oral administration of progestin provides long term, effective contraception, decreases the risk of ectopic pregnancy, and is not coitally dependent. Specific indications for these methods may include women who are breastfeeding, women who are at greater risk for thromboembolic events, and all women who cannot take estrogen. Disadvantages: These methods do not protect against sexually transmitted disease and HIV, and can alter the menstrual cycle (including breakthrough bleeding with an increased number of days of light bleeding, and potential amenorrhea). The contraindications to progestin-only contraceptives are listed in Table 2 . The only absolute contraindications are pregnancy, unexplained abnormal vaginal bleeding suspicious for a serious underlying condition, and breast cancer. Active liver disease has been deleted from the list of contraindications to DMPA. In general, one should exercise care when using this method in women with acute, severe liver disease or liver tumors. Table 2 Contraindications to Progestin-only Hormonal Contraceptives View in own window Progestin-only contraception should not be used for women with the following conditions: • Known or suspected pregnancy • Unexplained vaginal bleeding • Breast cancer Progestin-only IUDs should not be initiated in the following conditions: • Suspected uterine infection • Cervical cancer Caution should be used when prescribing progestin only pills in the
