Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


Breast cancer Progestin-only IUDs should not be initiated in the following conditions: • Suspected uterine infection • Cervical cancer Caution should be used when prescribing progestin only pills in the following conditions: • Concurrent medication that cause progestins to be metabolized more rapidly: • anti-seizure medications: phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, phenylbutazone, felbamate, ozcarbazine and lamotrigine (lamotrigine levels decreased by progestins) • antibiotics: rifampin/rifampicin • ritonavir- boosted protease inhibitors • Women who have undergone bariatric surgery may have difficulty with absorption. *There is no evidence that progestin-only methods increase the risk of cardiovascular events in a fashion similar to the combined oral contraceptive pill. Even though there is no evidence that progestin-only contraceptives cause cardiovascular events, the product labeling might still list active cardiovascular disease (or history of disease) as a contraindication. PROGESTIN-ONLY IMPLANTS There is one progestin-only implant available in the United States. It is a single rod that contains 68mg of etonogestrel (ENG). It is placed subdermally, usually in the upper extremity, in the office with local anesthesia. It is FDA approved for up to 3 years. Small studies indicate continued efficacy for 4 or even 5 years, but insufficient numbers of obese BMI women have been included to make definitive recommendations in that cohort.[xxi] , [xxii] Larger studies are needed to routinely recommend extended use. Efficacy: The typical failure rate of the ENG implant is reported to be about 1 in 1000. However, there are compiled data that demonstrate a Pearl Index of 0.00 (1716 women with 4103 women years of implant use and no pregnancies.[xxiii] , [xxiv] There does appear to be a decrease in efficacy when combined with drugs that increase hepatic metabolism ( Table 2 ).. Because of these possible interactions, the WHO classifies the implant in women taking these medications as category 2 (benefits likely outweigh the risks). Side effects: The most common side effect and most reported reason for removal of the implant is an irregular or unpredictable bleeding pattern 24, [xxv]. Approximately ¼ of women reported prolonged or frequent bleeding. Fortunately, most women state that menstrual flow overall decreases with each successive year of implant use and the most common patterns were infrequent bleeding and amenorrhea.[xxvi] There appears to be a slightly increased incidence of clinically insignificant ovarian cysts in users of the implant. Unlike the concerns with depot medroxyprogesterone and bone mineral density (BMD), limited data suggest that the ENG implant does
