Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


incidence of clinically insignificant ovarian cysts in users of the implant. Unlike the concerns with depot medroxyprogesterone and bone mineral density (BMD), limited data suggest that the ENG implant does not have any effect on BMD.[xxvii] Weight gain, however, has not been well studied. Some trials report an increase of BMI by less than 1%, and perhaps as many as 12% of women will report an increase in weight. When looking at reasons why women have the implant removed, only 3-7% state it was because of weight gain. Therefore, it appears that weight gain is clinically insignificant 25, [xxviii] , [xxix]. Risks: The risks and contraindications are the same as those for other progestin-only methods. Non contraceptive benefits: The ENG implant likely improves dysmenorrhea. To date there is no randomized control trial comparing the implant to other acceptable treatments of dysmenorrhea. However, An observational study 26 of 315 women showed that of the 187 women who reported dysmenorrhea at baseline, 151 (81%) had improvement of their dysmenorrhea and 26 (14%) reported no change. INTRAUTERINE DEVICES Although intrauterine devices (IUDs) are the most widely used form of reversible contraception worldwide, they are an underutilized contraceptive method in the United States.[xxx] IUDs and implants are the most effective methods of reversible contraception (20 times as effective as the hormonal methods of the pill, patch and ring), and have high user acceptability, with few medical contraindications.[xxxi] Mechanism of action: There are five IUDs currently available in the U.S.: a copper IUD (Paragard®) and four progestin-impregnated intrauterine systems (IUS): Liletta®, Mirena®, Kyleena®, and Skyla®. Both medicated and non-medicated intrauterine devices (IUDs) have multiple mechanisms of action that provide for contraceptive protection. Both medicated and non-medicated IUDs can alter the uterine lining so that it becomes unfavorable for implantation. Release of copper ions also alters fluid in the uterine cavity in a manner that impairs the viability of sperm, thereby inhibiting fertilization. This mechanism may be responsible for the high efficacy of copper IUDs as emergency contraception. IUDs can also alter both sperm motility and integrity. 30, [xxxii] , [xxxiii] , [xxxiv] Medicated, or hormonal IUDs, can interfere with sperm motility by thickening cervical mucus. Sperm head-tail disruption has been reported in the presence of a copper IUD. 30 IUDs, whether hormonal or non-hormonal, do not provide protection against sexually transmitted diseases. However, it is important to recognize that IUDs are not associated with PID,[xxxv]
