Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


a copper IUD. 30 IUDs, whether hormonal or non-hormonal, do not provide protection against sexually transmitted diseases. However, it is important to recognize that IUDs are not associated with PID,[xxxv] , [xxxvi] and that the historical associations that both physicians and the lay public maintain between IUDs and PID/tubal infertility are false. Timing of IUD insertion: The IUD can be inserted at any point in the cycle as long as the provider is reasonably certain the patient is not pregnant. An IUD can be inserted immediately postpartum, post abortion, or as an 'interval' insertion. Interval Insertion: An 'interval' insertion is defined as insertion in women who are neither postpartum nor post abortion, or an insertion in women 6 weeks after delivery.[xxxvii] Traditionally, physicians were taught that the best time for IUD insertion was either during menses or immediately after menstruation. Limiting insertion to these time points, however, created a barrier to their use. Data now suggest that IUD insertion between cycle days 12 to 17 results in greater IUD continuation rates. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reviewed data from more than 9,000 copper T-200 IUD insertions and found that IUDs placed after cycle day 11 resulted in fewer IUD removals during the first 2 months of IUD use. Insertions after day 17 resulted in more frequent IUD removal due to pain, bleeding, or accidental pregnancy.[xxxviii] Progestin-only IUD: The 52mg LNG IUS (Mirena, Liletta) initially releases 20 mcg of levonorgestrel per day from a polymer cylinder mounted on a T-shaped frame (32mm x 32mm) containing 52 mg levonorgestrel; it is covered by a release rate-controlling membrane. Mirena is FDA approved for 5 years of use; Liletta is FDA approved for 4 years of use. However, large studies support continued efficacy for 7 years of use with either brand.[xxxix] The failure rate is low: 0.16 per 100 woman years of use. Its mechanisms of action include production of an atrophic and inactive endometrium, disturbed ovulation, and thickening of the cervical mucus. Ovulation may be inhibited in about 20% of women, but this is not the main mechanism of action. The mean number of bleeding and spotting days is initially increased but both the volume of menstrual flow and the number of days of bleeding are reduced over time.[xl] During the first year of use, about 16% of women will be become amenorrheic and average menstrual bleeding days decrease to 2
