Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


of days of bleeding are reduced over time.[xl] During the first year of use, about 16% of women will be become amenorrheic and average menstrual bleeding days decrease to 2 per month by 12 months of use. 40 A recent meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials reveal that LNG-20 IUS users were significantly more likely than all other IUD users to discontinue its use because of hormonal side effects and amenorrhea,[xli] so appropriate counseling is an important component of success. Initial irregular spotting or bleeding, and hormonal side effects like acne and ovarian cysts may occur in some users. In part because there is no user-dependence, the LNG-20 IUS offers much improved effectiveness over other hormonal methods. 41,31 The 19.5mg LNG IUS (Kyleena) initially releases 17.5mcg of levonorgestrel per day during the first year from a 19.5mg reservoir mounted on a smaller T-shaped frame (28 x 30mm). Consequently, it has a more narrow insertion tube. 88% women in the first year and 100% of women in the third year of use will continue to ovulate.[xlii] Although decreased over time, average number of bleeding/spotting days is higher than with the 52mg IUS. 11 Kyleena is FDA approved for 5 years and there are no studies of extended use. The 13.5mg LNG IUS (Skyla) has the same sized T frame and inserter as the 19.5mg IUS, but contains 13.5 mg of levonorgestrel, and initially releases 14mcg levonorgestrel per day, declining to 5mcg/day after 3 years. Less than 4% of women will have ovulation inhibition, and 6% of women have amenorrhea after 1 year. It is FDA approved for 3 years and there are no studies of extended use.[xliii] Specific populations: One population of interest is nulliparous women. The failure rate of IUDs is low and similar for both parous and nulliparous women. Acceptability, using the surrogate marker of continuation rate, shows a 90% retention rate in nulliparous women at one year. As with efficacy, expulsion rates between parous and nulliparous appear to be the same, likely between 1-5% for all comers. The risk of infection does not seem to vary between the parous and nulliparous women.[xliv] The 19.5mg and 13.5mg IUSs are marketed toward nulliparous women, but it is unknown as to whether its structural differences confer any specific benefits over the 52mg IUS in this population. Non-contraceptive uses of 52mg LNG IUS: Multiple descriptive studies and clinical trials have been performed on
