Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


studies provide reassuring evidence that decreases in bone mineral density in current and recent Depo-Provera users are reversible and appear to be similar to changes seen in lactation.[lxxii] Bone loss: On November 17, 2004, the FDA placed a black box in DMPA package labeling regarding the long-term use of DMPA and bone loss. Anecdotally, this warning had an immediate impact on decreased prescription of DMPA.[lxxiii] Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate use has not been linked to menopausal osteoporosis or fractures. A cross-sectional study from the WHO demonstrated that even after four years of use, BMD in former adult DMPA users is similar to that of never users. 72 The 2002 cohort study of BMD in adult women performed by Scholes et al.[lxxiv] demonstrated that at 3 years of follow-up, BMD of former DMPA users was comparable to that of never users of injectable contraception. While the FDA warning also specifically heightened concerns about teens and bone loss in the setting of DMPA, a 2005 report from Scholes et al.[lxxv] showed that use of DMPA in this population does not put patients at risk for osteoporosis later in life. This cohort study followed 170 adolescents (including 80 who used DMPA at baseline) and found that recovery of BMD was complete within 12 months following DMPA discontinuation. BMD was ultimately observed to be higher in the former than in the never users of DMPA. Duration of DMPA use was not observed to impact speed of BMD recovery following DMPA discontinuation. A Cochrane review indicated that there may be a small increased risk of fracture in women with increased duration of use.[lxxvi] PROGESTIN-ONLY ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES Progestin-only pills, also called the 'minipill' have a dose of progestin that is very close to the threshold of contraceptive efficacy; therefore, these pills must be taken continuously at the same time each day and without a pill-free interval. Less than one percent of oral contraceptive prescriptions in the United States are for the progestin-only oral contraceptive.[lxxvii] This form of contraception is traditionally most often used in women who are breastfeeding or in women who have contraindications to estrogen. However, most women are candidates for this method. Only one progestin-only formulation is available in the United States with 0.35mg of norethindrone per pill. It is important to note that ovulation is not always inhibited with the use of progestin-only pills. Approximately half of cycles have suppressed ovulation and thus contraceptive
