Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


norethindrone per pill. It is important to note that ovulation is not always inhibited with the use of progestin-only pills. Approximately half of cycles have suppressed ovulation and thus contraceptive efficacy is dependent on the other progestin related mechanisms listed previously. 77 Efficacy: The typical failure rate of progestin-only pills is similar to that with combined oral contraceptives,[lxxviii] despite the fact that efficacy is only for 27 hours and requires consistent administration. Serum levels of progestin peak 2 hours after administration and return to near baseline levels within 24 hours. 77 Variation of only a few hours in administration can be the difference in the progestin-only pill providing its contraceptive protection. Women should be prepared to use a back-up method if they are three hours late in taking the pill, if one pill is missed or if there is a delay in its administration. Furthermore there are data to suggest that the efficacy of progestin-only pills in the setting of rifampin, certain anticonvulsants (excluding lamotrigine) and ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors is decreased. The WHO subsequently categorizes progestin-only pills in these settings as risks may outweigh benefits. Side Effects: The main side effect associated with progestin-only pills is menstrual cycle irregularity. Spotting or breakthrough bleeding, amenorrhea, and shortened length of menstrual cycles are the most common irregularities experienced. A randomized, double-blind study by the WHO showed that an average of 53% of users had frequent bleeding, 22% had prolonged bleeding, 13% had irregular bleeding, and 6% had amenorrhea within 3 months of initiation.[lxxix] Menstrual irregularity is a common reason for method discontinuation. Other less common side effects include nausea, dizziness, headache, and breast tenderness. Risks: In general, any contraceptive method protects against ectopic pregnancy. However, if progestin-only pill users get pregnant, on average 6-10% of the pregnancies will be ectopic, higher than the rate seen in women not using any method of contraception (2%). 77 The overall risk, however, remains lower than the general population because so few women actually become pregnant (7%) while using this method of contraception. A recent WHO case-control study of cardiovascular disease and progestin-only pill use found no significant increase in the risk of acute myocardial infarction (RR=1.0, 95%CI, 0.2-6.0), stroke (RR=1.1, 95%CI, 0.6-1.9), or venous thromboembolism (RR=1.8, 95%CI, 0.8-4.2) (34). Thus far, progestin-only pills appear to have little or no effect on lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, hypertension, and coagulation factors. 77 COMBINED ESTROGEN AND PROGESTIN HORMONAL
