Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


(RR=1.8, 95%CI, 0.8-4.2) (34). Thus far, progestin-only pills appear to have little or no effect on lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, hypertension, and coagulation factors. 77 COMBINED ESTROGEN AND PROGESTIN HORMONAL CONTRACEPTION The bioavailability of progesterone is poor, so progestins derived from androgens are used instead. There are many active progestins in addition to norethindrone. They are classified into generations as shown in Table 3. 18, 19 View in own window Generation Progestins Notes First norethynodrel, norethindrone, norethindrone acetate, and ethynodiol diacetate Low potency, well tolerated, more breakthrough bleeding with low doses of estrogen Second Levonorgestrel, norgestrel, norgestimate Higher potency, less breakthrough bleeding, more androgenic side effects Third desogestrel, norgestimate, gestodene Decreased androgenic side effects Fourth drospirinone Anti-androgenic and anti-mineralocorticoid effects EXTENDED AND CONTINUOUS REGIMENS: [lxxx] While manipulation of the timing of the pill-free-interval has been practiced by gynecologists for decades, there are now marketed ways to decrease the number of withdrawal bleeds experienced on the standard pill pack, which contains 21 active pills and 7 placebo pills (“21/7”). There are “24/4” regimens with only 4 days per month of placebo pills. Pills such as 'Seasonale' are packaged such that women take the pill for 84 consecutive days, and then stop for a week before inducing a withdrawal bleed. This method allows women to bleed only once every three months. This regimen is especially useful for women who suffer from endometriosis, heavy periods or severe PMS or menstrual cramps. Clinical trials have highlighted breakthrough bleed as an adverse effect of these extended formulations. However, many women favor the decreased number of bleeding days experienced with these newer regimens. Furthermore, there is evidence of greater ovarian suppression with potential for lower failure rates with these regimens. Non-contraceptive Benefits of Combined Oral Contraceptives Today there is a range of non-oral, non-daily hormonal contraceptive available, and the face of contraceptive management has changed. However, oral contraceptives have been widely used for decades, and they represent the most extensively studied drug on the market. Research regarding oral contraceptives focused on possible health risks. Many of the concerns of these health risks have been allayed. There is a large body of evidence demonstrating non-contraceptive health benefits of oral contraception. Table 3 is a list of potential non-contraceptive benefits. Specific clinical situations are described below. Table 3 Advantages of oral contraceptives 20 · Reduction of ovarian and endometrial cancer risk · Decreased benign breast disease · Reversibility
