Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


Oral contraceptive users and non-users older than 50 years have the same cumulative risk of diagnosis of breast cancer. Oral contraceptive use may accelerate the diagnosis of breast cancer but does not affect the overall risk. 115 The second study involved over 8000 women, half of which had the diagnosis of breast cancer.[cxvi] Overall, 77% of cases and 79% of controls had ever used OCs. Ever users and current users of OCs were found not to have an increased risk of breast cancer compared to women who had never used OCs (OR 0.9, 95%CI 0.8-1.0 and 1.0, 95% CI, 0.8-1.0, respectively). The relative risk did not increase with increasing duration of OC use or higher estrogen doses. In addition, family history of breast cancer did not significantly impact risk. In a third study,[cxvii] the authors showed an increased annual risk of breast cancer diagnosis of one per 7,690 women per year using hormonal contraception. Important limitations exist in this recent paper. The research was conducted via multiple Danish registries, which are methods of data collection, but not a study design. Thus, these studies do not fall directly into standard epidemiologic classifications, and are subject to the biases of retrospective cohort studies. More specifically, the method of detection of the study outcome (breast cancer diagnosis) was not specified, nor was the stage of the diagnosis, nor whether or not the mortality due to breast cancer differed among women who had and had not used hormonal contraception. The clinical significance and health outcomes of higher breast cancer detection rates in the hormonal contraceptive users could not be determined. Finally and most importantly, the reference group, women who chose never to use hormonal contraception, may also make other behavioral, health and lifestyle decisions, including having additional clinical examinations, that affect their risk of cancer. This small absolute risk is unlikely to have clinical significance for women prioritizing pregnancy prevention, especially considering that previously published research[cxviii] shows that users of oral contraceptives are protected from other cancers including colorectal, endometrial, and ovarian cancer. Oral Contraceptive Use and Liver Cancer Non-case control studies of reproductive age women in western developed nations have reported an association between oral contraceptive and liver cancer. Recent population-based data, however, do not suggest any association between liver cancer and OC use among women in five developed nations. In addition, reassuring data from two studies in developing countries, including a large
