Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


do not suggest any association between liver cancer and OC use among women in five developed nations. In addition, reassuring data from two studies in developing countries, including a large WHO study, do not support an increased risk of liver cancer with oral contraceptive use.[cxix] Oral Contraceptive Use and Gallbladder Disease Studies suggested in the 1970's that oral contraceptives were associated with an increased risk of gall bladder disease. Since then, numerous case-control and cohort studies have described an increased risk of benign gallbladder disease in oral contraceptive users. A meta-analysis of these studies published in 1990, however, found that few of these studies could stand up to internal validity measures. The relationship between benign gallbladder disease and oral contraceptives yields a relative risk of 1.1 with a 95% CI 1.1 - 1.2. 81 Second Versus Third Generation Oral Contraceptives and Deep Vein Thrombosis. There is no strong biological evidence that specific progestins have differential effects on VTE risk. While clotting factors may be altered differentially by specific progestins such data are not clinically relevant because we do not have a proven surrogate marker for VTE risk.[cxx] In the mid 1990's pharmaco-epidemiological studies reported that women using "third generation" oral contraceptives had a higher risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) compared to women using "second generation" OCs.[cxxi] , [cxxii] , [cxxiii] Studies performed after the initial observation demonstrate a weak association between oral contraceptive use and VTE (strength of association ranges from 0.7 to 2.3). Paradoxically, larger doses of estrogen are associated with lower risks for VTE in these studies. This finding has questioned the biological plausibility of the hypothesis of associating 'new progestins’ to an increased risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT). It was suggested that the original studies included newer users of oral contraceptives that may have been innately at higher risk for DVT (new-user bias), thus biasing the results. 8, [cxxiv] After reanalysis of the data, the FDA issued a statement stating that the risk of DVT with the 'new progestins "is not great enough to justify switching to other products". The association of second versus third generation progestin and the risk of VTE was further analyzed in 2 separate meta-analyses. Twelve observational studies were included in one meta-analysis of the relative risk of VTE for OCs containing either desogestrel and gestodene or levonorgestrel.[cxxv] The relative risk of VTE in users of OCs with desogestrel and gestodene v
