Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


meta-analysis of the relative risk of VTE for OCs containing either desogestrel and gestodene or levonorgestrel.[cxxv] The relative risk of VTE in users of OCs with desogestrel and gestodene v levonorgestrel was 1.7 (95% CI, 1.3-2.1), an increase of approximately 11 more cases of VTE per 100,000 women per year. When accounting for duration of use and new use (less than 1 year), this increased risk persisted. However, differences in BMI and other comorbidities that may act as confounders were not accounted for in these studies. The results in another meta-analysis of seven cohort and case-control studies similarly show the biases in these studies. The overall adjusted odds ratio for third versus second generation oral contraceptives was 1.7 (95% CI, 1.4-2.0).[cxxvi] Among first-time users (<1 year of use), the odds ratio for third versus second generation preparations was 3.1 (95% CI, 2.0-4.6), which decreased to 2.0 (95% CI, 1.4-2.7) in longer term users (1 year of use). In this paper, the new-user effect is clearly demonstrated. Lidegaard et al retrospectively assessed the influence of OCs on the risk of VTE in women aged 15-44 years.[cxxvii] After adjusting for age, BMI, length of OC use, and family history of coagulopathies, the odds of VTE among current second generation OC users compared to non-users was 2.9 (95% CI, 2.2-3.8) while the odds of current third generation OC users compared to nonusers was 4.0 (95% CI, 3.2-4.9). After correcting for duration of use and differences in estrogen dose, the third/second generation risk ratio was 1.3 (95% CI, 1.0-1.8; p<0.05). If there is any increased risk of VTE with third generation OCPs, this is likely to be marginal, with small absolute risks. The majority of the risk is conferred by the estrogen, which should be factored into contraceptive decision-making. Despite the heated debate and the revealed flaws with such study designs, a similar argument is now in the literature with regard to drospirenone-containing OCPs. Several studies have investigated the risk of VTE associated with OCPs containing drosperinone vs other progestins. The EURAS study, initiated in 2001 and including more than 120,000 COC users in Europe, found comparable risk of DVT among the 3 categories of progestins.[cxxviii] This study was not only large, but also of prospective study design and the primary objective was to assess safety across COC user groups. Two other studies have shown an increased risk of VTE in drosperinone users.[cxxix] ,
