Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


of prospective study design and the primary objective was to assess safety across COC user groups. Two other studies have shown an increased risk of VTE in drosperinone users.[cxxix] , [cxxx] These studies are limited by flawed methodologies in a similar fashion to the studies that caused controversies around the 3 rd generation progestins. In one study[cxxxi] only 1.2% of COC users used drosperinone-containing OCPs, which results in unstable estimates. In the other retrospective cohort study the relative risk for drosperinone-using women was elevated, but these one-year estimates are unreliable because of left censoring (women had varying risk-levels at entry to the study). The estimates of risk after the first year are in line with the EURAS study. COC concerns for women with other risk factors : Factor V Leiden mutation may independently increase the risk of DVT. The Factor V mutation occurs in 3-5% of Caucasians and is responsible for the majority of cases of venous thrombosis in which a mechanism is identifiable. A recent study suggested that the combination of third generation oral contraceptives and the Factor V Leiden mutation may increase the risk of DVT 30-50-fold. 130 This study has been criticized for its lack of validation and methodology. Other inherited thrombophilias, such as the prothrombin G20210A defect, and Protein S or Protein C deficiency, have been associated with an increased risk of VTE. Multiple studies have shown that this risk increases in the setting of OC use. A recent retrospective cohort study of patients with a documented VTE showed that compared to non-users, OC use increases the risk of thrombosis in carriers of antithrombin, protein C and protein S defects six fold. 131 Interestingly, risk of VTE in carriers of Factor V Leiden was not significantly increased. Another investigator retrospectively analyzed OC exposure and incidence of VTE in thirteen female patients with the prothrombin G20210A defect (12 of which were heterozygote for the defect).[cxxxii] All thirteen women took OCs for an average of 10 years without any thrombotic complication. Interestingly, the homozygote took OCs with a 'third generation' progestin for 6 years without a thrombotic event. Another investigator noted that of those patients who develop VTE soon after initiating OCs (<6 months), most are thrombophilic.[cxxxiii] Among women with protein C or protein S deficiency, antithrombin deficiency, Factor V Leiden or prothrombin 20210A mutations, the risk of developing a DVT during the first year of OC use
