Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


between high dose oral contraceptive pills and ischemic stroke has historically been determined with a strength of association ranging from 2.9 to 5.3. 113 However, as dose of estrogen decreased, the odds ratio and relative risks in further studies all decreased as well. A summary of the data by the WHO 123,124 concludes that there is no significant increased risk of ischemic stroke in women younger than 45 years old who use oral contraceptives. Overall, the strength of association between the use of lower dose oral contraceptives and stroke is weak, with odds ratios ranging from 1.1 to 1.8, with most 95% confidence intervals including 1.0. 113 There is no consistent strong evidence linking oral contraceptive use to hemorrhagic stroke. Women of any age who have migraines with aura should not take combination oral contraceptive pills.[cxxxvii] Since smoking, hypertension, and migraine headaches all are independent risk factors for stroke, it must be concluded that women with other independent risk factors may have a slightly increased risk of stroke while taking the oral contraceptive pill. There is ample evidence, however, to suggest that there is no significant increase in ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke in OC-using women with no other risk factors. Because the baseline risk of stroke is rare in reproductive aged women, the attributable risk of oral contraceptives is quite small. In summary, evidence shows that current low dose oral contraceptives are safe with regard to vascular disease for a great majority of healthy non-smoking women who seek an effective contraceptive method. NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN COMBINED ORAL CONTRACEPTIVE PILLS The number of combined oral contraceptive pill preparations on the market has increased in recent years. There are new formulations of pills with a dosage of estrogen as low as 20 micrograms. Some physicians use the 'Quick Start' approach to pill initiation: this allows for immediate ingestion of the first dose of the pill in the office after a negative pregnancy test regardless of menstrual cycle day. A clinical trial has shown that is approach is safe, and results in higher ultimate rate of pill use than the conventional approach that initiates pill use after the onset of menses.[cxxxviii] In general, the efficacy, side effects and cycle control of these new preparations are similar to those with 35 micrograms of estrogen. The "lower" dose pills offer the theoretical advantage of less estrogen and therefore fewer estrogen side effects and medical complications.
