Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


preparations are similar to those with 35 micrograms of estrogen. The "lower" dose pills offer the theoretical advantage of less estrogen and therefore fewer estrogen side effects and medical complications. It remains to be determined if the new "lower" dose pills confer the same non-contraceptive benefits of the "higher" dose pills. A recent Cochrane review found that there is no difference in contraceptive effectiveness for lower dose pills. Compared to the higher-estrogen pills, several COCs containing 20 μg EE resulted in higher rates of early clinical trial discontinuation (overall and due to adverse events such as irregular bleeding) as well as increased risk of bleeding disturbances (both amenorrhea or infrequent bleeding and irregular, prolonged, frequent bleeding, or breakthrough bleeding or spotting). So, while COCs containing 20 μg EE may be theoretically safer, this has not been proven and low-dose estrogen COCs have in higher rates of bleeding pattern disruptions.[cxxxix] An oral contraceptive containing 30mcg ethinyl estradiol and 3mg drospirenone works in a manner similar to other oral contraceptives, effectively inhibiting ovulation and producing cervical mucus that is hostile to sperm motility. Unlike other progestins used in oral contraceptives, drospirenone is an analogue to spironolactone and has biochemical and pharmacologic profiles similar to endogenous progesterone.[cxl] Drospirenone has both anti-mineralocorticoid and anti-androgenic activity. Its anti-androgenic activity may leads to suppression of undesired symptoms such as acne and hirsutism. Its anti-mineralocorticoid activity balances the aldosterone-stimulating effects of estrogen, thereby potentially reducing water-retention and weight gain. Another preparation offers a hormone-free, placebo length of only 2 days. Twenty-one days of 20mcg ethinyl estradiol and 150mcg of desogestrel is followed by 2 days of placebo and 5 days of 10mcg ethinyl estradiol. Within 18 months of use, absence of withdrawal bleeding and intermenstrual bleeding have been reported to occur in 5.5% and 12% of total cycles, respectively.[cxli] Nearly three-quarters of participants in a large, open-label study reported one or more side effects, including headache, breast pain, dysmenorrhea, and menstrual irregularities. Psychological/behavioral effects of hormonal contraception: Data from randomized controlled trials fail to support the assertion that combined oral contraceptives cause adverse psychological symptoms. One randomized double-blind study of 462 women looked at the percentage of traditionally “hormone-related” side effects in a 6-month comparison of COC versus placebo pill users. Symptoms of emotional lability and physical symptoms of headache, nausea, breast pain, abdominal bloating, back pain, weight gain, and decreased libido were studied, and there were
