Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


versus placebo pill users. Symptoms of emotional lability and physical symptoms of headache, nausea, breast pain, abdominal bloating, back pain, weight gain, and decreased libido were studied, and there were no differences in the incidence of these symptoms between the COC and placebo groups.[cxlii] In a 2002 review of prospective, controlled studies of the effect of COCs on mood, four studies found no significant group differences in negative affect across the entire menstrual cycle, one study found that COC users reported less negative affect across the cycle, one study found higher negative affect throughout the cycle of a monophasic but not a triphasic COC, and two studies found that COC users experienced higher positive affect.[cxliii] Common to all the studies of the psychological effects of COCs was a beneficial outcome: there was less variability in negative affect, and less negative affect during menstruation in patients taking COCs. Many studies have focused on the role of the progestin as a contributor to dysphoric mood. Two studies have shown worsening of mood with a higher progestin to estrogen ratio.[cxliv] , [cxlv] Thus, switching to a formulation with a lower progestin to estrogen ratio may improve mood in women who have negative mood symptoms with COCs. However, evidence regarding mood disturbances with COCs is sparse. ALTERNATIVE METHODS Effective, safe contraception is achieved with combination estrogen and progestin delivery via a contraceptive skin patch or a vaginal ring. The general mechanism of action of these methods is similar to that of combined oral contraceptives. These methods offer the advantage of non-daily administration, relative ease of administration, potential greater compliance and thus potential greater efficacy. Transdermal Patch The once-weekly contraceptive patch delivers 150mcg of norelgestromin, the active metabolite of norgestimate, and 20mcg of ethinyl estradiol daily to the systemic circulation.[cxlvi] Ten percent of American women have used or currently used the patch.[cxlvii] Typical use includes placement of the patch on the same day of each week for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a patch-free week. Serum levels of the estrogen and progestin components are maintained for 2 days beyond the recommended 7 days of wear. Therefore, patients do not have to change the patch at the exact same time each week. The patch is composed of 3 layers: an outer protective layer of polyester, a medicated, adhesive middle layer, and a clear, polyester liner that is removed before patch application. Patients can maintain normal activity,
