Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


of 3 layers: an outer protective layer of polyester, a medicated, adhesive middle layer, and a clear, polyester liner that is removed before patch application. Patients can maintain normal activity, including bathing, swimming and heavy exercise while using the patch. It is recommended that wearers avoid use of oils, creams or cosmetics that may interfere with adhesion of the patch. Compared to OCs with 250mcg norgestimate and 35mcg ethinyl estradiol, the patch suppresses ovulation to a similar degree[cxlviii]. It is as effective as oral levonorgestrel/ethinyl estradiol in altering cervical mucus and in providing cycle control. The overall and method-failure probabilities of the transdermal patch (through 13 cycles) are 0.7% and 0.4%, respectively. 146 Perfect compliance (21 days of consecutive dosing followed by 7 days of no medication) was achieved in 90% of patients in the above study. However, efficacy trials of the patch have shown that participants less than 20 years age were less likely to use the patch correctly as compared with the pill.[cxlix] The noncontraceptive effects of transdermal administration have not yet been studied, but are expected to be similar to the combined oral contraceptive pill. A recent clinical trial did not demonstrate the same improved continuation rates with the "quick start" method in patch users as was seen in oral contraceptive users.[cl] Vaginal Ring For numerous decades, the vagina has been identified as a potential organ for drug absorption.[cli] , [clii] The anatomy of the vagina allows for the easy placement of a ring to achieve this purpose. A combination estrogen/progestin vaginal ring was approved for use in 2001 and was used by 6% of US women of reproductive age by 2006-2010. 147 It is a flexible transparent circular tube, 54 mm (2 inches) in diameter and 4 mm (1/4 inch) thick. The ring is made of ethylene vinyl acetate polymer and contains a hormone reservoir that releases 0.120 μg of etonogestrel and 0.015 μg of ethinyl estradiol each day over a three-week period.[cliii] Hormone content in the ring is sufficient to provide a "grace period" of at least 14 additional days,[cliv] so woman can leave it in place for a full month and then immediately replace it to avoid menstruation, if they so desire. Etonogestrel, also called 3-ketodesogestrel, is also a synthethormone. It is the active metabolite of desogestrel, the progestin component of commonly used oral contraceptives. The mechanism of action of a vaginal ring is
