Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


called 3-ketodesogestrel, is also a synthethormone. It is the active metabolite of desogestrel, the progestin component of commonly used oral contraceptives. The mechanism of action of a vaginal ring is similar to other hormonal contraceptives. Initiating ring use during the first five days of a normal cycle ensures that ovulation in that cycle is suppressed. Similarly, allowing no more than seven ring-free days each month, and making sure that the ring is in place continuously, with no more than three hours out in one day are also important for efficacy. 153 Overall pregnancy rates are reported to be 0.65 per 100 woman-years (all first-year users). 103 This level of effectiveness is similar to that found for women using combined oral contraceptives. Adherence to rules for ring use was very high, with consistent and correct use reported in 90.8% of all cycles. Women using the ring also reported good cycle control, with expected withdrawal bleeding in 98% of cycles, and bleeding at other times in only 6.4% of cycles. 155 The ring can be placed in any position in the vagina that is comfortable. A total of 8% of women note the sensation of the ring in the vagina. If the ring is removed for intercourse it can be cleaned with water and must be replaced within three hours. Risks and adverse reactions possible with use of combined hormonal oral contraceptives also are likely to apply to the vaginal contraceptive ring. The ring does not prevent against sexually transmitted disease. Some women using the ring experienced side effects related to the device itself including vaginal discomfort or problems during intercourse, vaginal discharge, or vaginitis. These device-related problems were reported by 2-5% of women.[clv] Overall acceptability and tolerability of the ring were very high in the clinical trials performed to date. EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTION Emergency contraception prevents pregnancy after unprotected sexual intercourse. Emergency contraception (EC) does not protect against sexually transmitted infections. The emergency contraceptive formulations available in the United States include the CuT380A IUD,[clvi] , [clvii] , [clviii] ulipristal acetate (UPA) selective progesterone receptor modulator, and 150 mcg of levonorgestrel (Plan B and Plan B One-Step). Combined oral contraceptive tablets can also be used by following the “Yuzpe regimen,” which can be found on the internet for various pill formulations. The Copper “T” IUD can be inserted up to 7 days after unprotected intercourse and is ideal for women who desire long-term
