Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


found on the internet for various pill formulations. The Copper “T” IUD can be inserted up to 7 days after unprotected intercourse and is ideal for women who desire long-term contraception going forward.[clix] It is 99% effective for emergency contraception. The current treatment schedule for emergency contraceptive pills (ECPs) is one dose within 120 hours of unprotected intercourse. 158 Ulipristal acetate is more effective than levonorgestrel for emergency contraception, especially in obese women. Estimates of effectiveness range from 62-85%.[clx] Effectiveness is sustained throughout the 120 hours after unprotected intercourse. Combined and progestin-only ECPs reduce the risk of pregnancy by about 75-88%.[clxi] Effectiveness declines with increasing delay between unprotected intercourse and initiation of treatment.[clxii] Mechanism of action: Oral emergency contraception likely inhibits or delays ovulation.[clxiii] Some investigators have shown histological alterations in the endometrium suggesting impairment of endometrial receptivity to implantation[clxiv] while others have found no such effects.[clxv] , [clxvi] Other possible mechanisms include interference with corpus luteum function, thickening of cervical mucus, and alterations in tubal transport of sperm, egg, or embryo.[clxvii] Emergency contraceptives do not interrupt an already established pregnancy. The Copper “T” IUD does not have an established mechanism of action as an emergency contraceptive but likely creates a hostile environment for sperm as well as for the egg and possibly an embryo. Progestin-only emergency contraceptives are more effective and associated with significantly less nausea and vomiting than combined emergency contraceptive pills.[clxviii] The only absolute contraindication to the use of emergency contraceptive pills is a confirmed pregnancy. The absence of contraindications is likely due to the very short duration of exposure and low total hormone content. There are no conclusive studies of women who were already pregnant when they took emergency contraceptive pills or of women pregnant after failed emergency contraception. However, there is no epidemiologic evidence that progestins are teratogenic and observational studies provide reassurance regarding birth defects.[clxix] The FDA has granted approval for the over the counter use of progestin-only EC for prevention of pregnancy. There are no longer any restrictions on age or gender for purchasing progestin-only EC. Evidence has been reported that making ECPs widely available does not increase risk-taking behavior or increase the incidence of unintended pregnancy.[clxx] Additionally, it has been demonstrated that women most likely to seek emergency contraception are those already concerned about or using contraception.[clxxi] , [clxxii] Copper IUDs can be inserted up to five to seven days after ovulation
