Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


women most likely to seek emergency contraception are those already concerned about or using contraception.[clxxi] , [clxxii] Copper IUDs can be inserted up to five to seven days after ovulation to prevent pregnancy. Insertion of a Copper IUD is significantly more effective than the use of hormonal emergency contraception. The use of a Copper IUD can reduce the risk of unintended pregnancy by more than 99%.[clxxiii] Furthermore, 86% of parous and 80% of nulliparous women retain the IUD after insertion for emergency contraception. 162 BARRIER METHODS Multiple forms of barrier methods are currently used: male and female condoms, the diaphragm, the contraceptive sponge, and cervical cap. Vaginal barriers are easy to use and are non-invasive. They can be used with little advance planning. Consistent and correct uses are absolutely essential for barrier effectiveness; most failures occur due to improper or inconsistent use. The 'typical use' pregnancy rate for these methods can be as high as 20-30%. The male condom has a 'typical use' failure rate of 14%. Recent studies have shown that teens were most likely to use condoms for birth control and 66% used a condom when they became sexually active. 173 Mechanism of action: Both the male and female condoms provide a physical barrier that prevents sperm and egg interaction. They are intended for one time use only. Condoms also provide some protection against HIV and STI. Diaphragms and cervical caps use two different mechanisms, a physical barrier as well as a spermicidal chemical. They are available by prescription only, and must be sized by a health professional for a proper fit. They are always used with spermicidal agents. Diaphragm provides protection for 6 hours and cervical cap for 48 hours after insertion. The contraceptive sponge is a disc shaped polyurethane device and contains a 1,000 mg of nonoxynol-9. It does not require prescription, and provides protection for up to 24 hours after insertion. The typical use pregnancy rate for this method is 10-40%. Vaginal barriers have many advantages: protection against sexually transmitted infections, immediate protection without much prior planning, easy access, and no systemic side effects. Disadvantages include: discomfort with placement and use, possible latex allergy (for condoms and the orthoflex diaphragm), increased incidence of urinary tract infections and bacterial vaginosis; and associations have been reported with toxic shock syndrome. In addition, a health care provider may be required to do the initial fitting for diaphragms, necessitating
