Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


formulations include gels, creams, suppositories, film and male condoms. Pregnancy rates among typical users range from 5% to 30% in the first year of use. 19 Methodology in determining these rates has not been consistent leading to skepticism of much of the data. Like the barrier methods, the effectiveness of spermicides is dependent on their consistent and correct use. Its advantages are similar to barrier methods of contraception. Microbicides Efforts to combine effective contraception and protection against HIV and STI transmission are of the utmost priority because the incidence of transmission of HIV and STIs is greatest in women of reproductive age.[clxxv] Any substance that can reduce the transmission of HIV and STI when applied to the vagina is considered a microbicide. A randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial studied tenofovir vaginal gel in 889 women in South Africa. The antiretroviral tenofovir gel is applied to the vagina sometime within 12 hours prior to sex and then again within 12 hours after sex. This study showed that it cut HIV transmission by approximately 39%. Even more encouraging were those women who were “high adherers” meaning they reported and demonstrated using the gel with >80% of each act of vaginal intercourse. This subcategory of women showed a 54% decrease in HIV infection compared to placebo. In summary HIV incidence in the tenofovir arm was 5.6 per 100 women years vs. 9.1 per 100 women-years in the placebo arm.[clxxvi] While this is promising, real world adherence is low, thus promoting the search for alternative delivery mechanisms, such as vaginal rings.[clxxvii] As many as 60 potential compounds are currently under development. These formulations will probably be used as an adjunct to condoms, but may be used as primary protection for those who are unable or unwilling to use condoms consistently. These microbicides will work by either killing or immobilizing pathogens possibly by forming a barrier between pathogen and vaginal tissues, preventing the infection from entering target cells, preventing a pathogen from replicating once it has entered cells, by boosting the vagina's or rectum's own defense system or by acting like invisible condoms. The most desirable qualities of a new formula microbicide would be that it is applicable hours before sexual intercourse, it is not messy or "leaky," and spreads rapidly and evenly over the vagina and cervix. 148 Some compounds may increase the host natural defenses against certain sexually transmitted pathogens by maintaining the
