Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


messy or "leaky," and spreads rapidly and evenly over the vagina and cervix. 148 Some compounds may increase the host natural defenses against certain sexually transmitted pathogens by maintaining the normal acidic pH of the vagina in the presence of semen. They contain lactobacillus which naturally resides in the human vagina and produces hydrogen peroxide to kill HIV and STDs. Examples are: Lactobacillus suppositories, Buffer gel, and Acid gel (ACIDFORM). Invisible Condoms: Thermoreversible Gel - Prevents infection by forming a protective barrier after being inserted into the vagina or rectum. It is a liquid at room temperature and quickly turns into an impermeable gel inside the rectal/vaginal canal. NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING METHODS: Abstinence: Couples who avoid sexual intercourse are practicing abstinence. Effectiveness for preventing pregnancy is 100%, but HIV and STIs may spread through the oral or rectal mucus membrane. Coitus Interruptus: Also known as the withdrawal method, coitus interruptus entails withdrawal of the penis from the vagina (and external genitalia) immediately prior to ejaculation. Effectiveness depends largely on the man's ability to withdraw prior to ejaculation. Its actual efficacy is difficult to measure but the probability of pregnancy among perfect users is estimated to be approximately 4% in the initial year of use.[clxxviii] Fertility Awareness: Symptothermic method - Natural family planning methods use the signs, symptoms, and timing of a normal menstrual cycle to avoid intercourse during fertile intervals. These methods are effective because of periodic abstinence during the fertile period of a woman's menstrual cycle. The fertile period of a woman's menstrual cycle can be determined by using cycle beads, a calendar, measuring basal body temperature and monitoring cervical secretions. 178 Calendar Method: Estimating the fertile period during each menstrual cycle is based on 3 assumptions: (1) ovulation occurs on day 14 (±2 days) before the onset of the next menstrual flow, (2) the ovum survives for approximately 24 hours, and (3) sperm remain viable up to 5 days. Past cycle lengths give an estimate of fertile days within a given cycle. Avoidance of pregnancy is achieved by abstinence beginning about 5 days before and ending nearly 5 days after ovulation. Basal Body Temperature: Most ovulatory cycles demonstrate a biphasic temperature pattern with lower temperatures in the first half of the cycle and higher temperatures beginning at the time of ovulation and continuing for the remainder of the cycle. Because this method does not adequately predict ovulation in
