Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


half of the cycle and higher temperatures beginning at the time of ovulation and continuing for the remainder of the cycle. Because this method does not adequately predict ovulation in advance, couples are instructed to abstain from intercourse or use a barrier method of contraception for the first half of the menstrual cycle until at least 2 days after a rise in temperature signifying ovulation. Cervical Secretions: Changes in the character of cervical mucus can signify the fertile period of a woman's menstrual cycle. Cervical mucus that is abundant, clear or white, stretchy, and slippery represents the fertile period. Ovulation most likely occurs within 1 day of the appearance of cervical mucus that is abundant, stretchy and slippery. After ovulation, cervical secretions appear thick, cloudy and sticky. Couples are counseled to avoid intercourse when cervical secretions are first noted until 4 days after the peak of clear and slippery cervical mucus. Couples can also use a combination of natural family planning methods (i.e., basal body temperature measurements and cervical secretion monitoring) to further avoid an undesired pregnancy. In addition, recent advances in home hormonal detection kits allow for detection of ovulation and better timing of abstinence for avoidance of pregnancy. Lactation Amenorrhea Method (LAM) - Breastfeeding: Breastfeeding provides more than 98% protection from pregnancy in the first 6 months after birth.[clxxix] This method of contraception requires complete or nearly complete infant dependence on breast milk so that frequent suckling (at least 6-10 times per day) prevents ovulation. High frequency of feeds, long duration of each feed, night feeds, and short intervals between breastfeeds delay the return of ovulation.[clxxx] , [clxxxi] Infant suckling disrupts the pulsatile release of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) by the hypothalamus resulting in abnormal pulsatility of LH and subsequent anovulation.[clxxxii] Ovulation however can occur even in the absence of menstruation. The probability of ovulation occurring before menstruation increases with time after delivery; the probability that women will ovulate before the resumption of menses increases from 33-45% during the first 3 months after delivery to 87-100% more than 12 months from delivery.[clxxxiii] To maintain effective contraception, another method should be used as soon as menstruation resumes, the frequency or duration of breastfeeding is reduced, food (or bottle) supplements are introduced, or the duration since delivery is 6 months. This method provides no protection against sexually transmitted diseases, but may help reduce post partum bleeding. FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The near
