Contraception
KEYWORDS: use, women, contraceptive, oral, risk, contraception, contraceptives, study, cancer, oral contraceptives, studies, oral contraceptive, methods, users, bleeding


are introduced, or the duration since delivery is 6 months. This method provides no protection against sexually transmitted diseases, but may help reduce post partum bleeding. FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The near future will bring improved modifications of current methods including barrier methods, hormonal methods and intrauterine devices. Combined oral contraceptive pills using estetrol for the estrogen component are being developed in Europe. Phase II studies using a combination of estetrol and drospirinone in a 24/4 pill show a favorable bleeding profile and have high user satisfaction.[clxxxiv] , [clxxxv] The next generation of contraceptives will likely be focused on new mechanisms of action. Targets include all aspects of the female and male reproductive system from gamete development to gamete delivery, fertilization and implantation. The goal of these new methods will be the interruption of key components of the system allowing safe, effective contraception with a minimum of side effects. The challenge facing the development of these new methods is allowing modification or interruption of the reproductive system with a minimum of effect on other body systems. Specifically, an optimal method would provide reversible interruption of reproductive capacity of the male and/or female without affecting the endocrine system. This is particularly important in the male as secondary sexually characteristics, and even behavior, are closely linked to any change in the hormonal milieu. Other challenges include the development of simple and cost effective methods. The next breakthrough in contraceptives will be the identification of a key molecular aspect of reproduction. If a specific receptor can be identified, an antagonist can be developed. If a critical enzyme is identified, an inhibitor can be synthesized. Areas of interest will be in disruption of ovulation with anti-progestins or blocking the action of matrix metaloproteinases needed for the physical breakdown of the follicle. Folliculogenesis may be blocked by specific FSH antagonists, or interruption of folliculogenesis at the local level by growth differentiation factor-9. Other possible targets include blocking resumption of meiosis in the oocyte, or blocking egg activation (which is necessary before an egg is capable of fertilization and to prevent polyspermic fertilization). Finally the specific steps necessary for implantation may be identified and selectively disrupted – and research on molecules involved in implantation and angiogenesis is currently being done in mouse models. Male hormonal contraception: male hormonal contraception may come to light in the distant future. In particular, the identification of genes in various aspects of testicular
