Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


IDSA GUIDELINES 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America on Histoplasmosis: Treatment of Mild or Moderate Acute Pulmonary Histoplasmosis in Adults, Children, and Pregnant People Peter Pappas,1,aRobert J. Lentz,2,a, Kayla R. Stover,3, Nathan P. Wiederhold,4, Monica I. Ardura,5,6, John W. Baddley,7Nevert Badreldin,8 Nathan C. Bahr,9,10, Karen Bloch,11Carol A. Kauffman,12Rachel A. Miller,13Satish Mocherla,14Michael Saccente,15Ilan Schwartz,13, Joshua Wolf,16, Jennifer Loveless,17,bAndrej Spec,18,b, and Sandra R. Arnold19,20,b developed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. In this article, the panel provides recommendations for treatment of mild and moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis. The panel’s recommendations are based upon evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Keywords. histoplasmosis; itraconazole; treatment; antifungals; guideline. In patients presenting with mild or moderate acute pulmo- enlarging hilar or mediastinal adenopathy. In a large out- nary histoplasmosis, should antifungal treatment be given break study, >75% of persons affected were ill for 1 week for resolution of symptoms? or less, and all recovered completely within 2 months without Recommendation: In immunocompetent adults and children treatment . presenting with mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis, the panel suggests against routinely providing antifungal treatment (condi- Recommendation: In immunocompetent adults and chil- tional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). dren presenting with moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmo- Remarks: sis, the panel suggests either antifungal treatment or no • Treatment may be considered in immunocompetent patients antifungal treatment, considering the severity and duration of with mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis and prolonged signs/symptoms, as well as potential harms of antifungal treat- duration of illness, progression of pulmonary infiltrates, or ment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Remarks: Received 20 March 2025; editorial decision 22 March 2025; published online 10 July 2025 • Moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis includes a hetero- aP. P. and R. J. L. contributed equally to this work. geneous group of patients. Prolonged duration of illness, bJ. L., A. S., and S. R. A. contributed equally to this work. worsening symptoms, progression of pulmonary infiltrates, Memphis, TN 38105, USA (). enlarging hilar or mediastinal adenopathy, and more severe Clinical Infectious Diseases® 2025;81(9):i39–45 signs or symptoms favor treatment. © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases • Consider drug-drug interactions and other potential harms for reprints and translation rights for
