Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


favor treatment. © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases • Consider drug-drug interactions and other potential harms for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our versus benefits of antifungal treatment when deciding wheth- RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information er to treat. Potential financial burden should be discussed please contact . with the patient as well. 2025 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline Update on the Treatment of Mild or Moderate Histoplasmosis • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i39 Downloaded from by guest on May • The goals of treatment are to decrease the duration of illness • When treatment is indicated, itraconazole is preferred . and mitigate risk of dissemination, though treatment effec- • Initial dosing for original itraconazole capsules or oral solu- tiveness in this patient population is unknown. tion: (adults: 200 mg three times daily for 3 days and then • When treatment is indicated, itraconazole is preferred . 200 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks; children: 5 mg/kg/dose • Initial dosing for original itraconazole capsules or oral solu- [up to a max of 200 mg/dose] three times daily for 3 days tion: (adults: 200 mg three times daily for 3 days and then and then 5 mg/kg/dose twice daily [not to exceed 400 mg dai- 200 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks; children: 5 mg/kg/dose ly] for 6–12 weeks). SUBA itraconazole (only available as cap- [up to a max of 200 mg/dose] three times daily for 3 days sules and currently approved for use in adults): 130 mg three and then 5 mg/kg/dose twice daily [not to exceed 400 mg dai- times daily for 3 days, then 130 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks. ly] for 6–12 weeks). Super-Bioavailable (SUBA) itraconazole In consultation with a pharmacist, similar dosing for SUBA (only available as capsules and currently approved for use in itraconazole based on the child´s weight may be considered adults): 130 mg three times daily for 3 days, then 130 mg in children old enough to swallow capsules (as off-label use). twice daily for 6–12 weeks. In consultation with a pharma- For additional information on the various itraconazole formu- cist, similar dosing for SUBA itraconazole based on the lations, see the Implementation Considerations section. child’s weight may be considered in children
