Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


For additional information on the various itraconazole formu- cist, similar dosing for SUBA itraconazole based on the lations, see the Implementation Considerations section. child’s weight may be considered in children old enough to • Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) should be performed swallow capsules (as off-label use). For additional informa- for patients receiving itraconazole [3–6]. In recent studies, ap- tion on the various itraconazole formulations, see the proximately 20% of patients required dose adjustments due to Implementation Considerations section. sub- or super-therapeutic levels of itraconazole, and approx- • Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) should be performed for imately 28% of patients experienced side effects . A goal patients receiving itraconazole [3–6]. In recent studies, ap- trough concentration of itraconazole component >1 mg/L proximately 20% of patients required dose adjustments due and <3–4 mg/L (as measured by chromatographic assay) is to sub- or super-therapeutic levels of itraconazole, and ap- associated with efficacy and a lower risk of toxicity [3–7, proximately 28% of patients experienced side effects . 9–11]. Due to the long half-life of itraconazole, non-trough/ A goal trough concentration of itraconazole component random levels of itraconazole can also be used to monitor >1 mg/L and <3–4 mg/L (as measured by chromatographic serum concentrations. Hydroxy-itraconazole is an active assay) is associated with efficacy and a lower risk of toxicity metabolite; however, a cutoff for combined hydroxy- [3–7, 9–11]. Due to the long half-life of itraconazole, non- itraconazole and itraconazole levels has not been established trough/random levels of itraconazole can also be used to mon- . Patients with a combined hydroxy-itraconazole itor serum concentrations. Hydroxy-itraconazole is an active and itraconazole level >2 mg/L may respond similarly to pa- metabolite; however, a cutoff for combined hydroxy- tients with itraconazole levels >1 mg/L . itraconazole and itraconazole levels has not been established • Treatment of pregnant individuals should only be considered . Patients with a combined hydroxy-itraconazole after carefully weighing the potential benefits versus harms of and itraconazole level >2 mg/L may respond similarly to pa- treatment, ideally in consultation with a maternal fetal med- • Treatment of pregnant individuals should only be considered cases are rare, complex, and highly variable. If treatment is after carefully weighing the potential benefits versus harms of necessary, azoles should be avoided in the first trimester treatment, ideally in consultation with a maternal fetal med- when possible and liposomal amphotericin B used instead. necessary, azoles should be avoided in the
