Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, defects) X-linked hyper IgM syndrome, autosomal recessive HIES) Advanced or untreated HIV/AIDS (CD4 <200 cells/ HIV (CD4 200–300 cells/mm3) [16–26] HIV (CD4 ≥300 cells/mm3); VL undetectable mm3)b Hematopoietic stem cell transplant within 100 d or Hematopoietic stem cell transplant >100 d prior and receiving immunosuppressive therapy for graft no evidence of graft versus host disease versus host disease Hematologic malignancy CAR T-cell therapy within 90 d CAR T-cell therapy >90 d and resolved cytopenias Solid organ transplant and treatment of rejectionc Solid organ transplant recipient on maintenance immunosuppressive regimenc Autoimmune and rheumatic diseases requiring Autoimmune and rheumatic diseases not treatment with biologic agentsd, especially those requiring treatment that interfere with T cell function and granuloma formation [23, 28–33] General medical frailty, including but not limited to: Liver, kidney, lung disease, diabetes, malnutrition Abbreviations: CAR, chimeric antigen receptor; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; IL-12, interleukin 12; IgM, immunoglobulin M; VL, viral load. aThe following conditions confer no known increased risk: sickle cell disease and other asplenia syndromes; antibody, complement, or neutrophil deficiencies. bSevere immunocompromise in children ≤5 y of age is defined as CD4+ T lymphocyte [CD4+] percentage <15%, and in individuals ≥6 y, CD4+ percentage <15% and CD4+ >200 lymphocytes/mm3 . cCarefully consider drug-drug interactions (eg, tacrolimus for Graft-vs-host disease [GVHD] prophylaxis). dThere are a variety of biologic agents with varying levels of immunosuppression. Serious infections have happened in patients receiving biologic response modifiers, including tuberculosis and disseminated infections caused by viruses, fungi, or bacteria. Frequently reported biologics associated with disseminated/severe histoplasmosis include: Tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors (TNF-alpha inhibitors, eg, infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab); IL-12/IL-23 blockade (ustekinumab, risankizumab, guselkumab). Mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis refers to mild symp- would apply to most people with few exceptions. Conditional not interfere with normal activities. Moderate acute pulmonary made when the suggested course of action would apply to the histoplasmosis refers to moderate symptoms significant majority of people with many exceptions and shared decision- enough to interfere with normal activities; patients with mod- making is important. erate disease may require low-flow oxygen supplementation A comprehensive literature search (through January 2024) and/or hospitalization. was conducted as part of a systematic review. Key eligibility cri- teria at both the topic and clinical question levels guided the search and selection of studies for inclusion (Supplementary METHODS Figure 2). For this question, a larger search on treatment of his- The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived
