Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


the search and selection of studies for inclusion (Supplementary METHODS Figure 2). For this question, a larger search on treatment of his- The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived toplasmosis was conducted. A critical appraisal of the evidence from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized according to the GRADE approach, along with an assessment of methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of the benefits and harms of care options informed the recommen- recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of dations . Details of the systematic review and guideline Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) development processes are available in the Supplementary approach (Supplementary Figure 1) . The recommenda- Material. tions have been endorsed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists, and SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE the Mycoses Study Group Education and Research Consortium. Strong recommendations, indicated by “the panel recom- Limited evidence was identified for the outcomes of mortality mends,” are made when the recommended course of action (9 studies [1, 38–45]), symptom resolution/radiographic 2025 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline Update on the Treatment of Mild or Moderate Histoplasmosis • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i41 Downloaded from by guest on May regression (9 studies [1, 38–41, 43–46]), and toxicity (1 study exposure to H. capsulatum is widespread in endemic areas, ) (Supplementary Tables 1and 2). For the outcome of mor- with over half of children by age 8 and more than 80% tality, there were no deaths attributable to histoplasmosis in any of long-term residing adults demonstrating an immuno- study regardless of whether patients were treated. Five of 9 stud- logic response to Histoplasma antigen. Most infections are sub- ies were retrospective reviews (including 2 school outbreak clinical with an estimated fewer than 5% of exposed individuals reports of 876 affected people, 708 of whom were sympto- developing even mild symptoms . In a large urban outbreak matic), 3 were case reports, and 1 was a prospective, non- study involving an estimated 120 000 individuals, only 435 cas- randomized trial. Many of the same studies reported on es (0.36%) were identified in a hospital setting (and therefore symptomatic resolution and/or radiographic regression. likely to meet current criteria for moderate or severe disease) In one of the outbreak studies, 353 people (mostly adolescents) . At most, 4 of 285 individuals with acute respiratory dis- were symptomatic but received
