Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


for moderate or severe disease) In one of the outbreak studies, 353 people (mostly adolescents) . At most, 4 of 285 individuals with acute respiratory dis- were symptomatic but received no treatment, and >75% were ease required treatment, with all others recovering without ill for 1 week or less, with all recovering within 2 months . treatment. In another large outbreak involving 383 junior In another outbreak study, 523/682 study participants had se- high school students and some adult staff, only 1 patient re- rologic evidence of infection, 355 of whom developed symp- quired hospitalization, and all recovered without treatment, toms, with only 13 receiving an antifungal agent . In the most within 2 weeks of symptom onset . largest outbreak, of over 100 000 presumed infected, 435 pre- Treatment decisions also require an assessment of the poten- with only 43 receiving treatment . In this study, 7 immuno- common undesirable effects, including nausea and vomiting, compromised individuals with disseminated histoplasmosis re- rash, and peripheral edema. More serious complications, includ- covered without treatment. Only 1 study addressed toxicity ing hepatotoxicity and heart failure, are rare but have been re- 37 patients with confirmed histoplasmosis were treated with significant drug-drug interactions and is known to have highly itraconazole 200–400 mg/day for a median 9 months, and itra- variable oral absorption requiring monitoring of drug levels. conazole was stopped in 1/37 patients due to toxicity. Its use is contraindicated in the first trimester of pregnancy, ne- In one of the outbreak cohorts , 4 people were receiving cessitating involvement of maternal fetal medicine and infectious immunocompromising medications, and 3 of the 4 were hospi- diseases specialists and use of alternative agents such as ampho- talized. A case report of a pediatric oncology patient with acute tericin B with potentially greater undesirable effects. Treatment pulmonary histoplasmosis who received treatment with itraco- duration of 6–12 weeks also imposes a large pill burden, most nazole reported improvement . A retrospective review of notably for children. Overall, the panel assesses the burden of un- 52 children with histoplasmosis (7 immunocompromised) desirable effects to be typically small in children, moderate in reported longer duration of antigenuria, antigenemia, and du- adults, and large in pregnant people. Treatment courses may ration of therapy in immunocompromised patients, with no re- also be associated with significant cost with variable insurance currence within 2 years for those treated with antifungals . coverage.
