Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


may ration of therapy in immunocompromised patients, with no re- also be associated with significant cost with variable insurance currence within 2 years for those treated with antifungals . coverage. For all recommendations, the certainty of evidence is very Since most immunocompetent patients with mild to moder- low according to the GRADE approach due to study risk of ate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis recover without specific bias (Supplementary Table 3), inconsistency amongst studies treatment, and several potential harms of treatment are appar- (eg, patients in an outbreak study have a higher inoculum, het- ent, the panel agrees that the overall balance of benefits versus erogeneous populations in terms of histoplasmosis severity and harms favors not treating with an antifungal medication in type), and imprecision (small number of events) [48–50]. Refer most cases. Greater consideration to treatment may be appro- to the Supplementary Materialfor more information on each priate in cases with more prolonged symptom duration (eg, >1 study and exact judgments affecting the certainty of evidence month), progressive symptoms or radiographic abnormalities, for each outcome. or more severe initial symptoms. Treatment in these scenarios would be intended to shorten duration of symptoms, prevent progression to more severe disease, and/or prevent late sequa- RATIONALE FOR RECOMMENDATIONS lae of pulmonary histoplasmosis such as mediastinal granulo- The studies demonstrate that most cases of mild-to-moderate ma or fibrosing mediastinitis. However, there are no data acute pulmonary histoplasmosis will resolve without treatment. demonstrating treatment is associated with any of these poten- rate at which significant illness develops, and prognosis of non- Progression to severe acute pulmonary histoplasmosis or severe acute pulmonary disease largely derive from population- disseminated disease appears rare in immunocompetent pa- level histoplasmin sensitivity studies and large outbreak tients in large outbreak studies. However, immunocompromise reports, most dating from the 1950s–80s. These indicate that has been identified as a clear risk factor for more severe disease i42 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Pappas et al Downloaded from by guest on May in these and other reports . For this reason, the panel agrees concentrations should be checked after approximately 5–7 that the overall balance of benefits to harms favors antifungal days when loading doses are used, and 10–14 days without a treatment in patients with acute pulmonary histoplasmosis loading dose . Levels should also be checked when interact- and an underlying immunocompromise that places them at ing drugs are started or stopped, there
