Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


patients with acute pulmonary histoplasmosis loading dose . Levels should also be checked when interact- and an underlying immunocompromise that places them at ing drugs are started or stopped, there are concerns for patient significant risk for disease progression. adherence or gastrointestinal absorption, and/or the patient has symptoms of toxicities. A goal trough concentration of itra- conazole component >1 mg/L and <3–4 mg/L (as measured by IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONS chromatographic assay) is associated with efficacy and a lower Proper implementation of the approaches suggested above has risk of toxicity [3–6, 9–11]. Due to the long half-life of itraco- two major limitations . First, acute mild to moderate histo- nazole, non-trough/random levels of itraconazole can also be plasmosis is vastly underdiagnosed, including cases that occur used to monitor serum concentrations. Hydroxy-itraconazole within immunocompromised patients, because of the non- is an active metabolite; however, a cutoff for combined specificity of symptoms and the high rate of spontaneous reso- hydroxy-itraconazole and itraconazole levels has not been lution. As such, most cases of acute histoplasmosis remain un- established . Patients with a combined hydroxy- detected. The second limitation to implementation is related to itraconazole and itraconazole level >2 mg/L may respond sim- the first, that is, lack of recognition. The remedy to this involves ilarly to patients with itraconazole levels >1 mg/L . creating greater awareness of histoplasmosis as a frequent cause of community-acquired pneumonia, especially in highly en- RESEARCH NEEDS demic regions. Current efforts by the Centers for Disease Randomized controlled trials or large cohort studies evaluating Control and Prevention (eg, Fungal Disease Awareness outcomes of antifungal treatment (including itraconazole and Week) and other groups such as the Mycoses Study Group, alternative azoles) versus no antifungal treatment in patients aim to increase awareness of histoplasmosis and other endemic with mild-to-moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis would mycoses through programs which encourage a lower threshold be very helpful. However, studies of this sort are extraordinarily for rapid testing (eg, urine Histoplasma antigen) and an overall difficult to conduct, largely due to the difficulty in diagnosing greater awareness of this pathogen as a cause of non-specific acute disease and identifying subgroups who might benefit community-acquired pneumonia. In the absence of specific from therapeutic intervention. Clinical trials of this sort involv- laboratory testing, greater emphasis must be placed on patient ing older, generic antifungals are likely to require sponsorship history, including travel, occupation, hobbies, and detailed his- and/or coordination
