Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


sort involv- laboratory testing, greater emphasis must be placed on patient ing older, generic antifungals are likely to require sponsorship history, including travel, occupation, hobbies, and detailed his- and/or coordination by a federal agency, such as the Centers for tory of any significant comorbidities which might increase the Disease Control and Prevention or the National Institute of risk of more aggressive disease. There are currently three available oral formulations of itra- needs. At present, there are no randomized controlled trials in- conazole that are not interchangeable, as there are differences volving treatment of mild or moderate pulmonary histoplas- in dosing, administration, and cost. The original capsule for- mosis. As a result, the impact of treatment on symptom mulation has limited and variable oral bioavailability, and it duration, progression to severe pulmonary histoplasmosis or must be taken with food containing high fat content . Its disseminated disease, or development of late sequelae of pul- bioavailability may be increased with a low stomach pH and monary histoplasmosis is largely unknown, and the above rec- longer gastric retention time. Although slightly more costly ommendations are largely based on expert interpretation of than the capsule formulation, the oral solution of itraconazole observational studies. has better bioavailability . However, this formulation must be taken on an empty stomach and is associated with gas- Supplementary Data trointestinal side effects such as osmotic diarrhea due to the Supplementary materialsare available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online. presence of hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin, used to solubilize Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted the drug. A newer oral capsule formulation of itraconazole, materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, SUBA itraconazole, is now available. Currently the most expen- so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding author. sive of the 3, this formulation contains itraconazole in a poly- meric matrix that enhances its bioavailability compared the Notes original capsule formulation and lessens the impact of gastric Acknowledgments. The panel acknowledges the work of the previous pH (and pH-altering medications) on absorption [57–59]. panel, under the leadership of L. Joseph Wheat, for their work on the pre- Similar to the original capsule formulation, it is recommended vious iteration of this larger guideline. The panel acknowledges the contri- to take SUBA itraconazole with food. butions of Elizabeth Kiscaden and Mary Beth McAteer, medical librarians, for the creation and execution of question-specific
