Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


larger guideline. The panel acknowledges the contri- to take SUBA itraconazole with food. butions of Elizabeth Kiscaden and Mary Beth McAteer, medical librarians, for the creation and execution of question-specific literature searches. Therapeutic drug monitoring should be performed for pa- Rebecca Goldwater and Imani Amponsah provided project coordination. tients receiving itraconazole [3–6]. In general, blood The panel also acknowledges the following organizations and selected 2025 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline Update on the Treatment of Mild or Moderate Histoplasmosis • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i43 Downloaded from by guest on May external reviewers for their review of the draft manuscript: the Pediatric N. W. with F2G, Scynexis, Mycovia (concluded), and Sfunga (concluded). Infectious Diseases Society and the Society of Infectious Diseases No disclosures were reported for all other authors (the majority of panel- Pharmacists; Drs. David Andes, John Christenson, and Marisa Miceli; ists) including chair. All other authors report no potential conflicts. and Drs. Robin Colgrove and Clinton White on behalf of the Standards All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential & Practice Guidelines Subcommittee. Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the con- Sandra Arnold and Andrej Spec are chair and vice chair, respectively, of tent of the manuscript have been disclosed. the expert panel. Robert Lentz and Peter Pappas served as clinical leads for the question addressed in this manuscript. Kayla Stover and Nathan Wiederhold led the development of remarks on therapeutic drug monitor- References ing for itraconazole. Remaining panelists assisted with conception and de- 1. Brodsky AL, Gregg MB, Loewenstein MS, Kaufman L, Mallison GF. Outbreak of sign of the analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the histoplasmosis associated with the 1970 Earth Day activities. Am J Med 1973; 54: recommendations and manuscript, and final approval of the recommenda- 333–42. was responsible for general project management, synthesizing and present- management of patients with histoplasmosis: 2007 update by the Infectious ing the data, and leading the panel according to the GRADE process. Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis 2006; 45:807–25. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antifungal agents: guidelines from the count for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of cur- British Society for Medical Mycology. J Antimicrob Chemother 2014; 69: rent scientific and clinical information provided as an educational service; are 1162–76. not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new
