Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


Mycology. J Antimicrob Chemother 2014; 69: rent scientific and clinical information provided as an educational service; are 1162–76. not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new 4. Chau MM, Daveson K, Alffenaar J-WC, et al. Consensus guidelines for optimising evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted and when it antifungal drug delivery and monitoring to avoid toxicity and improve outcomes is published or read); should not be considered inclusive of all proper meth- in patients with haematological malignancy and haemopoietic stem cell trans- course of medical care; and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment 5. Laverdiere M, Bow EJ, Rotstein C, et al. Therapeutic drug monitoring for tria- with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow guidelines zoles: a needs assessment review and recommendations from a Canadian perspec- and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding tive. Can J Infect Dis Med Microbiol 2014; 25:327–43. 6. McCreary EK, Davis MR, Narayanan N, et al. Utility of triazole antifungal thera- their application to be made by the clinician in the light of each patient’s in- peutic drug monitoring: insights from the Society of Infectious Diseases dividual circumstances. While IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, Pharmacists: endorsed by the Mycoses Study Group Education and Research complete, and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as is” Consortium. Pharmacotherapy 2023; 43:1043–50. without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, direc- 7. Osborn MR, Zuniga-Moya JC, Mazi PB, Rauseo AM, Spec A. Side effects associ- tors, members, employees, and agents) assume no responsibility for any loss, ated with itraconazole therapy. J Antimicrob Chemother 2025; 80:503–8. damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, special, in- 8. Spec A, Thompson GR, Miceli MH, et al. MSG-15: super-bioavailability itracona- direct, or consequential damages, incurred in connection with these guide- zole versus conventional itraconazole in the treatment of endemic mycoses—a lines or reliance on the information presented. The guidelines represent multicenter, open-label, randomized comparative trial. Open Forum Infect Dis the proprietary and copyrighted property of IDSA. All rights reserved. No 2024; 11:ofae010. 9. Andes D, Pascual A, Marchetti O. Antifungal therapeutic drug monitoring: estab- part of these guidelines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in lished and emerging indications. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2009; 53:24–34. any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other elec- 10. Cartledge JD, Midgely
