Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in lished and emerging indications. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2009; 53:24–34. any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other elec- 10. Cartledge JD, Midgely J, Gazzard BG. Itraconazole solution: higher serum drug tronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of IDSA. concentrations and better clinical response rates than the capsule formulation Permission is granted to physicians and health care providers solely to copy in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with candidosis. J Clin and use the guidelines in their professional practices and clinical decision Pathol 1997; 50:477–80. making. No license or permission is granted to any person or entity, and prior 11. Lestner JM, Roberts SA, Moore CB, Howard SJ, Denning DW, Hope WW. written authorization by IDSA is required to sell, distribute, or modify the Toxicodynamics of itraconazole: implications for therapeutic drug monitoring. guidelines, or to make derivative works of or incorporate the guidelines Clin Infect Dis 2009; 49:928–30. itraconazole and hydoxy-itraconazole serum concentrations for blastomycosis. ware or any other software product. Except for the permission granted above, Mycoses 2023; 66:412–9. any person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact 13. Khurana A, Agarwal A, Singh A, et al. Predicting a therapeutic cut-off serum level IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms and conditions of third-party of itraconazole in recalcitrant tinea corporis and cruris—a prospective trial. use, in particular any use of the guidelines in any software product. Mycoses 2021; 64:1480–8. Additional information. More detailed information on the analysis and 14. Wiederhold NP, Schwartz IS, Patterson TF, Thompson GR III. Variability of development of recommendations is available in the Supplementary hydroxy-itraconazole in relation to itraconazole bloodstream concentrations. Material. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2021; 65:e02353-20. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases 15. Kroger A, Bahta L, Long S, et al. General best practice guidelines for immuniza- Society of America. tion: altered immunocompetence. Available at: hcp/imz-best-practices/alteredimmunocompetence.html. Accessed 16 June Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential 2024.. conflicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review process. The assess- 16. Panel on Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic ment of disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative Infections in Adults and Adolescents with HIV. Guidelines for the prevention weight of the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the rele- and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents
