Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: treatment, histoplasmosis, itraconazole, patients, pulmonary, acute, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute pulmonary, moderate, disease, pulmonary histoplasmosis, evidence, mild


in Adults and Adolescents with HIV. Guidelines for the prevention weight of the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the rele- and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV. vance of the relationship (ie, the degree to which an association might rea- Available at: sonably be interpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or opportunistic-infection/whats-new-guidelines. Accessed 16 June 2024. recommendation of consideration). The following panelists have scientific 17. Ashbee HR, Evans EGV, Viviani MA, et al. Histoplasmosis in Europe: report on advisory/consultant roles related to the topic (ie, manageable conflicts of an epidemiological survey from the European Confederation of Medical interest): A. S. (vice chair) with Mayne and Scynexis, C. A. K. with Mycology Working Group. Med Mycol 2008; 46:57–65. 18. Antinori S, Magni C, Nebuloni M, et al. Histoplasmosis among human immuno- Cidara Therapeutics (concluded) and Laboratoires SMB (concluded), deficiency virus-infected people in Europe: report of 4 cases and review of the lit- K. S. with Cidara Therapeutics (concluded), and N. W. with F2G (conclud- erature. Medicine 2006; 85:22–36. ed). C. A. K. is Editor-in-Chief for UpToDate’s Infectious Diseases sections, 19. Anderson AM, Mehta AK, Wang YF, et al. HIV-associated histoplasmosis in a and J. B. is an editor for UpToDate’s Fungal Infections sections. The follow- nonendemic area of the United States during the HAART era: role of migration ing panelists have research relationships related to the topic: A. S. (vice from endemic areas and lack of antiretroviral therapy. J Int Assoc Physicians chair) with Astellas; R. M. with Scynexis and F2G; P. P. with Mayne; and AIDS Care 2010; 9:296–300. i44 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Pappas et al Downloaded from by guest on May 20. Bourgeois N, Douard-Enault C, Reynes J, et al. Seven imported histoplasmosis 39. Dismukes WE, Bradsher RW, Cloud GC, et al. Itraconazole therapy for blastomy- cases due to Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum: from few weeks to more cosis and histoplasmosis. NIAID mycoses study group. Am J Med 1992; 93: than three decades asymptomatic period. J Mycol Med 2011; 21:19–23. 489–97. 21. Buitrago MJ, Bernal-Martinez L, Castelli MV, et al. Histoplasmosis and paracoc- 40. Hess J, Fondell A, Fustino N, et al. Presentation and treatment of histoplasmosis cidioidomycosis in a non-endemic area: a review of cases and diagnosis. J Travel in pediatric oncology patients: case series and review of the literature. J Pediatr Med 2011; 18:26–33. Hematol
