Chronic Venous Insufficiency and Post-Thrombotic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: venous, stasis, chronic, insufficiency, venous insufficiency, chronic venous, compression, dvt, edema, patients, venous stasis, syndrome, stockings, post-thrombotic, skin


Chronic venous insufficiency is impaired venous return, sometimes causing lower extremity discomfort, edema, and skin changes. Post-thrombotic (postphlebitic ) syndrome is symptomatic chronic venous insufficiency after deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Causes of chronic venous insufficiency are disorders that result in venous hypertension, usually through venous damage or incompetence of venous valves, as occurs (for example) after DVT. Diagnosis is by history, physical examination, and duplex ultrasonography. Treatment is compression, wound care, and, rarely, surgery. Prevention requires adequate treatment of DVT and compression stockings. Prevalence estimates of chronic venous insufficiency vary widely, reflecting differences in the study populations (1). Post-thrombotic syndrome may affect up to 50% of patients with deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and can have a substantial effect on quality of life. Post-thrombotic syndrome can range in severity from mild leg swelling to debilitating venous leg ulcers; 20 to 35% of patients will develop moderate to severe disease. Post-thrombotic syndrome is more common in patients with more extensive DVT, such as those with involvement of the common femoral and/or iliofemoral veins (2). in DVT), venous valvular insufficiency, or decreased contraction of muscles surrounding the veins (eg, due to immobility) decrease forward venous flow and increase venous pressure (venous hypertension). Fluid accumulation in the lower extremities (eg, in right heart failure) can also contribute by causing venous hypertension. Prolonged venous hypertension causes tissue edema, inflammation, and hypoxia, leading to symptoms. Pressure may be transmitted to superficial veins if valves in perforator veins, which connect deep and superficial veins, are ineffective. The most common risk factor for chronic venous insufficiency is Deep venous thrombosis Other risk factors include Trauma Older age Obesity Sitting or standing for long periods Pregnancy Idiopathic cases are often attributed to a history of occult DVT. Post-thrombotic syndrome is symptomatic chronic venous insufficiency that follows DVT. Risk factors for post-thrombotic syndrome in patients with DVT include proximal thrombosis, recurrent ipsilateral 2 DVT, and body mass index (BMI) ≥ 22 kg/m . Age, female sex, and estrogen therapy are also associated with the syndrome. Symptoms and Signs of Chronic Venous Insufficiency Clinically evident chronic venous insufficiency may not cause any symptoms but always causes signs; post-thrombotic syndrome always causes symptoms. Both disorders are a concern because their symptoms can mimic those of acute DVT and both can lead to substantial reductions in physical activity and quality of life. Symptoms include a sense of fullness, heaviness, aching, cramps, pain, tiredness,
