Chronic Venous Insufficiency and Post-Thrombotic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: venous, stasis, chronic, insufficiency, venous insufficiency, chronic venous, compression, dvt, edema, patients, venous stasis, syndrome, stockings, post-thrombotic, skin


mimic those of acute DVT and both can lead to substantial reductions in physical activity and quality of life. Symptoms include a sense of fullness, heaviness, aching, cramps, pain, tiredness, and paresthesias in the legs; these symptoms worsen with standing or walking and are relieved by rest and elevation. Pruritus may accompany skin changes. Signs occur along a continuum: no changes to varicose veins (rare) to edema to stasis dermatitis on the lower legs and at the ankles, with or without ulceration (see table Clinical Classification of Chronic Venous Insufficiency). The calf may be painful when compressed. TABLE Clinical Classification of Chronic Venous Insufficiency Class Signs 2/8 Class Signs 0 No signs of venous disease 1 Ectatic or reticular veins* 2 Varicose veins* 3 Edema Skin changes due to venous stasis (eg, 4 pigmentation, induration, lipodermatosclerosis) Skin changes due to venous stasis and 5 healed ulceration Skin changes due to venous stasis and 6 active ulceration * May occur idiopathically without chronic venous insufficiency. Venous stasis dermatitis consists of erythema, hyperpigmentation, induration, venous ectasia, lipodermatosclerosis (fibrosing subcutaneous panniculitis), lichenification, and venous stasis ulcers. Erythema may be difficult to appreciate in dark skin. 3/8 Stasis Dermatitis (Chronic Changes) Hide Details Chronic stasis dermatitis may appear as fibrotic skin thickening and hyperpigmentation. The changes are characteristic in both light skin (top) and dark skin (bottom), here appearing more pronounced in the bottom photo. Images provided by Thomas Habif, MD. Venous stasis ulcers may develop spontaneously or after affected skin is scratched or injured. They typically occur around the medial malleolus, tend to be shallow and moist, and may be malodorous (especially when poorly cared for) or painful. They do not penetrate the deep fascia. In contrast, ulcers due to peripheral arterial disease eventually expose tendons or bone. Venous Stasis Ulcer Manifestations 4/8 Early Venous Stasis Ulcer Venous stasis includes lichenification and hyperpigmentation. A shallow ulcer is developing superior to the medial malleolus. Large Venous Stasis Ulcer This large venous stasis ulcer is surrounded by brawny induration. Stasis Dermatitis (Ulcer) Venous stasis ulcers develop as a result of inadequately treated stasis dermatitis; they may quickly follow the first signs of stasis dermatitis. Image provided by Thomas Habif, MD. Healed Venous Stasis Ulcer 5/8 Roberto A. Penne-Casanova/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Leg edema tends to be unilateral or asymmetric; bilateral symmetric edema is more likely to result from a systemic disorder (eg, heart failure, hypoalbuminemia) or
