Chronic Venous Insufficiency and Post-Thrombotic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: venous, stasis, chronic, insufficiency, venous insufficiency, chronic venous, compression, dvt, edema, patients, venous stasis, syndrome, stockings, post-thrombotic, skin


Roberto A. Penne-Casanova/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Leg edema tends to be unilateral or asymmetric; bilateral symmetric edema is more likely to result from a systemic disorder (eg, heart failure, hypoalbuminemia) or certain medications (eg, calcium channel blockers). In general, unless the lower extremities are adequately cared for, patients with any manifestation of chronic venous insufficiency or post-thrombotic syndrome are at risk of progression to more advanced forms. Diagnosis of Chronic Venous Insufficiency Clinical evaluation Ultrasonography to exclude DVT Diagnosis is usually based on history and physical examination. A clinical scoring system that ranks 5 symptoms (pain, cramps, heaviness, pruritus, paresthesia) and 6 signs (edema, hyperpigmentation, induration, venous ectasia, blanching hyperemia, pain with calf compression) on a scale of 0 (absent or minimal) to 3 (severe) is increasingly recognized as a standard diagnostic tool of disease severity (1). Scores of 5 to 14 on 2 visits separated by ≥ 6 months indicate mild-to-moderate disease, and scores of ≥ 15 indicate severe disease. Lower-extremity duplex ultrasonography reliably excludes or confirms DVT. Absence of edema and a reduced ankle-brachial index suggest peripheral arterial disease rather than chronic venous insufficiency and post-thrombotic syndrome. Diagnosis reference 1. Kahn SR. Measurement properties of the Villalta scale to define and classify the severity of the post-thrombotic syndrome. J Thromb Haemost 2009;7(5):884-888. doi:10.1111/j.1538- 7836.2009.03339.x Treatment of Chronic Venous Insufficiency Elevation Compression using bandages, stockings, and/or pneumatic devices Topical treatments Treatment of secondary infection, when present Some experts believe that weight loss, regular exercise, and reduction of dietary sodium may benefit patients with bilateral chronic venous insufficiency. However, all interventions may be difficult to implement. Elevating the leg above the level of the right atrium decreases venous hypertension and edema, is appropriate for all patients, and should be done a minimum of 3 times a day for ≥ 30 minutes. However, 6/8 most patients cannot reliably adhere to this schedule during the day. Compression is recommended for treatment and prevention of the effects of chronic venous insufficiency (ie, edema, venous ulcers) and is indicated for all patients. Although the data are mixed as to whether compression stockings prevent post-thrombotic syndrome, they are useful to reduce symptoms of swelling, pain, and tightness that may occur after deep vein thrombosis (1). Elastic bandages are used initially until edema and ulcers resolve and leg size stabilizes; commercial compression stockings are then used. Stockings that provide 20 to 30 mm Hg of distal circumferential
