Totally endoscopic robotically assisted coronary artery bypass grafting
KEYWORDS: patients, heart, coronary, bypass, procedure, artery, hours, tecab, coronary artery, series, endoscopic, hours minutes, minutes, mean, site


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of totally endoscopic robotically assisted coronary artery bypass grafting does not appear adequate for this procedure to be used without special arrangements for consent and for audit or research. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to undertake totally endoscopic robotically assisted coronary artery bypass grafting should take the following actions. • Inform the clinical governance leads in their Trusts. • Ensure that patients understand the uncertainty about the procedure's safety and efficacy and provide them with clear written information. Use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. • Enter all patients having totally endoscopic robotically assisted coronary artery bypass grafting onto the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research's National Congenital Heart Disease Audit Database. Contact bartshealth.nicor-generalenquiries@nhs.net for details. 1.3 Publication of safety and efficacy outcomes will be useful. NICE may review the procedure upon publication of further evidence. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 In coronary artery disease, plaque deposits on the inner walls of the coronary arteries lead to narrowing or occlusion, and subsequently decreased oxygen supply to the heart. This may cause angina or myocardial infarction, and long- term weakening of the heart muscle leading to heart failure or arrhythmia. 2.1.2 The aim of a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) is to increase the flow of blood to the heart by inserting grafts to bypass narrowed or obstructed coronary arteries. 2.1.3 CABG is usually performed with open surgery through a sternotomy. Less invasive approaches avoiding sternotomy, cardiopulmonary bypass and general anaesthesia have been developed, using either left anterior small thoracotomy (LAST), regional anaesthesia or catheter-based intervention. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Totally endoscopic robotically assisted coronary artery bypass (TECAB) systems vary, but they generally include a surgeon's viewing and control console with display system. Remote-control handles control robotic arms that position and precisely manoeuvre an endoscope and endoscopic instruments within the patient. Some equipment uses voice-controlled robotic arms. 2.2.2 Following deflation of the lung, small port incisions are made in three intercostal spaces through which one robotic arm carrying the endoscope and two arms with surgical implement attachments are introduced. Grafts are harvested from suitable donor sites, and are used to bypass one or more diseased coronary arteries. 2.2.3 TECAB treatment of the beating heart is carried out using a stabilisation device consisting of two branches that immobilise the site for anastomosis while the heart continues to beat. This
