J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:10–24
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, acute pancreatitis, patients, incidence, mortality, risk, level, japan, survey, recurrence, severe, cases, pancreatic, alcoholic


J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:10–24 DOI JPN Guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis: epidemiology, etiology, natural history, and outcome predictors in acute pancreatitis Miho Sekimoto1, Tadahiro Takada2,*, Yoshifumi Kawarada3, Koichi Hirata4, Toshihiko Mayumi5, Masahiro Yoshida2, Masahiko Hirota6, Yasutoshi Kimura4, Kazunori Takeda7, Shuji Isaji8, Masaru Koizumi9, Makoto Otsuki10,**, and Seiki Matsuno11,*** Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan Kitakyushu, Japan Abstract within the first 1–2 weeks and are mainly attributable to mul- Acute pancreatitis is a common disease with an annual inci- tiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). Depending on dence of between 5 and 80 people per 100000 of the popula- patient selection, necrotizing pancreatitis develops in approxi- tion. The two major etiological factors responsible for acute mately 10%–20% of patients and the mortality is high, ranging pancreatitis are alcohol and cholelithiasis (gallstones). The from 14% to 25% of these patients. Infected pancreatic necro- proportion of patients with pancreatitis caused by alcohol or sis develops in 30%–40% of patients with necrotizing pancre- gallstones varies markedly in different countries and regions. atitis and the incidence of MODS in such patients is high. The The incidence of acute alcoholic pancreatitis is considered to recurrence rate of acute pancreatitis is relatively high: almost be associated with high alcohol consumption. Although the half the patients with acute alcoholic pancreatitis experience a incidence of alcoholic pancreatitis is much higher in men than recurrence. When the gallstones are not treated, the risk of in women, there is no difference in sexes in the risk involved recurrence in gallstone pancreatitis ranges from 32% to 61%. after adjusting for alcohol intake. Other risk factors include After recovering from acute pancreatitis, about one-third to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, surgery, one-half of acute pancreatitis patients develop functional dis- therapeutic drugs, HIV infection, hyperlipidemia, and biliary orders, such as diabetes mellitus and fatty stool; the incidence tract anomalies. Idiopathic acute pancreatitis is defined as of chronic pancreatitis after acute pancreatitis ranges from 3% acute pancreatitis in which the etiological factor cannot be to 13%. Nevertheless, many reports have shown that most specified. However, several studies have suggested that this patients who recover from acute pancreatitis regain good gen- entity includes cases caused by other specific disorders such as eral health and return to their usual daily routine. Some au- microlithiasis. Acute pancreatitis is a potentially fatal disease thors have emphasized that endocrine function disorders are a with an overall mortality of 2.1%–7.8%. The outcome
