J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:10–24
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, acute pancreatitis, patients, incidence, mortality, risk, level, japan, survey, recurrence, severe, cases, pancreatic, alcoholic


usual daily routine. Some au- microlithiasis. Acute pancreatitis is a potentially fatal disease thors have emphasized that endocrine function disorders are a with an overall mortality of 2.1%–7.8%. The outcome of acute common complication after severe acute pancreatitis has been pancreatitis is determined by two factors that reflect the sever- treated by pancreatic resection. ity of the illness: organ failure and pancreatic necrosis. About half of the deaths in patients with acute pancreatitis occur Key words Pancreatitis · Epidemiology · Etiology · Survival rate · Treatment outcome Offprint requests to: M. Sekimoto Clinical questions *President, Japanese Society of Emergency Abdominal Medicine; President, Japanese Society of Hepato- 1. What is the incidence of acute pancreatitis? Is it Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery; President, Asian-Pacific different for different countries and areas? Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association 2. What are the causes of acute pancreatitis? **Chairman, Intractable Pancreatic Disease Investiga- 3. What are the risk factors for developing acute tion and Research Group of the Japanese Ministry of pancreatitis? 4. What are the outcomes of acute pancreatitis? ***President, Japan Pancreas Society M. Sekimoto et al.: Epidemiology of acute pancreatitis 11 Introduction timated incidence of acute pancreatitis was 12.1/100000. The second national survey estimated that the number of The Japanese Society for Emergency Abdominal Medi- patients in 1998 was 19500 (95% CI: 17000–22000) and cine, the Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic the incidence was 15.4/100000 (20.5/100000 for men and Surgery, and the Japan Pancreas Society have devel- 10.6/100000 for women). The ratio of men to women was oped evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for 1.9 to 1 and incidence peaked in the 7th decade of life in acute pancreatitis that integrate all available evidence men and in the 8th decade in women (Fig. 1). Although regarding the epidemiology and clinical management of the two surveys differed in terms of their subjects and acute pancreatitis published between 1960 and 2000.1 In methods of estimation, the incidence of acute pancreati- this article we have added a review of articles published tis is considered to be increasing (evidence level; Level since 2000, and we describe the epidemiology, etiology, 4).10 Epidemiological studies in Japan have encountered natural history, and predictors of disease outcome in the following problems: the definition of acute pancreati- acute pancreatitis. tis in Japan includes acute exacerbations of chronic pancreatitis and the data are hospital-based and exclude autopsy cases. Nevertheless, the incidence of acute pan- Clinical questions (CQ) 1. What is the incidence
