J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:10–24
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, acute pancreatitis, patients, incidence, mortality, risk, level, japan, survey, recurrence, severe, cases, pancreatic, alcoholic


hyperamylasemia and 10% (0.8%) of the patients who underwent diagnostic developed postoperative acute pancreatitis),64 following ERCP, and the incidence following therapeutic ERCP biliary stent insertion (11.5F stent, 3%; 10F stent, was 1.9%. The incidence of severe acute pancreatitis none),65 following intraoperative irradiation (2/98, among the patients who underwent diagnostic ERCP 2%),66 and following continuous ambulatory peritoneal and therapeutic ERCP was 0.07% and 0.1%, respec- dialysis (CAPD) (0.46 per 100 treatment-years).67 How- tively. One patient who underwent therapeutic ERCP ever, it remains unclear whether these procedures in- died, and the overall mortality was 0.007%. The mortal- crease the risk of acute pancreatitis.68 ity rate among patients who underwent therapeutic ERCP was 0.02%. Drugs In the 1980s, there was a lawsuit brought in Japan after a patient treated by ERCP developed acute Many studies have suggested associations between the pancreatitis and died. In that case, the court decided use of drugs and the risk of acute pancreatitis, but direct that reparation had to be made for the loss. Since then, associations have been demonstrated for only a small physicians involved in endoscopy and endoscopic number of drugs (Table 4).69–80 The interval between treatment in Japan have striven to prevent acute drug administration and the onset of symptoms differs pancreatitis, and the Japan Gastroenterological Endos- depending on the drug. Certain drugs, such as ace- M. Sekimoto et al.: Epidemiology of acute pancreatitis 15 Table 4. Drugs that have been reported to cause acute atitis.87 Type V hyperlipidemia, as well as types I and IV, pancreatitis are prominent causes of acute pancreatitis as a result of l-Asparaginase (anticancer drug) marked hyperlipidemia (Level 4).88 Secondary hyper- Azathioprine (immunosuppressant) lipidemia is caused by alcohol intake, pregnancy, estro- Didanosine (anti-HIV drug) gen therapy, and diabetes mellitus, all of which are risk Estrogen factors for acute pancreatitis. Genetic polymorphism of Frosemide (diuretic) Pentamidine (for pneumocystis carinii infection) lipoprotein lipase and the apolipoprotein C-II defect, 6-Mercaptopurine (anticancer drug) which cause hyperlipidemia, are also suggested to cause Salicylates (antipyretic drug) acute pancreatitis (Level 4).89,90 Some recent studies Stibogluconate sodium (antiprotozoal drug) have suggested an association between the risk of acute Sulfonamide (antimicrobial drug) pancreatitis and marked hypertriglyceridemia related Sulindac (antipyretic drug) Vincristine (anticancer drug) to the administration of protease inhibitors among Vinblastine (anticancer drug) patients with HIV infection.91,92 However, other reports argue that there is no association between the two.87,93 taminophen, can cause pancreatitis after a single dose. The risk
