J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:10–24
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, acute pancreatitis, patients, incidence, mortality, risk, level, japan, survey, recurrence, severe, cases, pancreatic, alcoholic


idiopathic carcinoid tumors137) have also been reported (Level 4). pancreatitis is defined as acute pancreatitis with a However, it remains unclear whether the incidence of nonspecified etiological factor, but it includes those acute pancreatitis is higher in these patients than in cases caused by other specific disorders. Two prospec- healthy subjects. tive studies of apparently idiopathic pancreatitis have Acute pancreatitis in childhood is unusual, and the found that two-thirds to three-quarters of the cases had etiology in children differs from the etiology in microlithiasis documented by biliary-drainage studies, adults. Steinberg and Tenner reviewed 5 studies involv- follow-up sonograms, and ERCP (Level 2b).98,99 In the ing a total of 223 children with acute pancreatitis80 treatment of acute pancreatitis, the diagnosis of acute and reported that trauma is the leading cause of acute idiopathic pancreatitis should be minimized by identify- pancreatitis in children, accounting for 21% of the ing the etiological factors based on clinical symptoms cases, followed by idiopathic causes (20%), biliary and findings as well as appropriate tests. tract disease (17%), drugs (15%), infections (10%), congenital anomalies (6%), and miscellaneous causes Other factors associated with acute pancreatitis (11%). Other factors associated with acute pancreatitis are inherited conditions,94,96 pregnancy,100–102 trauma,103,104 CQ4. What are the outcomes of acute pancreatitis? viral infections (mumps, Coxsackie B, hepatitis B, cy- tomegalovirus, herpes simplex II, and varicella-zoster), Recurrence of acute pancreatitis bacterial infections (Salmonella typhi, Leptospira, and Legionella), fungal infection (Aspergillus), parasites The rate of recurrence of acute pancreatitis is relatively (Toxoplasma, Cryptosporidium, Ascaris lumbricoides, high, although it depends on etiological factors and in- and Mycoplasma105), collagen diseases (including terventions in response to those factors. A study of 1376 systemic lupus erythematosus,106–108 rheumatoid arthri- inpatients with acute pancreatitis (2211 episodes) dur- failure.117,118 rence and that two-thirds of them had experienced the Many studies have suggested the involvement of local recurrence within 3 months of the first attack.4 Accord- predisposing anatomic factors in the etiology of acute ing to a prospective cohort study on the recurrence of pancreatitis. The presence and diameter of a common acute alcoholic pancreatitis,138 46% had a recurrence of channel, pancreatic duct reflux, the angle formed be- the disease, and 80% of the recurrent episodes devel- tween the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct, oped within 4 years of the first attack. The recurrence abnormalities of the Vater’s ampulla (edema, hemor- rate did not change over time (Level 1b). Several stud- rhage,
