SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178
KEYWORDS: stomach, hernia, abnormal, group, patients, fig, hiatal, organ, position, congenital, shape, poland, diaphragmatic, short, esophageal


The aim of the studywastopresentclassificationoftheshapeandposition of the unoperated stomach. Materials and methods The study was conducted on the retrospective data col- lected during various radiological examinations taken in 2006–2010 in the Second Radiological Department of the Poland. All patients were sent for the checkup for various medicalreasonswithemptystomach.Theexaminationwas performed using Siregraph CF-System (Siemens, Ger- many) during single- or double-contrast fluoroscopy. Bar- ium sulfuricum suspension (TERPOL, Poland) or Prontobario HD (Bracco S.P.A., Italy) was applied as a positive contrast in unoperated patients. Water-soluble Fig.2 Atypicalradiologicalshapeandlocalizationofthestomach contrasts such as Gastrografin (Berlimed S.A. Poligono Industrial Schering AG; Leverkusen, Germany) or Uro- polinum (Zakłady Farmaceutyczne POLPHARMA; Staro- individuals with short thorax and long abdomen are likely gard Gdanski, Poland) were administered for operated tohave stomachthatisplaced inhigherpositionandmore patients.StomachairorpretreatmentwithDougas(Bracco transversally. In persons with a slender asthenic physique, S.P.A.,Italy)wasusedasasourceofthenegativecontrast. the stomach is located lower and more vertical. More Each patient was typically examined in Trendelenburg vertical position and slightly left organ translocation— position, followed by supine, semirecumbent, antero-pos- secondary to a relatively large liver—are typical of young terior and lateral erect position. Any other positions were children, in particular in newborns . used when needed. Single and serial pictures with SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178 173 acquisition time one up to 4–5 pictures per second were wholegroup1,389patientspassedthecriteriaofthestudy. stored on the hard disc. Normalstomachanatomywasobservedin568cases,while Theclassificationwasestablishedexclusivelyforpatients in 821 patients different variations of the organ shape and without any organic radiologically detectable stomach topography were reveled. lesions, i.e., severe gastric inflammations, ulcer disease, A regular, physiological position of the stomach—as neoplasms,etc.Fiveprimarygroupsoftheorganshapeand presented at the introduction—was the most commonly topography were established: abnormal position along it observedamongalltheexaminedindividuals(Figs. 1a,2). longitudinal(I)andhorizontalaxis(II),aswellasabnormal Abnormal anatomical variances were seen less frequently. shape(III)andconnections(IV)ormixedforms(V). Inunoperatedpatientsthetwomaingroupsofthestomach Obtainedresultswereevaluatedonlyqualitatively,since variations were established: (I) abnormal positions along in esophageal and stomach surgery and the group of positionsalongvarioushorizontalaxes(Table 1;Fig. 1b–n). examined patients’ does not cover the general population. Twoadditionalgroups,i.e.(III)abnormalshapeoftheorgan, (IV)abnormal congenitalconnections ofthe stomach could also be added, however, they were not observed in our Results department and they do not pass the criteria of ‘‘healthy’’ organ.Thelastgroup(V)containsmixedforms,whichpass During evaluated period, 2,034 examinations of the upper criteriatwoormoreprimarygroups(I–IV). part of digestive tract were performed. From among the The first group included the stomach rotation (Ia), and translocation to the chest cavity (Ib). Different degrees of thestomachrotationwereeasilyseenwhenpositionofthe Table1 Morphologicalclassificationoftheshapeandtopographyof unoperatedstomach pylorus and the lesser and greater curvatures were exam- ined (n = 84). In the extreme situation, a frontward I.Abnormalpositionsalongthelongitudinalaxisoftheorgan (n = 3/84) and backward (n = 11/84) direction of the (organoaxial)
