SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178
KEYWORDS: stomach, hernia, abnormal, group, patients, fig, hiatal, organ, position, congenital, shape, poland, diaphragmatic, short, esophageal


the lesser and greater curvatures were exam- ined (n = 84). In the extreme situation, a frontward I.Abnormalpositionsalongthelongitudinalaxisoftheorgan (n = 3/84) and backward (n = 11/84) direction of the (organoaxial) lesser curvature was found (Figs. 1b, 3). However, the Ia.Malrotation most common type of the anomaly in the first group was Ib.Translocationtothechestcavity theslidinghiataldiaphragmatichernia(n = 522)(Figs. 1c, 1.Throughtheesophagealdiaphragmatichiatus(hiatalhernias) 4a). Less frequently, the paraesophageal hiatal (n = 12) Slidinghiatalhernia(typeI)a (Figs. 1d, 4b), mixed-form (n = 43) (Figs. 1e, 4c) and Paraesophagealhiatalhernia(typeII)a upside-down hernias were found (n = 37) (Figs. 1f, 4d). Mixedform(typeIII)a Intrathoracicstomach—upside-downhernia(typeIV)a Congenitalshortesophagus 2.Throughotheresophagealopenings(diaphragmatichernias) Posterolateral(Bochdalek)hernia Anterolateral(Morgagni)hernia Central(septum-transversum)hernia II.Abnormalpositionsalongvarioushorizontalaxis (mesenteroaxial) Cascades(mesenteroaxialvolvulus) III.Abnormalshapeofthestomach Lackofthewholeorgan Lackofthefundus Shortbody Advancedenlargement(dilatation) IV.Abnormalcongenitalconnectionofthestomach Gastroduodenalfistula Gastrointestinalfistula(-ileal,-jejunal) Gastrocolicfistula Gastrocutaneousfistula Other,lesscommonfistulas V.Mixedformofthestomachshape a AccordingtotheAkerlundclassification Fig.3 Stomachrotationalongthelongitudinalaxis 174 SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178 Fig.4 Thesliding(a), paraesophageal(b),mixed-form (c)andupside-down(d)hiatal stomachdiaphragmatichernias Fig.5 Stomachcascade The congenital short esophagus (Fig. 1g) and other dia- down diaphragmatic hernia (n = 12/37) with both cardia phragmatic hernias of the stomach were not revealed, and pylorus in the infradiaphragmatic position (Fig. 1f) although all of them could be added to the Ib group. could be included to this group as well. Thesecondgroupcontainsstomachcascadeofdifferent The third group contains congenital abnormal shape of stages (n = 80) (Figs. 1h, 5a). Furthermore, the upside- the organ i.e. lack ofthe wholeorgan (Fig. 1i), lack of the SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178 175 fundus (Fig. 1j), short stomach body (Fig. 1k) and promi- also reported throughout India, the Middle East and East nent organ enlargement (dilatation) (Fig. 1l). Asia.Astrongenvironmentalinfluence,withnoorlow Alltheabnormalcongenitalconnectionsofthestomach genetic predisposition was proved by observation of the were enclosed in the fourth group. According to the same incidence of the sliding hiatal hernia in Afro-Amer- available literature, the most common fistulas are gastro- icans and Caucasian Americans . It was also noted in duodenal (Fig. 1m), gastrointestinal (Fig. 1n), gastrocolic two different Korean studies taken at a 35-year interval, and gastrocutaneous. characterized by extremely high positive socioeconomic The last group (V) contains mixed forms. Such abnor- changes of the country. Kim found only 14 cases malitieswereseenin44patientswithacascadeandmalro- (1.4%)oftheherniaamong1,000examinedpatients,while tationordifferenttypesofdiaphragmatichernias(Fig. 5b). in 1999 it was revealed in 41 (4.1%) out of 1,010 indi- viduals . Unlike other investigations, Boghratian et al. observed male gender predilection in patients with Discussion hiatal hernia after examination of 4,700 Iranians. More- over, the disease is observed mostly in older patients. The currently presented classification seems to be the first However, due to the abnormal prenatal enlargement of the that clearly and completely describes anatomical positions esophageal hiatus, a congenital
