SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178
KEYWORDS: stomach, hernia, abnormal, group, patients, fig, hiatal, organ, position, congenital, shape, poland, diaphragmatic, short, esophageal


patients. The currently presented classification seems to be the first However, due to the abnormal prenatal enlargement of the that clearly and completely describes anatomical positions esophageal hiatus, a congenital sliding hiatal hernia may ofthestomach.Similarclassificationswerenotavailablein also be found but have to be differ from the short esoph- the world literature. agus (see below) . Furthermore, the hernia is com- Among all the examined patients with anatomical vari- monly associated with diverticular disease and less ances of the stomach, the most common position was the frequently with cholelithiasis—Sait’s triad . Also hiatal hernia (about 60–75% depends of the year). How- obesity (BMI C 25 kg/m2), advanced renal insufficiency, ever,suchhighincidencecannotberegardedastypicalfor prolapse of the mitral valve and persistent high the Polish and even local population, while the study was intraabdominalpressureincreaseriskofthehernia[13,37, performed in the University Hospital with a Surgical 45].Highabdominalpressurewasalsofoundasoneofthe Departmentthatishighlyspecializedintheesophagealand leading factors in other diseases associated with a hiatal stomachsurgeryandisreferentialforthesouth-eastpartof hernia, i.e., inguinal hernia and prolapse of pelvic organs Poland. Moreover, some patients were admitted to the . As a consequence of herniation, a relaxation of additional radiological examinations were not performed. esophageal empting impairment increase the possibility of Sincethefirstdescriptionin1926,confirmedbylater the gastro-esophageal reflux. On the other hand, the hiatal studies,translocationsofthestomachalongitslongaxisis hernia and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GRED) itself dividedintosliding,paraesophagealandmixed-formhiatal are risk factors for Barrett’s esophagus, chronic blood loss diaphragmatic hernia, as well as a congenital short and iron-deficiency anemia , vertebral fracture , esophagus. atherosclerosis, as well as esophageal and laryngeal neo- The sliding hiatal diaphragmatic hernia is the most plasms . commontypeseenonthelevelofesophagealhiatusandis The second type of hiatal hernia is the paraesophageal characterized by the direct dislocation of the stomach one, morphologically characterized by the normal position cardia into the posterior mediastinum. Such anomaly is ofthecardiabuttheadjustedpartofthestomachfundusis observed in 80–90% of the abnormal translocations of the slided superiorly through the esophageal hiatus. The stomach through this foramen . Epidemiological data paraesophageal and mixed-form hernias—that combined suggest a strong geographical and socioeconomic-depen- sliding and paraesophageal features—have not been dent distribution of the disease. Its highest prevalence was extensively epidemiologically studied. Both types (II and observed in well-economically developed communities of III according to Akerlund) are observed less often the North America and the Europe, where the incidence neverthelesstheirsurgicaltreatmentsignificantlyincreases reaches 15–20% of the adults. It increases with age, from morbidity and mortality . In advanced stage of the 10% in patients younger than 40 years to 70% in those mixed-form hernia, the whole stomach is located intra-
