SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178
KEYWORDS: stomach, hernia, abnormal, group, patients, fig, hiatal, organ, position, congenital, shape, poland, diaphragmatic, short, esophageal


age, from morbidity and mortality . In advanced stage of the 10% in patients younger than 40 years to 70% in those mixed-form hernia, the whole stomach is located intra- older than 70 years . However, much lower inci- thoracically (upside-down stomach hernia). Nowadays, dence (0.3%) was presently found among 637,518 Amer- prevalence of such anomaly increases especially in symp- icans by Hauer-Jensen et al. . Contrary to those data, tomaticpatients.According tothecurrentlypublished thediseaseisextremelyrareinruralAfricancommunities. data, a frequency of the intrathoracic stomach is about 52 Such abnormal stomach position was revealed in four out per one million persons. Thedisease isstrongly associated of 1,030 examined Nigerians , one of 1,000 Kenyans with age, and affects especially elderly people ([65 year), andoneof700Tanzanians.Alowincidencewas more commonly blacks than whites . 176 SurgRadiolAnat(2012)34:171–178 Table2 DifferencesbetweenthecongenitalandacquiredshortesophagusbasedonPeters Congenitalshortesophagus Acquiredshortesophagus Gastricconeinthechestusuallyhighandbulky Gastricconeinthechestsmall(upto3cmonaverage) Associatedwithdigestionesophagusinsquamouspartoftennot Sufficientfibrosispresentforfixationofthehiatalherniawith ofexcessivelyfibroustype,i.e.insufficientfibrosistofixan permanentshortening(usuallywithstricture) acquiredgastricthoracicpouch Gastricconemaynotbecoveredbyperitoneumoronlyinpart Gastricconehasnormalperitonealcovering Phrenicoesophagealligamentmaybeattachedwellbelowthe Phrenicoesophagealligamentattachedroughlyatorabove squama-glandularjunction(Z-line) thesquama-glandularjunction(Z-line) Hiatusoftenverylargeandcircular Hiatususuallyonlyslightlyenlargedandellipticalshape usuallypreserved Anomalousmicroscopicstructuremaybedemonstrable Noanomaliesofmicroscopicstructure Deepesophagealmucousglandsinthesubmucosabelowthegastric epithelium Squamousisletsembeddedinthegastricepithelium Glandularepithelium(abovetheinsertionoftheelasticligament)usually cardiacintype,sometimesfundalwithoxynticcells Commonlyassociatedwithothercongenitalmalformations(e.g.kidney Nospecialassociationswithmalformations hipoplasia,digitalabnormalities)ordevelopmentalvariations(e.g.ileal diverticula) The last type of the hiatal hernia is the congenital short humans , in which a strong correlation with genetic esophagus. According to the classic description by Peters (SonicHedgehog—Shhgenepathways)andenvironmental , it significantly differs from the acquired type that is factors were found . Furthermore, the disease is more always associated with the sliding diaphragmatic hernia common in males and whites. It commonly complicated (Table 2). The incidence of the developmental anomaly is respiratory distress, pulmonary hypoplasia, and less fre- estimated as 3–14% of all patients that undergo antireflux quently, pleural effusion, esophageal reflux, patent ductus surgery and 0.084% of the general population . arteriosus, atrial and ventricular septal defects, as well as Allanomalieslistedabovehavetobedistinguishedfrom congenital infections, acidosis and neonatal jaundice . congenital or acquired diaphragmatic hernia, in which the The second subgroup of abnormal position of the stomachwithorwithoutotherabdominalorgansentersthe stomach along the long axis ofthe organ is various degree thoracic cavity through diaphragmatic openings other than rotations of the stomach, which are secondary to the mal- the esophageal hiatus. Most frequently they are enlarged rotation of the gastrointestinal tract that normally took sternocostal and lumbocostal triangles or pathological place in an early stage of the prenatal life . They openings that are secondary to diaphragmatic injuries or include:lack,incomplete(\90o)orover-rotation([90o)of theirabnormaldevelopment.Thecongenitaldiaphragmatic thestomach.Whenthelesionsarelimitedtothestomachor hernia occurs one in every 2,500 live births, and in about other part of the gut, they may be asymptomatic . 30% of spontaneous abortions . The posterolateral Clinically, abnormal rotation of the stomach without
