The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


ABSTRACT Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by progressive pancreatic beta-cell loss resulting in insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia. Exogenous insulin therapy is essential to prevent fatal complications from hyperglycemia. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and its long-term follow up, the Epidemiology of Diabetes and its Complications study, demonstrated that stringent glycemic control with intensive insulin therapy can prevent or postpone progression of microvascular disease and reduce risk for macrovascular disease and all-cause mortality. In addition, data obtained from the T1D Exchange, a registry of T1D patients founded in 2010, has become an invaluable resource for scientists worldwide, facilitating collaboration and accelerating understanding of prevailing diabetes practices. Insulin therapy using rapid- and long-acting insulin analogs is the mainstay of management of T1D. Insulin delivery is achieved subcutaneously using multiple daily injections or subcutaneous insulin infusion using insulin pumps. Effective management also involves use of self-monitoring of blood glucose using improved blood glucose meters, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices, and newer insulin pumps with integrated sensor-augmented systems. Addressing psychosocial aspects of T1D plays a crucial role in effective disease management. Strategies to manage T1D are rapidly evolving. In addition to newer insulins, adjunctive non-insulin therapies such as use of incretin agents and SGLT-2 and combination SGLT-1/2 inhibitors are being actively pursued. CGM technology combined with glucose prediction algorithms has allowed for the development of artificial pancreas delivery systems. Cellular replacement options include pancreas and islet cell transplantation which can restore euglycemia but are limited by donor availability and the need for chronic immunosuppression. Newer strategies under development include islet cell encapsulation techniques, which might obviate the need for immunosuppression. Smart-insulin delivery systems, capable of releasing insulin depending on ambient glucose, are also being evaluated. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . HISTORY OF TYPE 1 DIABETES TREATMENTS Insulin Therapy The discovery of insulin in 1921-22 was one of the greatest medical breakthroughs in history ( 1 ) ( Figure 1 ). Initial work at the University of Toronto allowed for pancreatic extracts to be used to decrease blood glucoses in diabetic dogs. Developments by the pharmaceutical industry allowed for the large-scale commercial insulin production in 1923 ( 2 ). Individuals, mostly children with type 1 diabetes (T1D), whose life expectancies were measured in months were now able to prevent fatal ketoacidosis by taking injections of crude “soluble” (later
