The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


). Individuals, mostly children with type 1 diabetes (T1D), whose life expectancies were measured in months were now able to prevent fatal ketoacidosis by taking injections of crude “soluble” (later known as regular) insulin. However, problems were soon noted. Hypoglycemia, occasionally life-threatening, was encountered as diabetes monitoring by urine testing for glycosuria was crude at best during those first decades after the discovery of insulin. The insulin itself was often impure and varied in potency from lot to lot. Allergic reactions were common and occasionally anaphylaxis would occur. Even more concerning was the appreciation that these patients often succumbed to chronic vascular complications which either dramatically reduced quality of life or resulted in a fatal cardiovascular event. Tools to manage individuals with T1D improved over the decades since the discovery of insulin. Initial insulins were manufactured from bovine or porcine pancreata and production techniques became more efficient. Insulins with longer duration of action were first introduced in the 1930s, and over time purity and consistency of potency of these insulins improved ( 3 ). Nevertheless, “standard” animal insulins prior to 1980 contained 300-10000 parts per million of impurities, and elicited local and systemic effects when injected. Present day insulins sold in the United States today all contain less than 1 part per million of impurities. Major improvements in insulin were developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s. First, not only was “purified” insulin introduced, but in 1982 the first human insulin was marketed both by Eli Lilly (recombinant DNA technology) and Novo (semi-synthetic methodology). These insulins were available as short-acting (regular) and longer-acting (Neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH), lente, and ultralente) preparations. The other major advance with insulin therapy was with the delivery by the first continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) pumps. While pumps were initially touted as providing less variable insulin absorption, the use of CSII had a greater impact: both patients and clinicians used this tool to teach themselves how to best use “basal bolus” insulin therapy, a strategy that would become a standard of care after the beginning of the next century with the development of insulin analogs. Figure 1. Time line of the evolution of insulin therapy. Figure source ref 3 . Monitoring Tools At the same time as the development of human insulin and insulin pumps, improvements in glucose monitoring were introduced. Although there was initial skepticism if home blood glucose monitoring would be accepted
