The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


same time as the development of human insulin and insulin pumps, improvements in glucose monitoring were introduced. Although there was initial skepticism if home blood glucose monitoring would be accepted by patients with diabetes, history has confirmed that this technology has revolutionized diabetes management and has allowed patients to titrate blood glucose to normal or near-normal levels. While self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) allowed immediate evaluation of diabetes management, the introduction of hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c, or glycated hemoglobin, A1C) around the same time was used as a marker of objective longer-term (about 90 days) glucose control. When hemoglobin is exposed to glucose in the bloodstream, the glucose slowly becomes nonenzymatically bound to the hemoglobin in a concentration-dependent manner. The percentage of hemoglobin molecules that are glycated (have glucose bound to it) indicates what the average blood glucose concentration has been over the life of the red blood cell. Perhaps as importantly, A1C made it possible for researchers to study the effects of long-term glucose control and the development of vascular complications. New students of diabetes may now find it difficult to appreciate that one of the greatest medical controversies between the discovery of insulin and the early 1990s was the relationship between glucose control and diabetes complications. Improved insulins, pumps, SMBG, and A1C finally allowed this question to be properly studied. THE DIABETES CONTROL AND COMPLICATIONS TRIAL In 1993, all controversy regarding the impact of glucose control and vascular complications was dramatically answered with the publication of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) ( 4 ). The trial showed definitively that stringent blood glucose control (for an average of 6.5 years) could slow or postpone the progression of retinal, renal, and neurological complications in individuals with T1D ( Figure 2 ). In patients treated with “intensive therapy”—that is, therapy aimed at maintaining blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible—the risk of developing diabetic retinopathy was reduced by 76%, diabetic neuropathy by 60%, and diabetic nephropathy by 54%, compared with conventionally treated patients. Other benefits of intensive diabetes management include improved lipid profiles, reduced risk factors for macrovascular disease, and better maternal and fetal health. Since the DCCT was completed in 1993, the research subjects have been followed in an observational study called Epidemiology of Diabetes and its Complications (EDIC) ( 5 ). It was soon observed that the impact of this improved diabetes therapy for an average
