The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


in an observational study called Epidemiology of Diabetes and its Complications (EDIC) ( 5 ). It was soon observed that the impact of this improved diabetes therapy for an average of 6.5 years (maintaining a A1C of approximately 7% with multiple injections or CSII compared to once or twice daily insulin and a A1C of approximately 9%) had long-lasting effects. Termed “metabolic memory”, there continued to be improvements in microvascular complications four years after the DCCT ended ( Figure 3 ) ( 6 - 8 ). Despite the fact that A1C levels remained about 8% for both groups after the DCCT, the risk reduction for nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or death were reduced by 57% eleven years after the conclusion of the formal study. The conclusions of this are profound since this was the first study to report a reduction of macrovascular disease with glucose control. Furthermore, these data confirmed the need to control blood glucose as meticulously as possible early in the course of the disease ( 9 ). Figure 2. Relationship between microvascular complications and A1C in T1D Figure 3. Cumulative incidence of further 3-step progression of retinopathy from DCCT closeout to EDIC study year 10 (adjusted for retinopathy level at DCCT end, cohort, entry A1C, baseline diabetes duration). From reference ( 10 ). TYPE 1 DIABETES EXCHANGE Compared with treatment methods used in the DCCT over 20 years ago, many new tools and technologies have now become available that enable patients and clinicians to attain target A1C levels more safely. Rapid- and long-acting insulin analogs, improved blood glucose meters, newer insulin pumps with integrated sensor-augmented systems and with automatic threshold suspend capabilities and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices now play an integral part of T1D management. To evaluate how these advances in diabetes technology have impacted glycemic control in T1D, a broad-based, large-scale, multisite registry that includes patients at all ages across the life span in the U.S. was established in 2010 through a grant from the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. Called the T1D Exchange, this registry aims to provide an expansive data set to address important clinical and public health issues related to T1D. It comprises three complementary sections: i) a clinic network of adult and pediatric diabetes clinics; ii) a Web site called Glu, serving as an online community for patients; and iii) a biobank to store biological human samples for
