The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


network of adult and pediatric diabetes clinics; ii) a Web site called Glu, serving as an online community for patients; and iii) a biobank to store biological human samples for use by researchers. A statistical resource center provides statistical support to the Exchange as well as other T1D researchers. The data have provided information about various aspects of T1D, including metabolic control and management, in the United States and the opportunity to compare this data with registries from Europe and Australia ( 11 ). The clinic registry has provided valuable information regarding the state of T1D management and outcomes and allowed for addressing important clinical and public health issues. Registry data also have helped identify knowledge gaps leading to further advancements in clinical trials and epidemiologic research with over 47 publications as of March 2019 ( 12 ). Currently there are over 35,000 patients enrolled in the registry, ranging in age from 1 - 93 years, with a duration of diabetes ranging from 1.5 to 83 years, 50% female, 82% were non-Hispanic white ( 13 ). Most recent data from the registry revealed that mean A1C in adults over age 30 ranged from 7.5-7.8%, which is lower than the value of 8% observed in the DCCT ( 14 ). However mean A1C levels increased in teens and emerging adults from 8.5% to 9.3%. Insulin pump use was observed in 63% of individuals. CGM use increased exponentially from 2010-12 to 2016-18 from 7% to 30%, with most participants using the Dexcom system (77%). CGM use increased significantly in the pediatric population. Many patients in the registry were able to achieve target A1C levels without an increase in the frequency of serious hypoglycemia as was observed in the DCCT. Use of adjunctive non-insulin glucose-lowering therapies was low overall and primarily included metformin, in 6% of adult participants over age 26 years. CURRENT TECHNOLOGY IN TYPE 1 DIABETES Glucose Meters Current blood glucose monitoring systems (BGMS) are small electronic devices capable of analyzing glucose levels in capillary whole blood. To test blood glucose levels, patients are required to prick a finger using a lancing device to obtain a small drop of blood. The patient then places the drop of blood onto a glucose test strip, which has been previously inserted into the glucose meter. Typically, just a few seconds are required for the device to provide a blood glucose value. BGMS use enzymatic
