The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


test strip, which has been previously inserted into the glucose meter. Typically, just a few seconds are required for the device to provide a blood glucose value. BGMS use enzymatic reactions to provide estimates of blood glucose levels and the enzymes utilized include glucose oxidase, glucose dehydrogenase and hexokinase. The specific enzyme is usually packaged in a dehydrated form in a glucose test strip. Once blood is applied to the test strip, glucose in the patient’s blood sample rehydrates the enzyme activating a reaction. The product of this reaction can then be detected and measured by the glucose meter ( 15 ). Notably, the advent of point-of-care BGMS has revolutionized diabetes care by allowing patients and practitioners to obtain real-time estimates of blood glucose values. These portable devices enabled patients to perform self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG), an integral component of effective diabetes self-management. The benefits of SMBG were confirmed during the DCCT which showed that intensive insulin therapy, requiring SMBG≥4 times/day with concomitant insulin dose titration, delayed the onset and slowed the progression of microvascular complications ( 4 ). Later, it was shown in the T1D Exchange that a higher frequency of testing (up to 10 times daily) is inversely associated with A1C levels in all age groups ( 16 ). SMBG allows patients to guide management decisions (e.g., adjusting food intake, insulin therapy, and exercise) and determine whether glucose targets are being achieved. Further, it can help patients in monitoring and preventing asymptomatic hypoglycemia ( 17 ). Patients with T1D should perform SMBG at a minimum of 4 times a day (before meals and at bedtime), as this will allow adjustments to prandial and basal insulin doses. In addition, SMBG should be considered prior to snacks, before and at completion of exercise, in the event of symptoms suggestive of hypoglycemia, and after treating hypoglycemia until blood glucose levels have normalized. Lastly, patients should test their blood glucose before performing critical tasks such as driving a motor vehicle or operating heavy machinery. Ultimately, frequency of SMBG will largely depend on patients’ individual needs ( 17 ). An important point to make, however, is that patients should also be educated on avoiding “overuse” of SMBG. Testing too frequently may lead to administration of multiple correction doses within short periods of time, particularly if patients are anxious about their glucose levels not returning to target “fast enough”, leading to insulin “stacking”
