The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


to administration of multiple correction doses within short periods of time, particularly if patients are anxious about their glucose levels not returning to target “fast enough”, leading to insulin “stacking” and resulting in iatrogenic hypoglycemia. The technology of BGMS has evolved over the years and current devices are relatively easy to use and require minimal amounts of blood ( Figure 4 ). Some instruments are able to capture events affecting glucose control (e.g., exercise, meals, insulin administration), provide customized reports, and calculate insulin bolus needs according to glycemia and intake of carbohydrate based on pre-established settings (i.e., insulin sensitivity factor and insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios). However, despite these unique advances in self-monitoring of blood glucose, independent analytic testing has shown that various BGMS do not fulfill the accuracy requirements set by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 151917 which requires for ≥95% of results to fall within ± 15 mg/dL of the reference result for samples with glucose concentrations <100 mg/dL and ±15% for samples with glucose concentrations ≥100 mg/dL ( 18 ). In addition, the FDA has stated that the ISO 15197 criteria are not sufficient to adequately protect lay-users of SMBGs because, for example, the standard does not adequately address the performance of over-the-counter blood glucose testing systems in the hypoglycemic range or across test strip lots. In view of this, the FDA has developed the “Self-Monitoring Blood Glucose Test Systems for Over-the-Counter use” guidance document which is intended to guide manufacturers in conducting appropriate performance studies and preparing 510(k) submissions for these device types (https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/self-monitoring-blood-glucose-test-systems-over-counter-use). Thus, there is a pressing need for high quality standards to ensure improved accuracy and precision from BGMS. SMBG has important drawbacks since blood is only sampled intermittently and therefore only glimpses of blood glucose concentrations are provided. SMBG does not offer information on glucose fluctuations even if performed frequently. Thus, there is potential for missing episodes of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia. Figure 4. Examples of a few blood glucose monitoring systems. Glucose Downloads The vast majority of currently available BGMS allow the generation of downloadable reports. These reports are a unique component of the patients’ evaluation allowing the identification of areas that require special attention in diabetes management. However, technical difficulties often compromise the usefulness of these data. For instance, it is not unusual for the date and/or time of the glucose meters to be inaccurate. Simple errors such as these have a huge
