The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


usefulness of these data. For instance, it is not unusual for the date and/or time of the glucose meters to be inaccurate. Simple errors such as these have a huge impact on patient management as the data downloaded becomes largely uninterpretable. In addition, as each glucose meter usually has its own proprietary software, if a clinic does not have the specific software installed on their local computers, then the data may not be downloaded. The clinician is left with trying to review the data directly from the device, which is time consuming and does not offer the detailed overview from a customized printable report. There are platforms that are currently available which allow downloading various glucose meters, insulin pumps and CGM data and provide standardized reports (e.g., Clinipro®, Diasend ® , Carelink®, Glooko ® ). However, there needs to be a unified effort by BGMS, insulin pump, and CGM companies in order to generate a universal download protocol as this would simplify data analysis and interpretation by practitioners ( 19 ). Continuous Glucose Monitoring Perhaps the most innovative technology for the treatment of T1D is the introduction of CGM ( Figure 5 ). CGM technology allows for the measurement of glucose concentrations in the interstitial fluid (ISF) which correlates with plasma glucose values. However, when interpreting CGM values it is important to understand that ISF glucose consistently lags plasma glucose. A study in healthy adults analyzing glucose tracers following an overnight fast showed that it takes 5-6 minutes for glucose to be transported from the vascular to the interstitial space (physiological delay) ( 20 ). This is particularly relevant when glucose levels are trending up or down quickly as CGM data will not be as reliable in such scenarios and thus patients should confirm the direction of their glucose concentration by SMBG. The components of CGM consist of a sensor that is inserted subcutaneously, a small electronic device that serves as the platform for the sensor, a transmitter, and a receiver device, which can be a standalone device or a smartphone ( Figure 5 ). CGM Sensors can measure glucose levels up to every minute allowing for a glucose tracing to be generated and displayed in real-time (RT-CGM) on a receiver device, greatly improving the understanding of patients’ glucose profiles. Further, with the exception of the Guardian TM Connect system (Medtronic) which is pending approval, currently available CGM devices have
