The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


receiver device, greatly improving the understanding of patients’ glucose profiles. Further, with the exception of the Guardian TM Connect system (Medtronic) which is pending approval, currently available CGM devices have obtained FDA approval for non-adjunctive use which means that patients can rely on their CGM values in order to guide management decisions ( 21 ). Patients can customize alarms to activate for hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Understanding the trend allows patients to decide whether an increase or decrease in mealtime insulin dose is necessary. CGM thus also allows patients to intercept hypoglycemia (or hyperglycemia) prior to it occurring. Patients can also “flag” events thereby improving interpretation of glucose control associated with meals, insulin administration, and exercise. Also, most CGM devices allow users to share their RT-CGM data with others (e.g., family members or friends) which can then be monitored on a smartphone or other internet-enabled devices. This is of particular interest in the pediatric population as it allows parents to remotely monitor their child’s glucose profile when away from home or while exercising (e.g., participating in sports). Features of currently available CGM devices are listed in Figure 6 . Based on how the CGM data is delivered to the user, current CGM devices fall under 2 categories: Flash glucose monitoring (or intermittently scanned glucose monitoring) and Real-time glucose monitoring. FLASH GLUCOSE MONITORING Flash glucose monitoring requires the user to hold a reader device (which can be a smart phone) close to the subcutaneously inserted sensor (the patient “scans” the sensor with the reader) to have the real-time interstitial glucose value displayed. During a scan, the reader displays the real time glucose value, glucose alerts, a historic glucose trend of values recorded and a trend arrow indicating the glucose direction ( 22 ) . There are currently 2 approved Flash CGM devices for patient use, the FreeStyle Libre 14 day and the FreeStyle Libre 2 ( Figure 5 ). The Libre 14 days allows for real-time data sharing but is limited by the lack of alarms in case glucose values are dangerously high or low. Nonetheless, this device may be appealing to those patients who want to minimize capillary blood glucose measurements and complain of CGM sensor alarm fatigue ( 23 , 24 ). On the other hand, the Libre 2 has optional real-time glucose alarms but currently it requires a dedicated stand-alone receiver (data cannot be sent to a smartphone) and
