The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


24 ). On the other hand, the Libre 2 has optional real-time glucose alarms but currently it requires a dedicated stand-alone receiver (data cannot be sent to a smartphone) and it does not have the capability of real-time data sharing. REAL-TIME GLUCOSE MONITORING Real-time glucose monitoring allows for data to be continuously sent to a receiver device and apart from viewing the display to check glucose levels and the direction of glucose profile, no additional action is required by the patient. Further, real-time CGM systems provide real-time alerts which can be customized to prevent or treat hyper or hypoglycemia. In addition, all currently approved real-time CGMs allow for data sharing. Another advantage of CGM is the amount of data that can be generated and downloaded in customizable reports ( Figure 7 ). Health care professionals are not only able to download daily glucose profiles in a graphic display but can also obtain several statistics including means, medians, standard deviations, interquartile ranges, and minimum and maximum values. This provides a better assessment of glycemic variability ( Figure 8 ). Most importantly, time in glucose ranges can be identified and evaluated. This is particularly helpful in patients who have hypoglycemia unawareness and allows for adjusting the treatment plan by both the patient and practitioners to eliminate occurrence of hypoglycemia. KEY CGM METRICS Key CGM metrics include: Time in target range (TIR) defined as the percentage of readings and time per day within the recommended target glucose range of 70-180 mg/dL; time below target glucose range (TBR); and time above target glucose range (TAR) (see Figures 7 and 9 for examples). Current recommendations are to achieve TIR >70% (>16 h, 48 min), TBR <4% (<1 h) and TAR <25% (<6 h). However, recommendations are different for older adults/high-risk populations and during pregnancy ( 25 ). In addition to time in glucose ranges, CGM data has also allowed to generate a formula to estimate the laboratory A1C based on CGM mean glucose levels. This estimated A1C has been named “Glucose Management Indicator” and offers the advantage of being unaltered by limitations inherent to the laboratory A1C measurement (e.g., anemia, iron deficiency, glycation abnormalities, drug interference). The enormous amount of data generated by CGMs can be overwhelming and difficult to follow and interpret and the need for a standardized report is critical for data interpretation and medical decision making. The Ambulatory Glucose Profile is a
