The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


be overwhelming and difficult to follow and interpret and the need for a standardized report is critical for data interpretation and medical decision making. The Ambulatory Glucose Profile is a standardized report which incorporates all the core CGM metrics and recommended targets along with a 14-day composite glucose profile and is the recommended report by the International Consensus on Time in Range ( Figure 9 ) ( 25 , 26 ). Figure 5. Examples of real-time continuous glucose monitoring systems. Figure 6. Features of currently approved CGM devices in the United States. Figure 7. A 14-day DEXCOM CGM overview report showing sensor glucose data over a 24-hour period including mean (dotted line), standard deviation, glucose management indicator, interquartile range (grey bars), upper and lower glucose thresholds (orange and red lines, set by the user), percent time in range, sensor usage, top patterns, and average daily calibrations. Figure 8. A 7-day DEXCOM CGM overlay report showing daily profiles allowing for the identification of trends and patterns. Figure 9. Ambulatory Glucose Profile (AGP) sample. INSURANCE COVERAGE AND BILLING OF CGM DEVICES Insurance coverage in the United States for devices is highly variable and challenging to navigate, and maybe unaffordable for some patients due to high copays or coverage issues. (These coverage requirements vary depending upon geographic area; practitioners are urged to follow guidelines in their country of practice). Understanding requirements for prescribing any CGM device is necessary and appropriate documentation is necessary. For individuals on Medicare to receive approval for a CGM device, documentation must include the following (as of 2021): 1. The patient has diabetes mellitus and requires a therapeutic CGM. 2. The patient is performing SMBG at least 4 times daily (Medicare only provides 3 test strips daily). 3. The patient is treated with insulin and is injecting insulin at least 3 times daily or is on an insulin pump. 4. The patient’s insulin treatment regimen requires frequent dose adjustment based on SMBG/CGM results. 5. The patient had an in-person visit within 6 months prior to ordering the CGM with the treating practitioner to evaluate their diabetes and determine that criteria 1 to 4 are met. Subsequently, the patient must have an in-person visit every 6 months following the initial prescription to assess adherence to CGM and diabetes treatment plan. There are billing codes for analyzing data from CGM devices. The patient visit should include certain key elements that need
