The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


prescription to assess adherence to CGM and diabetes treatment plan. There are billing codes for analyzing data from CGM devices. The patient visit should include certain key elements that need to be clearly documented in the chart as follows: 1. A brief statement or narrative that the glucose sensor data were evaluated 2. What patterns were noted 3. Action steps and plan based on data interpretation provided to the patient 4. Electronic or print of data report should be attached to the patient chart CGM Integrated Insulin Pumps As seen in Figure 10 , some sensors are already integrated with insulin pumps (“sensor-augmented pumps”) so that the pump and receiver are in the same device. In addition, development of an integrated sensor and infusion set is currently being pursued, as this will simplify the incorporation of sensor technology into insulin pumps. Eventually, it is expected that all insulin pumps will be integrated with sensors. Yet, it should be appreciated that CGM is an equally important tool for MDI patients, and probably a more important diabetes management tool than using an insulin pump ( 21 ). Even after short periods of time, many patients can learn how to best use this technology to improve both mean glucose and glycemic variability. In a meta-analysis, comparing SMBG with RT-CGM, the latter achieved a lower A1C (between-group difference of change, -0.26%, (95% CI, -0.33% to -0.19%)) without increasing hypoglycemia ( 27 ). In the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s CGM trial, those individuals starting with baseline A1C levels under 7% overall had less hypoglycemia with CGM ( 28 ). A recent analysis of the T1D registry data suggests that CGM users, irrespective of insulin delivery method – i.e. multiple daily injections vs. pump therapy – had lower A1C levels than non-CGM users even after adjustment for confounding factors ( 29 ). The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology recommend the use of CGM for patients with T1D particularly for those with a history of severe hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia unawareness, and to assist in correction of hyperglycemia in patients not at goal. It may also be considered in pregnancy as it can help fine-tune insulin dosing, monitor for overnight hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia, and assess occurrence of postprandial hyperglycemia ( 30 ). The Endocrine Society guidelines on CSII Therapy and Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Adults recommend the use of RT-CGM for adult patients with
