The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


assess occurrence of postprandial hyperglycemia ( 30 ). The Endocrine Society guidelines on CSII Therapy and Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Adults recommend the use of RT-CGM for adult patients with T1D who either have A1C levels above target or well-controlled T1D and are willing and able to use these devices on a nearly daily basis ( 31 ). Figure 10. Examples of modern-day insulin pumps. OVERVIEW OF THERAPY FOR TYPE 1 DIABETES Glycemic Targets A1C is a measure of average glycemia over ~3 months and is a strong predictor of complications of diabetes ( 32 ). Current glycemic targets for adults from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) include a target A1C of <7%. However, it should be noted that this recommendation is a general target and the goal for the individual patient is as close to normal as possible (A1C of < 6%) without significant hypoglycemia. In addition, patients with T1D and hypoglycemia unawareness, long duration (> 25-30 years) of disease, limited life expectancies, very young children, or those with co-morbid conditions will require higher A1C targets. Individualized A1C targets need to be reviewed with each patient ( 17 ). Thus, A1C testing should be performed routinely in all patients with diabetes as part of ongoing care. Frequency of A1C testing is determined based on the clinical situation, the treatment regimen used, and the clinician’s judgment. A1C measurements every 3 months help in the assessment of whether a patient’s glycemic targets have been reached. Although convenient, there are drawbacks to A1C measurements, as glycation rates may vary with patients’ race/ethnicity. Similarly, in patients with hemoglobinopathies, hemolytic anemia or other conditions that shorten the red blood cell life span, the A1C may not accurately reflect glycemic control or correlate with SMBG testing results. In such conditions, fructosamine may be considered as a substitute measure of long-term (average over 4 weeks) glycemic control. Clinicians should routinely compare downloaded SMBG or CGM averages with A1C as there are many reasons A1C may be altered due to a non-glycemic etiology and thus fructosamine or the downloaded glucose data itself would be a better metric to follow ( 33 ). Non-Glycemic Treatment Targets It should also be pointed out that in addition to glycemic targets, specific non-glycemic targets have also been recommended ( 34 ). Non-glycemic targets should also be tailored according to the individual with less stringent treatment goals for individuals with multiple coexisting
