The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


specific non-glycemic targets have also been recommended ( 34 ). Non-glycemic targets should also be tailored according to the individual with less stringent treatment goals for individuals with multiple coexisting illnesses and/or poor health and limited life expectancy. Recent real-world data from the T1D Exchange revealed that the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) over 4.6 years was ~3.7% ( 35 ). Age, longer duration of diabetes, glycemic control, obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and diabetic nephropathy were all associated with increased risk for CVD. BLOOD PRESSURE Good quality data to guide blood pressure management in T1D is lacking and most data are extrapolated from type 2 diabetes (T2D) clinical trials. The ADA recommends treatment to a goal of <140/90 mmHg for individuals with diabetes and hypertension at lower risk for CVD. Lower targets of <130/80 mmHg, should be considered for individuals who have higher cardiovascular risk or pre-existing ASCVD. Antihypertensive therapy should be initiated using a drug class that has demonstrated cardiovascular benefit such as angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), thiazide-like diuretics, or dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. ACE inhibitors or ARBs are the preferred first line treatment for individuals with albuminuria. LIPIDS Very limited data exists for lipid management in patients with T1D of any age. Limited evidence suggests that primary prevention with lipid-lowering medications decreases the incidence of CVD ( 36 ). The ADA has adopted the approach of the 2018 American College of Cardiology/ American Heart Association multi-society cholesterol guidelines and recommends similar statin approaches for individuals with T1D ( 34 ). All patients with T1D and CVD should be treated with high intensity statins. Addition of non-statin therapies such as ezetimibe and PCSK9 inhibitors should be considered based on overall risk and achieved LDL-C thresholds. Patients with T1D over the age of 40 should be offered statin therapy. In individuals younger than age 40 with T1D and additional risk factors (such as albuminuria, HTN, strong family history, long duration of diabetes >20 years), moderate intensity statin therapy should be considered after clinical discussion. Recently, a prediction model for CVD events in T1D to help decision making for primary prevention that has been developed and shows promise but needs further validation ( 37 ). There is new evidence of the contribution of cardiac autoimmunity to CVD in T1D in the DCCT/EDIC cohort that warrants further investigation ( 38 ). INSULIN THERAPY Insulin therapy is the cornerstone
