The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


new evidence of the contribution of cardiac autoimmunity to CVD in T1D in the DCCT/EDIC cohort that warrants further investigation ( 38 ). INSULIN THERAPY Insulin therapy is the cornerstone of management of T1D as beta cell dysfunction or destruction progressively leads to absolute insulin deficiency. Physiologic insulin replacement that aims to mimic normal pancreatic insulin secretion is the preferred method of treatment of T1D patients. Basal insulin is the background insulin required to suppress hepatic glucose production overnight and between meals. Prandial (bolus or meal-time) insulin replacement, provides enough insulin to dispose of glucose after eating. Such a therapeutic insulin regimen providing both basal and bolus insulin allows flexibility of dosing. Older twice-daily combination of regular and NPH regimens generally should not be used in T1D as they are less effective since the time-action profile of these two standard insulins do not readily allow for the clear separation of basal and prandial insulin action. However, it may be necessary to use such regimens in patients who cannot otherwise afford insulin. It also should be pointed out that for newly diagnosed patients with T1D, transient use of once- or twice-daily basal injections is sometimes adequate. Principles of Management of T1DM Management of T1D involves a multidisciplinary framework that includes the following: i. Physiologic insulin replacement using basal-bolus therapy, either as MDI or CSII ii. Blood glucose monitoring with SMBG and/or CGM with development of individualized A1c goals iii. Patient education iv. A supportive team of providers including endocrinologists, nurses, certified diabetes care and education specialists (CDCES)s, pharmacists, psychologists, dietitians, social workers, other specialists such as cardiologists, nephrologists, psychiatrists as well as family members, social support groups etc. Types of Insulin Selecting the appropriate insulin depends largely on the desired time course of insulin action. Table 1 shows the pharmacokinetic characteristics—time to onset of action, time of peak action, effective duration of action, and maximum duration of action—of currently available insulins; however, these can vary considerably among individuals. Insulin products are categorized according to their action profiles: Rapid-acting: e.g., insulin lispro, insulin aspart, and insulin glulisine (genetically engineered insulin analogs) Short-acting: regular (soluble) insulin Intermediate-acting: NPH (isophane) Long-acting, e.g., insulin glargine, insulin detemir, and insulin degludec (genetically engineered insulin analogs) Pre-mixed insulin Inhaled insulin Insulin analogs are insulin molecules modified by genetic engineering and recombinant DNA technology. The amino acid structure of insulin is altered to change the properties of insulin
