The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


insulin Inhaled insulin Insulin analogs are insulin molecules modified by genetic engineering and recombinant DNA technology. The amino acid structure of insulin is altered to change the properties of insulin – i.e., time to onset, peak, and duration of action, compared to human regular insulin. However, the biological properties and stability of the insulin molecule are intact. A general principle to bear in mind is the longer the time to peak, the broader the peak and the longer the duration of action. Additionally, the breadth of the peak and the duration of action will be extended with increasing dose. Figure 11 should therefore be considered a conceptual representation of insulin action curves. Mealtime (Prandial) Insulins RAPID-ACTING INSULIN These are insulin analogs with a rapid onset in 15-30 minutes, peak in 30-90 minutes, and an effective duration of 4 to 5 hours when injected subcutaneously. They have a shorter time action profile compared to human (regular) insulin because they do not self-aggregate in solution. All rapid-acting insulin analogs have a 1 - 2 amino acid difference from the primary structure of human insulin. Insulin lispro differs from human insulin by an amino acid exchange of lysine and proline at positions B28 and B29 ( 39 ). The substitution of aspartic acid for proline at position B28 characterizes insulin aspart ( 40 ). Insulin glulisine differs from human insulin in that the B3 asparagine is replaced by lysine, and B29 lysine is replaced by glutamic acid ( 41 ). These modifications in the primary structure of human insulin increase the rapidity of breakdown of insulin hexamers in the analogs and thus result in more rapid absorption. When administered before meals, rapid-acting insulins used as part of multiple daily injections ( Figure 11 ) or with CSII, resemble physiologic insulin increases stimulated by food. Doses can be adjusted proportionate to food consumed; in patients with gastroparesis or poor appetite, insulin can be injected halfway through or after the meal. A follow-on biologic to insulin lispro (biosimilar lispro) is now available as Admelog. Ultra-rapid acting insulin aspart (Fiasp) available since 2018 is insulin aspart with added niacinamide. This results in quicker absorption with faster onset of action after injection and therefore can be injected right before the start of a meal (or within 20 minutes after the start of a meal). This allows for some flexibility of dosing. Safety and efficacy data in adults
