The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


right before the start of a meal (or within 20 minutes after the start of a meal). This allows for some flexibility of dosing. Safety and efficacy data in adults and children is similar to insulin aspart ( 42 ). Fiasp has recently also been approved for use in insulin pumps. Data in pregnant women is lacking. Recently, ultra-rapid acting lispro (lispro-aabc) has become available in several countries including the United States. This insulin has been shown to appear in the bloodstream within 1 minute of injection ( 43 ). Ultra-rapid acting lispro was found to be non-inferior to rapid-acting lispro and superior for postprandial blood glucose control in T1D and T2D ( 44 , 45 ). INHALED INSULIN Currently, one form of inhaled insulin is available in the market. Afrezza was approved by the FDA in 2014. This is a drug-device combination that contains powdered human insulin in single use dose cartridges delivered via a small inhaler. When inhaled, it dissolves immediately on contact with the alveolar surface of the lung and is rapidly absorbed into the systemic circulation, reaching a peak within 15 minutes. Thus, Afrezza acts similar to rapid-acting insulin analogs but with a much faster peak of action, and shorter duration of action. Prior to initiation of its use, patients should be screened for underlying lung disease with spirometry. Follow-up spirometry is recommended after 6 months’ use, and annually thereafter. The main advantages of inhaled insulin are avoidance of injections, faster onset of action, less weight gain, and less hypoglycemia ( 46 ). Dosing is not flexible as cartridges are available in fixed doses (4, 8 and 12 units). Afrezza is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). SHORT-ACTING INSULIN Regular insulin is structurally similar to endogenous human insulin. It consists of dissolved zinc-insulin crystals which self-aggregate in the subcutaneous tissue and results in a delayed onset of action of 30 to 60 minutes, a peak of 2 to 3 hours, and an effective duration of 6 to 8 hours. Proper use requires injection at least 20 to 30 minutes prior to meals to match insulin availability and carbohydrate absorption. Use of regular insulin is associated with greater hypoglycemia risk ( 47 ). Regular insulin acts almost instantly when injected intravenously. Basal Insulins INTERMEDIATE-ACTING INSULIN Neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin, developed in the 1950s, is a combination
