The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


greater hypoglycemia risk ( 47 ). Regular insulin acts almost instantly when injected intravenously. Basal Insulins INTERMEDIATE-ACTING INSULIN Neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin, developed in the 1950s, is a combination of recombinant human insulin with protamine which results in crystal formation. When injected subcutaneously, precipitated crystals of NPH insulin are released slowly resulting in a longer duration of action compared to regular insulin. Action of NPH varies quite widely within the same patient as well as between patients. Its onset of action occurs 2 to 4 hours from the time of injection, with a peak effect lasting 6 to 10 hours, and an effective duration of 10 to 16 hours. Due to this peak effect, NPH insulin acts as a basal and a prandial insulin, necessitating that patients eat a meal at the time the insulin is peaking. NPH typically requires twice a day dosing ( 48 ). LONG-ACTING INSULIN ANALOGS Long acting insulin analogs were created by modifying the amino acid sequence on the beta chain of insulin ( 49 ). They exhibit much improved pharmacokinetics and pharmocodynamics without a peak effect and maintain a longer duration of action. Improved absorption rates result in significantly decreased inter-individual and intra-individual variability with improvement in glycemic control and reduced hypoglycemia risk. Insulin glargine is a modified human insulin produced by the substitution of glycine for asparagine at position A21 of the insulin molecule and by the addition of two arginine molecules at position B30 ( 48 ). These changes result in an insulin molecule that is less soluble at the injection site forming a precipitate in the subcutaneous tissue to form a depot from which insulin is slowly released after injection and is slowly released into the circulation. It has no pronounced peak and a longer duration of action of about 20 to 24 hours in most patients, allowing for once daily dosing. In clinical practice, many patients with T1DM may benefit from twice-daily injections. Insulin glargine is solubilized in acidic pH and should not be mixed with rapid-acting insulins as the kinetics of both insulins will be altered. Insulin glargine shows a greater reduction in A1C and decreased hypoglycemia in patients with T1DM compared to NPH insulin ( 50 ). Insulin detemir is a soluble basal insulin analog. It is covalently acylated with fatty acids on the lysine at position B29, which allows for reversible binding to albumin ( 51
