The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


Insulin detemir is a soluble basal insulin analog. It is covalently acylated with fatty acids on the lysine at position B29, which allows for reversible binding to albumin ( 51 ). This delays its absorption from subcutaneous tissue and prolongs its time in the circulation. Although the mean duration of action of insulin detemir has been shown to be 24h, one study showed shorter duration of action (about 17h), which suggests that most patients with T1D may require twice-daily dosing of insulin detemir ( 52 ). ULTRALONG-ACTING INSULIN ANALOGS Insulin degludec is an ultra-long acting basal insulin available in the US since 2015 that has the same amino acid sequence as human insulin, apart from the deletion of the threonine amino acid residue at B30 and the addition of a fatty acid to the lysine at B29 ( 53 ). The fatty acid moiety causes self-aggregation of insulin molecules into soluble multihexamers. Slow dissociation of zinc from the insulin allows for gradual and stable absorption of insulin monomers resulting in a long half-life and a prolonged duration of action of 42 hours at steady state. In patients with T1D, similar A1C reduction with lower rates of nocturnal hypoglycemia have been reported with insulin degludec compared with insulin glargine ( 54 , 55 ). The extended duration of insulin degludec allows for more flexibility of day-to-day dose timing without compromising glycemic control or safety ( 56 ). U-300 glargine (Gla-300) is a formulation of insulin glargine that delivers the same number of insulin units as insulin glargine 100 units/mL (Gla-100), but in a third of the volume. The compact depot renders a smaller surface area of insulin glargine for a given dose, leading to a slower release of insulin glargine over time. This translates into a more constant PK/PD profile, with a prolonged duration of action (up to 30 hours) with Gla-300 compared with Gla-100 in patients with T1DM ( 57 ). Gla-300 has been shown to provide similar glucose control compared to Gla-100 with less weight gain and hypoglycemia ( 58 ). Pre-Mixed Insulins Premixed insulins are mixtures of prandial and intermediate acting insulins (the same prandial insulin attached to protamine so that it becomes intermediate acting). Insulin mixtures are available as human insulin mixtures (NPH and regular mixture) as well as analog mixtures. In the US, insulin lispro protamine mixtures are available in two forms: 75% insulin lispro protamine
