The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


available as human insulin mixtures (NPH and regular mixture) as well as analog mixtures. In the US, insulin lispro protamine mixtures are available in two forms: 75% insulin lispro protamine suspension and 25% insulin lispro injection (75/25) and 50% insulin lispro protamine suspension and 50% insulin lispro injection (50/50). Available preparations of insulin aspart protamine mixtures include 50/50 and 70/30 suspensions. A variety of other ratios are available in Europe. There is only one mixture of analog-analog without protamine (aspart 30% +degludec 70%, Ryzodeg). These insulin mixtures are typically administered before breakfast and dinner. This alleged twice daily dosing is the primary advantage of these insulins. In general, use of premixed insulins restricts adjustment of doses and meal timing. Therefore, premixed insulins are not recommended for adult patients with T1D, where intensive regimens with ability to make adjustments in the premeal short-acting insulin bolus are better suited for glycemic control. Premixed insulin in T1D could have benefit for some patients who do not adhere to an intensive insulin regimen, and with consistent food intake and timing of meals. Concentrated Insulins U-500 INSULIN U-500 insulin is highly concentrated regular insulin, administered 2-3 times a day without basal insulin. Due to its concentration, the action is prolonged and variable. In T1D, use is primarily limited to individuals with significant insulin resistance (requiring >200 units of insulin a day). Caution should be used while prescribing this insulin as confusion may occur among clinicians, pharmacists, nurses, and patients who are unfamiliar with its use. U-500 insulin is also available in a pen delivery system allowing patients to administer insulin by 5 units increments up to a maximum of 300 units at a time. Units to be delivered are clearly readable through the pen “dose window” which should minimize or eliminate confusion when administering this highly concentrated insulin formulation. CONCENTRATED INSULIN ANALOGS U-200 formulations of insulin lispro and insulin degludec are also available and allow for delivery of lower volumes and therefore better absorption. U-300 glargine is available in pen form and holds up to 900 units of insulin with dosing capability up to 160 units per dose. CONVERSION FROM U-100 TO CONCENTRATED INSULIN Switching from U-100 insulin to concentrated insulin may occasionally be necessary in the setting of severe insulin resistance and use of large amount of U-100 insulin. U-200 lispro is bioequivalent to U-100 lispro, and U-200 degludec is bioequivalent to U-100 degludec.
