The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


absorption variability is one of the greatest obstacles to replicating physiologic insulin secretion. Among the many factors that affect insulin absorption and availability ( Table 2 ) are injection site, the timing, type or dose of insulin used, and physical activity. Day-to-day intra-individual variation in insulin absorption is approximately 25%, and the variation between patients may be as high as 50%. This occurs more commonly with larger doses of human insulin which form a depot and can unpredictably prolong duration of action; however, this is less of an issue with rapid-acting insulin analogs. In general, any strategy that increases the consistency of delivery should decrease glucose fluctuations; and insulin regimens that emphasize rapid-acting insulin are more reproducible in their effects on blood glucose levels. Insulin pumps using a rapid-acting insulin analog can significantly reduce glucose variability. Like multiple-injection regimens, use of an insulin pump requires frequent blood glucose monitoring. In addition, pump users need a back-up method of insulin administration, and attention to mechanical and injection site issues. Reducing Variability of Insulin Absorption INJECTION SITES Subcutaneous insulin is absorbed most rapidly when injected into the abdomen, followed by the arms, buttocks and thighs. These differences are likely due to variations in regional blood flow. A single region should be utilized for injections without rotation between regions, as this may result in day-to-day variation of insulin absorption. However, while using a region, site rotation (i.e. – rotating injections systematically within the abdomen) is important to avoid development of lipohypertrophy or atrophy due to repeated injections at the same site. Injection into lipohypertrophic areas results in erratic, slower absorption of insulin. Exercise increases the rate of absorption from injection sites, likely by increasing blood flow to the skin; local effects may also be involved. TIMING OF PRE-MEAL INJECTIONS Gauging the appropriate interval between preprandial injections and eating, known as the “ lag time ,” is essential for coordinating insulin availability with glycemic excursions following meals. The timing of the injections should also be adapted to the level of premeal glycemia. Insulin lispro, insulin aspart, and insulin glulisine have rapid onset of action and, ideally, should be given approximately 10-20 minutes before mealtime when blood glucose is in the target range, keeping in mind that if the meal is delayed, hypoglycemia may ensue. When blood glucose levels are above a patient’s target range, the lag time should be increased to permit the insulin
