The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


mind that if the meal is delayed, hypoglycemia may ensue. When blood glucose levels are above a patient’s target range, the lag time should be increased to permit the insulin to begin to have an effect sooner. In this case, rapid-acting acting insulin analogs can be given 20-30 minutes before the meal, depending upon the degree of hyperglycemia. If premeal blood glucose levels are below target range, administration of rapid-acting insulin should be postponed until after some carbohydrates have been consumed. Use of frequent home glucose monitoring or CGM can assist in determining appropriate lag times. It is important to emphasize the effect of administering prandial insulin up to 20 minutes before a meal. Pre-bolusing has been shown to reduce post-prandial glucose spike by up to 50 mg/dL. OTHER FACTORS Exercise, as discussed earlier, results in increased blood flow to muscle groups and can increase rate of insulin absorption. Heat can also increase the rate at which insulin is absorbed from the skin. For example, being out in the sun or injection before going into a hot tub may lead to hypoglycemia. Intra-muscular injections result in a more rapid onset of action compared to subcutaneous tissue. This route can be utilized under certain situations such as ketoacidosis, insulin pump failure or in the event of profound hyperglycemia. Table 2. Factors Affecting the Bioavailability and Absorption Rate of Subcutaneously Injected Insulin View in own window Factor Effects Site of injection Abdominal injection (particularly if above the umbilicus) results in the quickest absorption; arm injection results in quicker absorption than thigh or hip injection. Depth of injection Intramuscular injections are absorbed more rapidly than subcutaneous injections. Insulin concentration U-40 insulin (40 units per mL) is absorbed more rapidly than U-100 insulin (100 units per mL). U-40 insulin is an old insulin formulation not available in the United States for patient use. Currently, it is used for treating canine and feline diabetes mellitus Insulin dose Higher doses have prolonged duration of action compared with lower doses. Insulin mixing Regular insulin maintains its potency and time-action profile when it is mixed with NPH insulin Exercise Exercising a muscle group before injecting insulin into that area Increases the rate of insulin absorption. Heat application or Massage Local application of heat or massage after an insulin injection increases the rate of insulin absorption. Role of Insulin Analogs in Management of T1D Most of the problems of
