The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


Massage Local application of heat or massage after an insulin injection increases the rate of insulin absorption. Role of Insulin Analogs in Management of T1D Most of the problems of insulin replacement in T1D arise from the fact that subcutaneous injection or pump infusion remains a relatively poor route of administration. From the subcutaneous site of injection, insulin is absorbed into the systemic, not portal circulation. More importantly, subcutaneous injection leads to variable absorption from one injection to another, due largely to the non-physiologic pharmacokinetics of standard insulins. Insulin analogs were developed to overcome this problem. Currently there are three rapid-acting insulin analogs: insulin lispro, insulin aspart, and insulin glulisine, all of which have a rapid onset of action and peak, thereby improving 1- to 2-hour postprandial blood glucose control compared with regular insulin. These rapid-acting analogs must be used in conjunction with a basal insulin to improve overall glycemic control ( Figures 11 and 12 ). Importantly, the rapid-acting analogs have consistently outperformed regular insulin in terms of post-absorptive hypoglycemia. This finding should not be surprising since the duration of regular insulin is much longer than the gut absorption of a typical mixed meal. Figure 12. Idealized insulin curves for prandial insulin with a rapid-acting analog (RAA) with basal insulin glargine or insulin detemir. Each insulin preparation is responsible for either the prandial or basal component. Many patients find the basal insulins do not last the entire 24 hours and they give the basal insulin twice daily. B=breakfast; L=lunch; S=supper; HS=bedtime Clinical trials have demonstrated lower fasting glucose levels and less nocturnal hypoglycemia with insulin glargine than with NPH insulin, advantages that are especially relevant in patients aiming for meticulous control (A1C <7%) or those with hypoglycemia unawareness. Trials with T1D have shown similar results with insulin detemir which compared with NPH insulin was equally effective in maintaining glycemic control, although detemir was administered at a higher molar dose. The newest basal insulin preparations, insulin degludec and U-300 insulin glargine are claimed to show less nocturnal hypoglycemia than insulin glargine or insulin detemir. In general, hypoglycemia is reduced with any of these basal analog insulins compared to NPH insulin. Since hypoglycemia is clearly one of the treatment-limiting aspects of T1D therapy, the use of these analogs has gained wide-spread acceptance. Multiple Daily Injection (MDI) Insulin Therapy A simpler conceptual approach preferred by most patients with T1D is using a
