The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


T1D therapy, the use of these analogs has gained wide-spread acceptance. Multiple Daily Injection (MDI) Insulin Therapy A simpler conceptual approach preferred by most patients with T1D is using a prandial insulin analog for each meal (i.e., insulin lispro, insulin aspart, or insulin glulisine) and a separate basal insulin analog (i.e., insulin glargine, insulin detemir, or insulin degludec). Although these true basal-prandial regimens require more shots than conventional twice-daily regimens, they are considerably more flexible, allowing greater freedom to skip meals or change mealtimes. Moreover, use of the long-acting basal and rapid-acting insulin analogs, allows strategies to achieve individual, defined blood glucose targets more easily. Such modifications might include changing the timing of insulin injections in relation to meals, changing the portions or content of food to be consumed, or adjusting insulin doses or supplements for premeal hyperglycemia. The basic treatment principles of insulin dosing include establishing a total daily dose, an insulin to carbohydrate ratio and an insulin sensitivity or correction factor. ESTABLISHING A TOTAL DAILY DOSE (TDD) OF INSULIN This is the first step in starting treatment in a patient with newly diagnosed diabetes. This dose can vary based on the individual and can range from 0.3- 1.5 units/kg/day. A good starting dose is ~0.5 units/kg/day. Once the TDD is determined, this number is divided by half to establish the basal and bolus requirements. As a general rule of thumb, half the insulin is used as basal insulin, while the other half is used as prandial or mealtime insulin. For example, in a person weighing 75 kg, a typical total daily insulin dose might be 75 kg X 0.7 units/kg = roughly 37 units/day. The basal insulin dose would be roughly 18 units and bolus insulin total would be 18 units (divided amongst meals, see below). Long-acting insulin analogs U-100 glargine and detemir can be administered once or twice daily. Insulin degludec or U-300 insulin glargine can be administered once a day. USING PRANDIAL INSULIN Establishing an Insulin to Carbohydrate (Carb) Ratio Patients with T1D derive the greatest therapeutic benefit when basal and prandial analogs are used together, because the physiologic pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of these analogs make separating the basal and prandial components of insulin replacement easier. In general, administering the appropriate amount of pre-meal insulin requires that the patient know at least their current blood glucose level and the estimated amount of carbohydrates for a meal.
