The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


In general, administering the appropriate amount of pre-meal insulin requires that the patient know at least their current blood glucose level and the estimated amount of carbohydrates for a meal. Initially, the amount of prandial insulin can be determined by approximating the percentage of calories consumed at each meal. As patients become more educated, however, they may alter the prandial dose by estimating the carbohydrate component of each meal or snack. As patients become more sophisticated, they may note that the same carbohydrate quantity may have a different effect on their blood glucose level depending upon the specific type of meal consumed. The carb ratio provides the dose of rapid acting insulin (lispro, aspart, glulisine) to cover the carbohydrate content of a meal. A typical starting point in patients with T1D is to give 1 unit of rapid acting insulin for every 15 grams of carbohydrates. This ratio is variable ranging from 1 unit for every 5g to 30 g of carbohydrate. To estimate the carb ratio, the “500 rule” can be used: 500/total daily dose (TDD) = grams of carbohydrate covered by 1 unit of insulin. Example: A person who takes a total of 50 units of insulin per day (both basal and prandial combined) will need 1 unit of rapid acting prandial insulin for every 10g carbohydrate (500/50 = 10g of carbohydrate covered by 1 unit of insulin, using above formula). Alternative way to calculate the carb ratio – Add all carbohydrates consumed in a day and divide this by the total units of prandial insulin taken that day, using an average over 3 days. Prandial insulin may be reduced/skipped when: Extra carbohydrates are used to raise low blood sugars or cover increased physical activity Recent dose of correction insulin within past 1-2 h Nausea or vomiting preventing oral intake Determining the Correction Dose or “Insulin Sensitivity Factor” (ISF) In addition to covering the carbohydrate load of a meal, individuals will also need to correct hyperglycemia, called the “correction dose”. The method commonly used for this is the “1800 Rule”. This estimates the point drop in glucose for every unit of rapid-acting insulin administered: 1800/TDD = Point drop in glucose for 1 unit of rapid-acting insulin This ISF (also called the correction factor) can be used for between-meal elevations in blood glucose. Thus, in general this correction dose can be utilized anytime provided the patient has not taken
