The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


(also called the correction factor) can be used for between-meal elevations in blood glucose. Thus, in general this correction dose can be utilized anytime provided the patient has not taken an injection of rapid acting insulin over the past 2-4 hours (insulin on board, Figure 12 ). Target glucose: The ISF enables achieving appropriate individualized blood glucose targets. For example: A person who takes a total of 60 units of insulin per day will require 1 unit of rapid acting insulin to drop the glucose by 30 points. If the patient’s glucose is 180 mg/dL and the glucose target has been set at 120 mg/dL, a correction dose of 2 units would be required to bring the glucose down to target: a. ISF = 1800/60 (TDD) = 30; 1 unit of rapid-acting insulin will decrease glucose by 30 points b. 180 mg/dL (actual glucose level) – 120 mg/dL (target glucose level) = 60; this is the excess glucose, that is, the value that is above target and that needs to be corrected c. 60/30 (ISF) = 2; dividing the excess glucose by the ISF will provide the amount of correction insulin units that are required to bring down the glucose to target, in this case it will be 2 units. Putting it All Together - Combining the Carb Ratio and ISF Combining the carbohydrate load and ISF will enable patients to appropriately target their pre-meal glucose. For example: An individual with a carb ratio of 1:15 and ISF of 1 unit/50mg/dL, prior to a meal of 60g carbohydrates and a pre-meal blood glucose of 220mg/dL and target of 120mg/dL would take the following steps to administer the appropriate amount of prandial insulin as follows: a. To cover carbohydrate intake: 60g/15g per unit =4 units b. Correction dose: 220 mg/dL (actual glucose)– 120mg/dL (target glucose) = 100mg/dL. ISF is 100/50 = 2 units to correct. c. Total amount of prandial insulin: 4+2= 6 units Insulin Titration and Pattern Adjustments Reviewing blood glucoses and recognizing patterns is one of the most important aspects of diabetes management, allowing for timely and appropriate adjustments in insulin dose, food intake, and managing physical activity. Pattern management is aided by valuable tools such as SMBG with information obtained through download software (see above) or logbooks and CGM data. These tools can be used in order of priority, for assessment of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, glycemic variability, frequency of
