The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


information obtained through download software (see above) or logbooks and CGM data. These tools can be used in order of priority, for assessment of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, glycemic variability, frequency of SMBG readings, etc. Figure 13. The appearance of insulin into the blood stream (pharmacokinetics) is different than the measurement of insulin action (pharmacodynamics). This figure is a representation of timing of insulin action for insulin aspart from euglycemic clamp data (0.2 U/kg into the abdomen). Using this graph assists patients to avoid “insulin stacking”. For example, 3 hours after administration of 10 units of insulin aspart, one can estimate that there is still 40% X 10 units, or 4 units of insulin remaining. By way of comparison, the pharmacodynamics of regular insulin is approximately twice that of insulin aspart or insulin lispro. Currently used insulin pumps keep track of this “insulin-on-board” to avoid insulin stacking. Adapted from reference ( 40 ). INSULIN DELIVERY SYSTEMS Significant improvement in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of insulin analogs and advances in technology has allowed for insulin delivery systems to resemble endogenous insulin secretion as closely as possible. Insulin Pens Insulin pens were first introduced in 1981 as injection devices. These pens contain a cartridge holding insulin which is injected into the subcutaneous tissue through a fine, replaceable needle. Insulin pens are convenient, portable and are widely used as a part of MDI therapy. Currently, insulin pens are available as disposable pens containing prefilled cartridges or reusable insulin pens with replaceable insulin cartridges. Several insulin pens allow the convenience of ½ unit dosing, a critical need for pediatric patients and those adults with high insulin sensitivity and low insulin requirements. Insulin smart pens - The first insulin smart pen was approved for use in the United States (InPen, Companion Medical, California, USA) in 2017 ( Figure 14 ). Smart pens can record timing and amount of each administered insulin dose, display the last dose and insulin onboard and also make dosing recommendations based on pre-specified information ( Figure 15 ). This information is wirelessly transmitted via Bluetooth to a dedicated mobile application on a smartphone device. Other similar devices are in development including the NovoPen 6 and NovoPen Echo Plus reusable insulin pens equipped with near-field communication technology (Novo Nordisk, Denmark), recently approved in the European Union. Figure 14. InPen Smart Insulin Pen Figure 15. InPen Insight report. Report provides missed doses, bolus calculator dosage, long-acting
