The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


communication technology (Novo Nordisk, Denmark), recently approved in the European Union. Figure 14. InPen Smart Insulin Pen Figure 15. InPen Insight report. Report provides missed doses, bolus calculator dosage, long-acting insulin assessment and CGM data (if paired with the InPen app). Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion Therapy (CSII) While not a new tool, insulin pump therapy remains the gold standard of insulin delivery for T1D ( Figure 9 ). CSII is the most precise way to mimic normal insulin secretion because basal insulin infusion rates can be programmed throughout a 24-hour period. Essentially, the CSII pump may be thought of as a computerized mechanical syringe automatically delivering insulin in physiologic fashion. Patients can accommodate metabolic changes related to eating, exercise, illness, or varying work and travel schedules by modifying insulin availability. Basal rates can be adjusted to match lower insulin demands at night (between approximately 11 PM and 4 AM) and higher requirements between 3 AM or 4 AM and 9 AM. Various studies comparing glycemic control during CSII versus intensive insulin injection regimens have been published. A meta-analysis of 12 randomized controlled trials of CSII versus multiple injection regimens showed a weighted mean difference in blood glucose concentration of 16 mg/dL (95% CI 9-22) and a difference in A1C of 0.5% (0.2-0.7) favoring CSII ( 60 ). The slightly but significantly better control in patients on CSII was accomplished with a 14% average reduction in daily insulin dose. A meta-analysis funded by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality showed that in adults with T1D A1C levels decreased more with CSII than multiple injections, but one study heavily influenced this finding ( 27 ). For both children and adults, there was no difference in severe hypoglycemia. The common misconception that CSII leads to more hypoglycemia is not valid. Modern insulin pumps are much smaller and easier to use than the pumps of the past ( Figure 10 ). With the exception of insulin lispro-aabc (Lyumjev), all rapid-acting analogs are approved in the United States for use in insulin pumps. The basal rate of the insulin pump replaces the use of daily injections of basal insulin. The boluses given before each meal are essentially the same as normal insulin injections of rapid acting insulin. The pump allows programming of several different basal infusion rates at increments that can range from 0.025 up to 35.0 units/hour (usually ranging from 0.4 to 2.0
