The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


rapid acting insulin. The pump allows programming of several different basal infusion rates at increments that can range from 0.025 up to 35.0 units/hour (usually ranging from 0.4 to 2.0 units/hour) to meet non-prandial insulin demands, though it is unlikely that the average patient will require more than 2 or 3 different rates ( Figure 16 ). As with MDI, correction doses can be provided before or between meals. Figures 17 and 18 show data that is typically downloaded from a pump. Figure 16. Idealized insulin curves for CSII with either insulin lispro, insulin aspart, or insulin glulisine. Note the basal insulin component can be altered based on changing basal insulin requirements. Typically, insulin rates need to be lowered between midnight and 0400 h (predawn phenomenon) and raised between 0400 h and 0800 h (dawn phenomenon). The basal rate the rest of the day is usually intermediate to the other two. Modern-day pumps can calculate prandial insulin dose by the patient entering the blood glucose concentration and the anticipated amount of carbohydrate to be consumed. The pump calculates how much previous prandial insulin is still active and provides the patient a final suggested dose which the patient may activate or override. There are many fundamental differences between CSII and MDI. These include: TITRATION OF BASAL RATES From a practical point of view, the first and most important insulin dose to provide in a correct amount is the basal rate. If the basal dose is set incorrectly, neither the bolus doses nor the correction doses will be appropriate. A common mistake observed in CSII therapy is that the basal dose is set too high, making the administration of even small insulin correction doses result in hypoglycemia. The greatest advantage of CSII is it allows more flexibility and titration of the basal doses. The basal dose can be titrated throughout the day to meet patients’ individual needs and this should be done in a systematic manner by performing “basal checks.” Prior to starting a basal rate assessment (basal check), the following conditions should be met for the day of the test: last meal and/or insulin bolus should have occurred at least 4 hours prior to starting the assessment; last meal should preferentially be low in fat and not have too much protein; avoid exercise and alcohol; do not perform the assessment if hypoglycemia has occurred earlier in the day or there is
