The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


be low in fat and not have too much protein; avoid exercise and alcohol; do not perform the assessment if hypoglycemia has occurred earlier in the day or there is an inter-current illness. Of note, it is recommended to repeat the assessment on several occasions to identify a pattern prior to making adjustments to the basal rate. Nighttime Basal Rate It is usually best to start by addressing the overnight basal rate. An overnight basal assessment is performed on a night the patient has a bedtime glucose level within target. The patient is asked not to have anything to eat during the assessment. The patient then measures glucose levels at bedtime, midnight, 3AM and upon awakening to assess for changes in glucose profile (the use of a CGM obviously makes this exercise much easier). Glucose should also be checked in case of hypoglycemic symptoms. If hypoglycemia ensues or glucose level rises above target, the assessment is stopped and the patient treats the glucose level accordingly. Rises or falls of ≤ 30 mg/dl from bedtime to morning (upon awakening) are usually acceptable. By contrast, glucose changes > 30 mg/dl will require adjustments in basal rates usually consisting of 10-20% changes in insulin dose (as deemed clinically appropriate) starting 2 hours before the observed rise or fall in glucose levels. In general, a change in a basal dose takes two to four hours to result in a change in blood glucose. Daytime Basal Rates Daytime basal rates are checked by assessing the glucose profile across a skipped-meal time segment (i.e., pre-breakfast to pre-lunch, pre-lunch to pre-dinner, and pre-dinner to bedtime). To check the “pre-breakfast to pre-lunch” time segment, breakfast is skipped and glucose level is checked at 1-2 hour intervals for the duration of the time segment (prior to lunch). Glucose levels should also be checked in the event of hypoglycemic symptoms. The same recommendations regarding changes in glycemic levels requiring insulin dose adjustments described for the overnight basal assessment apply here. TRACKING OF INSULIN-ON-BOARD Another major difference between CSII and MDI is the pump can accurately track the insulin-on-board for safer use of correction doses ( Figure 13 ). As noted above, doing this accurately can have a major impact in preventing insulin stacking. INSULIN DOSE CALCULATOR Insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios and insulin sensitivity factors with corresponding target glucose values can be set and modified as needed in insulin pumps. Patients are only
