The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


preventing insulin stacking. INSULIN DOSE CALCULATOR Insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios and insulin sensitivity factors with corresponding target glucose values can be set and modified as needed in insulin pumps. Patients are only required to enter their glucose level and/or anticipated carbohydrate amount to be consumed and the insulin pump will calculate the insulin dose and recommend a bolus dose. So, the complicated mathematics to best utilize MDI are done automatically with CSII. MODIFICATIONS TO BOLUS DELIVERY Pumps can be programmed for individual boluses to be administered over an extended period of time (“extended” or “square wave” bolus). This feature may be particularly helpful for very high-fat meals or those patients with delayed gastric emptying, seen with gastroparesis or in those receiving pramlintide (see below). TEMPORARY BASAL RATES The other major advantage of CSII is that it allows the use of “temporary basal rates.” This is extremely helpful in situations where metabolic demands have “temporarily” changed such as during illness (requiring an increase in insulin dose) or during exercise (requiring a dose reduction). Again, due to the time action of the rapid-acting analogs, sufficient time must be incorporated when using a temporary basal rate. DOWNLOAD CAPABILITY Pump data can be downloaded, and the data obtained is extremely helpful in understanding patients’ glycemic responses to an established insulin regimen ( Figure 17 ). Also, it can assist in evaluating patients’ behaviors pertaining to their glucose management. Downloads provide information regarding the total daily insulin use broken down into percentages corresponding to basal and bolus delivery. This allows determining if patients are consistently administering boluses or whether they are essentially “running on basal.” Some of the additional data that can be downloaded includes average glucose levels, frequency of glucose monitoring, days between site changes, amount of time patients are suspending the pump or using temporary basal rates, frequency of boluses (which allows to identify non-compliance or insulin stacking behaviors), and average daily carbohydrates consumed ( Figure 18 ). Figure 17. A patient’s insulin pump download showing comprehensive data for one day including basal rates, boluses and use of bolus calculator, glucose monitoring, carbohydrate intake, and percentage of glucose at target. Figure 18. A patient’s pump download showing glucose measurements, bolus events, fill events (denoting frequency of site and set changes), as well as insulin pump suspension duration for a 14-day period). However, despite the multiple benefits of CSII therapy there are also several risks. The
