The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


of site and set changes), as well as insulin pump suspension duration for a 14-day period). However, despite the multiple benefits of CSII therapy there are also several risks. The first is an abrupt stoppage of insulin delivery either from an occlusion or dislodging of the catheter. For most patients who measure glucose levels at least 4 times daily the problem can be discovered and rectified quickly. However, for the occasional patient who tests infrequently or misses several glucose tests the discontinuation of the insulin infusion can result in ketoacidosis. Fortunately, this is rare. When glucose levels are found to be elevated for no apparent reason, it is appropriate to bolus the appropriate correction dose and if after 1 to 2 hours glucose levels are not improved, an injection of insulin is recommended, and the infusion site should be changed. Another potential complication is infection, often an abscess, at the infusion site. This is also rare and can be minimized with meticulously cleaning the pump site prior to insertion. Although not as severe, inflammation from pump sites can be problematic. This can be improved by changing the infusion set every 24 to 72 hours and rotating pump sites. Similarly, some patients develop lipohypertrophy from infusing the insulin in the same area. This can result in extreme variability in insulin absorption. Again, frequent rotation of pump sites can alleviate this problem which is under-reported. Clinicians should therefore make pump site observation a part of every clinic visit. CLASSIFICATION OF INSULIN PUMPS Insulin pumps can be classified by the way insulin is delivered into: Pumps with Tubing These insulin pumps require an infusion set for insulin delivery. They house an insulin-filled cartridge connected to a tubing with a prespecified length, allowing patients to select the length that better accommodates to their needs. At the end of the tubing is a needle or soft Teflon cannula that can be inserted into the subcutaneous tissue at a 30- to 45- or 90-degree angle, depending on the type of infusion set used. The abdomen is the preferred infusion site because placement of the catheter there is convenient and comfortable and insulin absorption is most consistent in this region. However, the upper outer quadrant of the buttocks, upper thighs, and triceps fat pad of the arms may also be used. Infusion sets allow removal of the insertion needle, leaving only the soft cannula in place subcutaneously.
