The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


buttocks, upper thighs, and triceps fat pad of the arms may also be used. Infusion sets allow removal of the insertion needle, leaving only the soft cannula in place subcutaneously. Patients who experience frequent soft cannula kinking or those with Teflon allergies can opt for infusion sets that use a small stainless-steel needle to infuse insulin instead of a Teflon cannula. Infusion sets have a quick-release mechanism, allowing them to be temporarily disconnected from the insertion site. This quick-release feature makes dressing, swimming, showering, and other activities more convenient. Tubeless Pump Patients may also choose the convenience of a tubeless or patch pump. This pump consists of disposable “pods” which are discarded every three days. The pods are essentially small self-contained insulin pumps with an internal insulin cartridge, an insertion needle and cannula, and the necessary hardware required for insulin administration. Insulin is infused directly from the pod through a catheter without the use of any tubing. Both basal and bolus insulin dosing is communicated to the pod through either audio frequency or Bluetooth technology via a separate “personal diabetes manager” device. Artificial Pancreas Device Systems Improvements in CGM sensor technology have allowed for the integration of CGM systems with insulin pumps and the development of artificial pancreas device systems (APDS), also known as closed-loop (CL) systems. An APDS consists of an insulin pump, a CGM device, and an insulin infusion algorithm designed for safety and glucose control optimization. In 2009, the JDRF developed an artificial pancreas road map defining 6 stages of APDS technology based on the level of automation ( 61 ): First generation: Stage 1: Very-Low-Glucose Insulin Off Pump. Pump shuts off when user not responding to low-glucose alarm. Stage 2: Hypoglycemia Minimizer. Predictive hypoglycemia causes alarms, followed by reduction or cessation of insulin delivery before blood glucose gets low. Stage 3: Hypoglycemia/Hyperglycemia Minimizer. Same product as #2 but with added feature allowing insulin dosing above high threshold. Second Generation: Stage 4: Automated Basal/Hybrid Closed Loop. Closed loop at all times with mealtime manual assist bolus. Stage 5: Fully Automated Insulin Closed Loop. Manual mealtime bolus eliminated. Third Generation Stage 6: Fully Automated Multihormone Closed Loop. First generation devices focused primarily on prevention of hypoglycemia. Second generation devices have introduced automation of basal insulin delivery with or without automatic correction boluses. Lastly, third generation devices are expected to fully close the loop while providing a multi-hormonal (e.g.,
