The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


devices have introduced automation of basal insulin delivery with or without automatic correction boluses. Lastly, third generation devices are expected to fully close the loop while providing a multi-hormonal (e.g., insulin, glucagon, amylin) delivery approach. It is important to note that the development of any of these specific stages is not dependent on the previous one being completed and can occur in tandem. APDS can also be classified according to the type of control algorithm used to determine insulin delivery ( 62 ): Proportional Integral Derivative (PID). This algorithm responds to measured glucose levels where: “proportional” refers to the difference between the measured sensor glucose and the target glucose; “integral” refers to how long the sensor glucose has been away from the target; and “derivative” refers to how rapidly the sensor glucose is changing. Model Predictive Control (MPC). This algorithm allows prediction of glucose levels at a specific point in the future and based on this data, modulation of insulin delivery. Fuzzy logic. The calculation of insulin doses is similar to what a diabetes specialist would recommend based on CGM data. Bio-inspired. Uses a mathematical model of beta cell insulin production in response to changes in blood glucose. A list of currently approved APDS and features is listed in Figure 19 ( 63 - 67 ) Figure 19. Features and CGM outcomes from pivotal studies on currently available artificial pancreas device systems. ADJUNCTIVE NON-INSULIN THERAPIES IN TYPE 1 DIABETES Intensive insulin therapy for T1D is associated with increased risk of hypoglycemia. Additionally, glycemic variability and weight gain with resultant non-adherence to insulin are commonly encountered. Weight gain also contributes to increased cardiometabolic risk such as hypertension, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Insulin therapy also does not address glucagon excess and altered gastric emptying that is seen in patients with T1D. Hence adjunctive therapies could be of potential benefit in management of T1D. Amylin Analog - Pramlintide Amylin is a neuroendocrine hormone co-secreted with insulin by the pancreatic beta cells in a fixed ratio ( 68 ); T1D is a state of deficiency. Amylin reduces postprandial hyperglycemia by reducing mealtime glucagon secretion. It also delays gastric emptying, increases satiety and enables weight loss. Overall, amylin complements the action of insulin by targeting postprandial hyperglycemia. Pramlintide is an injectable amylin analog approved for use in T1D as an adjunct to prandial insulin. Pramlintide has similar physiological effects as amylin, such as decreased
