The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


targeting postprandial hyperglycemia. Pramlintide is an injectable amylin analog approved for use in T1D as an adjunct to prandial insulin. Pramlintide has similar physiological effects as amylin, such as decreased food intake, and decreases mean A1C by 0.3-0.5% with modest weight loss ( 69 ). A recent crossover study of pramlintide infusion co-administered with human regular insulin via a pump over 24h improved glycemic variability and postprandial hyperglycemia in adults with T1D ( 70 ). Pramlintide is injected just prior to meals at an initial dose of 15 mcg and increased as tolerated to a final dose of 60 mcg. It should be administered only prior to major meals consisting of 250 calories or 30 grams of carbohydrate. Prandial insulin doses of insulin (in MDI or CSII therapy) should be reduced as food intake decreases and gastric emptying is delayed. For those receiving insulin via a pump, using an “extended bolus” (see above) works best to avoid postprandial hypoglycemia. For those using MDI, some patients administer their insulin just prior to eating (without a lag time) or after eating. Use of pramlintide is limited by nausea, often mild and self-limited. Severe insulin-induced hypoglycemia has also been noted with the use of pramlintide if insulin doses are not sufficiently reduced on initiation of pramlintide therapy. However widespread use of pramlintide as a therapeutic adjunct in T1D has been limited due to concerns of nausea, hypoglycemia and additional injection burden. Long-term use of pramlintide is unclear at this time. Metformin Metformin, a biguanide, is used as first-line therapy in patients with T2D. It decreases hepatic gluconeogenesis and improves insulin sensitivity ( 71 ). Metformin may have some benefit in reducing insulin doses and possibly improve metabolic control in obese/overweight individuals as observed in small studies in patients with T1D. An early meta-analysis of 5 studies suggested that addition of metformin resulted in a decrease in insulin requirement (6.6 units/day), and a decrease in weight with minimal change in A1C ( 72 ). A randomized placebo-controlled trial in 140 overweight adolescents with T1D evaluated the addition of metformin to insulin ( 73 ). There was no improvement in glycemic control after 6 months but use of metformin resulted in decreased insulin dose and improved measures of adiposity, despite increased gastrointestinal adverse events. A meta-analysis of 19 RCTs suggests short term improvement in A1C that is not sustained after 3 months and associated with
