The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


improved measures of adiposity, despite increased gastrointestinal adverse events. A meta-analysis of 19 RCTs suggests short term improvement in A1C that is not sustained after 3 months and associated with higher incidence of GI side effects ( 74 ). Although metformin has been shown to decrease CVD morbidity in T2D, data in T1D is lacking. Recent evidence suggests that metformin decreases insulin resistance and improves vascular health in adolescents with T1D ( 75 ). The REMOVAL trial assessed benefit of metformin in T1D and cardiovascular risk and showed no evidence of sustained A1C reduction, and no benefit in carotid intima-media thickness (the study’s primary endpoint); however, reductions in body weight, LDL-C and total insulin requirements was observed ( 76 ). Therefore, based on current evidence, concomitant use of metformin in patients with T1D and is not recommended in current published guidelines. Sodium Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitors SGLT2 is a protein expressed in the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) of the kidney and is responsible for re-absorption of filtered glucose. Inhibition of SGLT2 prevents glucose reabsorption in the PCT and increases glucose excretion by the kidney. SGLT1 is the major intestinal glucose transporter. SGLT1 inhibition also increases postprandial release of the gastrointestinal hormones GLP-1 and polypeptide YY, probably by increasing delivery of glucose to the distal small intestine, thereby regulating glucose and appetite control. Notably, the action of these agents is insulin-independent , therefore this class of drugs has potential as adjunctive therapy for T1D. Additionally recent clinical trials have also demonstrated improvements in cardiovascular outcomes trials as well as reductions in renal outcomes in T2D; therefore, there is significant interest for use in T1D. Early small studies of SGLT2 inhibitors in T1D showed promising results with evidence of decreased total daily insulin dosage, improvement in fasting glucose and A1C, measures of glycemic variability, rates of hypoglycemia and body weight ( 77 - 79 ). Common side effects associated with this class of drugs include genital and urinary infections. Euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis has been recognized in patients with T1D due to glycosuria masking hyperglycemia but with a catabolic state (due to insulin deficiency and hyperglucagonemia) with ketonemia ( 80 , 81 ). A dual inhibitor of SGLT1 and 2 sotagliflozin is under development and shows promise in T1D patients ( 82 ). Currently in the US, SGLT2 inhibitors are approved for use in T2D only. SGLT2 and mixed SGLT1/2 inhibitors are
