The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


under development and shows promise in T1D patients ( 82 ). Currently in the US, SGLT2 inhibitors are approved for use in T2D only. SGLT2 and mixed SGLT1/2 inhibitors are approved for use in T1D by the European Medicines Agency. All four available SGLT2 inhibitors have been studied in T1D. When added to insulin therapy, all SGLT2 inhibitors appear to decrease A1C levels, averaging 0.35-0,5% within 6 months of initiation; however, this effect does not appear to be sustained at 1 year in clinical trials and effects appear to wane with time ( 83 ). Insulin dosing should be adjusted with caution to avoid hypoglycemia. There is no data on efficacy comparing the different agents currently. It is estimated that these agents increase risk of diabetic ketoacidosis by 8-fold, and therefore are not approved for use in T1D in the US. Incretin Therapies Endogenous glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is secreted from L cells (present in the small and large intestine) in response to food ingestion. GLP-1 enhances glucose-induced insulin secretion, inhibits glucagon secretion, delays gastric emptying, and induces satiety. GLP-1 secretion in T1D patients is similar to that seen in healthy individuals. In vitro studies suggest that incretin-based therapies can expand beta cell mass, stimulate beta cell proliferation and inhibit beta cell apoptosis, although this has not been demonstrated in humans. Thus, due to their putative effects on beta cell integrity and function, GLP-1 receptor agonists and oral dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors are of interest in T1D. GLP-1 receptor agonists delay gastric emptying, suppress postprandial glucagon secretion, and increase satiety. Studies suggest that these agents may decrease insulin requirements and facilitate weight loss ( 84 , 85 ). Early RCTs of liraglutide in T1D revealed weight loss and some A1C lowering benefit ( 85 , 86 ). Recent data suggests benefit of liraglutide 1.8 mg in individuals with T1D and higher BMI in decreasing A1C, weight and no increased hypoglycemia risk ( 87 ). However, these effects may not be sustained, based on results from a weekly exenatide study ( 88 ). At this time, GLP-1 receptor agonists are not a recommended treatment option in T1D. The DPP-4 enzyme degrades endogenous GLP-1 and removes it from the circulation. DPP-4 inhibitors lower blood glucose by preventing breakdown of endogenous GLP-1, thereby increasing concentration in the circulation. In patients with T2D, DPP-4 inhibitors potentiate glucose-dependent insulin secretion and inhibit glucagon release without effect
