The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


blood glucose by preventing breakdown of endogenous GLP-1, thereby increasing concentration in the circulation. In patients with T2D, DPP-4 inhibitors potentiate glucose-dependent insulin secretion and inhibit glucagon release without effect on gastric emptying or bodyweight. Patients with T1D have inappropriately raised glucagon secretion and DPP-4 inhibitors added to insulin could potentially enhance insulin secretion in patients with residual endogenous insulin secretion and improve glycemic control. However, observed effects in patients with T1D are limited with modest improvements in A1C that are short-term and not sustained ( 89 ). Therefore, these agents cannot be recommended for use in T1D. Bariatric Surgery Bariatric and other metabolic surgeries are effective weight loss treatments in severe obesity. In T1D individuals with morbid obesity, bariatric surgery has been shown to result in significant weight loss, decrease in insulin requirements and an overall improvement in metabolic profile. However, DKA and hypoglycemia occur in the post-operative period. Longer term and larger studies are required to further evaluate the role of bariatric surgery in T1D ( 90 ). OTHER ASPECTS OF MANAGEMENT Psychosocial Aspects Assessment and management of psychosocial issues are an important component of care in individuals with T1D throughout their life span ( 91 ). While the individual patient is the focus of care, family support should be encouraged when appropriate. Evaluation and discussion of psychosocial issues and screening for depression screening should be included as part of each clinic visit. Many patients experience “diabetes distress” related to the multitude of self-care responsibilities to optimize glycemic control. Diabetes distress is frequently associated with suboptimal glycemic control, low self-efficacy and reduced self-care. Depression, anxiety from fear of hypoglycemia, and eating disorders can develop and are associated with poor glycemic control. In young adults, comprehensive management of diabetes that addresses these psychosocial issues can improve glycemic control and reduce hospitalization due to diabetic ketoacidosis. Strategic interventions such as cognitive restructuring, goal setting and problem solving can help individuals particularly adolescents and young adults reduce diabetes distress ( 92 ). Thus, early identification and treatment including referral to a mental health specialist can help aid management of diabetes. Management in Exercise The benefits of exercise and physical activity in patients with type 1 diabetes have been well documented ( 93 , 94 ). However, achieving adequate glycemic control during and after completion of exercise remains a rather challenging aspect of type 1 diabetes management. Glycemia at the initiation of
