The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


93 , 94 ). However, achieving adequate glycemic control during and after completion of exercise remains a rather challenging aspect of type 1 diabetes management. Glycemia at the initiation of exercise, sensor glucose trend (if using a CGM), timing from the previous meal, carbohydrate content in the meal preceding exercise, type and duration of exercise, are all but a few of the factors that need to be considered to ensure that glycemic control remains stable during and after cessation of exercise. In 2017, an international consensus statement for exercise management in type 1 diabetes was published ( 95 ). This consensus is a unique resource which provides detailed glucose management strategies. Recommended adjustments to basal and prandial insulin, for both insulin pump and multiple daily insulin injection users, as well as carbohydrate intake requirements depending on the intensity and duration of activity are clearly presented. Quite importantly, the consensus also covers factors that would preclude exercise including the presence of elevated ketones, recent hypoglycemia, and diabetes-related complications which may be exacerbated in the context of vigorous exercise and/or competitive endurance events. We encourage the reader to refer to this publication for additional guidance. For those patients on hybrid closed loop systems, a way to minimize the occurrence of exercise-induced hypoglycemia is the use of a higher glucose target for exercise. For the Medtronic 670G, the standard Auto-Mode target is 120 mg/dL which can be temporarily changed to 150 mg/dL. For the Tandem X2 with Control IQ, the standard target for regular activity is between 112.5 and 160 mg/dL and can be temporarily changed to 140-160 mg/dL. A study in open loop insulin pump users found that a basal rate reduction starting 90 min before exercise was superior to pump suspension at exercise onset for reduction of hypoglycemia risk during exercise and did not compromise the post-exercise meal glycemic control ( 96 ). Another strategy that may be more effective than basal rate reduction for prevention of exercise induced hypoglycemia is the use of a subcutaneously administered mini-dose of glucagon. A small study including 15 subjects with type 1 diabetes on insulin pump therapy who exercised in the fasting state in the morning for 45 min, found that a dose of 150 µg of subcutaneous glucagon, compared to a 50% basal insulin reduction or 40-g oral glucose tablets, resulted in no hypoglycemia (vs. basal insulin reduction) and no hyperglycemia (vs. oral
