The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


150 µg of subcutaneous glucagon, compared to a 50% basal insulin reduction or 40-g oral glucose tablets, resulted in no hypoglycemia (vs. basal insulin reduction) and no hyperglycemia (vs. oral glucose tablets) ( 97 ). However, larger and long-term studies are required before determining if a mini-dose of glucagon is safe and effective for prevention of exercise induced hypoglycemia in subjects with type 1 diabetes. Management of Special Populations OLDER ADULTS Adults with T1D now span a very large age spectrum—from 18 to 100 years of age and beyond. These individuals are unique in that they usually have lived with a complex disease for many years ( 91 ). An understanding of each individual’s circumstances is vital and management often requires assessment of medical, functional, mental, and social domains. The ADA emphasizes that glycemic targets should be individualized with the goal of achieving the best possible control while minimizing the risk of severe hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia ( 98 ). Glycemic goals in older adults vary. Most older adults with T1D have long-standing disease (unlike individuals with T2DM where diabetes can be long-standing or new onset). Additionally, there is a wide range of health in older individuals, with some patients enjoying good functional status and no comorbid conditions, while others are limited by multiple comorbidities as well as physical or cognitive impairments. Older T1D patients may develop diabetes related complications which pose a challenge in disease management. Insulin dosing errors, hypoglycemia unawareness, and inability to manage hypoglycemia when it occurs may result from physical and cognitive decline. Special attention should be focused on meal planning and physical activities in this population. Severe hyperglycemia can lead to dehydration and hyperglycemic crises ( 91 ). Issues related to self-care capacity, mobility, and autonomy should be promptly addressed. Thus, treatment goals should be reassessed and individualized based on patient factors. Older patients with long life expectancy and little comorbidity should have treatment targets similar to those of middle-aged or younger adults. In patients with multiple comorbid conditions, treatment targets may be relaxed, while avoiding symptomatic hyperglycemia or the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis ( 91 ). Therefore, it is important to assess the clinical needs of the patient, setting specific goals and expectations that may differ quite significantly between a healthy 24-year-old and a frail 82-year-old with retinopathy and cardiovascular disease. There are few long-term studies in older adults demonstrating the benefits of intensive glycemic,
