The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


differ quite significantly between a healthy 24-year-old and a frail 82-year-old with retinopathy and cardiovascular disease. There are few long-term studies in older adults demonstrating the benefits of intensive glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid control ( 98 ). As with younger adults, glycemic control should be assessed based on frequent SMBG levels (and CGM data, if available) as well as A1C to help direct changes in therapy. More stringent A1C goals (~6.5-7%) can be recommended in select older adults if this can be achieved without hypoglycemia or other adverse effects. This is appropriate for older individuals with anticipated long-life expectancy, hypoglycemia awareness and no CVD. Less stringent A1C goals (for example A1C<8.5%) may be appropriate for patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia unawareness, limited life expectancy, advanced microvascular/macrovascular complications, or extensive comorbid conditions ( 91 , 99 ). INPATIENT MANAGEMENT AND OUTPATIENT PROCEDURES The challenges involved in management of individuals with T1D in the hospital and in preparation for scheduled outpatient procedures include difficulties associated with fasting, maintaining a consistent source of carbohydrate, and facilitating inpatient blood glucose management while modifying scheduled insulin therapy. Individuals with T1D may have difficulty fasting for long periods of time (more than 10 h) prior to a procedure. Patients with T1D should be prepared with a treatment plan for insulin dose adjustments and oral glucose intake prior to any procedure that requires alterations in dietary intake and/or fasting. In general, goals for blood glucose levels in individuals with T1D are the same as for people with T2D or hospital-related hyperglycemia ( 100 ) . It is imperative that the entire health care team, including anesthesiologists and surgeons as well as other specialists who perform procedures, understands T1D and how it factors into the comprehensive delivery of care. First, the diagnosis of T1D should be clearly identified in the patient’s record. Second, the awareness that people with T1D will be at high risk for hypoglycemia during prolonged fasting and are at risk for ketosis if insulin is inappropriately withheld. Under anesthesia, individuals with T1D must be carefully monitored for hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia. Third, a plan for preventing and treating hypoglycemia should be established for each patient. SMBG should be ordered to fit the patient’s usual insulin regimen with modifications as needed based on clinical status. Self-management in the hospital may be appropriate for some individuals with T1D including those who successfully manage their
