The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


patient’s usual insulin regimen with modifications as needed based on clinical status. Self-management in the hospital may be appropriate for some individuals with T1D including those who successfully manage their disease at home, have cognitive skills to perform necessary tasks such as administer insulin and perform SMBG, count carbohydrates and have a good understanding of their condition ( 100 ). For some individuals, once the most acute phase of an illness has resolved or improved, patients may be able to self-administer their prior multiple-dose or CSII insulin regimen under the guidance of hospital personnel who are knowledgeable in glycemic management. Individuals managed with insulin pumps and/or multiple-dose regimens with carbohydrate counting and correction dosing may be allowed to manage their own diabetes if this is what they desire, once they are capable of doing so. The need for uninterrupted basal insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis is important to recognize. Insulin dosing adjustments should also be made in the perioperative period and inpatient setting with consideration of oral intake and blood glucose trends. The use of CGM in the inpatient setting is an area of ongoing research. Currently, the Endocrine Society recommends against the use of real-time CGM (RT-CGM) alone in the intensive care unit or operating room settings due to limited available data on accuracy ( 101 ). A study in T2D patients on basal bolus insulin therapy admitted to the general ward evaluated the use of retrospective CGM versus point of care capillary glucose testing for inpatient glycemic control ( 102 ). Although average daily glucose levels were comparable between CGM and capillary blood glucose testing, CGM detected a higher number of hypoglycemic episodes (55 vs 12, P < 0.01) suggesting that CGM may be beneficial for identification of hypoglycemia in the general ward particularly in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness. We feel it is reasonable to allow T1D patients who already benefit from use of RT-CGM to continue the use of this technology in the non-ICU inpatient setting under the supervision of the care team. Large prospective randomized trials will be required to establish benefit or lack thereof of RT-CGM use on inpatient glycemic control. BETA-CELL REPLACEMENT STRATEGIES Pancreas Transplantation Pancreas transplantation is a currently available therapeutic option for patients with diabetes who meet specific clinical criteria. Patients with end-stage renal disease are eligible to undergo simultaneous pancreas kidney (SPK) transplantation. Also, pancreas transplantation may be offered as
