The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


for patients with diabetes who meet specific clinical criteria. Patients with end-stage renal disease are eligible to undergo simultaneous pancreas kidney (SPK) transplantation. Also, pancreas transplantation may be offered as a separate procedure after a patient has already received a kidney transplant (pancreas after kidney (PAK)). In addition, solitary pancreas transplantation may also be offered to those individuals presenting with severe metabolic complications attributed to poor glycemic control (pancreas transplant alone (PTA)). Pancreas transplantation procedures have been performed since the 1960’s. A 2011 update on Pancreas Transplantation from the International Pancreas Transplant Registry reported improvements in patient survival and graft function over a course of 24 years of pancreas transplantation ( 103 ) . These improved outcomes were related to changes in surgical technique and immunosuppressive regimens as well as tighter donor selection criteria. At 5-years post-transplantation, pancreas graft survival is now reported at ~70% for SPK and at ~ 50% for PAK and PTA. Further, patient survival at 10 years exceeds 70% with the highest survival rate observed in PTA recipients (82%). Islet Transplantation Islet transplantation provides a less invasive surgical alternative for beta-cell replacement in patients with labile diabetes and has the potential to restore normoglycemia, eliminate severe hypoglycemia and restore hypoglycemia awareness. However, this procedure is still considered experimental in the United States. Marked improvements have also been noted in the field of islet transplantation over the past decade which have led to insulin independence rates at 5 years being comparable to pancreas transplantation outcomes ( 104 ) . A pivotal study of islet transplantation in patients with T1D showed that at 1-year post transplant, 87% of study participants achieved the primary endpoint of a A1C <7.0% and freedom from severe hypoglycemia (from day 28 to 365) ( 105 ). Further details about islet transplantation can be found in the Endotext chapter on this topic. FUTURE DIRECTIONS IN MANAGEMENT OF TYPE 1 DIABETES Artificial Pancreas Device Systems - Closed Loop Systems In addition to insulin-only CL-systems, bi-hormonal closed loop systems are also being actively explored. Additional manufacturers utilizing insulin-only CL-systems are expected to launch their devices in the near future. The introduction of faster-acting insulins (biochaperone lispro and faster-acting insulin aspart (FIAsp)) could potentially make these strategies more effective. As this technology advances, we are getting closer to the goal of a fully automated device which will be able to predict with high accuracy changes in glucose
