The Management of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, diabetes, patients, pubmed, type, type diabetes, hypoglycemia, use, basal, blood, control, cgm, data, therapy


more effective. As this technology advances, we are getting closer to the goal of a fully automated device which will be able to predict with high accuracy changes in glucose profiles and respond accordingly with stringent modulation of infusion of hormones (e.g., insulin, glucagon, amylin) to maintain glycemia within normal ranges. Implantation of Encapsulated Islets Some of the limitations of islet transplantation currently include the limited availability of donors and the need for long term immunosuppression to prevent rejection of the transplanted graft. Protecting the islets from the immunologic environment may allow both the use of non-human islets for transplantation and minimize or eliminate the need for systemic immunosuppression. Thus, the encapsulation of islets to attain these goals has been sought for several years but unfortunately this technology is still not at the stage to make it to the clinical arena. Although initial attempts at encapsulation of islets resulted in damage of the capsule by local tissue responses, newer techniques allowing for conformal coating of human islets have shown promising results in pre-clinical models and are currently being explored ( 106 ) . Islet Xenotransplantation An alternative to human pancreas and islet transplantation which is currently being explored is the use of pig islets. Pig islets have major physiologic similarities to human islets. Notably, pig insulin differs from human insulin by only one amino acid. Donor pigs may be genetically engineered to be protected from the human immune system thus reducing the need for potent immunosuppression. Studies in non-human primates using encapsulated pig islets have resulted in graft survival for more than 6 months ( 107 ) . Research in this field in actively ongoing. Stem Cell Based Therapies Stem cell research has allowed the generation of insulin-producing pancreatic β-cells from human pluripotent stem cells ( 108 ) . Further, scientists can now also generate alpha and delta cells from stem cells therefore more closely mimicking a fully functional human islet. This technology has the potential to generate vast amounts of glucose-responsive β-cells and allow for the development of customizable islets containing predetermined amounts of specific cell lines. Results in preclinical models are encouraging and a clinical trial is expected in 2021. Glucose Responsive Insulins (Smart Insulins) Another area of ongoing research is the development of “smart” drug delivery systems able to respond to environmental or external triggers greatly improving therapeutic performance. Conceptually, “smart” insulins should be able to respond
