Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


1 Recommendations This guidance replaces NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention. 1.1 Prasugrel 10 mg in combination with aspirin is recommended as an option within its marketing authorisation, that is, for preventing atherothrombotic events in adults with acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina [UA], non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI] or ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI]) having primary or delayed percutaneous coronary intervention. 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Acute coronary syndromes refers to a group of symptoms associated with acute myocardial ischaemia with or without infarction. It encompasses a spectrum of disorders or syndromes including acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina pectoris. Acute coronary syndromes are usually the result of an acute or sub- acute primary reduction of myocardial oxygen supply provoked by disruption of an atherosclerotic plaque (build-up of material in a heart vessel) associated with inflammation, thrombosis, vasoconstriction and microembolisation. 2.2 The presence of ST-segment-elevation on an electrocardiogram usually indicates total occlusion of the affected artery, resulting in necrosis of the tissue supplied by that artery or ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). This condition is treated immediately with reperfusion therapy (thrombolysis or percutaneous coronary intervention). Acute coronary syndrome without STEMI is classified as either unstable angina or non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). NSTEMI differs from unstable angina primarily in the severity of myocardial ischaemia. In NSTEMI, the ischaemia is severe enough to result in the release of biochemical markers of myocardial injury into the blood. Immediate treatment for these conditions aims to prevent progression to total occlusion of the artery and, for people at high risk of myocardial infarction, may include coronary revascularisation, either by means of percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass graft. 2.3 Acute coronary syndromes become more prevalent with increasing age and incidence is higher in men than women. There were around 32,000 hospital admissions for unstable angina in England in 2012 to 2013, and it is estimated that there are about 82,000 myocardial infarctions in the country every year. Of the 80,974 hospital admissions with a final diagnosis of myocardial infarction recorded between April 2012 and March 2013 in the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP), 40% were STEMIs and 60% were NSTEMIs. The average age of people with STEMI and NSTEMI was 65 years and 72 years respectively. Twice as many men had myocardial infarctions as women. 2.4 Long-term management of
