Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


NSTEMIs. The average age of people with STEMI and NSTEMI was 65 years and 72 years respectively. Twice as many men had myocardial infarctions as women. 2.4 Long-term management of acute coronary syndromes includes the use of aspirin in combination with a thienopyridine (clopidogrel, prasugrel) or acyclopentyl-triazolo-pyrimidine (ticagrelor). NICE has produced guidelines on myocardial infarction with ST-segment-elevation: The acute management of myocardial infarction with ST-segment-elevation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) and unstable angina and NSTEMI: early management (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes). NICE's guideline on myocardial infarction with ST-segment-elevation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) recommends that after STEMI, patients treated with clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin during the first 24 hours after the myocardial infarction should continue with treatment for at least 4 weeks. Thereafter, standard treatment, including low-dose aspirin, should be given unless there are other indications to continue clopidogrel in combination with aspirin. In its guideline on unstable angina and NSTEMI: early management (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes), NICE recommends that clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin should be continued for 12 months after the most recent acute episode of NSTEMI. Thereafter, standard care, including treatment with low-dose aspirin alone, is recommended unless there are other indications to continue clopidogrel in combination with aspirin. 2.5 NICE recommends prasugrel in combination with aspirin as an option for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with acute coronary syndromes having percutaneous coronary intervention, only when: immediate primary percutaneous intervention for STEMI is necessary; stent thrombosis has occurred during clopidogrel treatment; or the person has diabetes (NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention). NICE also recommends ticagrelor in combination with low-dose aspirin for up to 12 months as an option for people with STEMI who are to be treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, NSTEMI or unstable angina (NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes). 2.6 Since the publication of NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention in October 2009, generic formulations of clopidogrel have become available and NICE has published its appraisal of ticagrelor (NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes). 3 The technology 3.1 Prasugrel (Efient, Eli Lilly and Company/Daiichi-Sankyo) is
