Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


Prasugrel compared with clopidogrel 4.1.1 The manufacturer and the Assessment Group both identified 1 randomised controlled trial (TRITON-TIMI 38) and 1 publication related to the core clinical cohort from TRITON-TIMI 38 (Wiviott et al. 2011) from a systematic search of the literature. Both the randomised controlled trial and the publication were also considered for the original appraisal of prasugrel (NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention). The Assessment Group commented that no new evidence had been identified since the original appraisal was published. 4.1.2 TRITON-TIMI 38 was a randomised double-blind trial that compared prasugrel with clopidogrel in 13,608 patients with moderate- to high-risk acute coronary syndromes (unstable angina, non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI] or ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI]) who were scheduled to have percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients were given aspirin (at a recommended daily dose of between 75 mg and 162 mg) in combination with the drugs studied. Patients were randomised to receive a loading dose of 60 mg prasugrel followed by 10 mg prasugrel daily or a loading dose of 300 mg clopidogrel followed by 75 mg clopidogrel daily for up to 15 months (the median treatment period was 14.5 months). 4.1.3 The primary efficacy end point for TRITON-TIMI 38 was a composite of the rate of non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, and death from cardiovascular causes during the entire follow-up period. A range of secondary composite end points were also included. Major safety end points included thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) major bleeding not related to coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), non-CABG-related TIMI life-threatening bleeding, and TIMI major bleeding (a fall in haemoglobin of 5 g/100 ml or more) or minor bleeding (a fall in haemoglobin of 3 g to less than 5 g/100 ml). 4.1.4 Wiviott et al. (2011) reported the results for a core clinical cohort of the TRITON-TIMI 38 population (n=10,084). This cohort consisted of patients younger than 75 years, weighing 60 kg or more, and with no history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack. This subpopulation was described in NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention as the 'target population' or 'licensed population' for treatment with prasugrel. Manufacturer's submission 4.1.5 The manufacturer's submission focused on the results of the overall cohort population of TRITON-TIMI 38. At 15 months, the composite primary end point
