Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


TIMI major bleed) statistically significantly favoured prasugrel (clopidogrel 13.9% and prasugrel 12.2%, hazard ratio 0.87 [95% CI 0.79 to 0.95, p=0.004]). 4.1.7 The manufacturer presented an analysis of pre-specified subgroups for the overall cohort in its submission. These subgroups included STEMI, unstable angina or NSTEMI, people with diabetes and types of stent placements. The analysis showed that there was no evidence to suggest that the overall treatment effect was different in the subgroups compared with the overall cohort. 4.1.8 The manufacturer also provided post-hoc subgroup analyses from other publications, which included the following: • A subgroup analysis of the 1218 myocardial infarctions that occurred during TRITON-TIMI 38 based on a paper by Morrow et al. (2009) showed that there was a consistent reduction in the incidence of myocardial infarctions with prasugrel compared with clopidogrel for myocardial infarctions of every size as measured by biomarker elevation, with the greatest absolute reduction seen in those myocardial infarctions associated with the greatest extent of myocardial necrosis. The manufacturer highlighted that this analysis showed that prasugrel statistically significantly reduced spontaneous and procedural myocardial infarction compared with clopidogrel, and that this was consistent across myocardial infarctions of varying type, size and timing. • A subgroup analysis of the 3,146 patients with diabetes in TRITON-TIMI 38 (Wiviott et al. 2008) showed that patients with diabetes tended to have a greater reduction in ischaemic events without an observed increase in non- CABG-related TIMI major bleeding, and therefore showed a greater net treatment benefit with prasugrel compared with clopidogrel. Assessment Group's report 4.1.9 The Assessment Group's report focused on the results of the core clinical cohort population of TRITON-TIMI 38, as reported in Wiviott et al. (2011). The Assessment Group explained that during NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention, the Appraisal Committee agreed that the core clinical cohort population was the most relevant because the excluded patients were either explicitly excluded from the marketing authorisation or were not supported by trial evidence (because the trial was based on the full 10 mg dose). The Assessment Group noted that the authors of the Wiviott et al. study stated that the core clinical cohort was identified post hoc and defined by regulatory criteria, and that the study should therefore be considered as an exploratory analysis. 4.1.10 The Assessment Group stated that the patients in the overall trial population
