Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


difference between the prasugrel and clopidogrel groups for non-CABG-related major bleeding. Only 1 statistically significant difference between prasugrel and clopidogrel was noted and this was for the combined outcome of TIMI major and minor bleeding, for which statistically significantly more events occurred with prasugrel than with clopidogrel. 4.1.17 The Assessment Group reported the efficacy, bleeding and net clinical benefit for patients aged 75 years and older, weighing less than 60 kg or with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack. There were no statistically significant differences between the 2 groups for the primary efficacy end point (death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction, or non-fatal stroke) or the primary safety end point (non-CABG-related TIMI major bleeding). The results for the primary efficacy end point were 16.0% in the clopidogrel group and 16.1% in the prasugrel group (hazard ratio 1.02 [95% CI 0.84 to 1.24], p=0.83). The results for the primary safety end point were 3.3% in the clopidogrel group and 4.3% in the prasugrel group (hazard ratio 1.42 [95% CI 0.93 to 2.15], p=0.10). 4.1.18 Overall, the Assessment Group considered that the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial was robustly designed and of strong methodological quality. The Assessment Group highlighted, that during the original appraisal of prasugrel, the Appraisal Committee identified 3 areas of uncertainty about the generalisability of the results from TRITON-TIMI 38 to people in England and Wales. These were: • The loading dose of clopidogrel administered in the trial was 300 mg, whereas a loading dose of 600 mg may be administered in clinical practice in England and Wales. • The majority (74%) of patients in the trial received the clopidogrel loading dose during the percutaneous coronary intervention procedure. In clinical practice in England and Wales, patients undergoing planned percutaneous coronary intervention receive the clopidogrel loading dose before the procedure. • The clinical efficacy in the trial was largely driven by statistically significant differences in non-fatal myocardial infarctions. Non-fatal myocardial infarctions included both clinical myocardial infarctions (symptomatic) and non-clinical myocardial infarctions (shown by biomarkers and electroencephalograph [ECG] readings). The Assessment Group considered that the size and timing of the loading dose of clopidogrel and the impact these factors have on the primary outcome of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial remain unclear. However, the manufacturer's re-analysis of myocardial infarctions (see section 4.1.8) provided a convincing case that prasugrel is effective across all types of myocardial infarction when compared with clopidogrel. 4.1.19
