Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


unclear. However, the manufacturer's re-analysis of myocardial infarctions (see section 4.1.8) provided a convincing case that prasugrel is effective across all types of myocardial infarction when compared with clopidogrel. 4.1.19 The Assessment Group noted that health-related quality of life was assessed in a sub-study of TRITON-TIMI 38 using the Angina Frequency and Physical Limitations Scores scales of the Seattle Angina Questionnaire, the London School of Hygiene Dyspnoea Questionnaire score, the EQ-5D self-report questionnaire and the EQ visual analogue scale. Quality of life was assessed at baseline and at days 30, 180, 360 and 450 after the baseline measurement was taken, or at the last visit. Improvements in quality of life were observed early (between baseline and 30 days) and these improvements remained at 12 months. There were no statistically significant differences between prasugrel and clopidogrel. The Assessment Group also noted that the study had recruited fewer people than was initially planned (475 compared with 3000), and raised concerns about how representative the sub-study was of the TRITON TIMI 38 trial population. The Assessment Group was therefore unable to draw any conclusions about the health-related quality of life of patients treated with prasugrel or clopidogrel in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial. Prasugrel compared with ticagrelor 4.1.20 The Assessment Group noted that there were no trials directly comparing prasugrel with ticagrelor. It considered performing an indirect comparison between prasugrel and ticagrelor using data from TRITON-TIMI 38 and the PLATO trial, with clopidogrel as the common comparator. 4.1.21 NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes recommends ticagrelor as a treatment option (in combination with low-dose aspirin) for up to 12 months in adults with acute coronary syndromes, including people with STEMI who are to be treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, people with NSTEMI or people with unstable angina. These recommendations were based on a single randomised controlled trial (PLATO). The PLATO trial was an international, multicentre, double-blind, double-dummy phase 3 trial comparing ticagrelor plus aspirin with clopidogrel plus aspirin in 18,624 patients admitted to hospital with acute coronary syndromes with or without STEMI. Patients were randomised to the trial irrespective of planned intervention and therefore the patient population included patients with acute coronary syndromes who were to be medically managed as well as those who were to have percutaneous coronary intervention. The trial follow up was for 12 months, but the trial protocol stipulated that once the requisite
