Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


period. 4.1.24 The Assessment Group highlighted that the manufacturer of prasugrel had not provided an indirect comparison of prasugrel with ticagrelor in its submission for this appraisal. Although the Assessment Group considered an indirect comparison to be inappropriate, it identified 4 publications reporting an indirect comparison of prasugrel with ticagrelor based on TRITON-TIMI 38 and the PLATO trials. These publications reported that there were no statistically significant differences in overall death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or their composite. Prasugrel was associated with a statistically significantly lower risk of stent thrombosis, and ticagrelor was associated with a statistically significantly lower risk of any major bleeding and major bleeding associated with cardiac surgery. 4.1.25 The Assessment Group identified an ongoing trial designed to assess whether ticagrelor is superior to prasugrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes and planned invasive strategy (ISAR-REACT 5). This study is due to complete in October 2018 (the final data collection date for primary outcome measure is October 2016). The results of this study should allow a formal comparison of the efficacy of prasugrel compared with ticagrelor. Submission statements from other consultees 4.1.26 A professional group commented that although evidence supporting the use of prasugrel in STEMI treated by primary percutaneous coronary intervention is unclear, the data supporting the use of prasugrel for STEMI treated by a variety of means (as still occurs in the UK) remain strong. As such, there is no robust new evidence to challenge the original guidance defining the patient population for whom prasugrel should be a treatment option. The group stated that the benefit of prasugrel therapy is limited to patients younger than 75 years, weighing more than 60 kg and without a history of transient ischaemic attack or stroke. It commented that data produced after NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention do not support extending the use of prasugrel to all patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes, whether treated medically or by urgent revascularisation. It noted evidence from subgroup analyses for efficacy of prasugrel over clopidogrel in the reduction of stent thrombosis in patients receiving an intracoronary stent for treatment of acute coronary syndromes. 4.1.27 The professional group commented that since the publication of NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention, few further data have become available about
