Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


that since the publication of NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention, few further data have become available about prasugrel in the context of non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes and that no new data are available for STEMI. It stated that although prasugrel reduces major adverse cardiac events and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndromes at high risk of receiving percutaneous coronary intervention with stents, there is no evidence that prasugrel reduces mortality. The professional group commented that prasugrel should not be offered to people aged 75 years or older, weighing less than 60 kg or with a past history of transient ischaemic attack or stroke. However, it stated that prasugrel should remain a treatment option in patients with STEMI treated by primary percutaneous coronary intervention or by other means and in patients with diabetes and acute coronary syndromes of any variety (STEMI, NSTEMI or unstable angina). 4.2 Cost effectiveness Manufacturer's economic model 4.2.1 The manufacturer submitted an economic model similar to the model described in NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention. The economic model had a Markov model structure with 2 phases. The first phase spanned the duration of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial and the second phase extrapolated outcomes and costs beyond the trial, up until death or a time horizon of 40 years. Rather than using data from the trial directly in the model, separate risk equations for primary end point events were obtained from individual patient data from the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial. These risk equations were then used to model events and hospitalisation. Mortality was modelled based on adjustment of population life tables, to reflect the impact on longer-term mortality of the events modelled over the short term. Patients entered the model at the point of experiencing an acute coronary syndromes event, immediately before having percutaneous coronary intervention. Some aspects of the submitted economic model had been updated based on feedback during the original appraisal of prasugrel. These revisions included: • the sensitivity analysis encompassing the entire population as opposed to a 'typical' patient profile • scenario analysis using the Evidence Review Group's suggestions for utility values, amended long-term relative risk of mortality and reduced incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarction • the (reduced) price of generic clopidogrel • updated costs. 4.2.2 Although the TRITON-TIMI
