Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


for utility values, amended long-term relative risk of mortality and reduced incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarction • the (reduced) price of generic clopidogrel • updated costs. 4.2.2 Although the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial included a health-related quality of life sub-study, the manufacturer stated that it was not possible to provide robust health-related quality of life estimates because of the very small numbers of patients with events included in the analysis. Therefore, the manufacturer conducted a systematic review of the literature to identify studies relevant to the modelled trial population. Mean utility decrements for acute coronary syndromes (0.041) and stroke or myocardial infarction (0.052) were taken directly from a US study (Sullivan et al., 2006) that was designed to produce a specific list of preference weights for use in economic evaluations; the study used the US version of the EQ-5D. To calculate utility weights for use in the economic evaluation, background UK population norms (free of disease) varied by age and sex, as described by Kind et al. (1999), were applied to all patients in the study. The utility decrements for acute coronary syndromes and stroke or myocardial infarction were then used alongside these background utility estimates. Finally, the manufacturer assumed that for a major bleed a decrement of 25% of the population (utility) norm was applicable for a 14-day period. 4.2.3 The key categories of cost estimates in the manufacturer's submission were related to hospitalisations and drug costs. Only hospitalisations related to end points or to serious adverse events needing re-hospitalisation and potentially related to the acute coronary syndrome condition or the percutaneous coronary intervention were included in the manufacturer's cost analysis. Re- hospitalisations were valued at a weighted average unit cost per hospitalisation (using NHS reference costs) and differences in hospitalisation rates were applied by geographic location. The weighted average unit cost per hospitalisation was £3,070 for clopidogrel and £3,081 for prasugrel. Patients were assumed to be treated with either aspirin and clopidogrel or aspirin and prasugrel for 12 months. The cost for prasugrel was calculated at £10.20 per day for the loading dose and £1.70 per day for the maintenance dose (MIMS August 13, based on £47.56 per pack of 28 tablets). The cost of clopidogrel was calculated at £0.24 per day for the loading dose and £0.07 per day for the maintenance dose (NHS Drug Tariff, based on £1.83 per pack of 28 75 mg tablets). The cost
