Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


£0.24 per day for the loading dose and £0.07 per day for the maintenance dose (NHS Drug Tariff, based on £1.83 per pack of 28 75 mg tablets). The cost of aspirin was calculated as £0.01 per day for the maintenance dose. 4.2.4 The manufacturer considered 5 subgroups in its cost-effectiveness analysis, resulting in the following incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs): • For the all acute coronary syndromes licensed population (excluding prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and including patients who are now recommended to be treated with a 5 mg maintenance dose), the ICER was £11,660 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. • For the core clinical cohort (excluding prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and those weighing less than 60 kg, or aged 75 years or older), the ICER was £11,796 per QALY gained. • For the unstable angina or NSTEMI licensed population (excluding patients with prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and including patients who are now recommended to be treated with a 5 mg dose), the ICER was £15,452 per QALY gained. • For the STEMI licensed population (excluding patients with prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and including patients who were recommended to be treated with a 5 mg dose), the ICER was £6,987 per QALY gained. • For the acute coronary syndromes licensed population with diabetes (excluding patients with prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and including patients who were recommended to be treated with a 5 mg dose) the ICER was £4,675 per QALY gained. 4.2.5 The manufacturer carried out a series of one-way deterministic sensitivity analyses on the core clinical cohort population (excluding prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack and those 75 years or older or weighing less than 60 kg). The following changes to the model resulted in ICERs of more than £13,000 per QALY gained (an increase of more than £1,000 from the base-case ICER): • discounting at 6% for both costs and effects (ICER £16,475 per QALY gained) • relative risks for all-cause mortality associated with clinical events reduced by 50% (ICER £20,619 per QALY gained) • clopidogrel pre-loading adjustment set at 70% (ICER £13,959 per QALY gained). 4.2.6 The manufacturer did not carry out probabilistic sensitivity analysis. 4.2.7 The manufacturer also carried out a series of scenario analyses for each of the following: • using alternative values obtained from the Health Outcomes Data Repository (HODaR) database • amending the
