Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


manufacturer also carried out a series of scenario analyses for each of the following: • using alternative values obtained from the Health Outcomes Data Repository (HODaR) database • amending the long-term relative risks of mortality (by ignoring the impact of acute coronary syndromes before events that occurred in the TRITON- TIMI 38 trial) • reducing the incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarctions such that the underlying rate was 50% of that of the trial. The results of the scenario analyses showed that when using alternative utility values, relative risks for mortality and myocardial infarction, the ICER for prasugrel compared with clopidogrel remained below £20,000 per QALY gained. Assessment Group's assessment of the manufacturer's economic model 4.2.8 The Assessment Group provided a critique of the manufacturer's economic model. It stated that in the long-term component of the model, there was an assumption that differences established between the prasugrel and clopidogrel treatment arms of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial will be preserved indefinitely at the level observed at the end of the trial. However, the Assessment Group considered that there is no reason to believe that further serious non-fatal events will not continue to occur to patients in both cohorts. It stated that if events during the trial are presumed to influence later survival, then it is also likely that any such events in subsequent periods will also have important effects. Because active treatment with clopidogrel or prasugrel will have stopped, it can be expected that event rates will be similar in both treatment arms. The Assessment Group commented that as a result of this process, it is likely that over time the disease histories of patients will converge, and so any initial advantage for either treatment will progressively decrease. Assessment Group's economic model 4.2.9 The Assessment Group carried out a systematic review to identify existing economic evaluations of prasugrel. Of the 15 potentially eligible references identified, none of the papers met the full inclusion criteria that had been set. The review identified the 3 studies included in the manufacturer's review of cost-effectiveness evidence – two from a US perspective and one which used the economic model originally submitted during NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention but these were excluded by the Assessment Group. 4.2.10 The Assessment Group developed a 2-phase economic model: a short-term statistical model of the data from the
