Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


with percutaneous coronary intervention but these were excluded by the Assessment Group. 4.2.10 The Assessment Group developed a 2-phase economic model: a short-term statistical model of the data from the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial and a long-term model projecting outcomes and costs at the end of the first phase up to a maximum of 40 years. The model compared dual antiplatelet therapy for 12 months from time of percutaneous coronary intervention with either clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin or prasugrel in combination with low-dose aspirin. As a result of the lack of clinical evidence available, the Assessment Group did not compare prasugrel with ticagrelor. 4.2.11 The Assessment Group accepted the manufacturer's statistical model for the initial phase (up to 12 months) but replaced the long-term projection with a more detailed representation of subsequent cardiovascular events, accumulating patient histories, alteration in health states and associated care costs, as well as health-related quality of life. 4.2.12 The Assessment Group's decision model assessed 4 mutually exclusive subgroups of the core clinical cohort (that is, all patients with acute coronary syndromes, treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, excluding those with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack, those aged 75 years or older or weighing less than 60 kg). The 4 subgroups were: • treated for STEMI and with diagnosed diabetes • treated for STEMI and without diagnosed diabetes • treated for unstable angina or NSTEMI and with diagnosed diabetes • treated for unstable angina or NSTEMI and without diagnosed diabetes. Specific clinical data relating to patients with STEMI, unstable angina or NSTEMI or diabetes in the core clinical cohort were not available from the manufacturer's submission or the most recent publication. In place of these data, the Assessment Group extracted the outcomes from the manufacturer's short-term model for the 4 mutually exclusive subgroups of the core clinical cohort and used these as the initial conditions for surviving patients entering the Assessment Group's long-term state-transition model. 4.2.13 For the long-term projection, the Assessment Group used a modified version of the economic model described in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular events. This model used data provided by the manufacturer of clopidogrel from the CAPRIE clinical trial, supplemented by data provided by the manufacturer of dipyridamole from the PROFESS clinical trial. The Assessment Group stated that the myocardial infarction subpopulation analysis submitted for NICE's technology appraisal
