Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


trial, supplemented by data provided by the manufacturer of dipyridamole from the PROFESS clinical trial. The Assessment Group stated that the myocardial infarction subpopulation analysis submitted for NICE's technology appraisal guidance on clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular events addresses issues similar to those in this appraisal and was based largely on data from the myocardial infarction subpopulation in the CAPRIE trial. In order to reduce the time in generating model results from an individual patient simulation approach, the Assessment Group restructured the economic model submitted for NICE's technology appraisal guidance on clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular events into a long-term Markov chain for the purpose of this appraisal. 4.2.14 In the Assessment Group's long-term model the initial health state was determined by the worst previous event (none, myocardial infarction or stroke), the number of prior events (none, 1, 2, or 3 or more) and whether the event was disabling or not. Moving into another health state was determined by whether the patient experienced non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal haemorrhagic stroke (disabling or non-disabling), or ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack (disabling or non-disabling). The patient may also have experienced no event during the year, and therefore stay in the same health state, or may have died if they experienced fatal myocardial infarction, fatal haemorrhagic stroke, fatal ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack, other vascular death, or non-vascular death. 4.2.15 The main source of data used to populate the Assessment Group's long-term model was the CAPRIE clinical trial. The Assessment Group stated that its clinical adviser had confirmed that CAPRIE data was an appropriate trial source for extrapolating long-term vascular events and that no better source had become available since 2010. The CAPRIE trial was a double-blind placebo comparison of clopidogrel with aspirin involving 19,185 patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases manifested as either ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction or symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Only CAPRIE data from 5,741 patients with myocardial infarctions and without a history of other vascular events were used to populate the Assessment Group's long-term model. The manufacturer of clopidogrel carried out extensive re-analyses of the CAPRIE trial data as requested by the Assessment Group in order to estimate independent event hazards adjusted to age, sex and event history. 4.2.16 The Assessment Group's economic model included costs calculated from the pack price for 28 tablets of clopidogrel, prasugrel and low-dose
