Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


economic sub-study of the PLATO clinical trial. The values were based on the weighted average of patients meeting those criteria. Utility parameters reflecting sex differences and mild versus severe strokes for patients suffering at least 1 stroke or transient ischaemic attack were obtained from a study of EQ-5D observations as part of the Oxford Vascular Study (OXVASC). The Assessment Group used an annual loss of utility estimated from the UK population EQ-5D norms, which was calculated by fitting a linear regression trend line to all people aged 35 years or older. The results were used to adjust the initial health state utilities of each subgroup for the differences in mean age between the TRITON-TIMI 38 cohort and OXVASC data. This decrement was also applied annually to the results of the model to reflect the average decline of utility score with increasing age. 4.2.19 The Assessment Group commented that 7 events in its model would be expected to result in additional utility decrement in the first year of follow up during early recovery. The Assessment Group identified a specific value for non-fatal myocardial infarction using an analysis of UK Prospective Diabetes Study trial results which compared utility values for events occurring within 12 months against those occurring earlier. Sources for non-fatal stroke parameters gave contradictory figures, suggesting that there is no clear additional early disutility effect beyond the long-term continuing effect of a stroke. As a result, the Assessment Group set these parameters to zero and conducted one-way sensitivity analyses on these parameters instead. No sources were identified for utility values for fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, other vascular death or non-vascular death. The Assessment Group assigned these parameters a notional value of −0.1 and conducted sensitivity analyses. 4.2.20 The Assessment Group discounted costs and outcomes annually at 3.5% and carried out one-way sensitivity analyses using 0% and 6% discount rates for both costs and outcomes. The Assessment Group's model generated results at the end of every year from trial randomisation. However, deterministic results were reported at 1, 5, 10, 20 and 40 years, and probabilistic results at 5 and 40 years. 4.2.21 The Assessment Group assumed that follow-up secondary prophylaxis was limited to low-dose aspirin. The Assessment Group stated that it made this assumption for convenience and to avoid the possibility of obscuring the primary comparison between prasugrel and clopidogrel use. For the same reason, the Assessment Group did not
