Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


evidence The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of prasugrel, having considered evidence on the nature of acute coronary syndromes and the value placed on the benefits of prasugrel by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. Clinical effectiveness 4.3.1 The Committee discussed the clinical management of acute coronary syndromes. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that current management is in line with NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention as well as NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes, Myocardial infarction with ST-segment-elevation: The acute management of myocardial infarction with ST-segment-elevation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) and Unstable angina and NSTEMI: early management (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes). The Committee understood that, in England, treatment options for people with STEMI are prasugrel in combination with aspirin, ticagrelor in combination with low-dose aspirin or clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin, along with percutaneous coronary intervention followed by dual antiplatelet treatment. It also understood that people in England with NSTEMI are offered treatments depending on their Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) or TIMI score. Medical management using aspirin is an option for people at the lowest risk of future adverse cardiovascular events, whereas people at higher risk are offered percutaneous coronary intervention along with either ticagrelor, or clopidogrel and subsequent dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin. In patients with NSTEMI and diabetes, prasugrel is an alternative to clopidogrel or ticagrelor. The Committee heard from patient experts and clinical specialists that, overall, prasugrel is a useful addition to the treatment options available. It has a potentially key advantage over clopidogrel because of its faster antiplatelet action. However, the Committee also noted that prasugrel increased the chance of (potentially fatal) bleeding compared with clopidogrel. The Committee also heard from the clinical specialists that there was variation in opinion among clinicians in England as to which of prasugrel, ticagrelor or clopidogrel should be considered the standard treatment for all patients with STEMI who have a percutaneous coronary intervention because of the chance of increased bleeding with these treatments. The Committee recognised that antiplatelet therapy such as prasugrel was a valued treatment option. Prasugrel compared
