Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


cardiovascular causes, myocardial infarction or stroke in patients under the age of 75 years) there was no statistically significant difference between the groups treated with prasugrel or clopidogrel and that similar frequencies of bleeding events were reported for both treatment groups. The Committee heard from the Assessment Group that because the patients recruited to TRILOGY were not treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, data from the trial was peripheral to this appraisal. Although the Committee accepted that new data on prasugrel had become available since the publication of NICE's technology appraisal guidance 182 on prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention, it concluded that these new data were not particularly generalisable to the population being appraised (that is, people with acute coronary syndromes who are to be treated with percutaneous coronary intervention) and so could not be considered by Committee. 4.3.3 The Committee discussed the overall trial population and the subpopulation of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial presented by both the manufacturer and the Assessment Group. It noted that the manufacturer and the Assessment Group had presented clinical-effectiveness results for the overall cohort of patients in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial and also for the core clinical cohort (which excluded patients aged 75 years or older, those who weighed less than 60 kg, and those with a history of stroke and transient ischaemic attack). The Committee concluded that the core clinical cohort population was the most relevant for decision-making because it only included those people specified in the summary of product characteristics for prasugrel for whom the full 10 mg dose was considered appropriate, that is, those younger than 75 years and with a body weight of 60 kg or more. 4.3.4 The Committee identified 2 main areas of uncertainty in the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial. Firstly, the Committee heard from clinical specialists that, in clinical practice, clopidogrel is administered several hours before percutaneous coronary intervention (preloading) in most non-urgent procedures carried out in England. Additionally, the preloaded dose of clopidogrel is often 600 mg. This dose and timing of clopidogrel therefore differed from that used in TRITON-TIMI 38 in which 300 mg (as in the marketing authorisation for clopidogrel) was given without preloading (see section 4.1.2). The Committee discussed the dose of clopidogrel. It heard from the manufacturer of prasugrel that the CURRENT-OASIS 7 trial (published
