Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


authorisation for clopidogrel) was given without preloading (see section 4.1.2). The Committee discussed the dose of clopidogrel. It heard from the manufacturer of prasugrel that the CURRENT-OASIS 7 trial (published after the original appraisal of prasugrel (NICE technology appraisal 182) and designed to assess the effectiveness of a standard or double dose of clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes) showed that there was no statistically significant difference in the results for the primary composite outcome (death from cardiovascular causes, myocardial infarction or stroke) for those having a higher dose of clopidogrel (600 mg on day 1, 150 mg on days 2 to 7, and then 75 mg daily) compared with those having a lower dose (300 mg on day 1 then 75 mg daily). The Committee accepted that the results from the CURRENT-OASIS 7 trial suggested there was no clear benefit from the 600 mg dose of clopidogrel compared with the 300 mg dose and agreed that the efficacy results seen in TRITON-TIMI 38 with a 300 mg loading dose were unlikely to have differed materially from those seen if the 600 mg dose was used (although a higher rate of bleeding in the clopidogrel group may have been seen). The Committee then discussed the timing of the loading dose of clopidogrel. It heard from the manufacturer of prasugrel that the results of TRITON-TIMI 38 showed that the benefit seen with prasugrel was relatively consistent over time, as shown through the similarity of the hazard ratios for the primary efficacy end point in the prasugrel group throughout the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial. This implied a relative advantage for prasugrel could have arisen even after the pre-loading of clopidogrel. The Committee also heard from the manufacturer that the management of patients with NSTEMI in clinical practice has changed since the publication of the original appraisal of prasugrel (NICE technology appraisal 182) as the 'door-to-needle time' for patients in England decreases, so too does the time for pre-loading with clopidogrel. The Committee agreed that there is still limited evidence on the importance of the timing of the clopidogrel loading dose and so its effect on patient outcomes remains an issue. The Committee therefore considered that more cardiovascular events could have occurred in the clopidogrel group in the trial than might be experienced in a similar cohort of patients having percutaneous coronary intervention in routine clinical practice in England. As a result, the
