Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


that there was uncertainty about whether prasugrel was clinically superior to clopidogrel in terms of net clinical benefit for either the overall trial population or the Committee's preferred population, the core clinical cohort (see section 4.3.3). The Committee therefore considered whether there were any identifiable subgroups of patients for whom prasugrel might show superiority over clopidogrel with less uncertainty. 4.3.7 The Committee considered the clinical evidence for prasugrel in the subgroup of patients with STEMI. In clinical practice, there is only a short time between diagnosis and primary percutaneous intervention in these patients. The Committee considered the subgroup results presented by the Assessment Group for the core clinical cohort which indicated a trend towards benefit for prasugrel compared to clopidogrel in patients with STEMI across end points. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that the onset of antiplatelet activity was more consistent and faster with prasugrel than with clopidogrel. The delayed onset of antiplatelet activity with clopidogrel was of particular concern when immediate percutaneous coronary intervention was needed because there would be little or no time to give a preloading dose of clopidogrel. Having taken all the above factors into consideration, the Committee agreed that prasugrel could have an advantage over clopidogrel for patients with STEMI who need immediate primary percutaneous coronary intervention. 4.3.8 The Committee then considered the use of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in patients with diabetes in the core clinical cohort who were having percutaneous coronary intervention. It noted that in these patients, prasugrel reduced the rate of non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or death from cardiovascular causes compared with clopidogrel to a greater extent than for the licensed population of patients (including those without diabetes). The Committee, aware of the views expressed by the clinical specialists, considered that the lack of a preloading dose in the trial may have underestimated the effectiveness of clopidogrel in the population with diabetes. It agreed, however, that diabetes represented an important and definable risk factor for more severe cardiovascular disease and greater risk of cardiovascular events during and after percutaneous coronary intervention. The Committee therefore concluded that it would be appropriate to consider prasugrel for the treatment of people with diabetes having percutaneous coronary intervention in its decision-making. 4.3.9 The Committee then considered the use of prasugrel in patients who are clopidogrel-resistant (that is, patients whose platelet levels do not respond adequately to the dosage of clopidogrel with which
