Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


The Committee then considered the use of prasugrel in patients who are clopidogrel-resistant (that is, patients whose platelet levels do not respond adequately to the dosage of clopidogrel with which they are treated). The Committee understood that these patients may be at risk of further events if their treatment is not adjusted adequately, but the Committee was aware that it was not routine clinical practice to test for platelet response to clopidogrel. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that in around a quarter of patients having percutaneous coronary intervention, stent thrombosis can occur despite clopidogrel treatment. The Committee recognised that these patients could reasonably be considered to be at high risk of further cardiovascular events, are clearly identified and so could benefit from the option of treatment with prasugrel. Because of this, the Committee concluded it was appropriate to consider patients with clopidogrel resistance in its decision-making. 4.3.10 The Committee then considered the use of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in the subgroup of patients with unstable angina or non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). It noted that in the core clinical cohort, the clinical effectiveness of prasugrel in these patients appeared to be consistent with the effectiveness in patients with STEMI. The Committee, aware of the views expressed by the clinical specialists, considered that the lack of a preloading dose in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial may have underestimated the effectiveness of clopidogrel in this subgroup. The Committee therefore concluded that there was uncertainty about whether prasugrel was clinically superior to clopidogrel in patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI. The Committee therefore concluded it was appropriate to consider patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI as a separate subgroup in its decision-making. 4.3.11 The Committee also discussed patients excluded from its preferred core clinical cohort population of TRITON-TIMI 38, that is, patients with a history of a stroke or transient ischaemic attack, patients aged 75 years or older and patients weighing less than 60 kg. The Committee noted that a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack is listed as a contraindication in the summary of product characteristics for prasugrel and that the summary of product characteristics also recommends a lower maintenance dose of 5 mg prasugrel for patients aged 75 years or over and for patients weighing less than 60 kg. It heard from the clinical specialists that, in clinical practice, prasugrel is not used in these groups because of a higher
