Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


over and for patients weighing less than 60 kg. It heard from the clinical specialists that, in clinical practice, prasugrel is not used in these groups because of a higher bleeding risk. The Committee noted comments received during consultation that new data had become available on the 5 mg dose since the publication of the original appraisal of prasugrel, which included data from the TRILOGY trial (see section 4.3.2). The Committee was aware that safety data for the 5 mg dose of prasugrel from the TRILOGY trial had led to an update of the information on the 5 mg dose in the drug's summary of product characteristics. However, the Committee noted that it had not been presented with any evidence for the efficacy of the lower dose of prasugrel and, therefore, agreed that it would be inappropriate to make a recommendation for prasugrel in patients aged 75 years or over and patients weighing less than 60 kg. Prasugrel compared with ticagrelor 4.3.12 The Committee noted that there were no trials directly comparing prasugrel with ticagrelor and that neither the manufacturer nor the Assessment Group had presented an indirect comparison of the 2 treatments. The Committee was aware of the rationale provided by both the manufacturer and the Assessment Group for not undertaking the indirect comparison, specifically differences in the trial design, patient population, and outcome measures used in the prasugrel (TRITON-TIMI 38) and ticagrelor (PLATO) trials. However, given that ticagrelor is in established use in clinical practice, that it is recommended for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes, and that it was included as a comparator in the final scope issued by NICE, the Committee agreed that an indirect comparison should have been performed, recognising that it would have been imperfect. It noted that the clinical specialists stated that ticagrelor is used in clinical practice in England and that prasugrel and ticagrelor are considered similarly effective for treating patients with STEMI. However, the clinical specialists were unable to comment similarly on the comparative effectiveness of prasugrel with ticagrelor in patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI, because prasugrel is not often used in these groups. The Committee noted that the Assessment Group had highlighted several published indirect comparisons in its report and that the Assessment Group considered the results from these publications to be unreliable given the
