Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


noted that the Assessment Group had highlighted several published indirect comparisons in its report and that the Assessment Group considered the results from these publications to be unreliable given the differences in the trials. Nonetheless, the Committee discussed the results of the published indirect comparisons of prasugrel and ticagrelor, which reported that there were no statistically significant differences in overall death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or their composite. The publications also reported that although prasugrel was associated with a significantly lower risk of stent thrombosis, ticagrelor was associated with a significantly lower risk of any major bleeding and major bleeding associated with cardiac surgery. The Committee concluded that, on balance, it was not able to distinguish the clinical effectiveness of prasugrel and ticagrelor in patients with STEMI, unstable angina, or NSTEMI. However, in the case of STEMI only, there was some support for the possibility of clinical equivalence. Cost effectiveness 4.3.13 The Committee considered the economic models submitted by the manufacturer and the Assessment Group. The Committee considered the cost-effectiveness results for the comparison of prasugrel and clopidogrel. The Committee noted that the manufacturer and the Assessment Group had presented cost-effectiveness results (for the 10 mg dose of prasugrel only) for different populations and so the results could not be directly compared, although all of the results for prasugrel 10 mg compared with clopidogrel were below £20,000 per QALY gained at a time horizon of 40 years. The Committee then discussed which of the cost-effectiveness data it should consider in its decision making. Bearing in mind its considerations on clinical effectiveness (see sections 4.3.7, 4.3.8, 4.3.9, and 4.3.10), the Committee agreed that an advantage of prasugrel over clopidogrel was plausible in patients without an increased risk of bleeding (under the age of 75 and weighing more than 60 kg) if they had ST-segment-elevation or had diabetes (with STEMI or NSTEMI). However, in people with NSTEMI without diabetes, it was less certain whether there was an advantage of prasugrel over clopidogrel. The Committee noted that the Assessment Group had presented cost-effectiveness results for these subgroups and concluded that these results were the most appropriate for the cost-effectiveness decision-making. 4.3.14 The Committee considered the cost-effectiveness results from the Assessment Group's economic model. It noted that the Assessment Group had provided cost-effectiveness results for each of the subgroups at time horizons of 1, 5, 10 and 40 years. It noted that all
