Prasugrel with percutaneous coronary intervention for treating acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: prasugrel, clopidogrel, patients, group, coronary, assessment, assessment group, clinical, myocardial, committee, trial, acute, treatment, acute coronary, syndromes


horizon was the most appropriate for decision making. 4.3.15 The Committee considered the ICERs for a 10 mg dose of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in patients with STEMI with and without diabetes. The Committee noted that, for patients with STEMI and diabetes, the 40-year ICER from the Assessment Group's model was £1,600 per QALY gained. For patients with STEMI and without diabetes, the 40-year ICER from the Assessment Group's model was £6,600 per QALY gained. The Committee concluded that prasugrel was a cost-effective use of NHS resources compared with clopidogrel for treating people with STEMI with and without diabetes. 4.3.16 The Committee considered the ICER for a 10 mg dose of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI with and without diabetes. The Committee noted that for patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI and diabetes, prasugrel dominated clopidogrel at the 40-year time horizon. For patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI without diabetes, the 40-year ICER from the Assessment Group's model was £4,700 per QALY gained. It accepted that the difference between the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial and clinical practice in the time delay between diagnosis and treatment meant that there is uncertainty about whether the results of the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial can be generalised to patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI in England. However, taking into account the slight advantage of prasugrel over clopidogrel beyond the period when preloading is relevant, and that the ICERs are well within the range usually considered to be cost effective by NICE (£20,000 to £30,000 per QALY gained), the Committee concluded that prasugrel can be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources compared with clopidogrel for treating people with unstable angina or NSTEMI with and without diabetes. 4.3.17 Regarding the cost-effectiveness of prasugrel compared with ticagrelor, the Committee noted that neither the Assessment Group nor the manufacturer had included ticagrelor in their economic modelling. Given the lack of a cost-effectiveness analysis, the Committee concluded that it was unable to calculate a precise ICER for this comparison. It agreed, however, that given the similar cost-effectiveness of prasugrel compared with clopidogrel and that of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel, and their similar treatment costs, it was reasonable to accept that prasugrel is similarly cost-effective to ticagrelor. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013
