The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


ABSTRACT Osteoporosis is a multifactorial disorder associated with low bone mass and enhanced skeletal fragility. Although most prevalent in older females, some men are also at high risk. Risk factors in men and women include smoking, family history of fracture, age greater than 65 years, and low but also high BMI particularly in men. Secondary causes of osteoporosis include chronic treatment with glucocorticoids, gastrointestinal disorders, diabetes mellitus (T1D, T2D), rheumatoid arthritis, liver disease, gluten enteropathy, multiple myeloma and other hematologic disorders. However, primary osteoporosis is most often related to either postmenopausal estrogen loss or age-related deterioration of skeletal microarchitecture; both are due to uncoupling in the bone remodeling unit. Reduced bone formation with age is almost certainly a function of impaired stem cell differentiation into the osteoblast lineage with a resultant increase in marrow adipogenesis. Increased bone resorption also characterizes most forms of osteoporosis but the etiology is multifactorial. Changes in local and systemic growth factors are often responsible for uncoupling between resorption and formation. However, alterations in peak bone acquisition contribute years later to low bone mass and enhanced skeletal fragility. Fracture risk assessment tools (e.g. FRAX) in handheld apps and computers which combine bone density score and risk factors, have provided rapid assessments of future osteoporotic fractures and can be performed at the bedside. Newer methods of measuring bone quality have led to insights into micro-architectural deterioration that contributes to skeletal fragility. Notwithstanding, low areal bone mineral density by DEXA remains the strongest predictor of subsequent fracture beyond age, and this is potentially measurable in everyone after age 65. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Osteoporosis is a disorder characterized by reduced bone mass, impaired bone quality, and a propensity to fracture. For decades, this disease was considered a syndrome characterized by back pain, vertebral fractures, and osteopenia on plain films. Identifying secondary causes of low bone mass was the principle objective of most clinicians. However, osteoporosis is now classified as a primary disorder of the skeleton related to profound metabolic changes not only in bone but also related to changes in whole body homeostasis. Significant progress has been made in both defining this disorder and in understanding its complex pathogenesis. In addition, a consensus has emerged concerning the strength of the association between low bone mineral density and fracture risk, and the importance of qualitative
