The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


in understanding its complex pathogenesis. In addition, a consensus has emerged concerning the strength of the association between low bone mineral density and fracture risk, and the importance of qualitative aspects of the skeleton, as additional risk determinants. Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (subsequently referred to as DEXA) revolutionized our ability to predict fractures in large numbers of subjects by measuring areal bone mineral density (subsequently referred to as BMD). Virtually all population studies have confirmed that for every one standard deviation below young normal mean bone mineral density (at virtually any skeletal site) there is a nearly two-fold greater risk of a subsequent hip fracture ( 1 ). Some clinicians, as well as the WHO and the National Osteoporosis Foundation define osteoporosis purely on a bone mineral density (BMD) T-score more than 2.5 standard deviations below young normal reference ranges for the spine, hip or radius ( 2 ). Although this "bar" has been used to establish prevalence estimates and to define high risk individuals who should be considered for treatment, it is also evident that even this definition demands a better understanding of the pathophysiologic processes that result in low bone mass, and a more thorough review of 'bone quality'. Indeed, despite the strength of the association between BMD and fracture risk, qualitative measurements of the skeleton, such as bone turnover, mineralization, and trabecular connectivity also contribute to risk. In this chapter, the mechanisms responsible for altering bone microarchitecture and strength in such a way as to enhance the likelihood of fragility fractures will be reviewed. Irrespective of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of osteoporosis, the stark fact remains that this disease has significant morbidity, mortality, and economic costs. Just as importantly, understanding how this disorder develops and progresses, has important socio- economic as well as medical consequences. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF OSTEOPOROSIS Estimating exactly how many women have osteoporosis depends on the working definition of this disease and the appropriate diagnostic criteria ( 3 ). Prior to the widespread application of DEXA, osteoporosis was rarely diagnosed and then only in women with symptomatic vertebral fractures or osteopenia noted by x-ray for other reasons. Indeed, for too long, hip fractures, the end point of this metabolic syndrome, were either written off as a consequence of aging, or ignored in respect to treatment. BMD measurements by DEXA and CT changed all that, especially when it became clear that a single BMD measurement at
