The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


a consequence of aging, or ignored in respect to treatment. BMD measurements by DEXA and CT changed all that, especially when it became clear that a single BMD measurement at any site was a very strong predictor of future spine and hip fractures ( 1 , 2 , 4 ). As such, the definition of osteoporosis began to evolve, and estimates of how many people were affected also changed. When the World Health Organization (WHO) set a cut off point of 2.5 standard deviations below a young normal mean value for BMD in the spine or hip of postmenopausal women, as an indicator of osteoporotic risk, estimates of disease prevalence increased ( 5 ). These were confirmed by publication of larger epidemiologic studies in women such as The Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF) and MrOs, a large international cohort of men which provided better estimates of disease prevalence, onset and clinical course ( 4 , 6 ). Currently most estimates suggest that there are approximately 0.3 million hip fractures per annum in the U.S. and 1.7 million hip fractures in Europe ( 7 , 8 ). With the introduction of readily available treatments, and clear prevention messaging annual hip fracture rates in the early 2000s started to decline. However, by 2015 those rates had flattened out and were trending upwards, following widespread reporting of atypical femoral fractures in patients treated with bisphosphonates and denosumab. Virtually all hip fractures can be attributed to osteoporosis, whether primary or secondary. Moreover, in most if not all cases, falls are a primary event leading to the fracture. The female to male ratio of hip fractures is approximately 2:1.0 ( 6 , 9 ). Not surprisingly, the occurrence of these fractures increases exponentially with age. In contrast, the incidence of wrist fractures in the UK and the US ranges from about 400- 800 per 100,000 women but is relatively stable over several decades of older life ( 9 ). Women are far more likely to suffer a Colle's fracture than a man (i.e. a ratio upwards of 10:1 by age 75) ( 9 ). Compression fractures of the vertebrae are much more difficult to estimate because often these can be asymptomatic. Best estimates are that more than a million American postmenopausal women will suffer a spine fracture in the course of a single year ( 9 - 11 ). The female to male ratio of
