The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


more than a million American postmenopausal women will suffer a spine fracture in the course of a single year ( 9 - 11 ). The female to male ratio of occurrence is approximately 2:1. Moreover, both symptomatic, and radiographic (morphometric) fractures are associated with significant morbidity and disability ( 10 ). Finally, estimates about disease prevalence in women and men without fractures, but with low BMD (-2.5 or lower) vary greatly, but place the overall number at close to 25 million Americans and many more world-wide ( 9 , 12 ). Bone loss as a result of aging/and or estrogen deficiency is the predominant pathophysiologic disorder of primary osteoporosis. However, the frequent use of glucocorticoids in both men and women, contribute dramatically to the total number of individuals with very low BMD and/or osteoporotic fractures ( 11 ). It is estimated that more than 5 million American men are afflicted with osteoporosis, based on either the presence of osteoporotic fractures (i.e. vertebral compressions, wrist fractures, hip fractures, or humerus/tibial fractures) or low BMD ( 11 ). However, the number of cohort studies in men with this disease is somewhat limited, and a more complete epidemiologic picture of male osteoporosis is becoming clearer with the MrOS study. Importantly, and somewhat surprisingly, in this cohort of more than 5000 men over the age of 65, obesity was associated with a significantly increased risk of fracture ( 11 - 13 ). More frightening than estimates of the extent of low bone mass is the concern about the lower frequency of diagnosing osteoporosis and the poor adherence to therapy. It is now estimated that more than 70% of individuals who are at risk for osteoporosis, and who are receiving therapy, will not continue beyond the first year ( 14 ). Moreover, prescribing rates for bisphosphonates have fallen significantly due to the perceived risk of atypical femoral fractures ( 15 , 16 ). Whereas, osteoporosis was once considered a disorder of old Northern European women, it is now clear that this disease can occur in postmenopausal African Americans, that it is much more common in men than previously appreciated, and that the use of glucocorticoids and/or immunosuppressive therapies for transplant patients, markedly enhances that risk. Interestingly, and somewhat alarmingly although the prevalence of hip fractures has increased slightly, (possibly due to poor compliance from the perceived adverse events with anti-osteoporosis therapy) the diagnosis of osteoporosis
