The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


Interestingly, and somewhat alarmingly although the prevalence of hip fractures has increased slightly, (possibly due to poor compliance from the perceived adverse events with anti-osteoporosis therapy) the diagnosis of osteoporosis by primary physicians has dropped. FACTORS THAT AFFECT BONE QUANTITY AND QUALITY Several risk factors predispose individuals to osteoporotic fractures. For a hip fracture, these include age greater than 65 years, a previous spine or hip fracture, maternal history of a hip fracture, poor neuromuscular function, weight loss after the age of 50, and low body mass index ( 1 , 18 ) (See Table 1 ). Falls are a major cause of fractures, and in all clinical situations, some degree of trauma can be linked to the injury ( 19 ). But many osteoporotic patients suffer fractures with minimal trauma, and this feature is pathognomonic of the skeletal fragility which accompanies low bone mass. It is for this reason that the most significant risk factor for fractures of the spine, hip or wrist remains low BMD ( 20 ). This association has been confirmed by use of the FRAX score ( www.shef.ac.uk/frax ) that includes areal BMD plus clinical risk factors including family history, BMI, smoking and use of glucocorticoids ( 21 ). The continuous but inverse relationship between BMD and fracture is consistent at all points below the mean suggesting there is no threshold effect ( 18 , 19 ). And, it is applicable at virtually every skeletal site by multiple types of measurements from the spine to finger to the calcaneus. Moreover, the advent of newer technology to measure bone mass has allowed widespread screening for risk as well as defining risk reduction with therapy. Notwithstanding the strength of the inverse relationship of BMD to fracture risk, it is important to note that the presence of a previous fracture is also an extremely important, BMD-independent risk for subsequent fracture. This is relevant clinically since the recognition of fracture at any BMD defines a skeleton that has poor bone quality, and hence is likely to fracture again. Table 1. Phenotypic Characteristics that Adversely Affect Bone Strength View in own window Characteristic Recognized Risk Factor for Fracture Clinically Measurable Bone Mineral Density (areal) Yes Yes (DXA) Bone Mineral Density (volumetric) Yes Yes (QCT) Microcracks No No (Histology) Trabecular Connectivity Yes TBS (DXA) Periosteal Circumference No Yes (pQCT/DXA) Cortical Thickness +/- Yes (pQCT/DXA) Bone Turnover Yes Yes (markers) Previous Osteoporotic
