The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


(volumetric) Yes Yes (QCT) Microcracks No No (Histology) Trabecular Connectivity Yes TBS (DXA) Periosteal Circumference No Yes (pQCT/DXA) Cortical Thickness +/- Yes (pQCT/DXA) Bone Turnover Yes Yes (markers) Previous Osteoporotic Fracture Yes Yes (radiograms or IVA) Mineralization and cortical porosity ? No/yes (back scatter EM) and sometimes with high resolution microCT See references 22 - 26 for more discussion about bone quality and its relationship to fracture risk. uCT- micro CT, pQCT- peripheral quantitative CT, DXA- dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, TBS-trabecular bone score. IVA- instant vertebral assessment- DXA scan for morphometric changes in the thoracic and lumbar spine. Bone mass measurement defines mineral content per area of bone. In the laboratory, bone density by DEXA is a very strong predictor of bone strength and accounts for about 80% of the variability in the breaking strength of a single femur. Thus, a very low BMD can be linked to increased skeletal fragility with a great degree of confidence. Indeed, the FRAX tool has been independently validated as the most accurate tool to measure fracture risk and includes bone mineral density as a major component ( 21 ). But there are other determinants of bone strength, often referred to as qualitative measures, including the rate of bone turnover, the extent of trabecular connectivity, cortical and periosteal bone size, and skeletal morphometry (See Figure 1 and Table 1 ). Indeed, much progress has been made in quantifying several aspects of bone 'quality' utilizing tools such as single energy QCT of the spine/hip, ‘extreme’ CT (i.e. high resolution hr pQCT) of the radius or tibia (See Figure 1 ), TBS (i.e. trabecular bone score), histomorphometry and magnetic resonance imaging of the radius ( 22 - 26 ). However, more work still needs to be done to ascertain their role in clinical medicine. Still, BMD represents the most accurate, cost effective, and easiest parameter for risk assessment ( 21 ). In part, two-dimensional DEXA measurements integrate actual bone mineral content in both trabecular and cortical compartments with bone size. Due to the strong association between bone mineral density and future fractures, this phenotype remains an excellent surrogate for defining both the genetic and acquired components of the disease process. TBS, (trabecular bone score) in the vertebrae, which can be measured from DXA, provides a relatively rapid way of assessing bone quality, although its role in providing additional risk assessment remains to be determined ( 24
