The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


orchestrates the orderly process of bone remodeling through activation signals from systemic factors including growth hormone (GH), interleukins (IL-1,IL-6), parathyroid hormone (PTH), and withdrawal of estrogen (-E2). M-CSF and RANKL are the two major OB mediated factors which regulate the recruitment and differentiation of the osteoclast (OC). Osteoprotogerin (OPG) is also synthesized by OBs and serves as a soluble decoy receptor blocking activation of RANK. Inhibition or knockout of these signals from OB-OC results in reduction in bone resorption. Other cells including activated T lymphocytes may contribute to the marrow milieu. Not pictured are IGFs which are released during bone resorption and serve as coupling factors to recruit new OBs to the surface. These peptides may also be important for osteoclast activity. Also sclerostin, a peptide produced by osteocytes reduces new bone formation by blocking Wnt signaling. The initiation of the bone remodeling cycle remains unclear. The long-standing dogma was that activation of resting osteoblasts on the surface of bone and marrow stromal cells began the process ( 27 - 33 ). This would mean that there were initiating signals, either paracrine or endocrine that would stimulate osteogenesis. One possibility is that osteocytes, which can sense fluid shifts and microcracks, and are imbedded deep within the matrix of the skeleton, induce the remodeling sequence, by paracrine signaling to the osteoblast ( 27 - 29 ). But those same cells secrete factors that can initiate osteoclast differentiation as well as alter osteoblast mediated bone formation. Osteocytes, for those reasons, are now considered the ‘command and control’ system for remodeling. More recently, investigators believe that RANKL, released from osteocytes as well as stromal cells, drives osteoclast differentiation, beginning the process of active resorption prior to osteoblast differentiation. This can occur as a result of hormonal signals or mechanical loading. Resting lining cells or osteoblast progenitors as well as mesenchymal stromal cells can become activated at the same time when osteoclast differentiation is ongoing. Those progenitors also signal to osteoclast precursors to induce further differentiation and induction of hematopoietic cells ( 29 ). Osteoclasts, once differentiated, may also elaborate growth factors, such as the Wnts and sphingosine to signal back to osteoblast progenitors. After osteoclast- induced bone resorption, matrix components such as TGF-beta and IGF-I, as well as collagen, osteocalcin, and other protein and mineral components, are released into the micro environment of the niche. Growth factors released by resorption contribute to the
