The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


remodeling may end with the osteocyte as well, since it produces a protein, sclerostin, which inhibits osteoblast activity by antagonizing the Wnt and BMP pathways (see below) ( 34 ). Monoclonal antibodies that bind to sclerostin have been developed and one (e.g. romosozumab) has been approved for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 35 - 36 ). That monoclonal antibody enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density by 13-15% at one year, suppressed bone resorption (via Wnt mediated RANKL), and reduced overall fractures of the spine ( 32 ). Finally, one could consider macrophages to have an important role in remodeling, since these cells are present in the bone marrow niche and respond to injury with inflammatory cytokines and immune modulators ( 37 ). On the other hand, the bone marrow niche may be protected against macrophage induced cytokine release due to a protective ‘canopy’ of lining cells, although recent evidence suggests that there is a pro-inflammatory response in the marrow with certain perturbations such as diet induced obesity or aging ( 29 ). Uncoupled remodeling occurs during menopause, with estrogen deprivation or antagonists, or in response to endogenous parathyroid hormone fluxes, cytokine stimulation, growth hormone surges, glucocorticoid excess, or changes in serum calcium. For the most part, estrogen deprivation remains one of the most common and critical elements in shifting resorption rates to a higher set point ( 38 - 42 ). Although bone formation initially can "catch up", the length of time for each component of the remodeling cycle clearly favor resorption over formation as the process of laying down new bone requires the interaction of several processes (see Figure 2 ). But, it is still unclear why falling estrogen levels, which is a universal event during the menopausal years, causes such rapid bone loss in a relatively small percentage of women ( 43 ). Clearly, factors such as peripheral conversion of testosterone to estradiol, adrenal androgen production, FSH levels, and genetic determinants, as well as other local signals may also be important. In regards to FSH, SWAN (Studies of Women Across the Ages) reported that higher FSH precedes estrogen loss and this is associated with longitudinal bone loss more closely than circulating estrogen. Although not identified in humans, mice have strong heritable determinants that affect the rate of age-related bone loss and in one mouse model high FSH levels drove significant bone loss independent of estrogen. The
