The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


safety in terms of total suppression in remodeling ( 46 ). On the other hand, because the anti-resorptive effect wanes rapidly, there is concern about post treatment rebound and fractures, particularly of the vertebral spine ( 47 ). The osteoblast functions not only to signal osteoclasts during remodeling as well as receive signals from them, but also to lay down collagen and orchestrate mineralization of previously resorbed lacunae in the skeletal matrix. These complex functions are tied to differentiation of mesenchymal stromal cells which become terminally differentiated osteoblasts and rest on the surface of the remodeling space ( 29 ). Recruitment of stromal cells or lining cells into osteoblasts, rather than adipocytes is a critical step in bone formation and requires a series of transcription factors that enhance differentiation. This is particularly important since one of the features of estrogen deficiency and age-related osteoporosis is the development of increased bone marrow adiposity ( 48 , 49 ). Indeed, the presence of excess bone marrow fat may be a major risk factor for osteoporotic fractures ( 50 ). One of the most important components driving osteogenesis is Runx2, a unique transcription factor which is essential in the early differentiation pathway of osteoprogenitors ( 51 ). Regulation of Runx2 has become a major focus of work in as investigators have begun to consider novel ways to enhance bone formation and reduce marrow adipogenesis ( 50 ). Also, it should be noted that there are metabolic programs activated by transcription factors that are essential for fueling the work of the osteoblast. Conditions of substrate insufficiency; e.g. anorexia nervosa, diabetes mellitus etc. also impair bone formation by altering their metabolic programs. With activation of resting osteoblasts and lining cells, osteoblasts synthesize several types of collagen as well as elaborating a series of growth factors such as IGF-I, IGF-II, TGF-β. These, in turn, are necessary for further recruitment of bone forming cells ( 52 ). In addition, osteoblasts deposit growth factors in the skeletal matrix where they are stored in latent forms, and released during subsequent remodeling cycles. After deposition of new bone, some osteoblasts are encased by matrix. These osteocytes, are still viable, although less metabolic and, can, through newly developed caniculi, provide signals to other bone cells. Indeed, most evidence suggests that osteocytic signals are important in the so-called "mechanostat", the gravitary sensing device which modulates bone formation, as well as initiating normal
