The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


to other bone cells. Indeed, most evidence suggests that osteocytic signals are important in the so-called "mechanostat", the gravitary sensing device which modulates bone formation, as well as initiating normal remodeling sequences. As noted earlier, osteocytes may participate in bone resorption of the cortex by secreting RANKL. This is termed ‘osteocytic osteolysis’ and may occur during lactation and other states of high calcium demand. In the last half-decade, the Wnt/β catenin signaling pathway has emerged as a major regulator of bone formation and a potential mediator of the mechanostat. Wnts belong to a large family of peptides that bind to two membrane bound receptors, Lrp5 or 6 and Frizzled (see Figure 3 ) ( 53 ). Once these ligands bind, activation occurs through a complex intracellular signaling pathway mediated by /β catenin which translocates to the nucleus and stimulates the transcription of several genes through the TCF/Lef network. Sclerostin (SOST), the osteocyte specific protein that inhibits bone formation does so by binding to Lrp5 and blocking Wnt signaling ( 54 ). The anti-sclerostin antibody, romosozumab, was shown to markedly increase bone mass and reduce fractures in postmenopausal women after only 1 year of treatment ( 55 , 56 ). It was approved by the FDA and European Regulatory Agencies for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Figure 3. The Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway that is critical for osteoblast differentiation ( 53 ). In summary, the bone remodeling cycle is complex and redundant. The three major cells, osteocytes, osteoblasts and osteoclasts, arise from different stem cells (mesenchymal for osteoblasts and osteocytes, and hematopoietic for osteoclasts) and are under the control of various factors which in harmony orchestrate an orderly remodeling sequence. Their birth and death (i.e. the cycle of recruitment, proliferation and programmed cell death) and the regulatory factors which control those events, are also complex, yet vitally important for understanding the pathogenesis of osteoporosis. Alterations at any stage along the process of recruitment, activation, differentiation, or cell death can lead to imbalances in remodeling which eventually would result in bone loss, reduced bone mass and ultimately fractures. Some of those perturbations are noted below. SYSTEMIC AND LOCAL ALTERATIONS IN THE BONE REMODELING SEQUENCE LEAD TO BONE LOSS The importance of estrogen in maintaining calcium homeostasis for the postmenopausal woman was first established by Fuller Albright, more than 70 years ago ( 57 ). Since that time more evidence has accumulated from randomized
