The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


for full activation of remodeling. Enhanced bone resorption eventually leads to bone loss from estrogen deprivation since bone formation rates cannot keep up with rates of bone resorption ( 31 , 42 , 43 ). Moreover, the faster the resorption, the greater the loss resulting in more damage to the structure integrity of the skeleton. In contrast to the plethora of studies on bone loss and estrogen, there are few good studies relating androgen deprivation to bone loss in women. Androgen receptors are present on osteoblasts. However, both in vitro and in vivo studies in men have yielded conflicting results. Like estrogen, androgens can regulate the IL-6 promoter and in experimental animals, orchiectomy has been associated with increased IL-6 production and bone loss ( 64 ). In men, chronically low androgen levels have been associated with low bone mass, and testosterone replacement can enhance bone mineral density ( 65 ). However, estradiol levels in men may be a more important risk factor for fracture than androgen levels and correlate more closely with trabecular bone volume as measured by QCT. At the present time it is not clear precisely what role androgens play in the maintenance of bone mass in both men and women except in deficiency syndromes, particularly hypogonadism. Other more common causes of male osteoporosis include alcoholism, glucocorticoid excess, and hypercalciuria (see Table 2 ). In the first two cases, hypogonadism remains a pathogenic feature of that osteoporosis syndrome. Less frequently, men with gluten enteropathy or an endocrinopathy such as thyrotoxicosis or primary hyperparathyroidism can present with multiple fractures and low bone mass (see Table 2 ). Table 2. Etiology of Osteoporosis in Men View in own window Etiology Age-years Clinical Features Hypogonadism 30-80 low Test, low E2, increased resorption Alcoholism 40-80 low test, E2+/-, +/- turnover Glucocorticoids 20-80 +/- test, E2 +/-, increased resorption, Decreased formation Multiple myeloma 40-80 Hypercalcemia, ESR Hypercalcuria 30-80 Test, E2 nl; increased resorption Hypercalcuria, inc PTH, kidney stones Idiopathic Osteoporosis- 40-80 fractures, low formation, low IGF-I Gluten enteropathy 20-80 low 25OHD, turnover increased Endocrine Disorders 15-90 Cushing’s ± PHPT 15-90 PTH increased in all cases; increased resorption Thyrotoxicosis 15-90 Decreased PTH E2- estradiol; Test-testosterone; PTH-parathyroid hormone; PHPT-primary hyperparathyroidism; Inc- increased In women, bone loss is accelerated immediately after menopause. However, recent studies demonstrate that markers of bone resorption are also very high later in life. In particular, women in their 80s and 90s
