The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


loss is accelerated immediately after menopause. However, recent studies demonstrate that markers of bone resorption are also very high later in life. In particular, women in their 80s and 90s have been noted to lose bone at a rate of greater than 1% per year from the spine and hip ( 65 ), Contrary to earlier studies, it is now evident that the older woman who is not as physically active, and is not on estrogen, is at extremely high risk of bone loss and subsequent fractures. The pathogenesis of this process is multifactorial although dietary calcium deficiency, leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism, certainly plays a central role. The average calcium intake of women in their 8th and 9th decades of life is now estimated to be between 800-1000 mg/day ( 66 ). If vitamin D intake is also sub-optimal, and serum levels of 25 OH vitamin D <20 ng/ml, or 50nmol/l, secondary hyperparathyroidism may occur, although there are other causes for increases in PTH, including chronic renal insufficiency and low calcium diet ( 67 ). PTH stimulates osteoblasts and provokes the remodeling sequence including the elaboration of several cytokines that accelerate bone resorption. Unfortunately, in most elders, bone formation is not enhanced although the reasons for this are not entirely clear beyond the simplistic notion that stem cell recruitment is impaired in the elderly. Nonetheless, this leads to further uncoupling in the bone remodeling cycle, and significant bone loss. Among elders with poor calcium intake who live in northern latitudes, seasonal changes in vitamin D lowering levels below 20 ng/ml might aggravate bone loss ( 68 , 69 ). Whether increased bone loss from vitamin D deficiency is an independent risk factor for future fractures in the elderly remains somewhat controversial necessitating further studies to define such a risk. Overall, there is evidence that vitamin D deficiency is associated with a greater risk of fracture in frail elderly institutionalized men and women (<20 ng/ml; 50 nmol/l), whereas it is unlikely that those individuals with 25 OHD levels between 20-30 ng/ml are at a greater risk ( 70 ). The recently completed VITAL trial demonstrated that 2000 IU of vitamin D to healthy men and women did not prevent bone loss or alter bone turnover (LeBoff, personal communication and abstract ASBMR,2019). There is growing evidence that low serum levels of vitamin D, through impaired calcium absorption, can stimulate PTH release and
