The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


osteopenia and fractures ( 74 ). Long term exposure to pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids results in significant bone loss and enhanced marrow adipogenesis as marrow stromal cells differentiate down the fat lineage. In addition to having direct effects on the osteoclast and osteoblast, glucocorticoids also induce secondary hypogonadism and hyperparathyroidism, impaired vitamin D metabolism, muscle atrophy, and hypercalciuria (See Table 3 ). All these factors contribute to a rapid and sustained loss of bone during the first few months of steroid therapy ( 75 ). The addition of other immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine has been shown to aggravate bone loss by further increasing bone resorption. As the number of organ transplants have increased exponentially over the last decade, the prevalence of post-transplantation osteoporosis has risen substantially. Steroid induced osteoporosis is now considered the second most common cause of low bone mass in the general population and one of the most common causes of osteoporotic fractures ( 75 ). It is listed in the FRAX data set as one critical risk factor to assess in determining 10-year fracture likelihood. Table 3. Effects of Glucocorticoids on Bone Mass View in own window Response to Glucocorticoids Effects on Bone Remodeling Effects on Bone Mass Increased PTH secretion Increased bone resorption ? decreased bone formation rapid loss of bone Decreased LH/FSH secretion Increased bone resorption due loss of estrogen loss of bone Impaired calcium absorption due to decreased 1,25 D Increased PTH, increased bone resorption loss of bone Increased calcium loss in urine Secondary increase in PTH, Increased bone resorption loss of bone Acute suppression of osteoblasts and apoptosis Reduced bone formation gradual bone loss Stimulation of osteoclastogenesis Increased bone resorption rapid loss of bone PATHOGENIC FACTORS WHICH IMPAIR PEAK BONE MASS Peak bone mass is acquired between the ages of 10-16 years. It is the zenith of bone acquisition and represents the sum of several processes including a marked increase in bone formation ( 76 , 77 ). Boys tend to reach peak 2 years later than girls and their bone mineral density is higher than women at all skeletal sites. In part this relates to a greater cross-sectional bone area in males than females ( 78 ). Peak bone mass results from linear growth and consolidation of cortical and trabecular components. Acquisition is most rapid during the latter stages of puberty and coincides with maximum growth hormone secretion, high serum IGF-I levels,
