The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


that even in those individuals with heritable determinants of low peak bone mass, calcium supplementation may provide an important and relatively simple means of protecting individuals from future osteoporotic fractures. GENETIC DETERMINANTS OF PEAK BONE MASS Probably the most important determinant of peak bone mass, but one that has lacked clear definition is the genetic contribution. In part this is due to the complex nature of bone mineral density as a trait. Nevertheless, low peak bone mass may be the most important pathogenic factor in the osteoporosis syndrome of later life. And, it appears that at least 50% of peak bone mass is determined by genetic factors ( 85 ). What are these determinants and how are they modified by environmental factors? Efforts to define heritable determinants of peak bone mass have been complicated by a number of issues which are also common to analyses of other complex traits. These include the following: 1. A quantifiable phenotype; 2. Heterogeneity within a given population under study; 3. The polygenic nature of the disorder; 4. Epistasis (gene-gene interaction) 5. Pleiotropy- phenotypic differences with identical genotypes, and 6. Gene by environmental interactions. Notwithstanding these complexities it is clear that BMD is an acceptable phenotype for defining heritable determinants of future risk. Bone mineral density in the population is distributed in a gaussian manner, thereby allowing analyses at the extremes (<-2.0 SD or > 2.0 SD) of the density distribution. Large homogeneous and heterogeneous populations are now being studied as part of the GEFOS consortium, to ascertain genetic determinants of BMD and fractures in humans ( 86 - 91 ). Candidate genes are those associated previously by biologic determinants or previous studies as being important for skeletal maintenance. Indeed, many of these have been identified by whole genome studies (GWAS) include RANKL, OPG, the vitamin D receptor, collagen IA1, the estrogen receptor, interleukin-1, and IGF-I. Additionally several other candidate genes that have not been previously associated with osteoporosis have been identified. These studies have been reviewed in depth elsewhere ( 86 - 89 ). Depending on the cohort, the phenotype, and the number of individuals studied, it is predicted there will be hundreds of genes that contribute to individual variation in bone mass ( 90 , 91 ). Twin studies examining discordant or concordant phenotypes are also helpful, as are sib-pair studies, although the results have been less generalizable. One example of a candidate
