The Epidemiology and Pathogenesis of Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fractures, mass, bone mass, risk, women, loss, low, fracture, resorption, density, remodeling, estrogen


bone mass. In a Swiss study, younger pre-pubertal girls supplemented with a protein product had a significant increase in spine bone density, as did a cohort of pubertal girls receiving a milk powder in England ( 96 , 97 ). Remarkably, in the latter cohort, serum IGF-I levels also rose dramatically, providing further indirect evidence of a link between pubertal status, bone mass, and the growth hormone/IGF-I axis. Thus, there is strong evidence that nutritional, hormonal and environmental factors play a major role in regulating peak bone mass. SUMMARY The epidemiology of osteoporosis is well established and risk factors have been defined. On the other hand, the pathogenesis of osteoporosis is complex and multifactorial ( 41 , 98 ). Alterations in bone mineral density almost certainly represent the final common pathway by which pathologic factors affect risk of future osteoporotic fracture. The interplay of various physiologic processes which result in peak bone mass, and maintenance of adult bone mass are key to understanding the pathogenesis of this disease. Changes in hormonal status, and in particular estradiol, clearly are important factors in regulating both bone formation and bone resorption in men and women. Perturbations in growth hormone activity, musculoskeletal function, dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D, and genetic determinants are also important pathogenic factors. Defining the role of genetic factors and their interaction with many of the environmental and hormonal determinants that have been established as potential etiologic agents responsible for low bone mineral density and fracture will certainly be the most difficult challenge facing basic and clinical researchers. On, the other hand, the strength of data from basic and clinical studies over the last decade, now allows practitioners to confidently diagnose osteoporosis. New treatment strategies offer greater hope for patients suffering from this disease. REFERENCES 1. Cummings SR, Nevitt MC, Browner WS, Stone K, Fox KM, Ensrud KE, Cauley J, Black D, Vogt TH. Risk factors for hip fracture in white women. N Engl J Med. 1995; 332 :767–773. [ PubMed : 7862179 ] 2. Kanis JA, Melton LJ, Christiansen C, Johnston CC, Khaltaev N. The diagnosis of osteoporosis. J Bone Min Res. 1994; 9 :1137–1141. [ PubMed : 7976495 ] 3. Melton LJ, Chrischilles EA, Cooper C. Perspective: How many women have osteoporosis? J Bone Min Res. 1992; 7 :1005–1010. [ PubMed : 1414493 ] 4. Seeley DG, Browner WS, Nevitt MC. Which fractures are associated with low
