Learning from errors
KEYWORDS: sniffing, glue, glue sniffing, mri, child, report, seizures, ald, diagnosis, patient, abstinence, symptoms, adrenoleukodystrophy, features, childhood


Learning from errors Case report Adrenoleukodystrophy presenting as glue sniffing Rajesh Kumar Meher, Rajeswari Aghoram , Pradeep Pankajakshan Nair of Postgraduate Medical Adrenoleukodystrophy classically presents in childhood at that time revealed a mute child with pseudo Education & Research (JIPMER), with bronze skin, spastic tetraparesis, dysphagia, bulbar affect, spastic asymmetric quadriparesis Puducherry, India behavioural abnormalities and adrenal insufficiency. with greater involvement of left side and bilateral However, atypical presentations are known. Here we up- going plantars. Correspondence to report an adolescent with adrenoleukodystrophy who Dr Rajeswari Aghoram; rajeswari. a@ gmail. com first sought medical attention for glue sniffing. inveSTigATionS Repeat MRI showed progression of lesions with Accepted 27 February 2020 typical pattern of contrast enhancement (figure 2). Other investigations revealed normal nerve conduc- BACkgRoUnd tion studies, normal serum cortisol levels, but high X-l inked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is a adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (1249 pg/ complex uncommon peroxisomal disorder with prevalence of 0.5–3.3 in 100 000 men.1 Affected mL; normal: 0–46 pg/mL). Lysophosphatidylcho- line, a metabolite of very long chain fatty acids male members of the same family may present (VLCFA) was found to be 1.00 µmol/L (cut- off with different phenotypes—cerebral adrenoleu- value 0.25 µmol/L). Further genetic tests could not kodystrophy (childhood, juvenile or adult forms), be done due to financial reasons. adrenomyeloneuropathy or isolated adrenal insuffi- ciency.2 The clinical presentation varies depending on the neuropathology which in turn is influ- diFFeRenTiAl diAgnoSiS enced by epigenetic, environmental and stochastic The presence of history of glue sniffing and seizures factors.2 Isolated cerebral ALD is the presenting with a corresponding MRI showing a lesion in feature in about 60% of affected men. In its most bilateral frontal white matter lead to a diagnosis common form, it presents with neurobehavioural symptoms beginning in childhood (35%–40%) and MRI features of symmetric white matter lesions progressing in a caudo-r ostral pattern.3 Adoles- cent onset cerebral ALD is uncommon,4 and often presents with atypical features. Here we report an adolescent with cerebral ALD who was first evalu- ated for glue sniffing. CASe pReSenTATion A 12- year-o ld boy was brought to the department of psychiatry with complaints of glue sniffing, truancy and running away. During interview parents revealed him to be a well-a djusted child with normal development up until a year ago when he started having these symptoms. The child was diagnosed as conduct disorder with glue sniffing and managed with counselling and risperidone for behavioural
