Learning from errors
KEYWORDS: sniffing, glue, glue sniffing, mri, child, report, seizures, ald, diagnosis, patient, abstinence, symptoms, adrenoleukodystrophy, features, childhood


development up until a year ago when he started having these symptoms. The child was diagnosed as conduct disorder with glue sniffing and managed with counselling and risperidone for behavioural disturbances. About a year later, the child came to the emergency department with seizures. MRI of brain was done (figure 1). A diag- nosis of acute glue sniffing encephalopathy was made in view of MRI and seizures. Abstinence was advised and antiepileptic drug (valproate) was © BMJ Publishing Group added. The child continued to follow- up with coun- Limited 2020. No commercial re- use. See rights and selling and antiepileptic medications. Meanwhile, permissions. Published by BMJ. declining cognitive performance and recurrent seizures caused the child to discontinue school. As Figure 1 MRI during initial presentation with seizures To cite: Meher RK, the child became restricted to home, glue sniffing showing symmetrical fluid- attenuated inversion recovery Aghoram R, Nair PP. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e233036. ceased. Despite abstinence from glue sniffing, these (FLAIR) sequence hyperintensities involving the grey doi:- symptoms continued to worsen until he presented matter, subcortical and deep white matter of bilateral 233036 to the neurology department with subacute onset frontal lobes. Meher RK, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e233036. doi: 1 learning from errors learning points ► Inborn errors of metabolism should be considered in the differential diagnosis of all childhood and adolescent onset psychiatric disorders. ► Presence of atypical features like epilepsy should prompt neuroimaging. ► Close follow- up including repeat neuroimaging may be warranted in select cases to establish correct diagnosis. Glue sniffing adds an additional layer of complexity to the diagnosis of ALD as chronic abuse and the resulting toluene Figure 2 (A) MRI brain 2 years later showing progression of lesions toxicity may itself present as subcortical dementia and leuko- on fluid- attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequence. (B) T1- axial encephalopathy.12 This leukoencephalopathy is often associated contrast- enhanced MRI sequence showing contrast enhancement. with peripheral neuropathy13 and improvement is seen in the neurological features with abstinence.14 Consequently when our subject presented with seizures and MRI features of white matter of acute glue sniffing encephalopathy. However, the neuropsy- involvement, he was diagnosed as glue sniffing encephalopathy. chiatric manifestations, frequent seizures, progressive cognitive However, he had no evidence of peripheral nerve involvement decline and spastic quadriparesis despite abstinence in an adoles- either clinically or on nerve conduction studies. Also, there was cent male caused us to suspect
