Learning from errors
KEYWORDS: sniffing, glue, glue sniffing, mri, child, report, seizures, ald, diagnosis, patient, abstinence, symptoms, adrenoleukodystrophy, features, childhood


evidence of peripheral nerve involvement decline and spastic quadriparesis despite abstinence in an adoles- either clinically or on nerve conduction studies. Also, there was cent male caused us to suspect a leukodystrophy. The elevated progressive clinical deterioration despite abstinence. The pres- ACTH, corroborative imaging and high lysophosphatidylcholine ence of epilepsy, findings on follow-u p imaging were also clues confirmed our diagnosis of adrenoleukodystrophy. that the patient was not suffering from glue sniffing encepha- lopathy. Disturbance of the lipid bilayer and thereby the integral TReATMenT membrane proteins, and oxidative stress have been implicated Genetic counselling was offered to the family. The patient was in mediating the neurotoxic effects of toluene and other organic managed with baclofen for spasticity, percutaneous endoscopic solvents.15 However, it is not known what effect toluene has on gastrostomy (PEG) was done to facilitate feeding and antiepi- the lipid metabolism in subjects with mutations in the ABCD1 leptic drugs were continued. gene or its effects on levels of VLCFA in blood. Whether glue sniffing in our subject accelerated progression or precipitated oUTCoMe And Follow Up the initial presentation is unknown, and these will be interesting At last follow- up, he was seizure free, bedbound, mute and on areas for future work. PEG feeds. Contributors RKM drafted the initial report. RA edited the report and was diSCUSSion responsible for patient management. PPN finalised the report and was involved in patient management. This is the first report to present glue sniffing and conduct disorder as the initial manifestations of adolescent ALD. The Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. atypical frontal predominant pattern in the setting of glue sniffing caused the patient to be wrongly labelled as glue sniffing enceph- Competing interests None declared. alopathy but subsequent course and imaging helped establish the patient consent for publication Parental/guardian consent obtained. diagnosis that was confirmed by VLCFA metabolites. provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. Simons et al reviewed 71 papers for psychiatric childhood disorders secondary to inborn errors of metabolism. They oRCid id reported ALD to be associated only with learning disorders;5 Rajeswari Aghoram http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0002- 4403- 4902 while Sedel et al reported that psychiatric symptoms like mania,
