HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2025 May 01; 120(5): 950–972. doi:. ACG Clinical Guideline: MALNUTRITION AND NUTRITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS IN LIVER DISEASE Louis, MO 63110 Medical Plaza, Suite 345, Los Angeles, CA 90095 Affairs/Research, Associate Vice President for Translational Research] Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, 505 S. Hancock Street, Louisville, KY Abstract Malnutrition, defined as deficiency, excess, or imbalance of nutrients, is a common complication in patients with liver disease, especially those with cirrhosis. Malnutrition may present as an isolated micronutrient deficiency, such as zinc deficiency, and it commonly presents as frailty Louisville, KY 40202, USA; . Specific Author Contributions: All the authors wrote different key portions of this guideline, were involved in regular virtual meetings of the committee members, made appropriate revisions, and approved the final manuscript. *Drs. Singal and Wong contributed equally. Potential Competing Interests: There are no competing interests declared by the authors of this document. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and/or sarcopenia in patients with advanced liver disease. Patients with cirrhosis and/or alcohol associated hepatitis should be assessed for malnutrition, as it adversely affects patient outcomes including mortality, as well as waitlist and post-transplant outcomes among liver transplant candidates. The prevalence of malnutrition varies based on method of assessment and disease severity, being higher in those with advanced liver disease. Among stable outpatients with cirrhosis, counseling should be done to eat small frequent meals, a night-time snack between 7-10 pm, and 2 or more cups of coffee daily. In selected patients with metabolic dysfunction associated steatohepatitis (MASH), vitamin E 800 IU/day should be provided. Among hospitalized patients with cirrhosis, nutritional supplementation preferably by enteral route should be implemented in those with poor oral intake of daily requirements of proteins and/or calories. Protein intake should not be restricted including patients with decompensated cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy. A vegetable source of protein appears to be better tolerated than an animal source of protein in patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Branched chain amino acids augment the efficacy of lactulose and rifaximin in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations were evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations system. This guideline was developed under the auspices of the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Parameters Committee. Graphical Abstract Keywords Nutrition; malnutrition;
