HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations system. This guideline was developed under the auspices of the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Parameters Committee. Graphical Abstract Keywords Nutrition; malnutrition; liver disease Introduction The liver is the largest organ in the body, and it is possibly the most complex organ in terms of metabolism. It is comprised of multiple unique cell types having differing metabolic functions and it has a dual blood supply, including the portal vein, carrying nutrients and gut derived metabolites. Thus, it should not be surprising that the liver plays a pivotal role in nutritional health. There is a strong positive association between the severity of liver disease and malnutrition. Unfortunately, malnutrition is not always recognized in patients Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with liver disease. This is due to multiple factors. For example, weight loss in these patients can be masked by fluid retention, or patients can be obese but still have muscle wasting (sarcopenic obesity). The loss of glycogen stores predisposes patients with advanced liver disease to enter a starvation state within a few hours of fasting, and that can lead to further protein catabolism. Therefore, it is important to recognize malnutrition and initiate nutrition support early in these patients. There have been over a dozen guidelines and guidance recommendations on malnutrition and liver disease by various societies over the past two decades. The majority addressed advanced liver disease or its complications such as hepatic encephalopathy (HE). These ACG Guidelines attempt to provide concise nutritional recommendations for the spectrum of the most prevalent liver diseases, including the newly termed spectrum of steatotic liver diseases. This new terminology will be used throughout this text . These ACG Guidelines will review definitions, diagnosis, causes, prevalence, prognosis, and nutritional interventions in patients with malnutrition and liver disease. These guidelines are presented in the format of statements that were deemed to be clinically important by the content authors. The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) process was used to assess the quality of evidence for each statement (Table 1)[1-4]. The quality of evidence is expressed as high (we are confident in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation), moderate, low, or very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation) based on the risk of
