HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


estimate to support a particular recommendation), moderate, low, or very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation) based on the risk of bias of the studies, evidence of publication bias, heterogeneity among studies, directness of the evidence, and precision of the estimate of effect. A strength of recommendation is given as either strong (recommendations) or conditional (suggestions) based on the quality of evidence, risks vs benefits, feasibility, and costs considering perceived patient-based and population-based factors. Furthermore, a narrative evidence summary for each section provides important definitions and further details for the data supporting the statements. Under the auspices of the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) Practice Parameters Committee, a group of experts in nutrition in liver diseases were identified for the writing group. The proposed writing group was reviewed by the ACG Practice Parameters Committee and the ACG leadership, and the final approved writing group consisted of the current authorship team, which includes hepatology experts across a broad range of practice settings and different stages of clinical and research career development. Regular meetings were conducted among this writing group throughout the guideline development process to formulate PICO questions that guided the subsequent literature search, development of recommendation statements and key concepts, GRADE assessments, and the preparation of the full guideline document. Electronic literature searches were conducted in PubMed (MEDLINE), EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library beginning in April 2021. The search strategy was developed and executed in PubMed (MEDLINE) and then adapted to the syntax and controlled vocabulary of Embase and Cochrane Library. The searches were filtered to fully published articles on human populations in the English language, with a focus on the highest levels of evidence. Priority was given to systematic reviews and meta-analyses, followed by randomized controlled trials whenever available. For PICO questions necessitating inclusion Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of observational studies and articles predating 2002, supplementary database searches, cited reference exploration, and manual selection by content experts were employed. To ensure comprehensive coverage of literature published during the screening and review process, search updates were performed until June 2023 following the same selection criteria. In addition to guideline recommendations, the authors have highlighted key concept statements that are not included in the GRADE assessment. Key concepts are statements to which the GRADE process has not
