HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


addition to guideline recommendations, the authors have highlighted key concept statements that are not included in the GRADE assessment. Key concepts are statements to which the GRADE process has not been applied and can include both expert opinion recommendations and definitions/epidemiological statements. Table 2 is a summary of recommendations, whereas Table 3 summarizes the key concept statements. Malnutrition Definitions: Malnutrition is a broad term that includes a deficiency, excess, or imbalance of nutrients “malnutrition” is used in the context of deficiency of calories and/or proteins but is also applied to over-nourished individuals (Figure 1). Malnourished patients may present with global malnutrition with frailty and/or sarcopenia. They may also present with individual nutrient deficiency (e.g., zinc) and a functional manifestation (e.g., poor wound healing or skin lesions). This term, “malnutrition”, is frequently used in relation to ICD codes nitrogen loss due to adaptive mechanisms that result in amino acid utilization from proteins for gluconeogenesis. The consequent major body composition changes that occur due to malnutrition are loss of skeletal muscle mass, or sarcopenia, and fat loss. The most frequent consequences of muscle loss, and it is a more specific term and critical component of malnutrition. The combination of reduction in muscle and fat mass is associated with an inflammatory condition or cachexia. The distinction between malnutrition and cachexia is challenging because the clinical manifestations and outcomes depend on both the effects of the nutrient(s) deficiency and the underlying disease that results in malnutrition/cachexia. With the obesity epidemic, the phenotype of undernourished or cachectic patient is being increasingly replaced by a sarcopenic obese subject with muscle loss but excess fat, either in absolute terms or the muscle to fat ratio. In these subjects, the adverse outcomes are related to both excess fat and lower muscle mass. Finally, even though micronutrient deficiencies/ excess also meet the definition of malnutrition, in many situations these deficiencies are specified individually rather than being included in the broad terminology of malnutrition. We have also included critical micronutrient deficiencies in this review because of their relevance in nutritional supplementation. Is sarcopenia an essential component of malnutrition? including survival, quality of life, and outcomes after hospitalization or interventions is related largely to sarcopenia. Skeletal muscle is the largest protein reservoir in humans, and an imbalance between protein synthesis and proteolysis (dysregulated protein homeostasis) results in sarcopenia. Calorie deficiency impairs protein synthesis. Calorie excess with Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript;
