HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


reservoir in humans, and an imbalance between protein synthesis and proteolysis (dysregulated protein homeostasis) results in sarcopenia. Calorie deficiency impairs protein synthesis. Calorie excess with Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript an increase in fat mass initiates inflammatory and endocrine responses, which then result in both proteolysis and anabolic resistance with consequent sarcopenia. The impact of micronutrient deficiencies with resultant cellular/organ dysfunction also initiates adaptive and potentially maladaptive responses with consequent sarcopenia. Hence, sarcopenia is a critical component of malnutrition, and it is common for “malnourished” subjects to have varying degrees of sarcopenia. Are malnutrition and/or sarcopenia dynamic processes? Both malnutrition and sarcopenia are dynamic processes with the potential to improve or made at one evaluation and with no guidance on how often assessments are to be made. Importantly, in prospective studies, the effect of interventions has been observed to cause a change in lean body mass by 6-12 months. Retrospective analyses of skeletal muscle mass assessed by computed tomograms in patients with cirrhosis show clinically significant changes between 3-6 months. Diagnosis/Assessment of Malnutrition The assessment of malnutrition in patients with liver disease is often difficult. Some of the most used tests are shown in Table 4. However, many of these tests can be influenced by the underlying liver disease. For example, anthropometry is frequently used, but can be influenced by factors such as edema and ascites. Visceral proteins such as albumin are synthesized in the liver. Subjective global assessment (SGA) is truly subjective and requires training. Multiple imaging modalities are increasingly used to assess muscle mass and body composition in cirrhosis[13-15]. A single cross-sectional computed tomography (CT) slice (most often at the third lumbar vertebra - L3) is believed to be a reliable method of assessing whole-body skeletal muscle and fat mass. Because patients with cirrhosis frequently scans may be available for body composition analysis. However, data must be extracted, which requires time and expertise. Bioelectrical impedance (BIA) technology has improved, but availability is still limited. A study of 41 subjects by Pirlich and co-workers showed a strong correlation between BIA and the gold standard of body composition (total body potassium) for assessing malnutrition in patients with cirrhosis, including those with ascites. Untargeted approaches including proteomics and metabolomics will likely allow for easily accessible and relatively inexpensive biomarkers for sarcopenia in the future [17-19]. Key concept:
