HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


with cirrhosis, including those with ascites. Untargeted approaches including proteomics and metabolomics will likely allow for easily accessible and relatively inexpensive biomarkers for sarcopenia in the future [17-19]. Key concept: All patients with cirrhosis should be assessed for frailty and/or sarcopenia with appropriate diagnostic testing to guide nutritional management. Sarcopenia is loss of muscle mass; primary sarcopenia of aging includes loss of contractile strength; secondary sarcopenia occurs in chronic diseases including cirrhosis; and compound sarcopenia refers to muscle loss in older subjects with chronic diseases. Muscle mass generally correlates with contractile strength and contractile function as measured Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Contractile function is a better measure of muscle function and cardiorespiratory fitness but is not necessarily a strict measure of nutritional status or muscle mass. Other measures of strength include 6-min walk test, daily step count, and sit to stand test that have been shown to predict outcomes and depend on muscle contractile strength. Since muscle contraction and mass are interlinked (mass is needed for strength and contraction stimulates an increase in muscle mass), dissecting the contribution of one without the other may limit clinical applications. Recovery of muscle strength occurs more rapidly than muscle mass, and this suggests contractile strength depends on factors beyond mass including modifications of contractile proteins and mitochondrial function. Key concept: While body mass index is more easily assessed than waist circumference, the latter correlates better with metabolic disease risks. Body Mass Index (BMI, weight divided by height squared, e.g., kg/m2) is commonly used to assess health risks related to either inadequate or excessive body weight. Its advantage is that it can be automatically calculated from routinely available data in both clinical care and research. However, BMI can be confounded by increased lean body mass, which is metabolically beneficial, and current data suggest that this simple measure should be reconsidered. Alternatives are available, each with its advantages and disadvantages, but none as easily applied as BMI (Table 4). Waist circumference correlates better with metabolic disease than body mass index and should be considered in patients at risk for metabolic disease. However, it can be challenging to measure reproducibly and, in patients with ascites, waist circumference is skewed by fluid accumulation and cannot be used to assess nutritional status. An important anthropometric component of metabolic health is muscle mass and
