HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


in patients with ascites, waist circumference is skewed by fluid accumulation and cannot be used to assess nutritional status. An important anthropometric component of metabolic health is muscle mass and function which can be assessed by additional methods including grip strength, thigh CT/MRI/US in addition to the body composition measurements. Causes The causes of malnutrition in liver disease, especially advanced liver disease, are multiple and often interrelated. We highlight selected important causes of malnutrition in this population (Table 5). Patients with alcohol misuse and liver disease frequently consume approximately 50% of their calories as alcohol. These are “empty calories” devoid of critical nutrients. As shown in Table 6, in patients with alcohol misuse, calories from alcohol remain relatively stable while important protein intake decreases as the liver disease progresses. Recent studies show that other components of the diet are often inadequate, an example being low soluble and insoluble fiber intake in cirrhosis. Fiber is important for bacterial production of short-chain fatty acids in the intestine that play a critical role in gut health. Hormones and cytokines can have adverse and potentially beneficial effects. Tumor necrosis factor can mediate muscle wasting and serum testosterone levels are often decreased in subjects with liver disease. Moreover, complications of liver disease, such as ascites and encephalopathy, can also impair adequate dietary intake. Key Concepts: Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • High fructose/sucrose containing diets are potent inducers of hepatic de novo lipogenesis and insulin resistance. • High fructose/sucrose containing diets are associated with chronic liver disease and fibrosis in a dose-dependent manner. • Low fructose diets are recommended in all patients with chronic liver disease across the entire spectrum of disease severity. High fructose intake is a potent inducer of enzymes involved in hepatic de novo lipogenesis (DNL), especially in individuals with the metabolic syndrome (i.e., increase in blood pressure, fasting triglycerides, fasting insulin, homeostatic measurement of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), and decrease in HDL cholesterol) and insulin resistance, and are at risk for developing metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Unlike glucose, fructose metabolism is not under negative inhibition by insulin. It undergoes first pass metabolism in the liver to be converted to glucose and requires phosphorylation using hepatic adenosine triphosphate. Fructose also induces the development of hepatic steatosis through increased triacylglycerol production. Therefore, high fructose (or sucrose) intake is
