HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


be converted to glucose and requires phosphorylation using hepatic adenosine triphosphate. Fructose also induces the development of hepatic steatosis through increased triacylglycerol production. Therefore, high fructose (or sucrose) intake is associated with hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance, and hepatic steatosis. Beyond its lipogenic effect, fructose intake is also integral to mechanisms underlying hepatic inflammation and cellular stress, such as oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress, which are key to the progression from benign steatosis to steatohepatitis and hepatic fibrosis. A randomized, controlled trial of 74 healthy adult men who were administered 200 g fructose daily for 2 weeks demonstrated onset of features of the metabolic syndrome with associated increase in liver enzymes. In a recent prospective study evaluating increases in fasting serum fructose level (which mostly reflects endogenous fructose), the prevalence of MASLD increased for each quartile fructose level by 27.0%, 25.0%, 37.4%, and 44.5%, respectively (p < 0.001). Each standard deviation increase in fasting serum fructose level was associated with a 60% increased risk of MASLD (odds ratio 1.60; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.36-1.88; p < 0.001). Excessive fructose consumption increases the risk of MASLD, MASH, and hepatic fibrosis independent of calorie intake in a dose-dependent manner[37-39]. In addition to the direct hepatic effects of fructose, indirect effects of fructose (i.e., decreased satiety, and alternations in gut barrier function/microbiota, muscle, and adipose tissue) may further lead to acquisition and progression of MASLD. In contrast to a high fructose intake, low fructose diets have emerged as a strategy to mitigate MASLD. A diet low in free sugar diet can reduce hepatic steatosis and fibrosis while improving glycemic indices (fasting blood sugar and HOMA-IR), decreasing the concentrations of biomarkers of inflammation (hs-CRP,TNF-α and NF-kβ), liver enzymes and lipids in overweight and obese patients with MASLD[40-46]. A systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled trials of the effect of fructose- containing sugars by food source at different levels of energy control on MASLD markers has been conducted (51 trials, 75 trial comparisons, n = 2059). The evidence provides a good indication that the addition of excess energy from sugar-sweetened beverages leads to large increases in liver fat and ALT. However, the evidence is weaker regarding AST levels on the benefit of the removal of energy from mixed sources including sugar-sweetened beverages. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Lastly, the association of simple sugar
