HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


mixed sources including sugar-sweetened beverages. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Lastly, the association of simple sugar intake on more severe disease progression/regression was also evaluated in 80 consecutive cirrhotic liver transplant candidates who underwent detailed nutritional evaluations, and who were counseled to follow current nutritional guidelines . Compared with the baseline, the MELD score of cirrhotic patients at the end of the 6-month study was decreased, stable or increased in 36%, 8% and 56% of patients, respectively. DELTA-MELD was positively and independently correlated with the daily intake of simple sugars. Positive associations were present almost exclusively in patients with a visceral fat value above the median value. This is an association study and future intervention studies are necessary to determine whether patients with cirrhosis with increased visceral adipose tissue benefit from dietary reduction in simple sugars. Key Concept: Patients with chronic liver disease should be routinely monitored for anorexia or malnutrition resulting from decreased or poor-quality food intake, with appropriate nutritional interventions as needed. Anorexia is generally defined as the loss of the desire to eat, and it is usually associated with reduced food intake and deterioration of nutritional status. Anorexia can also be associated with poor quality of food intake. Alcohol or sugared sodas may replace necessary dietary nutrients. In patients with cirrhosis from any etiology, decreased food intake and anorexia can be multifactorial including gastroparesis resulting from portal hypertension, ascites, dysgeusia from micronutrient deficiency, and reduced taste . In studies from the Veterans Administration, over 60% of patients with moderate or severe alcohol- associated hepatitis (AH) had anorexia, and anorexia correlated with the severity of liver disease. Dietary protein and calories decreased as liver disease severity increased, and about half of total calories were derived from alcohol. Importantly, protein intake decreased in association with increasing anorexia (Table 6). In an outpatient study of 200 patients from Eastern India, 100% of those with alcohol-associated cirrhosis reported anorexia. A study from China reported that about 1/3 of patients with cirrhosis had anorexia, and anorexia correlated with the presence of depression. The major cause for cirrhosis in this study was viral related (Hepatitis B or C). Thus, anorexia was observed in patients with different types of liver diseases across the world. Anorexia can also be caused by nutritional deficiencies. A recent study evaluated zinc status and possible
