HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


anorexia was observed in patients with different types of liver diseases across the world. Anorexia can also be caused by nutritional deficiencies. A recent study evaluated zinc status and possible symptoms of zinc deficiency in 578 patients with liver disease. Anorexia and taste disorders were associated with liver disease and were most common in patients with the lowest serum zinc levels. Anorexia is more common with aging, and patients with advanced liver disease tend to be older. Moreover, many of the presumed causes of anorexia of aging, such as inflammatory cytokines, impaired taste, and hormonal dysregulation are present in liver disease. Proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF), are frequently increased in liver disease and can cause anorexia. Similarly, hormones that modulate appetite, such as ghrelin and leptin, are altered in liver disease and are believed to play a role in the anorexia of liver disease. Nausea and bloating are frequent complaints in patients with advanced liver disease and can play a role in anorexia. In a large group of patients with cirrhosis who were not eligible for transplantation, 58% had nausea. Gastroparesis is frequent in patients with cirrhosis; indeed, one report showed that 95% of patients with cirrhosis had gastroparesis. Gastroparesis can cause anorexia with decreased and poor-quality food Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript intake. Patients who have complications of liver disease, such as ascites or hepatic encephalopathy, are more likely to have anorexia with inadequate food intake. Anorexia with inadequate and possibly poor-quality food intake can impact outcome. For example, in a VA Cooperative study of 245 inpatients in which one month daily caloric intake was available, the calories consumed correlated in a dose-dependent fashion with mortality at six months. Key Concept: Dysbiosis is associated with the development/progression of many forms of liver disease. Although dysbiosis may not be directly considered as malnutrition, it is highly impacted by nutrition and impacts nutrition in patients with liver disease and is thus reviewed here. Because treatments for dysbiosis are frequently not nutrients (e.g., antibiotics, phages), treatment will be mentioned but not comprehensively reviewed here. The human gastrointestinal tract contains more than 100 trillion microorganisms including bacteria, fungi, viruses and archaea that make up the gut microbiome. These microorganisms interact in a symbiotic fashion with the gut, liver and immune system. Dietary factors, such as high-fat
