HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


bacteria, fungi, viruses and archaea that make up the gut microbiome. These microorganisms interact in a symbiotic fashion with the gut, liver and immune system. Dietary factors, such as high-fat diets, alcohol consumption, and other environmental factors including chemicals, can adversely impact microbial communities. This dysbiosis can lead to intestinal barrier dysfunction, translocation of microbial components and fecal metabolites to the liver, and the subsequent development or progression of liver disease. Indeed, there is substantial evidence for dysbiosis playing a role in the development/progression of very common liver diseases such as alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) and MASLD, as well as rarer conditions such as primary biliary cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma[61-63]. Multiple experimental studies have shown that feeding mice alcohol, a high saturated fat diet, or chemical toxins alter gut barrier function and gut bacteria, and this was associated with the development of liver injury. Importantly, studies in mice reported that alcohol-induced liver injury could be transferred into gnotobiotic mice by fecal transplant. Alcohol consumption in rodents and humans can result in gradual damage to gut barrier components leading to increased intestinal permeability and intestinal dysbiosis, including pathogenic microbial overgrowth and translocation of bacterial and fungal pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) or endotoxins into the systemic circulation and to the liver. There are several PAMPs associated with ALD, ranging from the well-known endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from gram-negative bacteria, to the more recently discovered bacterial toxin, cytolysin, secreted by Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis) , and the fungal exotoxin, candidalysin, produced by Candida albicans. PAMPs enter the portal circulation and stimulate hepatic production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and other proinflammatory cytokines through Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4) signaling, resulting in severe inflammation. This may also stimulate pro-fibrotic changes, which, along with impaired liver capacity for pathogen clearance and alterations in hepatic metabolism, play a critical role in the development and progression of ALD. Endotoxemia is a common feature of patients with ALD. Studies in long-term heavy alcohol consumers with similar levels of alcohol consumption (~15 drinks/day for ~15 years of heavy drinking) showed that those with liver injury (based on ALT levels > 40 U/L) had elevated blood LPS, as compared to heavy drinking individuals without liver injury. This suggested that Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript low-grade endotoxemia may play a role in the development of liver disease in humans. Elevated levels
