HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript low-grade endotoxemia may play a role in the development of liver disease in humans. Elevated levels of cytolysin and candidalysin, which can cause direct hepatocyte cell damage and death, were found in patients with more advanced stages of ALD, such as AH. Fecal positivity for the cytolysin producing E. faecalis and the candidalysin coding gene ECE1 are associated with more severe disease and mortality in AH patients. Like ALD, MASH also was shown to be transmissible by fecal transplant in mice[61, 64, 71, 72]. Multiple reviews have reported the association of MASLD and dysbiosis[73-75]. The occurrence of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SIBO) has been reported in patients in MASLD/MASH in a cross-sectional study. The prevalence of SIBO in patients with MASLD has also been reported in a systemic review, meta-analysis, and meta- regression. Differences in mechanisms for dysbiosis and gut barrier dysfunction have been compared between alcohol-induced and diet-induced liver disease. Fecal virome transplantation can alter fecal microbiota and drive lean/obese body phenotypes in mice. Moreover, any alcohol use in MASLD patients is associated with significant changes to the intestinal virome. Thus, alteration in bacteria, fungi, and viruses have all been associated with various types of liver disease. Lastly, gut-derived metabolites in MASLD have been reported to play a role in disease modulation (e.g., indoles, short-chain fatty acids) or disease complications (e.g., ammonia and encephalopathy, trimethyl amine and heart disease). Diverse approaches to modify dysbiosis have been used to treat liver disease or its complications (e.g., hepatic encephalopathy). (Table 7) Probiotics have been used with some success in pilot trials in both ALD and MASLD. Fecal transplant also has shown some exciting results in treating acute AH, cirrhosis, and hepatic encephalopathy, as well as underlying drinking behavior. On the other hand, a recent large trial of antibiotic therapy showed no benefit in AH. In contrast, the antibiotic, rifaximin, is well accepted therapy for hepatic encephalopathy, as well as the prebiotic, lactulose. These clinical therapeutic intervention studies further validate the importance of dysbiosis in the development/progression of liver disease and its complications. However, approaches with different endpoints in different liver diseases/complications have yielded varying results. More research in a much more personalized approach is required. Dysbiosis therapy in liver disease/complications has promising potential as demonstrated by the efficacy of lactulose and rifaximin for HE. However, dysbiosis
