HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


research in a much more personalized approach is required. Dysbiosis therapy in liver disease/complications has promising potential as demonstrated by the efficacy of lactulose and rifaximin for HE. However, dysbiosis therapy as a specific form of therapy for liver disease/complications (other than HE) cannot be recommended at this time. Prevalence Malnutrition is common in liver disease and is impacted by disease type and severity, method of assessment, and whether individual nutrient deficiencies were evaluated. In some studies of patients with severe alcohol-associated hepatitis, every patient had some degree of malnutrition. Key Concept: The risk of malnutrition among individuals with alcohol use disorder increases with increasing liver disease severity, particularly those who have severe alcohol associated hepatitis. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The caloric content from alcohol consumption is substantial in AUD with or without ALD, and the alcohol intake may contribute to approximately 50% of daily caloric intake. However, these individuals are at risk for protein calorie malnutrition and deficiencies of contribute to the nutritional status. Indeed, patients with AUD admitted to treatment programs are often drinking 12-17 standard drinks/day. Due to increasing prevalence of obesity worldwide, the current average BMI in ALD patients in the U.S. is 30, with many overweight and obese patients with ALD having evidence of malnutrition and sarcopenia (sarcopenic obesity). Sarcopenia and muscle loss is an objective measurement of malnutrition, and sarcopenic obesity in these patients is associated with a higher mortality compared to patients with cirrhosis without sarcopenia,. Thus, in the current “real world” setting, the malnutrition seen in these patients may be driven by both obesity and empty calories from alcohol. The risk of ALD and AH in individuals with AUD is due to the toxic effect of alcohol on the liver directly and indirectly through gut-liver axis and can occur in the absence research center showed that daily heavy drinking for 2 weeks caused fatty liver. In a study from India, the prevalence of malnutrition was similar in individuals with AUD comparing those with to those without ALD. In another observational multicenter study of Veterans with symptomatic AH and jaundice, malnutrition was present in all the patients with severe AH vs. only 62% of age-matched healthy Veterans with AUD but without AH. In a retrospective study of 261 liver transplant recipients for ALD cirrhosis, malnutrition, as assessed by
