HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


severe AH vs. only 62% of age-matched healthy Veterans with AUD but without AH. In a retrospective study of 261 liver transplant recipients for ALD cirrhosis, malnutrition, as assessed by subjective global assessment, was present in 84% prior to receiving transplant. In another study in patients with severe AH who present with jaundice, malnutrition was universally present, and its severity increased with AH severity and hepatic complications such as ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal bleeding, and hepatorenal syndrome. Studies in patients with AUD admitted to a treatment program reported very heavy drinking, but no evidence of global malnutrition in those with normal liver enzymes. On the other hand, those patients with AUD having increased liver enzymes frequently had subtle malnutrition, such as alterations in plasma lipids, zinc, or magnesium. Thus, while there are some data showing malnutrition in AUD without liver disease, the data are more robust showing that the risk of malnutrition increases with the development of ALD, and the prevalence increases with the severity of ALD. Key Concept: Malnutrition and sarcopenia among individuals with chronic liver disease is generally more severe in those with more advanced liver disease. Multiple studies from around the world indicate that there is greater/more severe malnutrition in patients with liver disease having advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis compared to those with less advanced disease, and this is irrespective of the type of liver disease. Peng and co-workers performed a comprehensive cross-sectional assessment of nutritional status in 268 patients with cirrhosis of multiple etiologies and in 386 healthy controls. Total body protein was calculated by neutron activation analysis, total body fat and bone mineral density were assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), resting Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript energy expenditure was defined by indirect calorimetry, and grip strength was shown by dynamometry. Dietary intakes of energy and protein were also assessed. Significant protein depletion was noted in 51% of patients and was significantly more prevalent in men (63%) than in women (28%). This sex difference occurred irrespective of disease severity or origin, and the mechanisms(s) were unclear. The prevalence of protein depletion increased significantly with disease severity as assessed by Child-Pugh grade and was associated with decreased muscle function. Of interest, in this study, poor nutritional status was not related to reduced energy and protein intake. Several other studies compared nutritional status in patients
