HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


associated with decreased muscle function. Of interest, in this study, poor nutritional status was not related to reduced energy and protein intake. Several other studies compared nutritional status in patients having either ALD or non-alcohol-induced (especially viral) liver disease[91, 102-105]. Research from India studied patients with AUD with or without ALD, patients with cirrhosis unrelated to alcohol, and healthy controls. Alcohol constituted about 48% of daily caloric intake in patients with ALD. The percentage mean intake of carbohydrate, protein, and energy was decreased in all study groups compared with controls. The deficiencies were more pronounced in patients with severe ALD than in those with moderate ALD. Interestingly in this one study from India, protein energy malnutrition was common in both alcohol- and non-alcohol-related cirrhosis, but was more pronounced in the latter. This study emphasizes the importance of cirrhosis per se in the development of malnutrition. A study from Italy reported that the prevalence, characteristics, and severity of protein energy malnutrition were comparable in alcohol-related and viral-induced cirrhosis. Malnutrition correlated with the severity of the liver disease. A study from the United States evaluated patients with stable cirrhosis followed in an ascites clinic. They were not actively drinking, were free of alcohol-associated hepatitis, and had bilirubin levels <3 mg/dl. These patients had indicators of malnutrition similar to those in patients with AH (e.g., a creatinine-height index of 71% of normal). Thus, these patients with advanced cirrhosis developed malnutrition in the absence of acute inflammation. Lastly, a cohort study of 52,815 men and women used bioelectrical impedance analysis to calculate appendicular skeletal muscle mass (ASM). MASLD was assessed by ultrasonography and its severity was assessed by a fibrosis score. In multivariable adjusted analysis, the difference in 5-year change in ASM comparing participants with and without MASLD was −39.9g (95% CI −53.1, −26.8). When participants were further assessed by MASLD severity, ASM loss was much faster in participants with MASLD with intermediate to high fibrosis scores than in those with low fibrosis scores. In summary, multiple studies in different disease etiologies suggest that the severity of liver disease is critical in the development of malnutrition and muscle loss in patients with liver disease. Prognosis Malnutrition can have a major impact on prognosis in patients with liver disease. Malnutrition can impact both complications of liver disease and overall mortality. Indeed, studies from VA Cooperative trials showed that malnutrition at admission had a dose- response
