HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


patients with liver disease. Malnutrition can impact both complications of liver disease and overall mortality. Indeed, studies from VA Cooperative trials showed that malnutrition at admission had a dose- response effect on overall mortality at one month (Figure 2) Recommendation: We suggest early administration of oral or enteral nutrition supplementation therapy in hospitalized patients with cirrhosis (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Patients with cirrhosis are at risk of malnutrition irrespective of the underlying etiology, with a prevalence of 20% in compensated cirrhosis and up to 60% in decompensated cirrhosis. Five randomized controlled trials comparing enteral nutrition supplementation to standard diet alone in patients with alcohol-associated cirrhosis showed improvement in nutritional parameters and liver function. One of these studies reported lower patient mortality during the hospital stay with daily enteral supplementation of 2115 calories including 71 gm of protein in 16 patients compared to standard diet of daily intake of 1320 calories in 19 patients (13 vs. 47%; P=0.02). However, the other four studies were negative. In three studies, patient mortality at one month was 12-13% in the intervention vs. 24-27% in the control arm[110-112]. One of these studies on 51 patients (26 in the intervention arm) was among patients with cirrhosis followed in an outpatient clinic. The remaining study also reported no difference in outcome at 1 year (39 vs. 35%, P=0.07). This study ensured 1800 daily caloric intake including 60 gm of protein in the control arm (N=55), and the intervention arm received supplementation (N=44) of 30-35 calories/d. In a recent meta-analysis of 13 studies on 663 patients with alcohol associated cirrhosis or hepatitis (329 intervention arm), patient mortality was lower with nutritional supplementation (21.9% vs. 29%), with 20% reduced odds ratio, 0.80 (0.64-0.99). The results were similar on the route of nutrition supplementation (enteral or parenteral, P=0.44) or study population (alcohol associated cirrhosis or hepatitis, P=0.07). Interestingly, the meta-regression analysis did not show any association with patient’s age, gender, daily amounts of calories or protein, and duration of intervention or follow up. Further, nutritional supplementation was associated with improved nutritional status, liver function, and decreased occurrence of cirrhosis complications especially hepatic encephalopathy. Key Concept: Presence of malnutrition in hospitalized patients with cirrhosis is associated complications, and infections compared to patients without malnutrition. Malnutrition as assessed by Subjective Global
