HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


studies evaluated the association between malnutrition (diagnosed using the SGA) and clinical outcomes among hospitalized patients with cirrhosis. Malnutrition prevalence varied from 5% to 100% depending on the tool used to assess the nutritional status and the study population being examined. Pooled data from 22 studies on 4057 candidates awaiting liver transplantation showed that malnutrition was associated with pre-transplant mortality with OR (95% CI) of 2.38 (1.96-2.89), with similar results found irrespective of the tool used for assessing the nutritional status. Malnutrition was also associated with cirrhosis complications including ascites, encephalopathy, and variceal bleeding. Pooled data from six studies on 588 liver transplant recipients showed that the presence of pre-transplant malnutrition was associated with increased risk of post- transplant mortality, with OR (95% CI) of 3.04 (1.51-6.12). Malnutrition was also associated with greater length of stay including need for intensive care, infections, and packed red blood cell requirement. Key Concept: Given that sarcopenia is associated with worse patient outcomes before, during, and after liver transplantation, structured programs are needed to assess and treat sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis. As mentioned earlier, sarcopenia (or loss of muscle mass) is the major component of malnutrition that most reliably predicts clinical outcomes and responses to interventions targeting nutritional status. A number of studies (both prospective and retrospective) have shown that malnutrition, contractile dysfunction, and sarcopenia are frequent in patients with cirrhosis who undergo LT and adversely affect outcomes before, during, and after surgery. With MASLD related cirrhosis being one of the most frequent indications for LT, sarcopenic obesity or sarcopenia in obese patients, is being increasingly recognized clinically and contributes to poor outcomes similar to sarcopenia, but is more challenging to diagnose clinically due to the masking of muscle loss by the adiposity. Sarcopenia, including sarcopenic obesity, results in lower survival, quality of life, and worse outcomes after decompensation events. Malnourished and sarcopenic patients also have worse perioperative outcomes including longer post-operative stay, more blood product requirements, and higher risk of post-operative infections[7, 128, 129]. Recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma following LT is higher in patients with malnutrition before transplantation. Post-transplant outcomes including survival are worse in patients with sarcopenia and malnutrition before transplantation [131-133]. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The effect of pre-transplant sarcopenia on graft outcomes and long-term infections post transplantation is currently not known. Exercise has been
