HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The effect of pre-transplant sarcopenia on graft outcomes and long-term infections post transplantation is currently not known. Exercise has been suggested to improve clinical outcomes before transplantation but the optimum type, duration, intensity, and safety of exercise training before and after liver transplantation and the effects on outcomes are currently under evaluation . Endurance exercise increases cardiopulmonary fitness while resistance training increases muscle mass and strength in cirrhosis, but adherence remains a concern. Key Concept: Patients with alcohol associated liver disease, especially patients with alcohol associated hepatitis, should have dietary assessment to ensure adequate nutritional intake. Recommendation: In patients with cirrhosis or alcohol associated hepatitis, we suggest implementation of nutritional supplementation therapy (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) Interest in the concept of nutrition therapy for ALD was stimulated in 1948 by Patek et al., who demonstrated that a “nutritious diet” improved the 5-year outcome of patients with alcohol-associated cirrhosis (AC) compared with historical controls with AC. Well documented assessments of nutritional intake and nutritional status from VA Cooperative Studies demonstrate inadequate caloric and protein intake (57 gm/day in the placebo arm at 1 month) in patients with severe AH. One-month daily caloric intake in 245 patients from VA Cooperative Study 275 correlated in a stepwise fashion with six-moth survival. Nutritional supplementation through a feeding tube was then shown to improve liver function significantly in inpatients with ALD, as assessed by serum bilirubin concentration multicenter study from Spain randomized patients with severe AH to receive either prednisone, 40 mg daily, or a liver-specific feeding formula containing 2000 kcal/day through a feeding tube. This supplement was enriched in branched chain amino acids (BCAAs), was energy dense (1.3 kcal/mL), and was low in fat and sodium. The 1-month mortality was similar in both groups, but the 1-year mortality was significantly lower in the enteral nutrition group compared with the glucocorticoid group, due mainly to fewer infections. A more recent multicenter trial in which patients with severe AH were given either intensive enteral nutrition (EN) plus methylprednisolone or conventional nutrition plus methylprednisolone showed that the six-month mortality (primary endpoint) was numerically but not statistically lower in the EN group (44.4%) compared with the control group (52.1%). Importantly, patients from either group receiving < 21.5 kcal/kg/day had significantly lower survival rates, as did those receiving < 77.6 gm of protein per day .
