HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


the control group (52.1%). Importantly, patients from either group receiving < 21.5 kcal/kg/day had significantly lower survival rates, as did those receiving < 77.6 gm of protein per day . Data from the 2011 to 2017 National Inpatient Sample showed that in more than 20,000 matched nourished and malnourished patients, the presence of malnutrition negatively impacted local and systemic infections and mortality. Metanalysis of nutrition therapy in AH and ALD cirrhosis showed trends of improved mortality and improved portosystemic encephalopathy (PSE) with nutritional supplementation. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Nutritional Treatments/Interventions Nutritional therapy can impact both nutritional status and disease complications/outcomes. We first discuss micronutrient deficiencies followed by discussions of more global nutritional interventions. Decreased dietary micronutrient intake or absorption and increased excretion can lead to suboptimal nutritional status and cause a variety of complications in liver disease. Some deficiencies have also been postulated to enhance liver disease development or progression. Table 8 lists selected micronutrient deficiencies seen in liver disease. We review selected vitamin and mineral deficiencies and point out the need for correct diagnosis and treatment. We provide PICO questions on Vitamin D, zinc, and vitamin E. Thiamine (vitamin B1) is a water-soluble vitamin that participates in the initiation of nerve propagation and is an important cofactor for enzymes in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism. Patients with chronic alcohol misuse or cirrhosis have been found to be thiamine deficient. Thiamine deficiency is especially prevalent in patients with alcohol- related cirrhosis due to inadequate dietary intake and through the direct effect of ethanol on thiamine uptake from the gastrointestinal tract. Thiamine deficiency can cause peripheral neuropathy or cardiac disease (beriberi) or neurologic impairment characterized by nystagmus, ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, and confusion (Wernicke’s encephalopathy). Korsakoff syndrome can also develop from thiamine deficiency and is characterized by impaired short-term memory and confabulation with otherwise grossly normal cognition. Wernicke’s encephalopathy is an acute disorder and requires emergent treatment, usually with intravenous thiamine. Vitamin A plays a critical role in multiple metabolic pathways ranging from visual function to gene transcription. The liver is the major storage site for Vitamin A (>90%), with most found in the stellate cells. Most studies indicate that over 60% of patients with cirrhosis have low serum Vitamin A levels, and 40% in one study had impaired dark adaptation that was not recognized by the patient.
