HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


indicate that over 60% of patients with cirrhosis have low serum Vitamin A levels, and 40% in one study had impaired dark adaptation that was not recognized by the patient. A single IM injection of aqueous retinyl palmitate improved night vision at retesting one month later, further documenting the functional nature of this nutritional deficiency. Importantly, because retinal binding protein, the carrier protein for Vitamin A, is made in the liver, its serum concentration is frequently low in liver disease, which potentially increases the risk for Vitamin A liver toxicity with Vitamin A supplementation. Thus, supplementation in patients with liver disease/injury must be undertaken with care. Excess hepatic copper with subsequent hepatotoxicity and fibrosis are well documented in certain liver problems such as Wilson Disease and cholestatic liver diseases, including primary biliary cholangitis. Copper toxicity occurs through multiple mechanisms, including oxidative stress. Copper is also an essential trace element for many biological processes in the liver, including normal mitochondrial respiration, iron and lipid metabolism, detoxification of free radicals, and cross-linking of connective tissue. The American diet is marginal in copper. Excess fructose consumption appears to aggravate marginal copper status and induces the metabolic syndrome and MASLD in experimental animals (males Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript are more susceptible). Moreover, patients with MASH appear to have decreased hepatic copper. Thus, physicians should be aware of both copper excess and deficiency in liver disease. Magnesium plays an important role in carbohydrate metabolism and insulin resistance. Magnesium deficiency can cause muscle cramps, a frequent complaint in patients with cirrhosis. Other minerals of relevance to liver disease include manganese, selenium (potential antioxidant function), chromium (glucose tolerance). Manganese is excreted via the biliary route and can be deposited in the brain especially in the basal ganglia, with subsequent encephalopathy and extrapyramidal symptoms with features mimicking Parkinson’s disease. Key Concept: Evidence for supplemental vitamin D in chronic liver disease is limited; benefits. Vitamin D deficiency is common in patients with cirrhosis and has been associated with increased risk for osteopenia, osteoporosis, infections, mortality and hepatocellular carcinoma[153-156]. In a study of patients with chronic hepatitis B infection, mean 25(OH)D(3) level was significantly lower than in healthy controls and was positively correlated with albumin level. In total, 77.6% (121/156) of patients with cirrhosis had vitamin D deficiency. 25(OH)D(3) level significantly decreased as the Child-Pugh
