HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


in cirrhosis and hepatocarcinogenesis is still unknown. In patients with ALD (n=50), the mean level of vitamin D was 60.73±28.02, 50.53±39.52 and 26.71±12.81 nmol/L, respectively for Child-Pugh score class A, B and C, respectively. Supplementation of cholecalciferol 1000 IU/day significantly increased the vitamin D levels within 6 months for Child -Pugh A and B class, with improvement in Child C after a year (p<0.05). A decrease in the Child-Pugh score was also found, with a redistribution of the patients in different classes. Of seven patients initially in class C, two changed to class A, four changed from class C to B, and one remained in class C (P=0.012). Of seventeen patients initially in class B, eleven changed to class A, and six remained in class B . Few clinical trials have shown that vitamin D supplements enhance the defense against SBP with a low mortality rate in adults. Recommendation: In patients with MASH without cirrhosis, we suggest treatment with vitamin E 800 IU daily (Conditional recommendation, Low quality of evidence). Based on a small open label pilot study in children treated with vitamin E (400-1200 IU synthetic dl-α tocopherol daily for a mean of 5.2 months) that showed remarkable reductions in serum ALT and AST levels, two placebo-controlled, randomized trials of natural vitamin E (800 IU d-α tocopherol daily for 96 weeks) were conducted, one in children and one in adults. These trials were conducted in MASH patients without diabetes or cirrhosis and showed histological improvement in adults of 43% with vitamin E versus 19% with placebo (P = 0.001) and in children of 58% with vitamin E versus 28% with placebo (P = 0.006). Serum ALT levels improved in both adults and children, although the improvement in children was not statistically significant because the placebo-treated children also markedly improved their ALT levels. A study of patients with type 2 diabetes showed some benefits of natural vitamin E 800 IU daily alone on MASH resolution, but greater benefits when vitamin E was combined with pioglitazone. No improvement in fibrosis has been found in any of these studies. Meta-analyses that have included smaller studies have concluded that vitamin E treatment reduces ALT and AST levels and improves most features of liver histology except fibrosis[171-173]. A reduction in serum ALT to ≤ 40 U/L and by ≥ 30% of baseline value with treatment has been shown to be associated with improvement in
