HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


histology except fibrosis[171-173]. A reduction in serum ALT to ≤ 40 U/L and by ≥ 30% of baseline value with treatment has been shown to be associated with improvement in liver histology except fibrosis. A retrospective analysis of 236 diabetic and non-diabetic patients with MASH who were managed at a tertiary academic center was performed. Over a follow up period of at least 2 yrs. (median 5.6 yrs.), 90 patients treated with vitamin E vs. 90 propensity matched patients who were not prescribed vitamin E had better transplant-free survival (78% versus 49%, P < 0.01) and a lower risk of decompensation (37% versus 62%, P = 0.04). In a study comparing diabetics to non-diabetics, the VA database was used to identify 1572 patients with MASH who were prescribed Vitamin E, and 658 had complete data for outcome evaluation over two years of follow-up. Mean age was 55.8 years; 283 (43.0%) patients had T2DM, and 518 (78.7%) were obese (BMI≥30). Both diabetic and non-diabetic groups had a significant decline in Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript mean AST and ALT over two years, with no significant difference between the two groups in their rate of change. Clinical trials have shown that not all patients improve with vitamin E treatment and genetic polymorphisms have been identified that correlate with vitamin E responsiveness. The haptoglobin 2 allele correlates with vitamin E responsiveness, whereas patients homozygous for the haptoglobin 1 allele had no benefit from vitamin E regarding steatosis and inflammation. Other studies have also suggested a role of fatty acid desaturase variants in vitamin E responsiveness. Mechanistic data suggest that vitamin E may decrease de novo lipogenesis through an oxidant-sensitive pathway that regulates the activation of SREBP1c, a key transcriptional regulator of the enzymes of de novo lipogenesis. The early clinical trial findings led to more common use of vitamin E in patients in MASH in the United States, although its use may still be relatively infrequent in Europe. However, enthusiasm for the routine use of vitamin in patients with MASH has been tempered by meta-analyses suggesting that high doses may be associated with an increase in all-cause mortality; the implications of these finding for patients taking less than 1000 U daily has not been established. Additionally, increased bleeding risks with high-dose vitamin-E, specifically the risk for hemorrhagic stroke, and
