HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


implications of these finding for patients taking less than 1000 U daily has not been established. Additionally, increased bleeding risks with high-dose vitamin-E, specifically the risk for hemorrhagic stroke, and increased prostate cancer risk have been suggested by large observational studies, although these findings have not yet been confirmed in prospective studies. The potential risks of long-term high dose (e.g., 800 IU daily) use of vitamin E should be discussed with patients prior to initiation. Key Concept: Zinc supplementation should be considered for patients with liver disease and hypozincemia and/or signs/symptoms of zinc deficiency. Zinc is an essential trace element required for normal cell growth, development, and differentiation. It is involved in DNA synthesis, RNA transcription, and cell division and activation. It is an important component in many zinc proteins and enzymes including critical zinc transcription factors such as HNF4α which is vital for hepatocyte function. Zinc also plays a role in ammonium metabolism and ammonia removal in muscle and liver. Zinc deficiency is usually diagnosed by a low serum zinc level and/or clinical signs/symptoms of zinc deficiency that correct with zinc supplementation. The Japanese the most important components being hypozincemia and/or clinical manifestations of zinc deficiency. Serum zinc <60 μg/dL and 60-80 μg/dL indicate zinc deficiency and marginal deficiency, respectively. The signs/symptoms of zinc deficiency include dermatitis and taste disorder among others (Table 9). Zinc deficiency or altered metabolism is observed in many types of liver disease, including ALD, MASLD, and viral liver disease. Some of the mechanisms for zinc deficiency or altered metabolism include decreased dietary intake, increased urinary excretion, activation of certain zinc transporters, and induction of hepatic metallothionein. Zinc deficiency is very common in patients with cirrhosis, with a prevalence as high as 84%-96% in some studies. Zinc deficiency is highly prevalent in cirrhosis patients with Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Child-Pugh score B or C, or with MELD score ≥ 15. Zinc deficiency has also been shown to correlate with liver disease severity, infection, a worse transplant-free survival, and malnutrition risk. Zinc supplementation has been documented to block or attenuate experimental ALD through multiple processes, including stabilizing gut- barrier function, decreasing endotoxemia, decreasing proinflammatory cytokine production, decreasing oxidative stress, and attenuating apoptotic hepatocyte death[190, 194-197]. that zinc supplementation can reverse clinical signs and symptoms of zinc deficiency in patients with liver
