HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


endotoxemia, decreasing proinflammatory cytokine production, decreasing oxidative stress, and attenuating apoptotic hepatocyte death[190, 194-197]. that zinc supplementation can reverse clinical signs and symptoms of zinc deficiency in patients with liver disease. Small trials, usually comprised mainly of patients with alcohol-related cirrhosis, have reported improved signs and symptoms such as skin lesions, taste disturbances and muscle cramps, as well as biochemical parameters including glucose disposition, IGF-1 concentrations, and various liver tests[198-202]. Zinc deficiency may also play a role in the development of ALD. In one study, 108 very heaving drinking (≥10 drinks/day) individuals with no clinical signs of ALD or malnutrition were grouped by serum zinc concentration into normal and zinc deficient subjects. Those with hypozincemia had significantly higher liver enzymes and lower albumin, suggesting that hypozincemia may play a role in the development of early-stage ALD. Himoto and coworkers used polaprezinc as an antifibrotic therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C and showed a decrease in noninvasive fibrosis markers. Subsequently, Matsuoka and coworkers treated chronic HCV patients for 3 years with polaprezinc, 150mag bid. Zinc therapy was associated with improvement of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) . Zinc deficiency has been associated with portosystemic encephalopathy (PSE), and zinc supplementation has been postulated to improve PSE. Severe zinc deficiency per se has been reported to cause mental disturbances and encephalopathy. In 100 patients with minimal hepatic encephalopathy, zinc deficiency predicted overt hepatic encephalopathy and mortality in patients with liver cirrhosis . Zinc metabolism is highly linked to ammonia metabolism, and zinc supplementation improved hepatic nitrogen clearance in patients with advanced cirrhosis. In a meta-analysis including 4 trials with 247 cirrhotic patients, zinc supplementation combined with lactulose improved number connection tests in patients with mild PSE compared with lactulose monotherapy. This is consistent with a previous meta-analysis of 4 trials that concluded that oral zinc improved this psychometric test but did not decrease PSE. If used, zinc supplementation at a dose of ≤50 mg elemental zinc orally per day should be taken with a meal to decrease the potential side effects of nausea and copper deficiency. Recommendation: We suggest coffee consumption, preferably ≥ 2 cups/day, in patients with chronic liver disease to reduce risk of hepatic fibrosis progression or HCC development (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Over the past approximately two decades, there have been multiple publications ranging from animal data to human meta-analyses that have suggested positive health
