HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


development (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Over the past approximately two decades, there have been multiple publications ranging from animal data to human meta-analyses that have suggested positive health outcomes associated with regular coffee consumption. Public opinion on coffee is evolving, and it is now perceived by many to be a health-promoting beverage. Data specifically on Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the effects of coffee on liver health are especially compelling. It has been shown that coffee consumption is inversely related to fatty liver, advanced hepatic fibrosis, and even HCC[212-225]. Studies in experimental animals have evaluated potential mechanisms, but the data are unclear. Individual studies and meta-analyses of data from diverse patient groups show a decrease in hepatic steatosis with coffee consumption[213-216, 227]. Recent data from the NHANES database show that coffee consumption is associated with lower hepatic fibrosis, and the fibrosis findings are supported by other studies[217-220, 222, 228-230]. The risks for cirrhosis and HCC also appear to be lower in coffee consumers based on large epidemiologic studies[221, 224, 225, 231-233]. It is debated whether caffeine, among over 1000 ingredients in coffee, is the critical ingredient for these beneficial effects. Some studies have reported positive effects even with decaffeinated coffee, suggesting that ingredients other than caffeine may be mediating the beneficial effects on the liver. Caffeine is metabolized in the liver, and reduced levels of breakdown products of caffeine correlate with the severity of liver disease. Thus, if caffeine metabolites were the beneficial ingredients as suggested by some studies, patients with liver disease would benefit less. Coffee consumption also is associated with epigenetic effects that may confer coffee, and these polyphenols have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that may play a role in the hepatic health effects of coffee. It appears that a wide variety of types of liver disease derive benefit from coffee, ranging from hepatitis C to MASLD to ALD. Importantly, while coffee appears to protect against HCC, it does not protect against many other common types of cancer. There appears to be some dose-response relation, with two to four cups, often suggested as optimal amounts. Further studies are required to define mechanisms and dose thresholds for the hepatic benefits. Key Concepts: • Lifestyle modification with diet and exercise decreases adverse clinical outcomes in patients with MASH and should be encouraged independent of
