HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


and dose thresholds for the hepatic benefits. Key Concepts: • Lifestyle modification with diet and exercise decreases adverse clinical outcomes in patients with MASH and should be encouraged independent of MASH disease severity. • Data suggesting that lifestyle modification is associated with reversal of hepatic fibrosis are limited. Fibrosis in the presence of MASH is the primary predictor of clinical outcomes. Lifestyle modification with diet and exercise can improve liver histology and potentially alter natural history for disease progression. Lifestyle modification is the foundation of treatment not only for MASLD/MASH but also for its associated metabolic comorbidities and improved cardiometabolic health. Achieving ≥10% weight loss through life-style modification may resolve steatohepatitis and improve hepatic fibrosis[240-242]. Although majority of patients may be able to achieve modest degrees of weight loss, few patients (≤ 10%) achieve effective weight loss at one year, despite structured interventions. Importantly, fewer than half of these maintain the lost weight at 5 years after the intervention, highlighting the need for ongoing nutrition support and lifestyle modification. Exercise independent of weight loss has a beneficial effect on MASLD/MASH. Regular moderate exercise at least 5 times a week for a total of 150 minutes per week or an increase Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in physical activity by more than 60 minutes per week can prevent her improve MASLD/ MASH[239, 244-246]. More vigorous exercise is needed for resolution of MASH, with even higher intensity exercise demonstrated to reduce hepatic fibrosis. Studies combining diet with increases in physical activity consistently demonstrate reduction in liver fat proportional to the intensity of the intervention[248-250]. Even in those patients with MASH-related advanced hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis, regular physical activity has been demonstrated to reduce portal pressure, improve frailty, sarcopenia, and quality of life. Using NHANES Data (n=3,548 participants), a dose- dependent, non-linear association of physical activity (volume and intensity) was associated with all-cause mortality and a dose-dependent, liner association of diet quality with all- cause mortality. Both physical activity and diet quality were associated with lower cardiovascular risk in US adults with MASLD. Key Concept: In patients with cirrhosis and evidence of fluid retention (ascites and/or edema), free water restriction may be needed when serum sodium is below 126 mEq/L. Recommendation: In patients with cirrhosis and ascites who are managed with diuretic therapies, we cannot recommend for or against
