HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


restriction may be needed when serum sodium is below 126 mEq/L. Recommendation: In patients with cirrhosis and ascites who are managed with diuretic therapies, we cannot recommend for or against strict sodium restricted diets (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Portal hypertension in patients with cirrhosis with consequent splanchnic pooling of blood leads to a decrease in effective circulating blood volume (ECBV). Cardiac compensation with increase in cardiac output attempts to maintain the ECBV and renal blood flow. With increasing severity of liver disease naturally or due to a precipitant event (GI bleeding, portal vein thrombosis, or dehydration), the cardiac compensation may not be enough, and this results in activation of renin angiotensin system with increase in aldosterone levels, leading to active sodium and passive fluid retention. About 50% of patients with decompensated cirrhosis have fluid retention with ascites and/or edema of the feet, the most common complication of cirrhosis. Moderate to severe fluid retention in patients with cirrhosis is a common cause for recurrent hospitalization and utilization of resources. Hence, optimal outpatient management of patients with ascites is critical to improve patient reported outcomes including patient survival. The AASLD recommends moderate dietary sodium restriction to 2000 mg/d of salt (88 mEq of sodium) with diuretics (spironolactone with or without furosemide) as a first step in the management of clinically evident ascites in patients with cirrhosis. As sodium restricted diets are not very palatable and can potentially lead to malnutrition, randomized studies have been performed to examine what is the maximum sodium intake which can be allowed to these patients. In a multicenter study on 140 outpatients with alcohol- associated cirrhosis, unrestricted sodium intake (n=74) was compared to 483 mg (21 mmol) of sodium intake (n=66) in the management of ascites. At 14-d, there was a greater weight loss, decrease in abdominal girth, and improved appetite in the sodium restricted arm, but this difference was not seen at the 90-d evaluation. Further, there was a trend for improved mmol/d (n=62) was compared with 120 mmol (n=53), with a stepped-up approach in use of Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript diuretics in both arms. The more restricted sodium intake did not add to the 93% successful reduction in ascites with optimal diuretic treatment. In a more recent study from China, sodium restriction of up to 5000 mg/d (n=102)
