HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


intake did not add to the 93% successful reduction in ascites with optimal diuretic treatment. In a more recent study from China, sodium restriction of up to 5000 mg/d (n=102) was compared to unrestricted sodium intake (n=98) among hospitalized patients with cirrhosis, with use of diuretics in both the arms. The unrestricted sodium arm had higher rate of ascites disappearance and a shorter time serum sodium and renal impairment during the hospitalization. In a larger randomized study on 328 patients managed in outpatients or during admission, six arms were studied with use of diuretics and other modes for management of ascites, and sodium restriction up to 500 mg/d in five arms and unrestricted sodium intake in the sixth arm. No statistically difference was seen on ascites control across the six arms in the study. Although, the available evidence shows some benefit from sodium restricted diet, the contradictory studies with limited data call for larger well-designed studies to definitively examine the limit of sodium restriction in patients with cirrhosis and fluid retention. Regarding fluid restriction, there are no high-quality randomized studies in the management of ascites and fluid retention in patients with cirrhosis. Fluid restriction is not required in the management of ascites, as the fluid retention in patients with cirrhosis is passive along with sodium retention. Hence, adequate sodium control combined with optimal diuretic dose is enough in the management of ascites. However, when the serum sodium falls below 125 mEq/L due to dilutional or isotonic hyponatremia, fluid restriction is recommended by lost organizations including the AASLD. Recommendation: We suggest not restricting dietary protein in patients with decompensated cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) Protein and caloric malnutrition is common in patients with cirrhosis, and adversely impacts the clinical outcomes. Ammonia plays a central role in the occurrence of hepatic encephalopathy, a common complication in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. Ammonia synthesized by the gut bacteria from the dietary proteins is cleared by conversion to urea in the liver. However, in patients with decompensated cirrhosis impaired liver function cannot perform this metabolic function leading to risk of hepatic encephalopathy. Hence, protein restriction to reduce the availability of substrate has been practiced minimizing ammonia synthesis. Indeed, as recently as 2001, the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Guidelines on Hepatic Encephalopathy recommend that for cirrhotics with acute encephalopathy, protein intake should be started at 0.5g/kg/day with a progressive
