HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


recently as 2001, the American College of Gastroenterology Practice Guidelines on Hepatic Encephalopathy recommend that for cirrhotics with acute encephalopathy, protein intake should be started at 0.5g/kg/day with a progressive increase to 1.0-1.5g/kg/day, depending on patient tolerance. However, restricting proteins worsens malnutrition and sarcopenia that can potentially worsen hyperammonemia due to reduced skeletal muscle ammonia disposal. In a study on 30 patients with decompensated cirrhosis who were hospitalized with hepatic encephalopathy, subjects were randomized to receive protein restricted diet with progressive increment or normal protein diet for two weeks. The outcome of hepatic encephalopathy in the two groups was not different, with similar stage and severity of hepatic encephalopathy at days 7 and 14. Further, patients in the low protein intake group had higher protein breakdown compared to normal protein intake. In another study on 6 healthy subjects Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and 14 patients with biopsy proven cirrhosis (6 decompensated), plasma levels of amino acids were similar in the three groups after 20 gm protein meal, except for greater increase in the levels of isoleucine, leucine, and tyrosine in patients with cirrhosis compared to healthy subjects. However, none of the patients with cirrhosis developed covert hepatic encephalopathy as evaluated by number connection test. A large clinical trial at eight Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centers analyzed food intake including protein consumption as well as encephalopathy over time. Sixty-three percent of patients had some degree of hepatic encephalopathy at entry, which decreased over time. Time dependent regression analysis found low protein intake to be independently associated with worsening hepatic encephalopathy. Similarly, less malnutrition at study entry was independently associated with improved hepatic encephalopathy. Recommendation: We suggest a diet enriched in vegetarian sources of protein in patients with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy who require nutritional supplementation (conditional recommendations, low quality of evidence) Dietary protein is a major source for ammonia production in the gut, a major player in the occurrence and/or control of hepatic encephalopathy. The recommended protein dietary intake could be derived from the vegetarian/plant based or animal source. Vegetable sources of protein compared to animal sources have higher arginine content (which increases urea production), higher fiber content (which creates an acidic environment in the colon, mediating excretion of ammonia in the stools), and have lower content of methionine and tryptophan. Taken together, these effects
