HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


higher fiber content (which creates an acidic environment in the colon, mediating excretion of ammonia in the stools), and have lower content of methionine and tryptophan. Taken together, these effects result in lower circulating blood levels of ammonia and mercaptans, both of which are involved in mediating encephalopathy. Several studies have compared vegetable vs. animal sources of protein in patients with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy. Of a total of six studies, vegetarian sources of protein were associated with improvement in four studies and no differences in outcomes in the other two studies. However, these studies are limited, as they are more than 25 years old, have small samples, and used different intervention regimens (Table 10). An RCT from India randomized 120 patients with cirrhosis and minimal HE to half receiving 30-35 kcal/k/d with 1.0-1.5 g/k/d of vegetarian source of protein and 60 patients receiving no nutritional supplementation. After six months, nutritional supplementation with vegetable source of protein vs. no supplementation was associated with improvement in HE (71 vs. 23%, p=0.001) as assessed by psychometric tests. Further, development of overt HE was in 10% vs. 22% of patients respectively, P=0.04. Recommendation: We recommend the use of branched chain amino acids (when available) in addition to standard of care treatment in patients with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) Branched chain amino acids (BCAAs) such as leucine, isoleucine, and valine are essential amino acids (diet as the only source), as these cannot be synthesized in the liver. Ammonia is a key mediator in the development of hepatic encephalopathy in patients with cirrhosis and chronic liver disease with significant hepatic insufficiency or portal hypertension with portosystemic shunting. Muscle plays a major role in the removal of ammonia by its Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript conversion to glutamine via glutamine synthase. Patients with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy have altered ratios of amino acids, with reduced levels of BCAAs and elevated levels of aromatic amino acids. BCAAs provide their carbon atom to replenish α-ketoglutarate, which is consumed to generate glutamate, an essential substrate to convert ammonia to glutamine. Further, BCAA supplementation also reduces protein breakdown in patients with cirrhosis, with consequent improved muscle mass, which helps in extrahepatic detoxification of ammonia. Several randomized controlled trials (RCT) have examined the benefits of BCAA supplementation on improvement of hepatic
