HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


with cirrhosis, with consequent improved muscle mass, which helps in extrahepatic detoxification of ammonia. Several randomized controlled trials (RCT) have examined the benefits of BCAA supplementation on improvement of hepatic encephalopathy and patient survival. A systematic review and meta-analysis by the Cochrane group of 16 RCTs on 827 patients with hepatic encephalopathy, 12 trials including overt encephalopathy and 4 minimal encephalopathy (asymptomatic patients but with abnormal psychometric tests) examined the benefit of BCAA supplementation. Pooled data from 9 trials on 430 patients showed improvement in hepatic encephalopathy with oral BCAAs, RR (95% CI) of 0.67 (0.52-0.88), but not when IV BCAAs was used in 7 trials on 397 patients, 0.81 (0.61-1.09, P=0.34). Pooled data from 15 trials on 760 patients showed no difference in patient mortality comparing the intervention vs. control arms (21.3 vs. 22.6%), RR (95% CI) of 0.88 (0.69-1.11). However, after excluding 5 trials with control group of lactulose or neomycin, the risk of patient mortality reduced by 24% with RR (95% CI) of 0.76 (0.63-0.92). Although, no serious adverse effects were observed, use of BCAAs led to side effects, especially nausea and diarrhea (11 vs. 2%), 3.39 (0.7-16.46). Improved liver disease and hepatic encephalopathy probably overcame the adverse effects, with no differences on quality of life between BCAAs and control arms, as assessed by the SF-36 tool . Recommendation: We recommend incorporating late evening snacks in patients with cirrhosis to improve body mass index, lean muscle tissue, and reduce the risk of ascites and hepatic encephalopathy (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) The importance of outpatient nutritional therapy for patients with cirrhosis was reported over 75 years ago when Patek, et al.. demonstrated that a “nutritious diet” improved the 5-year outcome of patients with cirrhosis compared with a similar group of patients consuming usual diet. Multiple studies support the concept of improved outcomes with nutritional counseling/support in patients with cirrhosis. Hirsch, et al. showed that outpatients who supplemented their diet with an enteral product (1000 kcal, 34 g protein) had significantly improved protein intake and fewer hospitalizations. These investigators also treated outpatients with alcohol-induced cirrhosis with an enteral supplement and observed an improvement in nutritional status and immune function. A study from Japan evaluated patients with cirrhosis of diverse etiology who either received nutritional counseling and intervention from a dietitian following nutritional assessment, or standard of care. Patients were followed for approximately five years, and those who
