HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, cirrhosis, disease, malnutrition, liver disease, manuscript author, hepatic, studies, associated, patients cirrhosis, protein


of diverse etiology who either received nutritional counseling and intervention from a dietitian following nutritional assessment, or standard of care. Patients were followed for approximately five years, and those who had nutritional counseling had improved survival, especially those with Child’s A cirrhosis. Late night snacks and frequent meals are an integral part of outpatient nutritional management of patients with liver disease. Glycogen storage is an important function of a healthy liver, which helps release glucose for energy via glycogenolysis during periods of starvation beyond 48-72 hrs. Due to reduced glycogen stores in patients with Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 02. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript cirrhosis, shorter fasting periods of even 12 hours result in increased oxidation of fats and proteins along with activation of gluconeogenesis. Increased muscle protein breakdown and decreased muscle protein synthesis during periods of fasting results in anabolic resistance, with a negative nitrogen metabolism and sarcopenia, leading to adverse outcomes of these patients. In a study on 103 cirrhosis patients randomized to receive nutrition supplementation of 710 calories during the day between 7 am to 9 pm (n=52) or during night between 9 pm to 7 am (n=51), total body protein measurements were higher at 3, 6, and 12 months compared to baseline in the night time group, but no such changes were seen among patients who received the same supplementation during the day. Since then, several other studies on cirrhosis of varying etiology, study population, and intervention duration (short-term of 1 month or longer), timing, calories, and composition and source of proteins (regular or branched chain amino acids) have been performed to examine the benefits of late evening snacks in cirrhosis patients. Several of these studies had significant limitations, such as not being randomized, small sample size, lack of a control group, and inability to blind the groups. In a systematic review of 15 studies examining late evening snack in patients with cirrhosis, the pooled heterogeneous data showed a consistent effect in reducing muscle protein breakdown, with an improved nitrogen balance and quality of life. However, the effect on skeletal muscle mass was inconsistent across the studies, while no effect was reported or observed on liver transplant-free patient survival. In another meta-analysis of eight studies in 341 patients, a late evening snack in 167 patients compared to 174 control group subjects was associated with improved biochemical liver
