Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, thyroid, disease, graves, graves disease, trabs, fetal, patients, risk, table, drugs, treatment, transfer, levels


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hyperthyroidism occurs in approximately 0.2-1.0% of all pregnancies. Most cases are due to Graves’ disease. The clinical recognition of Graves’ disease may prove challenging in pregnancy since the features of normal pregnancy overlap with symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Specific features which may point to Graves’ hyperthyroidism include the presence of a diffuse goiter, ophthalmopathy, or pre-tibial myxedema ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Features of Graves’ Disease View in own window Past history of autoimmune thyroid disease Family history of autoimmune thyroid disease Features of hyperthyroidism such as weight loss and heat intolerance Diffuse goiter Ophthalmopathy Pre-tibial myxedema Proximal myopathy Nail changes: onycholysis DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Hyperthyroidism is diagnosed on the basis of elevated trimester specific serum levels of free thyroxine (FT4) or free triiodothyronine (FT3) (or comparable measures of total thyroxine or FTI) and low thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). In subclinical hyperthyroidism FT4 and FT3 are normal but TSH is low or suppressed to undetectable levels. Treatment is generally not required for subclinical hyperthyroidism in pregnancy. In fact, most instances of a low TSH in early pregnancy are not pathological and are due to TSH suppressive effects of β-human chorionic gonadotrophin (β-HCG). Detection of thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies (TRAbs) in serum is diagnostically helpful in distinguishing Graves’ disease from other pathological and non-pathological causes of a low TSH. Most cases of hyperthyroidism in pregnancy are due to Graves’ disease. Other causes include single or multiple toxic nodules and thyroiditis ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Causes of Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy View in own window Graves’ disease Gestational thyrotoxicosis Single toxic nodule Toxic multinodular goiter Subacute thyroiditis Silent thyroiditis Thyrotoxicosis factitial It is important to distinguish hyperthyroidism in pregnancy from gestational transient thyrotoxicosis (GTT) which occurs as a result of the thyroid stimulatory actions of β–HCG. GTT is more common than Graves’ disease being diagnosed in about 1-3% of all pregnancies. It may be associated with hyperemesis gravidarum, choriocarcinoma, or hydatiform mole and in rare instances may result from functional mutations which increase TSH receptor hypersensitivity to β-HCG. GTT is typically mild in presentation, self-limiting and rarely requires specific treatment with antithyroid medications ( Table 3 ). While GTT may be difficult to distinguish from Graves’ disease, features such as goiter, ophthalmopathy, or pretibial myxedema are suggestive of Graves’ disease. Table 3. Clinical Differences Between Graves’ Disease in Pregnancy and Gestational Transient Thyrotoxicosis View in own window
