Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, thyroid, disease, graves, graves disease, trabs, fetal, patients, risk, table, drugs, treatment, transfer, levels


features such as goiter, ophthalmopathy, or pretibial myxedema are suggestive of Graves’ disease. Table 3. Clinical Differences Between Graves’ Disease in Pregnancy and Gestational Transient Thyrotoxicosis View in own window Graves’ Disease Gestational Thyrotoxicosis Past history of thyroid autoimmunity Family history of thyroid autoimmunity May exhibit overt hyperthyroid features Goiter may be present Ophthalmopathy may be present TRAb positive TPOAb positive No past history of thyroid autoimmunity No family history of thyroid autoimmunity May present with hyperemesis, dehydration and electrolyte imbalance No goiter No ophthalmopathy TRAb negative TPOAb negative Thyroid Stimulating Hormone Receptor Antibodies (TRAbs) Measurement of TRAbs is useful for monitoring for the risk of fetal and neonatal hyperthyroidism ( Table 4 ). The management of such patients can be considered in three categories. Table 4. Measurement of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone Receptor Antibodies (TRAbs) View in own window Patients with active hyperthyroidism Patients previously treated with radioiodine or surgery Patients with high TRAb levels require serial fetal monitoring with ultrasonography PATIENTS IN REMISSION FROM HYPERTHYROIDISM Patients who have successfully completed treatment for hyperthyroidism who become pregnant while in remission require close monitoring since there is a risk of relapse in pregnancy. Such patients may continue to harbor TRAbs with the risk of transplacental transfer. This risk is lowest for patients who were treated with antithyroid drugs and it is recommended that TRAbs are checked in early pregnancy in patients who were treated with surgery or radioiodine. If TRAbs are positive in early pregnancy, then fetal monitoring is indicated with repeated measurement of TRAbs at 18-22 weeks, and again at 30-34 weeks if TRAbs continue to be positive. TRAb levels >5 IU/L or more than 3 times the upper limit of normal is an indication for close fetal or neonatal monitoring due to the high risk of fetal/neonatal hyperthyroidism from transplacental TRAb transfer. PATIENTS CURRENTLY UNDERGOING TREATMENT FOR HYPERTHYROIDISM Women who conceive while on antithyroid treatment should have TRAbs level checked in early pregnancy and again at 18-22 weeks, and at 30-34 weeks if TRAbs continue to be positive. Women of child bearing age with Graves’ disease should be counselled against becoming pregnant until a euthyroid state is achieved. PATIENTS WHO DEVELOP HYPERTHYROIDISM DURING PREGNANCY Patients who develop hyperthyroidism for the first-time during pregnancy are at particular risk of adverse fetal and maternal adverse effects and should be controlled promptly and monitored carefully. TRAB levels should also be checked in
