Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, thyroid, disease, graves, graves disease, trabs, fetal, patients, risk, table, drugs, treatment, transfer, levels


the first-time during pregnancy are at particular risk of adverse fetal and maternal adverse effects and should be controlled promptly and monitored carefully. TRAB levels should also be checked in late pregnancy to assess the risk of neonatal hyperthyroidism. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Uncontrolled hyperthyroidism is associated with adverse feto-maternal effects including pre-eclampsia, maternal congestive cardiac failure, miscarriages, premature birth, still-birth, and low birth weight. Furthermore, neonates of hyperthyroid mothers with Graves’ disease are at risk of developing fetal hyperthyroidism and goiter due to the transplacental transfer of TRAbs. Fetal hypothyroidism may also develop due to transplacental transfer of maternal antithyroid drugs or in rare instances from transplacental transfer of maternal blocking TRAbs. THERAPY The natural course of Graves’ disease in pregnancy should be borne in mind during therapy. Due to the immune tolerant state of pregnancy there is a tendency for Graves’ disease to remit towards the latter stages of gestation. Anti-Thyroid Drugs Anti-thyroid drugs are the treatment of choice for hyperthyroidism in pregnancy ( Table 5 ). The lowest effective dose should be used. Treatment should be monitored with FT4 and TSH. These should be measured every 2-4 weeks initially and then 4-6 weekly once thyroid hormone levels are stabilized. FT4 levels should be maintained at or just above the upper limit of the trimester specific reference range. Dose reductions or even cessation of therapy with careful monitoring may be necessary in late pregnancy. The thionamides, propylthiouracil (PTU), methimazole (MMI), and its pro-drug derivative, carbimazole are the antithyroid drugs of choice. Both propylthiouracil and methimazole exhibit similar placental transfer kinetics, have similar effects on fetal and neonatal thyroid function, and are equally safe in lactation. Methimazole has greater efficacy than propylthiouracil and is associated with better compliance since it can be administered once daily whereas propylthiouracil needs to be taken twice or thrice daily. More so a growing number of reports have highlighted the association of propylthiouracil with fatal liver failure. However, methimazole is associated, rarely, with the occurrence of aplasia cutis and methimazole embryopathy in the neonate. Although this risk is slight it is most likely with methimazole administration in early pregnancy during embryogenesis. For the above reasons it is recommended that propylthiouracil is used in the first trimester and that consideration should be given to switching to methimazole in later pregnancy. Table 5. Guidelines for Anti-Thyroid Drugs (ATD) in Pregnancy View in own window PTU is recommended in first
