Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, thyroid, disease, graves, graves disease, trabs, fetal, patients, risk, table, drugs, treatment, transfer, levels


that consideration should be given to switching to methimazole in later pregnancy. Table 5. Guidelines for Anti-Thyroid Drugs (ATD) in Pregnancy View in own window PTU is recommended in first trimester Consider switching to MMI from second trimester Use lowest effective dose of ATD Consider reducing dose or stopping ATD in later pregnancy Monitor treatment with FT4 and TSH: Initially 2-4 weekly, later 4-6 weekly. Aim for FT4 at or just above the upper end reference range Beta-blocking agents such as propranolol may be used to control severe adrenergic symptoms but should be discontinued once symptoms begin to improve, usually within 2-4 weeks. The combination of thionamides with levothyroxine i.e. block and replace therapy is not recommended in pregnancy as this may lead to fetal hypothyroidism due to disproportionately greater transplacental transfer of antithyroid drugs than levothyroxine. Radioactive iodine is absolutely contraindicated in pregnancy. Adverse effects of radioiodine on fetal thyroid function include fetal hypothyroidism and this is more likely in later pregnancy since the fetal thyroid only starts to actively concentrate iodide from about 12 weeks gestation. Surgery Thyroidectomy is an option in patients with significant problems with compliance or severe adverse reactions to antithyroid medications. Surgery is best undertaken in the second trimester of pregnancy. FOLLOW UP Newborn Following delivery, the infant of hyperthyroid mothers should be monitored for thyroid dysfunction. Transient neonatal hyperthyroidism due to transplacental transfer of maternal TRAbs is seen in 1-5% of neonates of mothers with Graves’ disease. The presentation may be more obvious after the first few days of life since TRAbs are cleared from the neonatal circulation at a slower rate than maternal antithyroid drugs. Mothers Mothers with a past history of hyperthyroidism require regular thyroid function tests after delivery since Graves’ disease may relapse in the postpartum period. Anti-thyroid drugs are safe in lactation and if indicated should be used at the lowest effective dose, preferably administered after breast feeds in divided doses. Women with risk factors for autoimmune thyroid dysfunction may develop postpartum thyroiditis (PPT). This occurs in 5-9% of pregnancies and is characterized by a transient hyperthyroid phase followed by a hypothyroid phase before return to euthyroidism. The hyperthyroid phase will usually not require treatment but levothyroxine may be given to symptomatic women in the hypothyroid phase. Long term follow-up is necessary due to the risk of permanent hypothyroidism. GUIDELINES Alexander EK, Pearce EN, Brent GA, Brown RS, Chen
