Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: hpv, cervical, date, specificity, sensitivity, thresholds, screening, cancer, human, study, types, international, virus, dna, hpv types


and 37/200 controls tions as the independent variable, yielding slope, intercept, and (18.50%) were reported as HPV‐positive. The Cobas 4800 assay R‐squared values. White's test was used to assess hetero- reported results only in three channels (HPV16, HPV18 and scedasticity. HPV type‐specific virus amounts in each HPV‐ non‐16/18 oncogenic HPV). Samples reported as positive for positive sample were calculated as 10(Ct intercept) . Virus slope non‐16/18 oncogenic HPV were re‐analyzed using BD Onclarity amounts per µl of original sample volume were calculated based for extended genotyping, of those two samples were HPV neg- on the input sample volume in extraction and volume of the ative in BD. Reflex cytologies were abnormal for 94/100 cases. resulting extracted DNA material (Table SI). For each HPV Among controls, there were eight abnormal and 31 normal type, median viral amounts were determined for datasets that cytologies. For 161 controls, there was no cytology (because of were positive for the consensus virus by seven laboratories. As HPV negativity). The histopathologies among cases were 94 many CIN lesions are caused by HPV types with limited con- high‐grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), two ade- tribution to ICC, sensitivities were weighted according to the nocarcinomas in situ (AIS), two AIS/HSIL and two squamous importance of each virus in the etiology of ICC using global cell carcinomas (SCC). Among controls, there were two low‐ attributable fractions . Cumulative sensitivity, cumulative grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) and six normal specificity, and ICC‐weighted sensitivity were calculated. histopathologies (remaining controls had no biopsy). Quantitative assessment of human DNA used C‐C motif che- Consensus results from 13 datasets found HPV in 52/200 (26.00%) mokine receptor five (CCR5) quantification was performed by controls and 99/100 (99.00%) cases (all reported HPV types were the expert laboratory from Italy, providing both sample ade- considered, including detection of possibly/probably or not onco- quacy assessment and the number of cells/µl of original sample genic HPV types), resulting in cumulative sensitivity and specificity volume (half of the quantity of CCR5 copies/µl). Virus of 99.00% and 74.00%, respectively (Table 1). Stratifying by birth amounts per 104 cells were based on the input volume for DNA cohorts with or without organized catch‐up vaccination with extraction and volume of the resulting extract. HPV amounts quadrivalent HPV vaccine (HPV6/[DATE]; population coverage per 104 cells were calculated by dividing the HPV amount per µl ~55%) , vaccinated birth cohorts had 6/32 HPV16 positive cases
