Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: hpv, cervical, date, specificity, sensitivity, thresholds, screening, cancer, human, study, types, international, virus, dna, hpv types


accommodate also future changes in how the over time [15–23], implying that it will not be difficult to both samples are collected. Most screening tests do not relate the improve specificity and achieve the WHO TPP thresholds for HPV test results to the amounts of cells in the sample, but in sensitivity. order for the thresholds to be transferable across sampling Many HPV tests define a threshold for HPV positivity using Ct systems, we also provide data on how they perform if the values from a PCR reaction. However, different PCR‐based tests amount of HPV is expressed in relation to the number of amplify at different efficiencies and Ct values from one assay human cells in the sample. cannot be translated to Ct values for another. Also, Ct values are The WHO target product profile (TPP) outlines principles for not linearly related to the amount of virus. Calculating the HPV tests for screening that are appropriate for public health amount of virus using a standard curve of samples with defined needs . The TPP specifies high‐performance HPV tests to amounts of virus in IU reduces these problems and increases detect, as a minimum, types [DATE]/[DATE]/52/58 and international comparability. Since nearly all assays used in this specifically recommend against including HPV types outside of study detected HPV types separately, threshold values for the 12 HPV types formally established as oncogenic (such as detection could be applied to a single HPV type. This study included only clinician‐taken samples. Therefore minimum standard of 90% was proposed. TPP also highlighted assessment of optimal thresholds for detection in self‐collected that, although current HPV tests generally achieve very high samples would require an entirely new study as the converted sensitivity, specificity remains suboptimal. Our findings align Ct outputs for different virus concentrations may differ from with the TPP as both reference laboratory testing without those of samples taken by healthcare personnel. Furthermore, thresholds and comparator assay testing had very high sensi- pre‐analytical variations in laboratory workflow, such as the tivity, but suboptimal specificity. Including HPV types that were extraction method, the suspension volume of the analysis not formally classified as oncogenic greatly reduced specificity platforms, and operator issues with sample collection may also (to 74.00%), with negligible gains in sensitivity. affect the virus amount in samples. To minimize accuracy and Older validation methods are dependent on clinical samples precision errors, standards should be analyzed multiple times
