Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: hpv, cervical, date, specificity, sensitivity, thresholds, screening, cancer, human, study, types, international, virus, dna, hpv types


negligible gains in sensitivity. affect the virus amount in samples. To minimize accuracy and Older validation methods are dependent on clinical samples precision errors, standards should be analyzed multiple times to with longitudinal follow‐up for disease, making validation slow determine median Ct values and estimate virus quantities in and expensive. Furthermore, the most oncogenic HPV types are samples in relation to standard curves. As the total amount of becoming less common in CIN2+ in vaccinated birth cohorts. cervical cells obtained may vary enormously, most HPV DNA Present‐day series of CIN2+ will contain non‐vaccine HPV screening tests do not express the amount of virus present in types of limited relevance for cervical cancer. Indeed, we found relation to the number of cervical cells obtained. Performance is a decline of HPV16 in CIN2+ among birth cohorts that had somewhat better if simply relating the amount of virus to the 8 of 10 Journal of Medical Virology, 2026 input volume of the test, but the alternative to relate the Seegene, Abbott, and Roche, all paid to their employer (no personal thresholds to the number of human cells present has ad- remuneration received). vantages in terms of theoretically being more transferable to Other authors report no conflicts of interest. different settings. The current study is a first step towards defining virological Declaration of Generative AI and AI‐Assisted Technologies in endpoints for evaluation of HPV screening tests. The limited the Manuscript Preparation Process sample size was a necessity given the large number of partici- During the preparation of this work the first author, EY AI‐assisted pating laboratories. In further exploration of virological end- tools (Microsoft Copilot and ChatGPT, OpenAI) in order to assist points, many different settings are likely to be able to investigate development and debugging of analysis codes in the script. However, the tools were not used to generate or interpret data, or on any scientific large laboratory databases from real‐life screening programs decisions. The code and output of the analysis were reviewed and which would provide data on the robustness of the required verified by EY. analytical threshold of detection for HPV type specific virus amounts proposed here. Data Availability Statement In conclusion, this study defined analytical detection thresholds The individual level anonymized data will be freely made available at for HPV genotypes that achieved much higher specificity while B2Share (b2share.eudat.eu). maintaining adequate sensitivity in HPV‐based cervical screening. Definition of which amount
