Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


make clear, pregnancy and lactation normally do not cause any adverse long-term consequences to the maternal skeleton. The reader is referred to several comprehensive reviews for more details and extensive reference lists for the material covered in this chapter (1-7). Figure 1. Schematic illustration contrasting calcium homeostasis in human pregnancy and lactation, as compared to normal. The thickness of arrows indicates a relative increase or decrease with respect to the normal and non-pregnant state. Although not illustrated, the serum (total) calcium is decreased during pregnancy, while the ionized calcium remains normal during both pregnancy and lactation. Adapted from ref. ( 8 ), © 1997, The Endocrine Society. MINERAL PHYSIOLOGY DURING PREGNANCY Calcium provided from the maternal decidua aids in fertilization of the egg and implantation of the blastocyst; from that point onward the rate of transfer from mother to offspring increases substantially. About 80% of the calcium and phosphate present in the fetal skeleton at the end of gestation crossed the placenta during the third trimester and is mostly derived from the maternal diet during pregnancy. Intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption doubles during pregnancy, driven by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (calcitriol) and other factors, and this appears to be the main adaptation through which women meet the mineral demands of pregnancy. Mineral Ions There are several characteristic changes in maternal serum chemistries and calciotropic hormones during pregnancy ( Figure 2 ), which can easily be mistaken as indicating the presence of a disorder of calcium and bone metabolism, especially since it is not common for clinicians to measure calcium, phosphate, and calciotropic hormones during pregnancy ( 1 ). The serum albumin and hemoglobin fall during pregnancy due to hemodilution; the albumin remains low until parturition. In turn that fall in albumin causes the total serum calcium to decline to values that can be well below the normal range. The total calcium includes albumin-bound, bicarbonate-and-citrate-complexed, and ionized or free fractions of calcium. The ionized calcium, the physiologically important fraction, remains constant during pregnancy, which confirms that the fall in total calcium is but an artifact that can usually be ignored. However, that artifactual decline in total calcium means that the serum calcium cannot be relied upon to detect hypercalcemia or hypocalcemia. The ionized calcium should be measured or the albumin-corrected total calcium should be calculated to resolve any uncertainty about what the true serum calcium level is in a pregnant woman. Serum phosphate
