Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


calcium should be measured or the albumin-corrected total calcium should be calculated to resolve any uncertainty about what the true serum calcium level is in a pregnant woman. Serum phosphate and magnesium concentrations remain normal during pregnancy. Figure 2. Schematic depiction of longitudinal changes in calcium, phosphorus, and calciotropic hormone levels during human pregnancy. Shaded regions depict the approximate normal ranges. PTH does not decline in women with low calcium or high phytate intakes and may even rise above normal. Calcidiol (25OHD) values are not depicted; most longitudinal studies indicate that the levels are unchanged by pregnancy but may vary due to seasonal variation in sunlight exposure and changes in vitamin D intake. FGF23 values cannot be plotted due to paucity of data. Reproduced with permission from ( 1 ). Parathyroid Hormone Parathyroid hormone (PTH) was first measured with assays that reported high circulating levels during pregnancy. The finding of a low total serum calcium and an apparently elevated PTH led to the concept of “physiological secondary hyperparathyroidism in pregnancy.” This erroneous concept persists in some textbooks even today. Those early-generation PTH assays measured many biologically inactive fragments of PTH. When measured with 2-site “intact” assays or the more recent “bio-intact” PTH assays, PTH falls during pregnancy to the low-normal range (i.e. 0-30% of the mean non-pregnant value) during the first trimester and may increase back to the mid-normal range by term. Most of these recent studies of PTH during pregnancy have examined women from North America and Europe who also consumed calcium-replete diets. In contrast, in women from Asia and Gambia who have very low dietary calcium intakes (and often high intakes of phytate that blocks dietary calcium absorption), the PTH level does not suppress during pregnancy and in some cases it has been found to increase above normal ( 1 ). Vitamin D Metabolites 25-hydroxyvitamin D or calcifediol (25OHD) readily crosses the rodent hemochorial placenta ( 9 ) and appears to cross hemochorial human placentas just as easily because cord blood 25OHD levels generally range from 75% to near 100% of the maternal value ( 1 , 5 ). A common concern is that the placenta and fetus might deplete maternal 25OHD stores, but this does not appear to be the case. Even in severely vitamin D deficient women there was no significant change in maternal 25OHD levels during pregnancy ( 1 , 4 , 10 , 11
