Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


to be the case. Even in severely vitamin D deficient women there was no significant change in maternal 25OHD levels during pregnancy ( 1 , 4 , 10 , 11 ). Total calcitriol levels increase two to five-fold early in pregnancy and stay elevated until parturition, whereas measured free calcitriol levels were reported to be increased only in the third trimester ( 12 ). However, when the 20-40% increase in vitamin D binding protein and the decline in serum albumin during pregnancy are considered, the calculated free calcitriol should be increased in all three trimesters ( 11 , 13 - 16 ).There are several unusual aspects about this situation. PTH is normally the main stimulator of the renal 1α-hydroxylase (CYP27B1); consequently, elevated calcitriol values are usually driven by high PTH concentrations. An exception to this is the ectopic expression of an autonomously functioning 1α-hydroxylase by such conditions as sarcoidosis and other granulomatous diseases. Another exception is pregnancy because the rise in calcitriol occurs when PTH levels are typically falling or quite low. Moreover, this increase in calcitriol occurs despite the ability of high levels of fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF23) to suppress the synthesis and increase the catabolism of calcitriol, as shown in animal models of X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets ( 17 - 19 ). Evidence from additional animal models suggest that it is not PTH but other factors, such as PTH-related protein (PTHrP), estradiol, prolactin, and placental lactogen, which drive the 1α-hydroxylase to synthesize calcitriol ( 1 ). The placenta expresses 1α-hydroxylase and it is often assumed that autonomous placental production of calcitriol explains why the maternal calcitriol level doubles; other sources such as maternal decidua and the fetus itself could conceivably contribute to the maternal value. However, it appears that any contributions of placenta and other extra-renal sources to the maternal calcitriol level are trivial. Animal studies indicate that the maternal renal 1α-hydroxylase is markedly upregulated during pregnancy ( 20 , 21 ) and that placental expression of 1α-hydroxylase is many-fold less than in the maternal kidneys ( 17 ). Clinical studies have revealed that anephric women on dialysis have very low circulating calcitriol levels before and during pregnancy ( 1 , 22 ), confirming that maternal kidneys must be the main source of the normal 2 to 5-fold increase in calcitriol during normal pregnancy. Rodent studies, including pregnancies in mice that lack the 1α-hydroxylase, have confirmed that there is
