Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


the main source of the normal 2 to 5-fold increase in calcitriol during normal pregnancy. Rodent studies, including pregnancies in mice that lack the 1α-hydroxylase, have confirmed that there is a small contribution of fetal or placental calcitriol to the maternal circulation ( 1 , 23 , 24 ). However, it is not enough to account for the marked increase in maternal calcitriol that normally occurs during pregnancy. Calcitonin Serum calcitonin levels are increased during pregnancy and may derive from maternal thyroid, breast, decidua, and placenta. The importance of these extrathyroidal sites of calcitonin synthesis has been shown by serum calcitonin levels rising from undetectable to normal values in totally thyroidectomized women who become pregnant ( 25 ). Whether calcitonin plays an important role in the physiological responses to the calcium demands of pregnancy is unknown. It has been proposed to protect the maternal skeleton against excessive resorption during times of increased calcium demand; however, there are no clinical studies that have addressed this question. Study of pregnant women who lack the gene for calcitonin or the calcitonin receptor would be informative, but no such women have been identified. On the other hand, mice that lack the gene for calcitonin have normal calcium and bone metabolism during pregnancy ( 26 , 27 ). Parathyroid Hormone-related Protein PTHrP concentrations steadily increase in the maternal circulation, reaching the highest levels in the third trimester ( 1 , 11 ). The assays most commonly used in these studies detected PTHrP peptides encompassing amino acids 1-86, but PTHrP is a prohormone. It is cleaved into multiple N-terminal, mid-molecule, and C-terminal peptides, which differ in their biological activities and specificities. None of these peptides have been systematically measured during pregnancy. The commonly available PTHrP 1-86 assays do not measure PTHrP 1-34 , which is likely the most abundant of the active, PTH-like, N-terminal forms of this protein. Moreover, in many clinical studies and case reports it is evident that inappropriate blood samples were used for assaying PTHrP. Special collection and handling are required because PTHrP is rapidly cleaved and degraded in serum. Blood samples should be collected in tubes containing EDTA and aprotinin (a protease inhibitor), kept chilled, and then centrifuged, separated, and frozen within 15 minutes of sample collection. Even with these rigorous standards, PTHrP has been found to begin degrading by 15 minutes after sample collection ( 28 ). Many studies did not
