Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


15 minutes of sample collection. Even with these rigorous standards, PTHrP has been found to begin degrading by 15 minutes after sample collection ( 28 ). Many studies did not use this method of sample collection and preparation but instead used sera that had been allowed to clot at room temperature for up to 60 minutes. This likely explains why such studies found undetectable serum concentrations of PTHrP, as compared to those that studied the plasma concentration of PTHrP during pregnancy. Individual case reports are also fraught with this problem, since standard blood collection protocols for hospital laboratories do not use the special handling described above. PTHrP is produced by many tissues in the fetus and mother; consequently, it is uncertain which source(s) account for the rise in PTHrP in the maternal circulation. However, the placenta and breasts are likely the major sources of PTHrP. Whether circulating PTHrP has a role in maternal physiology during pregnancy is unclear, but its rise may stimulate the renal 1α-hydroxylase and contribute to the increase in calcitriol and, indirectly, the suppression of PTH. However, PTHrP appears less potent than PTH in stimulating the 1α-hydroxylase ( 29 , 30 ), which is why its contribution to the rise in calcitriol during pregnancy is uncertain. On the other hand, several case reports have clearly implicated breast- and placental-derived PTHrP as a cause of maternal hypercalcemia with elevated PTHrP and undetectable PTH, a condition called pseudohyperparathyroidism of pregnancy (see below). Since breasts and placenta were sources of excess PTHrP in these cases, those two tissues seem likely to be dominant sources of PTHrP during normal pregnancy. Moreover, since excess PTHrP impacted maternal calcium homeostasis to cause hypercalcemia in these cases, it is possible that the more modest elevations in circulating PTHrP seen during normal pregnancy also affect maternal calcium homeostasis. A carboxyl-terminal form of PTHrP (so-called “osteostatin”) has been shown to inhibit osteoclastic bone resorption in vitro , and thus the notion arises that PTHrP may play a role in protecting the maternal skeleton from excessive resorption during pregnancy ( 31 ). Animal studies have shown that PTHrP has other roles during gestation such as regulating placental calcium transport in the fetus ( 1 , 32 ). Maternally produced PTHrP is not likely to regulate placental calcium transport since the protein should not be able to cross the placenta ( 1 , 5 ); instead, it is
