Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


Maternally produced PTHrP is not likely to regulate placental calcium transport since the protein should not be able to cross the placenta ( 1 , 5 ); instead, it is PTHrP produced within the fetus and placenta that is responsible for regulating placental calcium transport. Fibroblast Growth Factor-23 (FGF23) Intact FGF23 doubles its concentration in the mother’s circulation during rodent pregnancies ( 17 - 19 ), but whether it increases during human pregnancy is not clear. A small longitudinal study of 12 women found that intact FGF23 doubled in the third trimester over values in the first and second trimesters ( 33 ), whereas a larger longitudinal study of 81 women found no difference in intact FGF23 values at 36 weeks of gestation and 3-6 months post-weaning ( 34 ). Within 24 hours after delivery in another study, mean intact FGF23 did not differ between postpartum women and non-pregnant women ( 35 ). Other Hormones This section has focused on changes in static concentrations of minerals and the known calciotropic hormones; there are no studies testing hormonal reserves or response to challenges such as hypocalcemia or hypophosphatemia. Pregnancy also induces significant changes in other hormones known to affect calcium and bone metabolism, including sex steroids, prolactin, placental lactogen, oxytocin, leptin, and IGF-1. Each of these – and possibly other hormones not normally associated with mineral and bone metabolism – may have direct or indirect effects on mineral homeostasis during pregnancy. However, this aspect of the physiology of pregnancy has been largely unexplored to date. Estradiol increases to about 100-fold the levels obtained during normal menstrual cycles and may be influencing bone metabolism. As noted earlier, estradiol has been postulated to be one of the stimulators of the 1α-hydroxylase, which synthesizes high levels of calcitriol during normal pregnancy, and even in the absence of PTH ( 1 ). Prolactin and placental lactogen both increase during pregnancy and activate prolactin receptors. Osteoblasts express prolactin receptors, and prolactin receptor deficient mice show decreased bone formation ( 36 ). Suppressing the prolactin level with bromocriptine blunted a pregnancy-related gain in bone mineral content in rats ( 37 ). These data are consistent with the notion that prolactin or placental lactogen regulate skeletal metabolism during pregnancy. Furthermore, prolactin can indirectly affect skeletal metabolism by stimulating PTHrP synthesis and release from the breasts ( 38 - 40 ). Circulating oxytocin levels also rise during pregnancy (
