Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


pregnancy. Furthermore, prolactin can indirectly affect skeletal metabolism by stimulating PTHrP synthesis and release from the breasts ( 38 - 40 ). Circulating oxytocin levels also rise during pregnancy ( 41 ), and the oxytocin receptor is expressed by osteoclasts and osteoblasts ( 42 ). Male and female mice lacking oxytocin or its receptor have an osteoporotic phenotype with low bone formation ( 43 ). Oxytocin has been shown to stimulate osteoblast differentiation and function, stimulate osteoclast formation, but inhibit osteoclast function and skeletal resorption ( 43 , 44 ). Taken together, these data predict that oxytocin may regulate bone metabolism during pregnancy, but this has not been directly studied in vivo . Intestinal Calcium and Phosphate Absorption Intestinal absorption of calcium doubles as early as 12 weeks of human pregnancy, as shown by clinical studies that used stable isotopes of calcium, and by other calcium balance studies ( 1 ). This increase in calcium absorption appears to be the major maternal adaptation to meet the fetal need for calcium. It has been generally believed that the doubling or tripling of calcitriol levels explains the increased intestinal calcium absorption and concurrent increases in the intestinal expression of calbindin 9k -D (S100G), TRPV6, Ca 2+ -ATPase (PMCA1), and other genes and proteins involved in calcium transport. However, intestinal calcium absorption doubles in the first trimester, well before the rise in free calcitriol levels during the third trimester. Animal studies have indicated that placental lactogen, prolactin, and other factors may stimulate intestinal calcium absorption ( 1 ) and that calcitriol or the vitamin D receptor are not required for intestinal calcium absorption to increase during pregnancy ( 1 , 23 , 45 - 48 ). The peak fetal demand for calcium does not occur until the third trimester, and so it is unclear why intestinal calcium absorption should be upregulated in the first trimester. It may allow the maternal skeleton to store calcium in advance of the peak demands for calcium that occur later in pregnancy and lactation; some studies in rodents have shown this to be the case with the bone mineral content rising significantly before term ( 17 , 26 , 47 ). Women have also been found to be in a positive calcium balance by mid-pregnancy ( 49 ), likely due to the effect of increased intestinal calcium absorption on skeletal mineralization. Intestinal phosphate absorption also undergoes a doubling
