Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


in a positive calcium balance by mid-pregnancy ( 49 ), likely due to the effect of increased intestinal calcium absorption on skeletal mineralization. Intestinal phosphate absorption also undergoes a doubling during rodent and other mammalian pregnancies ( 1 ), and presumably human pregnancy as well. However, no clinical studies have studied this. Renal Handling of Calcium The doubling of intestinal calcium absorption in the first trimester means that the extra calcium must be passed to the fetus, deposited in the maternal skeleton, or excreted in the urine. Renal calcium excretion is increased as early as the 12th week of gestation, and 24-hour urine values (corrected for creatinine excretion) often exceed the normal range. Conversely, fasting urine calcium values are normal or low, confirming that this hypercalciuria is a consequence of the enhanced intestinal calcium absorption ( 1 ). This is absorptive hypercalciuria and will not be reliably detected by spot or fasting urine samples that have been corrected for creatinine concentration. Absorptive hypercalciuria contributes to the increased risk of kidney stones during pregnancy. That women commonly develop hypercalciuria in pregnancy is an indication that they normally absorb more calcium than needed by the fetus, provided that their calcium intake is not low, or that the gastrointestinal absorption of calcium is not impaired by high phytate consumption or malabsorptive disorders. This absorptive hypercalciuria also renders nomograms of fractional calcium excretion invalid for the diagnosis of familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia during pregnancy ( 50 , 51 ). Pharmacological doses of calcitonin promote renal calcium excretion, but whether the physiologically elevated levels of calcitonin during pregnancy promote renal calcium excretion is unknown. Hypocalciuria during pregnancy has been associated with pre-eclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension, and low (equal to non-pregnant values) serum calcitriol ( 52 - 55 ). These changes appear largely secondary to disturbed renal function and reduced creatinine clearance, rather than being causes of the hypertension. However, calcium supplementation reduces the risk of pre-eclampsia in women within the lowest quintile of calcium intake (see section J. Low and High Calcium Intake, below), and so there is a pathophysiological link between calcium metabolism and pregnancy-induced hypertension ( 1 ). Skeletal Calcium Metabolism and Bone Density/Bone Marker Changes As mentioned earlier, some studies in rodents indicate that bone mineral content increases during pregnancy, and other studies have shown that histomorphometric parameters of bone turnover are increased at this time. Systematic studies of bone histomorphometry from pregnant women
