Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


bone mineral content increases during pregnancy, and other studies have shown that histomorphometric parameters of bone turnover are increased at this time. Systematic studies of bone histomorphometry from pregnant women have not been done. However, one study of 15 women who electively terminated a pregnancy at 8-10 weeks found bone biopsy evidence of increased bone resorption, including increased resorption surface and increased numbers of resorption cavities ( 56 ). These findings were not present in biopsies obtained from 13 women at term, or in the non-pregnant controls. This study bears repeating but it does suggest that early pregnancy induces skeletal resorption. Bone turnover markers – by-products of bone formation and resorption that can be measured in the serum or urine – have been systematically studied during pregnancy in multiple studies ( 1 ). In the non-pregnant adult with osteoporosis these bone markers are fraught with significant intra- and inter-individual variability which limit their utility on an individual basis. There are additional problems with the use of bone markers during pregnancy, including lack of pre-pregnancy baseline values; hemodilution; increased GFR; altered creatinine excretion; placental, uterine and fetal contributions; degradation and clearance by the placenta; and lack of diurnally timed or fasted specimens. Bone resorption has been assessed using urinary (deoxypyridinoline, pyridinoline, and hydroxyproline) and serum (C-telopeptide) markers, and the consistent finding is that bone resorption appears increased from early or mid-pregnancy ( 1 ). Conversely, bone formation has been assessed by serum markers (osteocalcin, procollagen I N-terminal propeptide, and bone specific alkaline phosphatase) that were generally not corrected for hemodilution or increased GFR. These bone formation markers are decreased in early or mid-pregnancy from pre-pregnancy or non-pregnant values and rise to normal or above before term ( 1 ). The lack of correction for hemodilution and increased GFR means that the apparent decline in bone formation markers may not indicate a true decline in bone formation; it could mask no change or even an increase in bone formation. It should be noted that total alkaline phosphatase rises early in pregnancy due to the placental fraction and is not a useful marker of bone formation during pregnancy. Overall, the scant bone biopsy data and the results of bone turnover markers suggest that bone resorption is increased from as early as the 10 th week of pregnancy, whereas bone formation may be suppressed (if the bone formation marker results are correct) or normal
