Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


bone resorption is increased from as early as the 10 th week of pregnancy, whereas bone formation may be suppressed (if the bone formation marker results are correct) or normal (if the bone formation markers are artifactually suppressed due to the aforementioned confounding factors) ( 1 ). Notably there is little maternal-fetal calcium transfer occurring in the first trimester, nor is there a marked increase in turnover markers during the third trimester when maternal-fetal calcium transfer is at a peak. These findings may simply underscore that resorption of the maternal skeleton is a minor contributor to calcium homeostasis during pregnancy, whereas the upregulation of intestinal calcium absorption is the main mechanism through which the fetal demand for calcium is met. Another way of assessing whether the maternal skeleton contributes to calcium regulation during pregnancy is to measure bone mineral content or density. A few sequential areal bone density (aBMD) studies have been done using older techniques (single and/or dual-photon absorptiometry, i.e., SPA and DPA), and none with newer techniques (DXA or qCT) due to concerns about fetal radiation exposure. Studies of aBMD are known to be confounded by changes in body composition, weight and skeletal volumes, and all three of these factors change during normal pregnancy. The longitudinal studies used SPA or DPA and found no significant change in cortical or trabecular aBMD during pregnancy ( 1 ). Most recent studies examined 16 or fewer subjects with DXA prior to planned pregnancy (range 1-18 months prior, but not always stated) and after delivery (range 1-6 weeks postpartum) [studies reviewed in detail in ( 57 )]. One study found no change in lumbar spine aBMD measurements obtained pre-conception and within 1-2 weeks post-delivery, whereas the other studies reported 4-5% decreases in lumbar aBMD with the postpartum measurement taken between 1-6 weeks post-delivery. A larger study from Denmark obtained DXA measurements of hip, spine, and radius at baseline (up to 8 months before pregnancy) and again within 15 days of delivery in 73 women ( 58 ). DXA of the radius was also obtained once each trimester. aBMD decreased between pre-pregnancy and post-pregnancy by 1.8% at the lumbar spine, 3.2% at the total hip, 2.4% at the whole body, 4% at the ultradistal forearm, and 1% at the total forearm, whereas it increased by 0.5% at the proximal 1/3 forearm ( 58 ). All women went on to breastfeed, which means that
