Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


ultradistal forearm, and 1% at the total forearm, whereas it increased by 0.5% at the proximal 1/3 forearm ( 58 ). All women went on to breastfeed, which means that the final aBMD values were confounded by lactation-induced bone loss (see lactation section). These changes in aBMD were statistically significant when compared to 57 non-pregnant controls who also had serial measurements done, but the magnitudes of change were small, and would not be considered statistically significant for an individual woman. Ultrasound measurements of the os calcis and fingers have been examined in other longitudinal studies, which reported a progressive decrease in indices that correlate with volumetric BMD ( 1 , 57 ). Whether observed changes in the os calcis accurately indicate a true or clinically meaningful decrease in volumetric BMD or imply that losses of BMD are occurring in the spine or hip during pregnancy, is not known. The reliability or relevance of data obtained from ultrasound is questionable since this technique failed to detect any change in volumetric BMD at the os calcis during lactation ( 59 ), even though substantial bone loss occurs at the spine and hip during lactation (see lactation section). Overall, the existing studies have insufficient power to allow a firm conclusion as to the extent of bone loss that might occur during pregnancy, but it seems likely (especially when data from the Danish study are considered) that modest bone loss occurs, which would be difficult to discern on an individual basis. In the long term, pregnancy does not impair skeletal strength or lead to reduced bone density. Several dozen epidemiological studies of osteoporotic and osteopenic women have failed to find a significant association of parity with bone density or fracture risk ( 1 , 60 ), and many have shown a protective effect of parity ( 61 - 78 ). DISORDERS OF CALCIUM AND BONE METABOLISM DURING PREGNANCY Osteoporosis in Pregnancy (and Especially Lactation) In much of the following, the discussion encompasses osteoporosis that may present in pregnancy, the puerperium, or during lactation, so called pregnancy and lactation-associated osteoporosis (PLO). There can be a continuum of changes in bone metabolism from pre-pregnancy, during pregnancy, in the puerperium, and into the breastfeeding and post-weaning intervals. Most (80-90%) of fractures occur in women during lactation, which indicates that the changes during lactation can be more critical than those that happen during pregnancy. For simplicity, most of
