Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


Most (80-90%) of fractures occur in women during lactation, which indicates that the changes during lactation can be more critical than those that happen during pregnancy. For simplicity, most of the discussion occurs in this section, with a shorter discussion in the lactation section of this chapter. This is also necessary because much of the literature does not distinguish between osteoporosis of pregnancy versus lactation, and because osteoporosis presenting in lactation may have been caused in part by bone loss that occurred during pregnancy. Rarely woman will present with a fragility fracture (most commonly a vertebral fracture, but appendicular fractures also occur) during the third trimester or puerperium, and especially during lactation. Low bone mineral density is usually then confirmed on a subsequent DXA ( 79 ). In most cases an aBMD value prior to pregnancy is not available because it was never indicated to be done in women who were until then thought to be healthy. Therefore, the extent of bone loss that occurred during pregnancy or lactation is unknown in most cases, and it is not possible to exclude that low bone density or skeletal fragility preceded pregnancy. In favor of a genetic predisposition is the report that among 35 women who presented with pregnancy associated osteoporosis, there was a higher than expected prevalence of fragility fractures in their mothers ( 80 ). A positive family history of osteoporosis has been found in about one-third of patients presenting with vertebral fractures in association with pregnancy or lactation ( 81 - 83 ). Whole genome screening has been done in other case series with pathogenic mutations found in 25-30% of women with PLO and involving such genes as COL1A1, LRP5, and WNT ( 79 , 84 ). Women with genetic mutations tended to have a more severe PLO, as indicated by lower aBMD or a higher number of fractures ( 82 ). It is conceivable that pregnancy may induce significant skeletal losses in some women and, thereby, predispose to fracture. The normal pregnancy-induced changes in mineral metabolism may cause excessive resorption of the skeleton in selected cases, and other factors such as low dietary calcium intake and vitamin D insufficiency may contribute to skeletal losses ( 79 ). If calcium intake is very low or a malabsorptive disorder is present, skeletal resorption must occur to maintain the calcium supply to the fetus and placenta. A high rate of bone
