Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


calcium intake is very low or a malabsorptive disorder is present, skeletal resorption must occur to maintain the calcium supply to the fetus and placenta. A high rate of bone turnover is an independent risk factor for fragility fractures outside of pregnancy, and so the apparently increased bone resorption observed during pregnancy may increase fracture risk. In favor of pregnancy inducing fragility through excess skeletal losses is an observational study of 13 women with pregnancy-associated osteoporosis who were followed for up to eight years. Since the bone mineral density at the spine and hip increased significantly during follow-up in these women, the investigators concluded that significant bone loss must have occurred during the pregnancy ( 85 ). Other case series have documented spontaneous 10-20% increases in bone density in women after they fractured during pregnancy or the puerperium ( 1 , 86 ). Taken together, fragility fractures in pregnancy or the puerperium may result from the combination of abnormal skeletal microarchitecture or fragility preceding pregnancy, and increased bone resorption that occurred during pregnancy. In other words, the woman may have entered pregnancy with a normal skeleton that then experienced excessive resorption. Alternatively, she may have had lower bone density and bone strength prior to pregnancy, and her skeleton could not tolerate the increased weight bearing, lumbar lordosis, and physiological changes in bone metabolism that occur during pregnancy. Osteoporosis in association with pregnancy or lactation is likely under-recognized and under-reported. Approximately 75% of vertebral compression fractures in older women are clinically silent and discovered only through radiological surveys; the same is likely true for reproductive age women. Back pain may signal a vertebral fracture, but it may be readily dismissed as a common symptom of normal pregnancy. Consistent with this, an online survey found that women who suffered compression fractures during pregnancy or lactation experienced a mean delay of 3 months before a diagnostic radiograph was done ( 87 ). The medical literature is biased toward reports of women who suffered a frightening cascade of multiple compression fractures in association with pregnancy ( 79 , 83 ), whereas how commonly a single vertebral compression fracture might occur and be detected during pregnancy is unknown. Although the literature has focused on vertebral compression fractures occurring with pregnancy, one report suggested that ankle and other lower limb fractures are more common ( 88 ). Osteoporosis usually presents in association with a first pregnancy
