Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


compression fractures occurring with pregnancy, one report suggested that ankle and other lower limb fractures are more common ( 88 ). Osteoporosis usually presents in association with a first pregnancy (especially during lactation) with many but not all reports suggesting that there is a low risk of recurrence in subsequent pregnancies, and no risk conferred by higher parity ( 79 , 80 , 85 , 89 - 92 ). This may indicate that reversible factors such as nutrition were corrected after the first pregnancy, or that all structurally compromised vertebrae collapsed under the load of the first pregnancy. About 60% of patients present with lower thoracic or lumbar pain that may be quite debilitating due to vertebral collapse ( 85 , 91 , 92 ). Most cases show normal serum chemistries and calciotropic hormone levels, but in a few, secondary causes of bone loss may be identified, including low calcium intake, anorexia nervosa, celiac disease, hyperparathyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, inactivating mutations in LRP5 , premature ovarian failure, and corticosteroid or heparin therapy ( 79 , 80 , 86 , 91 - 95 ). For example, a woman’s habitual calcium intake of only 229 mg daily was not enough to meet maternal and fetal demands for calcium, and likely contributed to a cascade of vertebral compression fractures occurring late in pregnancy and the puerperium ( 79 ). Bone biopsies have only occasionally been done in women having fractures associated with pregnancy or lactation. Most have confirmed osteoporosis and the absence of osteomalacia, while DXA as shown aBMD Z-scores are often in the low bone mass or osteoporotic ranges ( 85 , 91 , 92 ). Pain from vertebral compression fractures resolves spontaneously over several weeks in most cases while the bone density has been reported to substantially improve in most women following pregnancy, including those who fractured. Fractures tend not to recur in subsequent pregnancies. Thus, although myriad medical treatments (bisphosphonates, estrogen, testosterone, calcitonin, teriparatide, denosumab) and surgical interventions (kyphoplasty, vertebroplasty, spinal fusion) have been used in individual cases of pregnancy-associated osteoporosis ( 79 ), the tendency for this condition to spontaneously improve may make pharmacological treatment unjustified except for the severest cases. At the least, it may be prudent to wait 12-18 months to determine the extent to which the aBMD recovers on its own after a pregnancy-associated vertebral fracture ( 79 , 86 ). A recent study examined women with
