Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


12-18 months to determine the extent to which the aBMD recovers on its own after a pregnancy-associated vertebral fracture ( 79 , 86 ). A recent study examined women with self-reported PLO that resulted in fractures occurring in pregnancy or, more commonly, during lactation ( 96 ). They were compared cross-sectionally to two groups of historical controls, healthy premenopausal women and women with known idiopathic osteoporosis (IOP) ( 96 ). Women with PLO had lower aBMD and reduced HR-pQCT parameters of cortical and trabecular bone than in healthy women and women with IOP ( 96 ). However, women with PLO who were assessed >12 months postpartum (“distant”) had higher aBMD than women who were assessed <12 months postpartum (“early”), which implies that recovery had occurred in the “distant” group ( 96 ). Moreover, the aBMD of women in the “distant” group was no different than that of women with IOP ( 96 ), which suggests that (at least in this cohort) many women with PLO have low bone mass and strength that precedes pregnancy. A distinct condition is focal, transient osteoporosis of the hip ( 79 ). This is rare, self-limited, and probably not a manifestation of altered calciotropic hormone levels or mineral balance during pregnancy. Instead, it may be a consequence of local factors. A variety of theories have been offered to explain this condition, including femoral venous stasis due to pressure from the pregnant uterus, Sudeck’s atrophy or reflex sympathetic dystrophy (causalgia), ischemia, trauma, viral infections, marrow hypertrophy, immobilization, and fetal pressure on the obturator nerve. These patients present with unilateral or bilateral hip pain, limp and/or hip fracture in the third trimester or puerperium ( 79 , 97 - 99 ). Radiographs and DXA indicate radiolucency and reduced bone density of the symptomatic femoral head and neck, while MRI demonstrates increased water content of the femoral head and the marrow cavity; a joint effusion may also be present. The differential diagnosis of this condition includes inflammatory joint disorders, avascular necrosis of the hip, bone marrow edema, and reflex sympathetic dystrophy. It is a self-limiting condition with both symptoms and radiological appearance resolving within two to six months post-partum; conservative measures including bed rest are usually all that is required during the symptomatic phase ( 79 ). Of course, fractures of an involved femur require urgent arthroplasty or hip replacement. The condition recurs in about 40% of cases
