Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


is required during the symptomatic phase ( 79 ). Of course, fractures of an involved femur require urgent arthroplasty or hip replacement. The condition recurs in about 40% of cases (not necessarily during pregnancy), unlike osteoporosis involving the spine, and this has prompted prophylactic hip arthroplasty to be done in a few cases where the opposite hip appears to be affected. Vertebral compression fractures and transient osteoporosis of the hip are not always distinct entities; both have occurred in a few women in association with pregnancy ( 100 - 103 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS For fragility fractures occurring in association with pregnancy, treatment should include optimization of calcium and vitamin D intake, encouraging judicious weight-bearing physical activity, correction of nutritional deficiencies, and treatment of any reversible causes of bone loss or fragility. A supportive corset may provide short-term pain relief. Breastfeeding is not contraindicated but its relative safety should be discussed, since it will lead to progressive loss in aBMD and a transient further increase in fracture risk (see lactation section, below). The potential to rush in with pharmacotherapy should be tempered by the realization that aBMD normally increases 20-70% during the subsequent six to twelve months in women who fractured but received no interventions ( 1 , 79 , 80 , 85 , 86 , 104 - 112 ). Therefore, it seems prudent to delay any use of pharmacotherapy for 12-18 months until the extent of spontaneous recovery has been assessed. The extent of spontaneous recovery of lumbar spine aBMD at 12–18 months should be assessed by DXA. HR-pQCT will underestimate the extent of recovery unless the parameters are adjusted to detect and to capture the newly formed bone (osteoid and under-mineralized bone) ( 86 ). Documented pharmacotherapies for PLO have included calcitonin, bisphosphonates, denosumab, strontium ranelate, and teriparatide, using the same regimens as for post-menopausal osteoporosis but with treatment durations from 6 months to as much as 10 years ( 1 , 79 , 83 , 93 , 113 - 117 ). These reports are observational and lacked controls to determine whether any improvements in aBMD exceeded what would have been observed with spontaneous recovery (i.e., use of calcium and vitamin D replacement only). A recent systematic review found that teriparatide increased aBMD by 8-37% and bisphosphonates by 3 to 43% ( 118 ). Notably, these ranges overlap with the bone density increases of 20-70% achieved by women in
