Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


that teriparatide increased aBMD by 8-37% and bisphosphonates by 3 to 43% ( 118 ). Notably, these ranges overlap with the bone density increases of 20-70% achieved by women in other reports who did not receive pharmacotherapy. In the few case series where pharmacologically treated women were compared to women who received calcium and vitamin D supplementation only, the final aBMD did not differ between groups ( 83 , 109 , 119 , 120 ). Of greater concern is that in the largest of these studies (107 women), recurrent fractures occurred twice as often in women who received teriparatide or alendronate (or both), as compared to those who received only calcium and vitamin D supplementation ( 109 ). That finding suggests that pharmacotherapy might be harmful, but better controlled studies are needed to be certain of the benefits vs. risks of pharmacotherapy in this setting. Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty have also been used to treat painful vertebral fractures post-partum, but their overall efficacy is uncertain, given that blinded randomized trials have found no superiority over sham surgery or medical approaches in older subjects ( 121 ). For transient osteoporosis of the hip that has not yet resulted in a fracture, the main consideration is whether to prophylactically rod the affected femur(s), or to observe the patient with the expectation that full spontaneous recovery will occur. Primary Hyperparathyroidism This is an uncommon condition but there are no firm data available on its prevalence. Hypercalcemia has been found in 0.03% of routinely screened reproductive age women, while two case series indicated that 1% of all parathyroidectomies were done during pregnancy ( 122 , 123 ). There are at least several hundred cases in the medical literature. The diagnosis will be obscured by the normal pregnancy-induced changes that lower the total serum calcium and suppress PTH; however, finding the ionized or albumin-corrected calcium to be increased, and PTH to be detectable, should indicate primary hyperparathyroidism in most cases (note the exception of FHH in the next section). Physiological changes of pregnancy described earlier increase intestinal calcium absorption and bone resorption, and cause hypercalciuria. In turn these developments can worsen primary hyperparathyroidism and may lead to more severe hypercalcemia, pancreatitis, and kidney stones. The potential for worsening of hypercalcemia is also offset in part by active transfer of calcium across the placenta into the developing fetus. Primary hyperparathyroidism during pregnancy has been reported to cause
