Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


for worsening of hypercalcemia is also offset in part by active transfer of calcium across the placenta into the developing fetus. Primary hyperparathyroidism during pregnancy has been reported to cause a variety of symptoms that are not specific to hypercalcemia and cannot be distinguished from those occurring in normal pregnancy (nausea, vomiting, renal colic, malaise, muscle aches and pains, etc.). Conversely the literature has associated primary hyperparathyroidism with an alarming rate of adverse outcomes in the fetus and neonate, including a 10-30% rate for each of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, and perinatal death, and 30-50% incidence of neonatal tetany ( 123 - 127 ). These high rates were reported in older literature; more recent case series suggest that the rates of stillbirth and neonatal death are each about 2%, while neonatal tetany occurred in 15% ( 124 ). The adverse postnatal outcomes are thought to result from suppression of the fetal and neonatal parathyroid glands; this suppression may be prolonged after birth for 3-5 months ( 124 ) and in some cases it has been permanent ( 124 , 126 , 128 ). To prevent these adverse outcomes, surgical correction of primary hyperparathyroidism during the second trimester has been almost universally recommended. Several case series have found elective surgery to be well tolerated, and to dramatically reduce the rate of adverse events when compared to the earlier cases reported in the literature. In a series of 109 mothers with hyperparathyroidism during pregnancy who were treated medically (N=70) or surgically (N=39), there was a 53% incidence of neonatal complications and 16% incidence of neonatal deaths among medically treated mothers, as opposed to a 12.5% neonatal complications and 2.5% neonatal deaths in mothers who underwent parathyroidectomy ( 123 ). A systematic review of 382 cases found that neonatal deaths and infant morbidity were lower in surgically treated vs. medically treated mothers (9.1 vs. 38.9%) ( 129 ). Furthermore, among surgically treated mothers, neonatal death and infant morbidity significant reduced with surgery done in the second versus third trimesters (4.5 vs. 21.1%) ( 129 ). Choosing the second trimester allows organogenesis to be complete in the fetus and to avoid the poorer surgical outcomes and risk of preterm birth associated with surgery during the third trimester ( 124 , 127 , 130 , 131 ). Many women in the earliest published cases had a more severe form of primary hyperparathyroidism that is not often
