Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


third trimester ( 124 , 127 , 130 , 131 ). Many women in the earliest published cases had a more severe form of primary hyperparathyroidism that is not often seen today (symptomatic, with nephrocalcinosis and renal insufficiency). While mild, asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism during pregnancy has been followed conservatively with successful outcomes, complications continue to occur, so that, in the absence of definitive data, surgery during the second trimester remains the most common recommendation ( 132 ). An analysis of 1,057 reproductive-aged women with primary hyperparathyroidism found that the rate of C-sections was doubled but there was no difference in the incidence of spontaneous abortions; no data were available on other pregnancy outcomes or neonatal complications ( 133 ). In another study of 134 pregnancies in women with primary hyperparathyroidism compared to 431 pregnancies in normocalcemic women, there were no differences in pregnancy-related complications or spontaneous abortions, but neonatal complications were not reported ( 134 ). Other recent cases are consistent with lower rates of still birth, neonatal death, and neonatal tetany as compared to the older literature. Therefore, it is reasonable that milder cases diagnosed during the third trimester may be observed until delivery; however, rapid and severe postpartum worsening of the hypercalcemia can occur ( 131 , 135 - 138 ). This postpartum “parathyroid crisis” occurs because the placental calcium outflow has been lost, while surging PTHrP production in the breasts means an additional factor stimulating bone resorption. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The main consideration is whether to operate electively in the second trimester or observe the patient in the hope that surgical intervention can be delayed until after delivery. Of the five international consensus conferences on the management of primary hyperparathyroidism, only the most recent one commented on pregnancy ( 139 ). There are no definitive medical management guidelines for hyperparathyroidism during pregnancy apart from ensuring adequate hydration and correction of electrolyte abnormalities ( 132 ). There is some consensus that surgery is indicated for a persistent serum calcium above 2.80 mmol/L (11.1 mg/dL), or an ionized calcium above 1.4 mmol/L (5.6 mg/dL) ( 140 , 141 ). However, another review suggested a higher level 3.00 mmol/L (12.0 mg/dL) ( 142 ). If surgery is undertaken, a bilateral approach is often warranted because of the lack of preoperative imaging to localize the adenoma. Pharmacologic agents to treat hypercalcemia have not been adequately studied in pregnancy, and follow-up on the
