Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


is often warranted because of the lack of preoperative imaging to localize the adenoma. Pharmacologic agents to treat hypercalcemia have not been adequately studied in pregnancy, and follow-up on the babies has been brief (if at all). Calcitonin does not cross the placenta and has been used safely ( 132 ). Oral phosphate has also been used but is limited by diarrhea, hypokalemia, and risk of soft tissue calcifications. Bisphosphonates are relatively contraindicated because of their potential adverse effects on fetal endochondral bone development, although a review of 78 cases of bisphosphonate use in pregnancy found no obvious problems in most cases ( 112 ). Denosumab crosses the placenta and has been shown to cause an osteopetrotic-like phenotype in fetal cynomolgus monkeys and rats ( 143 , 144 ), and so it should be avoided in human pregnancy. High-dose magnesium has been proposed as a therapeutic alternative which should decreases serum PTH and calcium levels by activating the calcium sensing-receptor, but it has not been adequately studied for this purpose ( 145 , 146 ). The calcium receptor agonist cinacalcet, which is used to suppress PTH and calcium in nonpregnant subjects with primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid carcinoma, has also been tried in pregnancy ( 147 - 150 ). However, since the calcium receptor is expressed in the placenta and regulates fetal-placental calcium transfer ( 151 ), the possibility of adverse effects of cinacalcet on the fetus and neonate remain a concern. In 6 case reports, use of calcimimetics resulted in neonatal hypocalcemia in half of them ( 142 ). Heparin-free hemodialysis can lower the serum calcium before surgery ( 152 ). The recent consensus conference on management of primary hyperparathyroidism advised against the use of bisphosphonates and denosumab and cautioned that data on use of cinacalcet are very limited ( 139 ). Nevertheless, these agents have been used when there is a hypercalcemic crisis and surgery isn’t possible; the author is aware of cases treated pharmacologically that have not been reported in the literature. In any case that was followed medically, parathyroidectomy is recommended to be done postpartum, with monitoring in place to detect a postpartum hypercalcemic crisis. Since these women are presenting young with primary hyperparathyroidism, genetic testing may be indicated to rule out inherited causes. Familial Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia (FHH) Inactivating mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor cause this autosomal dominant condition which presents with hypercalcemia and hypocalciuria
