Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


testing may be indicated to rule out inherited causes. Familial Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia (FHH) Inactivating mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor cause this autosomal dominant condition which presents with hypercalcemia and hypocalciuria ( 153 ). During pregnancy there will be persistent hypercalcemia with non-suppressed PTH, and the serum calcium may progressively rise across the trimesters. As noted above, fractional excretion of calcium is not reduced during pregnancy in this condition, because it is overridden by the physiological increase in intestinal calcium absorption that in turn causes hypercalciuria ( 50 , 51 , 154 ). Consequently, FHH presenting during pregnancy can be easily mistaken for primary hyperparathyroidism. Unfortunately, at least one pregnant woman with FHH was mistaken to have primary hyperparathyroidism because of worsening hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria and underwent a three-and-a-half gland parathyroidectomy during the second trimester. FHH was only recognized when her hypercalcemia persisted and her neonate was found to be hypercalcemic too ( 50 ). Pregnancy in women with familial hypocalciuric hypocalcemia should be uneventful for the mother, but the maternal hypercalcemia has caused fetal and neonatal parathyroid suppression with subsequent tetany in both normal and hemizygous children ( 5 , 155 , 156 ). A hemizygous neonate will later develop benign hypercalcemia, but if the baby has two inactivating mutations of the calcium receptor (most commonly from both parents being hemizygous for FHH), then the neonate may suffer a life-threatening hypercalcemic crisis ( 5 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Hypercalcemia is a normal state of affairs for women with FHH and it should not be treated or mistaken for primary hyperparathyroidism. Instead, the newborn should be watched for postnatal hypocalcemia and for the later development of hypercalcemia as a sign that it inherited the mutation. Hypoparathyroidism Hypoparathyroidism during pregnancy usually presents as a pre-existing condition that the clinician is challenged to manage. The natural history of hypoparathyroidism during pregnancy is confusing due to seemingly conflicting case reports in the literature [reviewed in ( 1 , 3 , 157 , 158 )]. Early in pregnancy, some hypoparathyroid women have fewer hypocalcemic symptoms and require less supplemental calcium. This is consistent with a limited role for PTH in the pregnant woman and suggests that an increase in calcitriol and/or increased intestinal calcium absorption occurs in the absence of PTH. However, other case reports clearly indicate that some pregnant hypoparathyroid women required increased calcitriol replacement in order to avoid worsening hypocalcemia. Adding to the confusion
