Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


in the absence of PTH. However, other case reports clearly indicate that some pregnant hypoparathyroid women required increased calcitriol replacement in order to avoid worsening hypocalcemia. Adding to the confusion is that in some case reports, it appears that the normal, artifactual decrease in total serum calcium during pregnancy was the parameter that led to treatment with increased calcium and calcitriol supplementation; fewer cases reported that dose increments in calcitriol and calcium were made because of maternal symptoms of hypocalcemia or tetany, or objective evidence of true hypocalcemia (low ionized or albumin-corrected calcium). In a well-documented case, calcitriol was stopped and the woman required only supplemental calcium during the third trimester; she developed hypocalcemia within 48 hours of delivery, which implicates loss of placental PTHrP as contributing to her normalization during pregnancy ( 159 ). In a series of ten cases of hypoparathyroidism, the ionized calcium remained normal during pregnancy with no need for calcitriol ( 160 ). Among these and other recent cases, it is clear that hypoparathyroidism may improve, stay the same, or even worsen during pregnancy ( 159 , 161 - 163 ). It is not possible to know in advance who will improve and who will worsen during pregnancy; the task is to maintain the albumin-corrected serum calcium or ionized calcium in the normal range for the duration of pregnancy. Maternal hypocalcemia due to hypoparathyroidism must be avoided because it has been associated with intrauterine fetal hyperparathyroidism and fetal death. Conversely, overtreatment must be avoided because maternal hypercalcemia is associated with the fetal and neonatal complications described above under Primary Hyperparathyroidism. Calcitriol and 1α-calcidiol are recommended due to their shorter half-lives, lower risk of toxicity, and the clinical experience with these agents. Late in pregnancy, hypercalcemia may occur in hypoparathyroid women unless the calcitriol dosage and supplemental calcium are substantially reduced or discontinued. This effect appears to be mediated by the increasing levels of PTHrP in the maternal circulation in late pregnancy. Conversely, one case report of hypoparathyroidism in pregnancy found that there was a transient interval of increased requirement for calcitriol immediately after delivery and before lactation was fully underway ( 159 ). This may be the result of loss of placental sources of PTHrP followed by a surge in production of PTHrP by the lactating breast (see lactation section, below). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The albumin-corrected serum calcium should be maintained in the mid-normal range in
