Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


followed by a surge in production of PTHrP by the lactating breast (see lactation section, below). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The albumin-corrected serum calcium should be maintained in the mid-normal range in order to insure adequate delivery of calcium to the fetus. This short-term recommendation differs from the common recommendation for non-pregnant adults of maintaining the albumin-corrected serum calcium near or just below the lower end of normal, which reduces the renal filtered load and may slow the progression of nephrocalcinosis over the long term. As discussed above, management during pregnancy may not require any change in pre-existing doses of calcium and calcitriol or 1α-calcidiol, or it may require increases or decreases in both the calcium and the active vitamin D analog. Pseudohypoparathyroidism Pseudohypoparathyroidism is a genetic disorder causing resistance to PTH and manifest by hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and high PTH levels. The two main subtypes include type I, which has blunted PTH-induced phosphaturia and renal production of cyclic AMP, while type II has blunting of PTH-induced phosphaturia only. They are managed similarly to hypoparathyroidism. The published experience with pseudohypoparathyroidism during pregnancy is similar to that of hypoparathyroidism, with a mix of cases that improved, worsened, or had no change. Type I pseudohypoparathyroidism improved during four pregnancies as shown by fewer hypocalcemic symptoms, achievement of normocalcemia, lowering of PTH to near-normal, calcitriol increasing several-fold, urinary calcium excretion normalizing, and supplemental vitamin D, calcitriol, or analogs no longer required ( 164 ). These findings are consistent with PTH-independent increases in intestinal calcium absorption and calcitriol synthesis occurring during pregnancy that in turn improve calcium homeostasis; endogenous serum calcitriol did double mid-pregnancy in two women in whom supplemental calcitriol had been discontinued. However, in seven other pregnancies in women with types I and II pseudohypoparathyroidism there was subjective worsening of hypocalcemia-like symptoms, or the apparent need to increase the doses of calcium, calcitriol, or 1α-calcidiol ( 1 , 165 - 168 ). Another case reported that no change in calcium or calcitriol dosages were required during pregnancy ( 169 ). Lastly, a more recent series of 5 patients reported variability of improved, worsened, or no change in the condition during pregnancy ( 170 ). If maternal hypocalcemia persists during pregnancy, pseudohypoparathyroidism can lead to the same adverse fetal outcomes that have been associated with maternal hypoparathyroidism, including parathyroid hyperplasia, skeletal demineralization, and fractures ( 171 , 172 ). The maternal calcium concentration must be maintained
