Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


same adverse fetal outcomes that have been associated with maternal hypoparathyroidism, including parathyroid hyperplasia, skeletal demineralization, and fractures ( 171 , 172 ). The maternal calcium concentration must be maintained in the normal range to avoid these fetal outcomes. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Maintain the albumin-corrected serum calcium in the mid-normal range. As with hypoparathyroidism, this may not require any change in pre-existing doses of calcium and calcitriol or 1α-calcidiol, or it may require increases or decreases in both the calcium and active vitamin D analog. Pseudohyperparathyroidism As mentioned above, pseudohyperparathyroidism is hypercalcemia that is caused by physiological release of PTHrP driving increased skeletal resorption, akin to how PTHrP also causes hypercalcemia of malignancy. In several cases the breasts were the confirmed source of PTHrP because the hypercalcemia and elevated PTHrP did not abate until a bilateral reduction mammoplasty was carried out ( 173 - 175 ). The condition has occurred in women who simply have large breasts ( 175 - 177 ). In another case the hypercalcemia, elevated PTHrP, and suppressed PTH reversed within a few hours of an urgent C-section, thereby confirming the placenta as the source ( 178 ). In all cases of pseudohyperparathyroidism, it should be anticipated that the cord blood calcium will also be increased, and that the baby is at risk for fetal and neonatal hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemic tetany. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The diagnosis may not be clear until after delivery, when the serum calcium rapidly normalizes (indicating placental PTHrP was the cause) or stays elevated (indicating production of PTHrP by the breasts is the cause). Prior to delivery, medical management is similar to that for primary hyperparathyroidism. Vitamin D Deficiency and Insufficiency There are no comprehensive studies of the effects of vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency on human pregnancy, but the available data from small clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation, observational studies, and case reports suggest that, consistent with animal studies, vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency is not associated with any worsening of maternal calcium homeostasis (this topic is reviewed in detail in ( 1 , 4 , 7 ). Maternal hypocalcemia is milder with vitamin D deficiency due to the effects of secondary hyperparathyroidism to increase skeletal resorption and renal calcium reabsorption. Consequently, hypocalcemia due to vitamin D deficiency has not been clearly associated with the same adverse fetal outcomes that maternal hypoparathyroidism causes (reviewed in detail in ( 5 , 179 )). The
