Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


due to vitamin D deficiency has not been clearly associated with the same adverse fetal outcomes that maternal hypoparathyroidism causes (reviewed in detail in ( 5 , 179 )). The fetal effects of vitamin D deficiency, inability to form calcitriol, and absence of the vitamin D receptor have been examined across several animal species and all have indicated that the fetus will have a normal serum calcium and fully mineralized skeleton at term (reviewed in detail in ( 5 , 179 )). Neonatal hypocalcemia and rickets can occur in infants born of mothers with severe vitamin D deficiency, but it is usually in the weeks to months after birth that this presents, after intestinal calcium absorption becomes dependent on calcitriol. There has been much interest in studies that have inconsistently associated third-trimester measurements of 25OHD, or estimated vitamin D intakes during pregnancy or the first year after birth, with possible extraskeletal benefits in the mother (reduced bacterial vaginosis, pre-eclampsia, pre-term delivery) or in the offspring (lower incidence of type 1 diabetes, greater skeletal mineralization, etc.). These associational studies won’t be discussed in detail (some are cited in: ( 1 , 5 , 180 )) because they are confounded by factors which contribute to lower 25OHD levels (maternal overweight/obesity, lower socioeconomic status, poor nutrition, lack of exercise, etc.). It is necessary to test these associations in randomized clinical trials that compare higher versus lower intakes of vitamin D during pregnancy. At present the results of the associational studies are insufficient to warrant prescribing higher intakes of vitamin D during pregnancy to prevent these postulated outcomes. Among many clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation that have been carried out ( 1 ), only a few have included over a 100 study participants who were vitamin D deficient at entry, while other recent studies that gained press attention did not include many vitamin D deficient subjects at all. Among the trials with over 100 participants ( 14 , 181 - 189 ), the two largest were from Bangladesh and UK with over 1,000 participants ( 187 , 188 ). Baseline maternal 25OHD levels were lowest (20-29 nmol/L) in trials from Bangladesh, UK, Iran, and UAE, and in the 40-60 nmol/L range in the remainder. Interventions consisted of placebo/no treatment versus low dose (400 IU/day) or high dose (1,000-5,000 IU/day) vitamin D supplementation, initiated before mid-pregnancy, and maintained until delivery. For most trials the
