Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


infant anthropometrics or any other fetal, neonatal or maternal outcomes ( 188 ). In one US-based study there was no benefit on mode of delivery, gestational age at delivery, and preterm birth ( 14 ), while in another there was no benefit on mode of delivery, C-section rates, adverse events, hypertension, infection, gestational diabetes, still birth, gestational age at delivery, or combinations of these outcomes ( 183 ). The UK MAVIDOS trial reported no obstetrical benefit, and no benefit to any of the primary (neonatal bone area, BMC, and aBMD within the first 10-14 days after birth) or secondary outcomes (anthropometric and body composition parameters within 48 hours of birth). However, it received much publicity for a demonstrated increase in BMC and aBMD in winter-born neonates of vitamin D-supplemented vs. placebo-treated mothers ( 187 ). Because the neonatal skeleton accretes 100 mg/day of mineral content after birth, this result may reflect improved intestinal mineral delivery over 14 days after birth, rather than a prenatal effect on skeletal mineralization ( 1 , 191 , 192 ). Curiously, autumn-born neonates of vitamin D-supplemented vs. placebo-treated mothers showed an adverse trend of similar magnitude on BMC and aBMD, which suggests possible harm from vitamin D supplementation, or chance findings due to small numbers within the sub-groups ( 192 ). These sub-group analyses of treatment by season interaction were not specified outcomes in the trial registries (ISRCTN 82927713 and EUDRACT 2007-001716-23). In the UK study that achieved the greatest difference in 25OHD levels between untreated and vitamin D-treated mothers and babies, there was a trend for more small for gestational age babies born to mothers who did not receive antenatal vitamin D supplementation (28% vs. 15%, p<0.1), but the study was not powered for this outcome ( 181 ). In studies from the UAE, and Iran there was also no benefit on obstetrical outcomes (variably, mode of delivery, C-section rates, adverse events, stillbirths, gestational age at delivery) or neonatal anthropometric measurements and bone mass measurements ( 182 , 184 , 186 ). The lack of any beneficial effect on maternal, immediate fetal/neonatal and neonatal outcomes (anthropometrics and cord blood calcium), even in studies that included mothers with some of the lowest 25OHD levels ( 181 , 184 , 186 , 188 ), suggests that vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy confers no benefit to the neonate. The most recent study was well-powered to demonstrate a
