Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


181 , 184 , 186 , 188 ), suggests that vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy confers no benefit to the neonate. The most recent study was well-powered to demonstrate a beneficial effect on infant length and other fetal/neonatal outcomes, but did not yield any significant results, despite low vitamin D levels in the mothers at study entry ( 188 ). Multiple systematic reviews have assessed the effect of vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy on maternal outcomes ( 193 - 198 ). The reviews differed significantly in their methodology, eligibility criteria, intervention (vitamin D alone or combined with calcium), and inclusion of trials. The Cochrane systematic review showed no significant effect of vitamin D supplementation alone on obstetrical outcomes, but there was a significant reduction in preterm birth and low birth weight ( 194 ). Conversely, the combination of vitamin D with calcium was found to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia, but at the cost of a potential increase in preterm births ( 194 ). The other reviews yield variable and inconsistent results among them ( 193 , 195 - 198 ). An update to the Cochrane systematic review compared vitamin D regimens during pregnancy (≤600 IU versus >600 IU per day; <4000 IU versus ≥ 4000 IU per day) ( 199 ). There was no significant effect on pre-eclampsia, preterm birth and low birth weight (low/very low quality of the evidence) ( 199 ). The risk of gestational diabetes was reduced with vitamin D supplementation in only one comparison (moderate quality evidence), favoring a dose >600 IU/d (RR 0.54 (0.34 to 0.86). The reviewers noted a concern that safety data were often not reported in the trials that included high doses of vitamin D ( 199 ). In summary, the few large RCTs reported to date do not provide evidence for a beneficial effect of high dose vitamin D supplementation (1,000-5,000 IU/day), on maternal and neonatal outcomes. A recent large trial makes it unlikely that vitamin D supplementation in deficient women would yield any beneficial effect on infant length ( 188 ). Other studies had low power, baseline maternal serum 25OHD levels that were often not low, and lack of pre-specification of obstetrical and neonatal outcomes. A potential protective effect of vitamin D on neonatal BMC observed in the MAVIDOS trial ( 187 ) makes physiological sense because the intestines become the route of calcium delivery after birth, and the
