Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


of vitamin D on neonatal BMC observed in the MAVIDOS trial ( 187 ) makes physiological sense because the intestines become the route of calcium delivery after birth, and the finding is consistent with the benefit observed in some RCTs of prenatal vitamin D supplementation reducing the incidence of neonatal hypocalcemia. Overall, available data are insufficient from the individual clinical trials or these systematic reviews to conclude that vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy confers any proven obstetrical benefits, especially with respect to calcium and bone metabolism. However, much interest remains in determining whether vitamin D prevents adverse non-skeletal events in mother and baby. In the meantime, one should always ensure that any pregnant woman is vitamin D sufficient prior to pregnancy, or soon after her pregnancy is confirmed. This ensures that the baby is born with adequate 25OHD so that calcitriol can be upregulated postnatally to stimulate calcium and phosphate absorption in the neonatal intestines. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Vitamin D supplementation is not harmful to the nonpregnant adult unless excessive doses are administered that cause hypervitaminosis D (typically in excess of 10,000 IU daily); however, the maximal level of maternal intake that is safe for the developing fetus has not been established. Clinical trials in pregnant women have safely administered doses ranging from 400 to 5,000 IU of vitamin D daily without obvious adverse effects to mother or offspring. All pregnant women should have their vitamin D intake optimized. This should prevent any non-skeletal outcomes that may be caused by vitamin D deficiency and will also ensure that the newborn has sufficient vitamin D stores to be able to normalize mineral homeostasis in the hours to days after birth, when it switches from being dependent upon the placenta for mineral delivery to relying on its maturing intestines to absorb that mineral from milk. Genetic Vitamin D Resistance Syndromes Case reports and series have provided insight into the effect of pregnancy on genetic disorders of vitamin physiology. Pregnancies have generally been unremarkable in women with vitamin D-dependent rickets type 1 (VDDR-I) which is due to absence of Cyp27b1, and in women with VDDR-II that is due to absence of functional VDRs ( 200 - 202 ). In one such uneventful VDR-II pregnancy, the pre-pregnancy intake of supplemental calcium (800 mg) and high-dose calcitriol were maintained until her clinicians increased the dose of calcitriol later in pregnancy “because of the knowledge that the
