Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


the pre-pregnancy intake of supplemental calcium (800 mg) and high-dose calcitriol were maintained until her clinicians increased the dose of calcitriol later in pregnancy “because of the knowledge that the circulating 1,25-(OH) 2 D concentration normally rises during pregnancy,” and not because of any change in albumin-adjusted serum calcium ( 201 ). Consequently, it’s unclear whether any change was needed. However, it is reasonable to increase the dose of calcitriol to mirror the increase that happens during normal pregnancy. In women with VDDR-I, the dose of calcitriol was unchanged in one-third of pregnancies but increased 1.5 to 2-fold in others ( 200 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Maintain a normal albumin-corrected serum calcium with adjustments to oral calcium and calcitriol dosing as needed based on serial monitoring of blood chemistries. 24-Hydroxylase Deficiency Genetic loss of the catabolic effects of 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1) causes high calcitriol, mild hypercalcemia, and nephrolithiasis in non-pregnant adults, which may be asymptomatic ( 203 ). But during pregnancy in affected individuals, the physiological 2 to 5-fold increase in calcitriol is unopposed by catabolism, which causes an exaggerated increase in calcitriol, followed by severe and potentially life-threatening hypercalcemia. This has been confirmed by study of a mouse model of Cyp24a1 ablation that mimics the human condition ( 204 ). In affected women, hypercalcemia can be quite marked, with suppressed or undetectable PTH, and calcitriol concentrations that exceed what is expected for pregnancy ( 205 - 207 ). Pregnant patients may also present with nephrolithiasis or acute pancreatitis ( 207 , 208 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Treatment of hypercalcemia is difficult because the agents that could be used are not approved for pregnancy. Increased intestinal calcium absorption is the direct cause, and so use of increased hydration and a modestly restricted calcium diet, combined with phosphate supplementation to bind dietary calcium, are relatively safe management approaches. If PTH increases above normal, then dietary calcium restriction should be lessened to prevent maternal bone resorption and fetal secondary hyperparathyroidism. Other pharmacologic therapy should be reserved for the most severe cases and used with caution. This includes oral glucocorticoids to suppress intestinal calcium absorption, loop diuretics, calcitonin, and bisphosphonates; denosumab should not be used because of teratogenic effects observed in cynomolgus monkeys and mice ( 143 , 144 ). Cinacalcet will not be useful because PTH will already be suppressed due to the combined effects of pregnancy and hypercalcemia. More targeted treatments include ketoconazole or
