Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


143 , 144 ). Cinacalcet will not be useful because PTH will already be suppressed due to the combined effects of pregnancy and hypercalcemia. More targeted treatments include ketoconazole or other azoles to inhibit calcitriol synthesis ( 209 ), or rifampin to stimulate catabolism of calcitriol via the 23-hydroxylase pathway ( 209 , 210 ). These drugs have been used in pregnancy to treat other conditions, and so there are data to support their relative safety. However, no case reports have yet involved use of these drugs to treat 24-hydroxylase deficiency in pregnancy. Low or High Calcium Intake Through the doubling of intestinal calcium absorption during pregnancy, women have the ability to adapt to wide ranges of calcium intakes and still meet the fetal demand for calcium. It is conceivable that extremely low maternal calcium intakes could impair maternal calcium homeostasis and fetal mineral accretion, but there are scant clinical data examining this possibility ( 211 ). One prospective study found that a dietary calcium intake of less than 800 mg daily during the third trimester was associated with significantly lower aBMD at 5 years post-pregnancy ( 212 ). Among women with low dietary calcium intake, there are differing results as to whether or not calcium supplementation during pregnancy improved maternal or neonatal bone density ( 213 ). There is short term evidence that bone turnover markers were reduced when 1.2 gm of supplemental calcium was given for 20 days to 31 Mexican woman at 25-30 weeks of gestation; their mean dietary calcium intake was 1 gm ( 214 ). In a double-blind study conducted in 256 pregnant women, 2 gm of calcium supplementation improved bone mineral content only in the infants of supplemented mothers who were in the lowest quintile of calcium intake ( 215 ). Among cases of fragility fractures presenting during pregnancy, some women had very low calcium intakes (<300 mg per day), and in such cases substantial maternal skeletal resorption must be invoked in order to meet the fetal calcium requirement and maintain the maternal serum calcium concentration ( 79 ). Overall the physiological changes in calcium and bone metabolism that usually occur during pregnancy and lactation are likely to be sufficient for fetal bone growth and breast-milk production in women with reasonably sufficient calcium intake ( 216 ). However, the use of calcium supplementation for pregnant women with low calcium intake can be defended by
