Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


and breast-milk production in women with reasonably sufficient calcium intake ( 216 ). However, the use of calcium supplementation for pregnant women with low calcium intake can be defended by the links between low calcium intake and both preeclampsia and hypertension in the offspring ( 211 ). Clinical trials and meta-analyses have also demonstrated the supplemental calcium will reduce the risk of preeclampsia in women with low dietary calcium intakes, but not in those with adequate intake ( 217 - 220 ). High calcium intake, similar to primary hyperparathyroidism, can cause increased intestinal calcium absorption, maternal hypercalcemia, increased transplacental flow of calcium, and suppression of the fetal parathyroids. Cases of neonatal hypoparathyroidism have been reported wherein women consumed 3 to 6 grams of elemental calcium daily as antacids or antinauseants ( 1 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Very low calcium intake must be avoided because it increases the risk of pre-eclampsia, maternal skeletal resorption, and inadequate mineralization of the fetal skeleton. Conversely, high calcium intake must be avoided because it increases the risk of maternal hypercalcemia and suppression of the fetal parathyroids. The Institute of Medicine advises that pregnant women require the same calcium intake as non-pregnant women, a value that ranges from 1,000 to 1,200 mg daily, depending on age ( 221 ). Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Hypercalcemia of malignancy is usually a terminal condition. When it has been diagnosed during pregnancy, in some cases the baby has been spared from chemotherapy, whereas in other cases the pregnancy was terminated (or ignored) so that chemotherapy could be administered in an attempt to prolong the woman’s life. Half of published case reports haven’t even mentioned the baby’s outcome. A baby born of a mother with humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy may have a high concentration of calcium in cord blood and is at high risk for fetal and neonatal hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemic tetany. FGF-23 Disorders X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) is caused by inactivating mutations in the PHEX gene, which lead to high circulating levels of FGF23. In turn this causes hypophosphatemia with rickets or osteomalacia. Pregnancies were normal in a mouse model of XLH. In particular, despite very high circulating levels of FGF23, which normally downregulate calcitriol synthesis and increase its catabolism, maternal serum calcitriol increased to the high levels normally seen during pregnancy ( 19 , 222 ). This rise in calcitriol should contribute to increased intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption. Several case
