Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


calcitriol increased to the high levels normally seen during pregnancy ( 19 , 222 ). This rise in calcitriol should contribute to increased intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption. Several case reports documented persistent hypophosphatemia during pregnancy in women with XLH, but no adverse outcomes ( 223 , 224 ). Nevertheless, it is generally recommended to supplement with calcitriol and phosphate to keep the serum phosphate near normal during pregnancy. Hyperphosphatemic disorders due to loss of FGF23 action have not been studied during human pregnancy, and animal data are also lacking because these conditions are lethal before sexual maturity. Renal insufficiency or failure causes hyperphosphatemia, and both animal and human data indicate that such renal disorders increase the risks of gestational hypertension, pre-eclampsia, eclampsia, and maternal mortality. However, the extent to which hyperphosphatemia contributes to these risks is unknown. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS For XLH and other FGF-23 mediated disorders that lead to hypophosphatemia, the serum phosphate should be kept near normal with the use of phosphate supplements and calcitriol if needed. Burosumab is a new anti-FGF23 antibody that corrects hypophosphatemia in XLH and tumor-induced hypophosphatemia (oncogenic osteomalacia). It should not be used in pregnancy because preclinical studies have shown that it crosses the placenta and causes toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys (placental mineralization, late fetal loss, shortened gestation, and preterm births) ( 225 ). For hyperphosphatemic disorders due to inadequate FGF23 action, there are no data to guide potential treatment guidelines. However, judicious use of phosphate binders may be of value, with avoidance of any that may be harmful to the fetus. MINERAL PHYSIOLOGY DURING LACTATION AND POST-WEANING As lactation begins the mother is faced with another demand for calcium in order to make milk. The average daily loss of calcium into breast milk is 210 mg, although daily losses as great as 1000 mg calcium have been reported is some women nursing twins ( 1 ). Although women meet the calcium demands of pregnancy by upregulating intestinal calcium absorption and serum concentrations of calcitriol, a different adaptation occurs during lactation. A temporary resorption and demineralization of the maternal skeleton appears to be the main mechanism by which breastfeeding women meet these calcium requirements. This adaptation does not appear to require PTH or calcitriol but is regulated by the combined effects of increased circulating concentrations of PTHrP and low estradiol levels. Characteristic changes in serum minerals are calciotropic hormones are depicted in Figure
