Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


calcitriol but is regulated by the combined effects of increased circulating concentrations of PTHrP and low estradiol levels. Characteristic changes in serum minerals are calciotropic hormones are depicted in Figure 3 . Figure 3. Schematic depiction of longitudinal changes in calcium, phosphorus, and calciotropic hormone levels during lactation and post-weaning skeletal recovery in women. Normal adult values are indicated by the shaded areas. PTH does not decline in women with low calcium or high phytate intakes and may even rise above normal. Calcidiol (25OHD) values are not depicted; most longitudinal studies indicate that the levels are unchanged by lactation but may vary due to seasonal variation in sunlight exposure and changes in vitamin D intake. PTHrP and prolactin surge with each suckling episode, and this is represented by upward spikes. FGF23 values cannot be plotted due to lack of data. Very limited data suggest that calcitriol and PTH may increase during post-weaning, and the lines are dashed to reflect the uncertainty. Reproduced with permission from ( 1 ). Mineral Ions The albumin-corrected serum calcium and ionized calcium are both normal during lactation, but longitudinal studies have shown that both are increased slightly over the non-pregnant values. Serum phosphate levels are also higher and may exceed the normal range. Since reabsorption of phosphate by the kidneys appears to be increased, the increased serum phosphate levels may, therefore, reflect the combined effects of increased flux of phosphate into the blood from diet and from skeletal resorption, in the setting of decreased renal phosphate excretion. Parathyroid Hormone PTH, as measured by 2-site “intact” or newer “bio-intact” assays, may be undetectable or in the lower quarter of the normal range during the first several months of lactation in women from North America and Europe who consume adequate calcium. PTH rises to normal by the time of weaning, and in two case series was found to rise above normal post-weaning. In contrast, and similar to findings during pregnancy, PTH did not suppress in several studies of women from Asia and Gambia who consumed diets that were low in calcium or high in phytate. The low PTH concentrations are an indication that PTH isn’t required for mineral homeostasis during lactation, and this is confirmed by hypoparathyroid and aparthyroid women in whom mineral and skeletal homeostasis normalize while they continue to breastfeed (see Hypoparathyroidism, below). The same is true of mice that lack the gene for parathyroid
