Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


and aparthyroid women in whom mineral and skeletal homeostasis normalize while they continue to breastfeed (see Hypoparathyroidism, below). The same is true of mice that lack the gene for parathyroid hormone. They are hypocalcemic and hyperphosphatemic when non-pregnant but maintain normal serum calcium and phosphate concentrations while lactating and for a time during post-weaning ( 17 ). Vitamin D Metabolites A common concern has been that the suckling neonate will deplete maternal 25OHD stores, but this is not the case. 25OHD should not decline because it does not enter breast milk; conversely, although vitamin D can enter milk, it is present at very low concentrations because appreciable amounts exist in the maternal circulation for only a short postprandial interval. In observational studies and in the placebo arms of several clinical trials, there was either no change or at most a nonsignificant decline in maternal 25OHD levels during lactation, even in severely vitamin D deficient women ( 4 ). Calcitriol levels were twice normal during pregnancy but both free and bound calcitriol levels fall to normal within days of parturition and remain there in breastfeeding women (a single study found that women breastfeeding twins had higher calcitriol concentrations than women nursing singletons) ( 226 ). Animal studies show that severely vitamin D deficient rodents and mice lacking the vitamin D receptor are able to lactate and provide normal milk ( 4 , 47 ), thereby indicating that vitamin D and calcitriol are not required for lactation to proceed normally (at least in rodents). However, a more recent study found that mice lacking calcitriol produced milk with a lower calcium content ( 23 ). Calcitonin Calcitonin levels fall to normal during the first six weeks postpartum in women. Mice lacking the gene that encodes calcitonin lose twice the normal amount of bone mineral content during lactation, which indicates that physiological levels of calcitonin may protect the maternal skeleton from excessive resorption during this time period ( 26 ). Whether calcitonin plays a similar role in human physiology is unknown. Totally thyroidectomized women are not calcitonin deficient during lactation due to substantial production of calcitonin by the breasts, which in turn leads to systemic calcitonin concentrations that are the same as in women with intact thyroids ( 25 ). Consequently, study of totally thyroidectomized women is not the equivalent of studying a calcitonin-null state when they are breastfeeding. PTHrP Plasma PTHrP concentrations are
