Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


with intact thyroids ( 25 ). Consequently, study of totally thyroidectomized women is not the equivalent of studying a calcitonin-null state when they are breastfeeding. PTHrP Plasma PTHrP concentrations are significantly higher in lactating women than in non-pregnant controls. The source of PTHrP appears to be the breast, which secretes PTHrP into breast milk at concentrations that are 1,000 to 10,000 times the level found in the blood of patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy or in normal human controls. The circulating PTHrP concentration also increases after suckling ( 227 , 228 ). Additional evidence that the breasts are the source of PTHrP include that ablation of the PTHrP gene selectively from mammary tissue resulted in reduced circulating levels of PTHrP in lactating mice ( 229 ). PTHrP also has an intimate association with breast tissue: in animals it has been shown to regulate mammary development and blood flow, and the calcium and water content of milk in rodents, whereas in humans it is commonly expressed by breast cancers. Furthermore, as described in more detail below, during lactation PTHrP reaches the maternal circulation from the lactating breast to cause resorption of calcium from the maternal skeleton, renal tubular reabsorption of calcium, and (indirectly) suppression of PTH. In support of this hypothesis, deletion of the PTHrP gene from mammary tissue at the onset of lactation resulted in more modest losses of bone mineral content during lactation in mice ( 229 ). In humans, PTHrP correlates with the amount of bone mineral density lost, negatively with serum PTH, and positively with the ionized calcium of lactating women ( 227 , 230 , 231 ). Lastly, clinical observations in hypoparathyroid and aparathyroid women demonstrate the physiological importance of PTHrP to regulate calcium and skeletal homeostasis during lactation (see Hypoparathyroidism, below). Prolactin Prolactin is persistently elevated during early lactation and spikes further upward with suckling. Later during lactation basal prolactin levels are normal but continue to spike with suckling. Prolactin is important for initiating and maintaining milk production ( 232 ), but it also alters bone metabolism by stimulating PTHrP production in lactating mammary tissue, inhibiting GnRH and ovarian function, and possibly (as noted earlier) through direct actions in osteoblasts that express the prolactin receptor. Oxytocin Oxytocin induces milk ejection by contracting myoepithelial cells within mammary tissue. If milk is not ejected, the pressure of milk stasis causes apoptosis of mammary cells, and lactation ceases.
