Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


Oxytocin Oxytocin induces milk ejection by contracting myoepithelial cells within mammary tissue. If milk is not ejected, the pressure of milk stasis causes apoptosis of mammary cells, and lactation ceases. Oxytocin spikes in the maternal circulation within 10 minutes after the start of suckling ( 233 ). As noted earlier, the oxytocin receptor is expressed in osteoblasts and osteoclasts. But whether oxytocin plays a role in bone metabolism during lactation has proven difficult to determine because oxytocin null mice cannot lactate due to the lack of milk ejection ( 234 ). Estradiol In lactating women, estradiol levels fall to menopausal levels or below. This stimulates RANKL and inhibits osteoprotegerin production by osteoblasts, thereby stimulating osteoclast proliferation, function, and bone resorption. Studies in mice have shown that increasing the serum estradiol concentration to 7 times the virgin level blunts the magnitude of bone loss during lactation ( 235 ), which confirms that estradiol deficiency plays a role in the skeletal resorption that occurs during lactation. FGF23 A single longitudinal study found that intact FGF23 approximately doubled between late pregnancy and weeks 14 and 26 of lactation ( 34 ). An increase in FGF23 may occur in response to the increased bone resorption during lactation, which leads to a higher serum phosphorus ( 1 ). Other Hormones Serotonin appears to be involved in regulating PTHrP and its effect to resorb the maternal skeleton ( 236 , 237 ). Lactation induces changes in myriad other hormones, such as luteinizing and follicle stimulating hormone, progesterone, testosterone, inhibins, and activins. Whether these play roles in regulating skeletal metabolism during lactation has not been investigated. Intestinal Absorption of Calcium and Phosphate Although intestinal calcium absorption was upregulated during pregnancy, it quickly decreases post-partum to the non-pregnant rate. This also corresponds to the fall in calcitriol levels to normal. This differs from rodents which maintain increased intestinal calcium absorption during lactation; their large litters sizes mandate the need to provide some of the calcium for milk production through this route. Intestinal phosphate absorption has not been measured during human lactation, whereas in rodents it remains increased ( 1 ). Renal Handling of Calcium and Phosphate Renal excretion of calcium is typically reduced to about 50 mg per 24 hours or lower, and the glomerular filtration rate is also decreased. These findings suggest that the tubular reabsorption of calcium must be increased to conserve calcium, perhaps through the
