Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


24 hours or lower, and the glomerular filtration rate is also decreased. These findings suggest that the tubular reabsorption of calcium must be increased to conserve calcium, perhaps through the actions of PTHrP. Renal tubular phosphate reabsorption is increased during lactation. Despite this, urine phosphate excretion may be increased, likely due to the large efflux of phosphate from resorbed bone, which exceeds what is needed for milk production. Skeletal Calcium Metabolism and Bone Density/Bone Marker Changes Histomorphometric data from lactating animals have consistently shown increased bone turnover, and losses of 35% or more of bone mineral are achieved during 2-3 weeks of normal lactation in rodents [reviewed in ( 1 )]. There are no histomorphometric data from lactating women; instead, biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption have been assessed in numerous cross-sectional and prospective studies. Confounding factors discussed earlier for pregnancy need to be considered when assessing bone turnover markers in lactating women; in particular, opposing changes from pregnancy include that the glomerular filtration rate is reduced and the intravascular volume is now contracted. Serum and urinary (24-hr collection) markers of bone resorption are elevated 2-3-fold during lactation and are higher than the levels attained in the third trimester. Serum markers of bone formation (not adjusted for hemoconcentration or reduced GFR) are generally high during lactation and increased over the levels attained during the third trimester. The most marked increase is in the bone resorption markers, suggesting that bone turnover becomes negatively uncoupled, with bone resorption markedly exceeding bone formation, and thereby causing net bone loss. Total alkaline phosphatase falls immediately postpartum due to loss of the placental fraction but may still remain above normal due to elevation of the bone-specific fraction. Overall, these bone marker results are compatible with a significantly increased bone resorption occurring during lactation. Serial measurements of aBMD during lactation (by SPA, DPA or DXA) have shown that bone mineral content falls 3 to 10.0% in women after two to six months of lactation at trabecular sites (lumbar spine, hip, femur and distal radius), with smaller losses at cortical sites and whole body ( 1 , 60 ). These aBMD changes are in accord with studies in rats, mice, and primates in which the skeletal resorption has been shown to occur largely at trabecular surfaces and to a lesser degree in cortical bone, and as much as 25-30% of bone mass or aBMD is lost
