Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


resorption has been shown to occur largely at trabecular surfaces and to a lesser degree in cortical bone, and as much as 25-30% of bone mass or aBMD is lost during three weeks of lactation in normal rodents. The loss in women occurs at a peak rate of 1-3% per month , far exceeding the 1-3% per year that can occur in postmenopausal women who are considered to be losing bone rapidly. This bone resorption is an obligate consequence of lactation and cannot be prevented by increasing the calcium intake in women. Several randomized trials and other studies have shown that calcium supplementation does not significantly reduce the amount of bone lost during lactation ( 238 - 241 ). Not surprisingly, the lactational decrease in bone mineral density correlates with the amount of calcium lost in the breast milk ( 242 ). The skeletal losses are due in part to the low estradiol levels during lactation which stimulate osteoclast number and activity. However, low estradiol is not the sole cause of the accelerated bone resorption or other changes in calcium homeostasis that occur during lactation. It is worth noting what happens to reproductive-age women who have marked estrogen deficiency induced by GnRH agonist therapy in order to treat endometriosis, fibroids, or severe acne. Six months of GnRH-induced estrogen deficiency caused 1-4% losses in trabecular (but not cortical) aBMD, increased urinary calcium excretion, and suppression of calcitriol and PTH ( Figure 4 ) [reviewed in ( 1 , 8 )]. In contrast, during lactation women are not as estrogen deficient but lose more aBMD (at both trabecular and cortical sites), have normal (as opposed to low) calcitriol levels, and have reduced (as opposed to increased) urinary calcium excretion ( Figure 4 ). The difference between isolated GnRH-induced estrogen deficiency and lactation appears to be explained by PTHrP. It stimulates osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and stimulates renal calcium reabsorption; by so doing, it complements the effects of low estradiol during lactation. Stimulated in part by suckling and high prolactin levels, PTHrP and estrogen deficiency combine to cause marked skeletal resorption during lactation ( Figure 5 ). Figure 4. Comparison of the effects of acute estrogen deficiency vs. lactation on calcium and bone metabolism. Acute estrogen deficiency (e.g. GnRH analog therapy) increases skeletal resorption and raises the blood calcium; in turn, PTH is suppressed and renal calcium losses are increased. During lactation, the combined
