Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


Acute estrogen deficiency (e.g. GnRH analog therapy) increases skeletal resorption and raises the blood calcium; in turn, PTH is suppressed and renal calcium losses are increased. During lactation, the combined effects of PTHrP (secreted by the breast) and estrogen deficiency increase skeletal resorption, reduce renal calcium losses, and raise the blood calcium, but calcium is directed into breast milk. Reprinted from ref. ( 8 ), © 1997, The Endocrine Society. Figure 5. Brain-Breast-Bone Circuit. The breast is a central regulator of skeletal demineralization during lactation. Suckling and prolactin both inhibit the hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse center, which in turn suppresses the gonadotropins (luteinizing hormone [LH] and follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH]), leading to low levels of the ovarian sex steroids (estradiol and progesterone). PTHrP production and release from the breast is controlled by several factors, including suckling, prolactin, and the calcium receptor. PTHrP enters the bloodstream and combines with systemically low estradiol levels to markedly upregulate bone resorption. Increased bone resorption releases calcium and phosphate into the blood stream, which then reaches the breast ducts and is actively pumped into the breast milk. PTHrP also passes into milk at high concentrations, but whether swallowed PTHrP plays a role in regulating calcium physiology of the neonate is unknown. Calcitonin (CT) may inhibit skeletal responsiveness to PTHrP and low estradiol. Not depicted are that direct effects of oxytocin and prolactin on bone cells are also possible. Adapted from ref. ( 26 ) © 2006, The Endocrine Society. The mechanism through which the skeleton is resorbed has been shown in rodents to involve two processes, both osteoclast-mediated bone resorption ( 1 ) and osteocytic osteolysis, in which osteocytes function like osteoclasts to resorb the bone matrix that surrounds them ( 243 ). Both of these processes are dependent upon PTHrP. Conditional deletion of the PTHrP gene from mammary tissue reduced the amount of bone resorbed during lactation, whereas conditional deletion of the PTH/PTHrP receptor from osteocytes appeared to eliminate osteocytic osteolysis ( 244 ). Moreover, osteocyte-specific deletion of the PTH/PTHrP receptor resulted in a 50% blunting of the amount of aBMD lost during lactation ( 244 ), which may indicate that osteocytic osteolysis and osteoclast-mediated bone resorption each contribute about half of the net bone loss achieved during lactation. To date no studies have examined whether osteocytic osteolysis occurs in lactating women. The lactational bone density losses in women are substantially and completely reversed
