Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


bone loss achieved during lactation. To date no studies have examined whether osteocytic osteolysis occurs in lactating women. The lactational bone density losses in women are substantially and completely reversed during six to twelve months following weaning ( 1 , 60 , 239 ). This corresponds to a gain in bone density of 0.5 to 2% per month in a woman who has weaned her infant. The mechanism for this restoration of bone density is unknown, but studies in mice have shown that it is not dependent upon calcitriol, calcitonin, PTH, or PTHrP ( 17 , 23 , 26 , 47 , 245 , 246 ); nor is it fully explained by restoration of estradiol levels to normal ( 1 ). The remarkable ability of the skeleton to recover is exemplified by mice lacking the gene that encodes calcitonin. They lose up to 55% of trabecular mineral content from the spine during lactation but completely restore it within 18 days after weaning ( 26 ). Although aBMD appears to be completely restored after weaning in women and all animals that have been studied, more detailed examination of microarchitecture by µCT has shown variable completeness of recovery of microarchitecture by skeletal site. In rodents, the vertebrae recover completely while persistent loss of trabeculae is evident in the long bones ( 247 ). Studies in women have similarly shown that the trabecular content of the long bones also appears to be incompletely restored ( 1 , 60 , 239 , 248 , 249 ). However, in both women ( 77 , 249 , 250 ) and rodents ( 26 , 251 , 252 ) the cross-sectional diameters and volumes of the long bones may be significantly increased after post-weaning. Such structural changes potentially compensate for any reduction in strength that loss of trabecular microarchitecture might induce, because an increased cross-sectional diameter increases the ability of a hollow shaft to resist bending (cross-sectional moment of inertia) and torsional stress (polar moment of inertia). This is supported by the finding that the breaking strength of rodent bones returns to pre-pregnant values after weaning ( 1 , 245 ), and limited clinical studies that correlated the increased bone volumes achieved after reproductive cycles with increased bone strength ( 77 , 250 ). In women, the vast majority of several dozen epidemiologic studies of pre- and postmenopausal women have found no adverse effect of a history
