Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


bone strength ( 77 , 250 ). In women, the vast majority of several dozen epidemiologic studies of pre- and postmenopausal women have found no adverse effect of a history of lactation on peak bone mass, bone density, or hip fracture risk ( 1 , 7 , 57 , 60 ). In fact, multiple studies have suggested a protective effect of lactation on the future risk of low aBMD or fragility fractures. Consequently, although lactational bone loss can transiently increase risk of fracture (see next section), it is likely unimportant in the long run for most women, in whom the skeleton is restored to its prior mineral content and strength. DISORDERS OF CALCIUM AND BONE METABOLISM DURING LACTATION Osteoporosis of Lactation On occasion a woman will suffer one or more fragility fractures during lactation, and osteoporotic bone density will be found by DXA ( 79 ). As with osteoporosis presenting during pregnancy, this may represent a coincidental, unrelated disease; the woman may have had low bone density and abnormal skeletal microarchitecture prior to pregnancy, such that the normal bone loss incurred by lactation could not be tolerated. Alternatively, it is likely that some cases represent an exacerbation of the normal degree of skeletal demineralization that occurs during lactation, and a continuum from the changes in bone density and bone turnover that occurred during pregnancy. For example, the skeleton may have been normal pre-pregnancy, lost mineral content during pregnancy due to low calcium intake, and experienced the expected further loss during lactation ( 79 ). It may be somewhat artificial, therefore, to separate “osteoporosis of lactation” from “osteoporosis of pregnancy.” But since lactation normally causes a significant net loss of bone whereas pregnancy does not, it seems more likely for lactation to cause a subset of women to develop low-trauma fractures. For example, excessive PTHrP release from the lactating breast into the maternal circulation could conceivably cause excessive bone resorption, osteoporosis, and fractures. PTHrP levels were high in one case of lactational osteoporosis, and remained elevated for months after weaning ( 253 ). The literature can be confusing because “pregnancy-associated osteoporosis” is the term often used for bone loss and fractures that present during or after pregnancy, despite such fractures being more likely to have resulted from the bone loss during lactation. In fact, multiple case series have demonstrated that about 80-90% of the fragility fractures associated with reproductive cycles occur
