Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


more likely to have resulted from the bone loss during lactation. In fact, multiple case series have demonstrated that about 80-90% of the fragility fractures associated with reproductive cycles occur during lactation, with the remaining 10-20% occurring either during pregnancy or in the puerperium for women who do not breastfeed. Therefore, the term “pregnancy and lactation-associated osteoporosis” (PLO) is a more suitable one to use. The earlier, longer discussion about osteoporosis of pregnancy should be reviewed for more details since everything in that section applies to osteoporosis presenting during lactation. The skeleton may be normal or abnormal prior to pregnancy, bone loss may have occurred during pregnancy, and bone loss will certainly occur during lactation. The magnitude of bone loss during lactation correlates with the volume of breast milk produced, which in turn correlates with the duration of near-exclusive or exclusive breast feeding (i.e., that most or all of the baby’s nutrition comes from breast milk). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The diagnostic and treatment considerations described earlier for osteoporosis of pregnancy also apply to women who are lactating ( 79 ). Case series have revealed that a spontaneous 20-70% increase in bone density occurs in women who fractured while breastfeeding ( 1 , 79 , 80 , 85 , 86 , 104 - 112 ). Therefore, pharmacological therapy may be best avoided for 12 to 18 months to determine the extent of spontaneous recovery, and then decide if additional treatment is necessary ( 79 , 86 ). The extent of spontaneous recovery of lumbar spine aBMD at 12–18 months should be assessed by DXA. As noted in the pregnancy section, HR-pQCT will underestimate the extent of recovery at this early stage unless the parameters are adjusted to detect under-mineralized bone and osteoid. The mechanism through which post-weaning recovery occurs is not established, but a theoretical concern is that anti-remodeling agents such as bisphosphonates or denosumab might blunt spontaneous recovery since they suppress bone formation. Furthermore, none of the available pharmacotherapies are indicated for use in premenopausal women, and especially not in women who continue to breastfeed. As noted in the earlier section on osteoporosis associated with pregnancy, individual case reports and series have described marked increases in bone mass in association with pharmacotherapy use after lactation, but in each of these cases the magnitude of increases were in keeping with that achieved through spontaneous recovery ( 86 ). A few reports compared
