Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


pharmacotherapy use after lactation, but in each of these cases the magnitude of increases were in keeping with that achieved through spontaneous recovery ( 86 ). A few reports compared to women treated with vitamin D and calcium alone, and there was no difference in the final aBMD achieved with pharmacotherapy (usually teriparatide or bisphosphonates) vs. spontaneous recovery ( 83 , 109 , 119 , 120 ). One large case series of 107 women found that subsequent fractures were twice as likely to occur in women who had received pharmacotherapy, which suggests that pharmacotherapy may lead to weaker bone ( 109 ). Consequently, it is unclear whether early use of pharmacotherapy after lactation-induced bone loss achieved any added benefit. Primary Hyperparathyroidism When surgical correction of primary hyperparathyroidism is not possible or advisable during pregnancy, it is normally carried out in the postpartum interval. A hypercalcemic crisis is possible soon after delivery due in part to loss of the placental calcium infusion, which represented a drain on the serum calcium. If a woman with untreated primary hyperparathyroidism chooses to breastfeed, the serum calcium should be monitored closely for significant worsening due to the effects of secretion of PTHrP from the breasts being added to the high concentrations of PTH already in the circulation. The potential impact of this is even more evident in women with hypoparathyroidism, as discussed below. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The albumin-corrected serum calcium may subside after pregnancy due to intestinal calcium absorption returning to normal after the pregnancy-induced increase. Consequently, there may be no urgency for parathyroidectomy to be done unless a parathyroid crisis occurs. If future pregnancies are planned, then it will be prudent for a neck exploration to be done to correct the condition in advance of another pregnancy. Breastfeeding may require that surgery and required localization procedures be delayed. Familial Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia The calcium-sensing receptor is expressed in mammary epithelial ducts, and it modulates the production of PTHrP and calcium transport into milk during lactation in mice ( 254 , 255 ). Inactivating calcium-sensing receptor mutations increased mammary tissue production of PTHrP but decreased the calcium content of milk ( 255 ). These opposing changes meant that there was a further increase in bone resorption during lactation as compared to normal mice, and the serum calcium also became higher because of reduced output of calcium into milk. Conversely, a calcimimetic drug (similar to cinacalcet) caused increased
