Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


lactation as compared to normal mice, and the serum calcium also became higher because of reduced output of calcium into milk. Conversely, a calcimimetic drug (similar to cinacalcet) caused increased milk calcium content ( 255 ). These data predict that women with FHH will have more marked skeletal resorption during lactation, lower milk calcium content, higher serum calcium, and a greater loss of aBMD during lactation as compared to normal women. However, the effect of breastfeeding on mineral and skeletal homeostasis in women with FHH has not yet been described. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Women with FHH can be expected to breastfeed normally and do not require any treatment. It would be of interest for observational studies to be done to clarify if they experience excess bone loss and produce milk with lower calcium content, as compared to women without FHH. Hypoparathyroidism As noted earlier, in the first day or two after parturition the requirement for supplemental calcium and calcitriol may transiently increase in hypoparathyroid women before secretion of PTHrP surges in the breast tissue ( 159 ). The onset of lactation induces an important change in skeletal metabolism because the breasts produce PTHrP at high levels, some of which escapes into the maternal circulation to stimulate bone resorption and raise the serum calcium level. In women who lack parathyroid glands, the release of PTHrP into the circulation during lactation can temporarily restore calcium and bone homeostasis to normal. Levels of calcitriol and calcium supplementation required for treatment of hypoparathyroid women fall early and markedly after the onset of lactation, and hypercalcemia can occur if the calcitriol dosage and calcium intake are not substantially reduced ( 256 - 259 ). This decreased need for calcium and calcitriol occurs at a time when circulating PTHrP levels are high in the maternal circulation ( 256 , 259 , 260 ). As illustrated in one case, this is consistent with PTHrP reaching the maternal circulation in amounts sufficient to allow stimulation of calcitriol synthesis, and maintenance of normal (or slightly increased) maternal serum calcium ( 260 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Management of hypoparathyroidism during lactation requires monitoring the albumin-corrected calcium or ionized calcium, reducing or stopping the calcitriol and calcium as indicated, and planning to reinstitute both supplements in escalating doses as lactation wanes. However, production of PTHrP doesn’t necessarily promptly cease around the time of weaning. The author is aware of a woman with hypoparathyroidism
