Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


both supplements in escalating doses as lactation wanes. However, production of PTHrP doesn’t necessarily promptly cease around the time of weaning. The author is aware of a woman with hypoparathyroidism who required no supplemental calcium or calcitriol at all for about a year after her baby had been weaned. She thought that her hypoparathyroidism had been permanently cured by breastfeeding, until the abrupt recurrence of symptomatic hypocalcemia, and the need for pre-pregnancy doses of calcium and calcitriol, signaled the end of PTHrP production by her breasts. In another woman, lactation appeared to permanently cure her hypoparathyroidism ( 261 ), likely because of persistent production of PTHrP by her breasts. Pseudohypoparathyroidism The management of pseudohypoparathyroidism during lactation has been less well documented. Since these patients are likely resistant to the renal actions of PTHrP, and the placental sources of calcitriol are lost at parturition, the calcitriol requirements might well increase and may require further adjustments during lactation. Conversely, these patients do not have skeletal resistance to PTH, and so it is possible that calcium and calcitriol requirements may decrease secondary to enhanced skeletal resorption caused by the combined effects of high PTH levels, PTHrP release from the breast, and lactation-induced estrogen deficiency. Thus, women with pseudohypoparathyroidism might lose more bone density than normal during lactation, but this has not been studied. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS In the absence of data, it would be best to monitor the albumin-corrected serum calcium to determine if any adjustments are needed in the doses of oral calcium and calcitriol. Pseudohyperparathyroidism Severe, PTHrP-mediated hypercalcemia during lactation was first noted to occur in women with large breasts, but it has also developed in women with average-sized breasts in whom milk let-down took place but the baby’s illness prevented breastfeeding ( 176 ). This represents an exaggeration of normal lactational physiology, which benefits hypoparathyroid women, but in some normal women can overwhelm the normal regulatory pathways and cause potentially severe hypercalcemia. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Cessation of lactation should reverse the condition, aided by use of breast-binders, and bromocriptine or cabergoline to suppress prolactin. However, a reduction mammoplasty or mastectomy has proved necessary for recalcitrant hypercalcemia in some cases. Vitamin D Deficiency and Insufficiency, and Genetic Vitamin D Disorders The mother andata from small clinical trials, observational studies and case reports indicate that lactation proceeds normally regardless of vitamin D status, and breast milk calcium content is unaffected by vitamin D deficiency
