Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


from small clinical trials, observational studies and case reports indicate that lactation proceeds normally regardless of vitamin D status, and breast milk calcium content is unaffected by vitamin D deficiency or supplementation in doses as high as 6,400 IU per day given to the mother, which achieved maternal 25OHD blood levels of 168 nmol/L (topic reviewed in detail in ( 1 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 179 )). This is likely because maternal calcium homeostasis is dominated by skeletal resorption induced by estrogen deficiency and PTHrP, with vitamin D/calcitriol playing no substantial role in lactational mineral homeostasis. It is the neonate who will suffer the consequences of being born of a vitamin D deficient mother. This is especially true if the infant is exclusively breast fed, since both vitamin D and 25-hyroxyvitamin D are normally present at very low concentrations in breast milk. The high-dose (6,400 IU) vitamin D supplementation strategy raises the maternal vitamin D concentration substantially for hours and, in turn, this increases the penetration of vitamin D into milk. Consequently, breastfed babies whose mothers consumed 6,400 IU per day achieved the same 25OHD level as babies who received a 300 IU dose of vitamin D directly ( 262 ). The potential advantage of this approach is that all of the neonate’s nutrition can then come from breast milk, rather than requiring that breastfed babies receive a vitamin D supplement. Further study is needed regarding the safety of this approach for the mothers and their babies. A Cochrane review also concluded there is no established benefit from high-dose supplementation of breastfeeding women, as compared to the normal route of giving a lower dose of vitamin D directly to a breastfed baby ( 263 ). A misconception about vitamin D and milk often arises because marketed forms of cow’s and goat’s milk contain approximately 100 IU of vitamin D per standard serving, but that is a synthetic vitamin D supplement which is added to the milk after the pasteurization stage. It is not put there by the cow or goat. Given that vitamin D deficiency does not affect breast milk content in humans, it is likely that genetic absence of VDR or calcitriol also does not affect milk calcium, but this has not been studied. Whether vitamin D deficiency impairs the ability of the maternal skeleton to recover post-weaning has not been examined in any clinical study.
