Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


milk calcium, but this has not been studied. Whether vitamin D deficiency impairs the ability of the maternal skeleton to recover post-weaning has not been examined in any clinical study. However, studies in mice lacking the vitamin D receptor or Cyp27b1 to synthesize calcitriol, indicate that these mice are able to fully remineralize their skeletons after lactation ( 23 , 47 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Breastfeeding women have the same vitamin D intake requirements as non-pregnant and pregnant women ( 221 ). Therefore, no change in dose of any oral supplements is needed. Penetrance of vitamin D into breast milk is poor, and so breastfed babies need oral vitamin D supplementation to prevent vitamin D deficiency, until such time as vitamin D-supplemented infant nutrition is taken. 24-Hydroxylase Deficiency Hereditary absence of Cyp24a1 reduces calcitriol catabolism, which can lead to very high calcitriol concentrations and marked maternal hypercalcemia during pregnancy. But calcitriol production falls to non-pregnant levels during normal lactation, and the same should be true in women with 24-hydroxylase deficiency. Consistent with this, in one affected woman who breastfed, calcitriol was normal and hypercalcemia was milder compared to pregnancy ( 205 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS Breastfeeding appears unlikely to require any intervention in women with 24-hydroxylase deficiency. Low and High Calcium Intakes The calcium content of milk appears to be largely derived from skeletal resorption during lactation, a process that cannot be suppressed in women by consuming greater amounts of calcium (however, it can be suppressed in rodents by high calcium intakes). It shouldn’t be surprising, therefore, that low calcium intake does not impair breast milk quality, nor does it accentuate maternal bone loss ( 216 ). Even in women with very low calcium intakes, the same amount of mineral was lost during lactation from the skeleton as compared to women who had supplemented calcium intakes, and the breast milk calcium content was unaffected by calcium intake or vitamin D status ( 264 - 266 ). Conversely, since randomized trials and cohort studies have shown that high calcium intakes do not affect the degree of skeletal demineralization that occurs during lactation ( 238 - 241 ), it is unlikely that increasing calcium supplementation well above normal would affect skeletal demineralization either. There is a lingering concern that adolescent mothers with low calcium intakes may not achieve normal peak bone mass as a consequence of lactation-induced bone loss. In fact the adolescent skeleton
