Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism and Related Disorders During Pregnancy and Lactation
KEYWORDS: calcium, pregnancy, bone, pubmed, women, lactation, vitamin, maternal, calcitriol, normal, pthrp, increased, osteoporosis, serum, levels


is a lingering concern that adolescent mothers with low calcium intakes may not achieve normal peak bone mass as a consequence of lactation-induced bone loss. In fact the adolescent skeleton appears to recover fully from lactation ( 267 ), and adolescent women who breastfed have higher aBMD than those who did not breastfeed or had not been pregnant as adolescents ( 268 ). However, it remains reasonable to give a calcium supplement to adolescents who lactate in order to ensure that the needs of adolescent growth are met and that peak bone mass is achieved ( 216 , 267 ). TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS A normal calcium intake of 1,000-1,200 mg daily, as suggested by the Institute of Medicine ( 221 ), is recommended for breastfeeding women. Low and high calcium intake should be avoided. It is well established that breastfeeding women do not require increased calcium intake. FGF23 Disorders There is very limited information available about the effect of FGF23-related disorders on mineral homeostasis during lactation, and milk production. Lactation normally causes the serum phosphorus to rise due to the increased release of phosphate from the resorbing skeleton. Indeed in one case report, serum phosphorus increased into the normal range in a breastfeeding woman with XLH ( 223 ). Curiously, the phosphate content of expressed milk was reduced to 50% of normal in two cases of XLH ( 223 , 224 ), which differs from findings in animal models of XLH in which milk phosphate content was normal ( 269 ). Use of oral phosphate supplementation normalized the milk phosphate content in one case where this intervention was studied ( 223 ). Milk phosphate content has not been studied in disorders in which FGF23 activity is reduced; however, given the findings with XLH, it is conceivable that milk phosphate content will be increased. TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS The mineral content of milk is not normally analyzed. Given the limited findings from two cases of XLH, it may be prudent to recommend that oral phosphate supplementation be maintained while breastfeeding, even if the serum phosphorus has spontaneously normalized. If the baby develops hypophosphatemia, this may indicate inadequate milk phosphate content or that the baby inherited XLH. Use of burosumab has not been described in breastfeeding women, but this large protein should have low penetrance into milk and is likely to be destroyed in the infant’s gastrointestinal tract ( 270 ). IMPLICATIONS During pregnancy and
