HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


Description of the technology 2.1 HeartFlow FFR (developed by HeartFlow) is coronary physiology simulation CT software used for the qualitative and quantitative analysis of previously acquired computerised tomography DICOM data. The software provides a non-invasive method of estimating fractional flow reserve (FFR) using standard coronary CT angiography (CCTA) image data. FFR is the ratio between the maximum blood flow in a narrowed artery and the maximum blood flow in a normal artery. FFR is currently measured invasively using a pressure wire placed across a narrowed artery. 2.2 After a clinician decides to request a HeartFlow test, anonymised data from a CCTA scan (of at least 64 slices) are sent from the local imaging system, by secure data transfer to HeartFlow's central processing centre in the US. A case analyst employed by the company then uses the image data to create 3D computer models of the coronary arteries, incorporating coronary flow characteristics. The results are presented in a report which is sent, by secure data transfer, to the referring clinician within 48 hours. The report includes both 3D images of the coronary anatomy and calculated functional information, including the estimated FFR values (known as FFR values). Clinicians can then CT use the report to help guide the management of suspected coronary artery disease. 2.3 HeartFlow FFR is intended for use in patients with stable, recent-onset chest CT pain and suspected angina. Because the safety and effectiveness of FFR CT analysis has not been evaluated in other patient subgroups, HeartFlow FFR is CT not recommended in patients who have an acute coronary syndrome or have had a coronary stent, coronary bypass surgery or myocardial infarction in the past month. 2.4 The company first received a CE mark in July 2011, covering all 1.X versions of the technology, including the current version, 1.7. 2.5 HeartFlow FFR costs £700 per test. A higher price of £888 is used in the CT company submission and assessment report. The cost was reduced in May 2015. 2.6 The claimed benefits of HeartFlow FFR in the case for adoption presented by CT the company were as follows: • Analysis is done using standard CCTA scans, without the need for additional imaging, radiation or medication. • It provides the same accuracy in excluding coronary artery disease as CCTA, and characterises the coronary arteries from both functional and anatomical perspectives, differentiating between ischaemic and non-ischaemic vessels in a way that
