HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


results of non- invasive functional imaging are inconclusive. 2.10 When ICA is used to determine the presence and severity of coronary stenosis, it may be combined with the invasive measurement of FFR using a pressure wire. Although the NICE guideline on chest pain does not consider FFR, other guidelines (such as those of the European Society of Cardiology and American College of Cardiology) state that lesions with an FFR of 0.80 or less are functionally significant and revascularisation may be considered. 3 Clinical evidence 3.1 The key clinical outcomes for HeartFlow FFR presented in the decision problem CT were: • measures of diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity and specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios, area-under curve) using invasive fractional flow reserve (FFR) as the reference standard • rates of diagnostic coronary angiography, percutaneous coronary intervention and coronary artery bypass surgery • adverse events (test-related, major adverse cardiac events, radiation exposure and so on) • quality of life • mortality. Summary of diagnostic accuracy evidence 3.2 The company conducted a literature search on the diagnostic accuracy of FFR CT and the existing tests in the current treatment pathway for patients with a 10% to 90% pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease, against a reference standard of invasive FFR testing. This review identified 5 relevant meta-analysis studies and 23 individual studies, 1 of which was unpublished. Based on the 22 published studies, and using FFR as the reference standard, the company presented diagnostic accuracy per-patient results for HeartFlow FFR compared with: CT • invasive coronary angiography (ICA) • single-photon emission CT (SPECT) • stress echocardiogram (ECHO) • magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) • coronary CT angiography (CCTA). If there were multiple studies for a test, the company conducted a meta- analysis; for example, 3 studies were included in the meta-analysis for HeartFlow FFR (Koo et al. 2011, Min et al. 2012 and Nørgaard et al. 2014). CT The methodology and results of the meta-analyses are reported as academic in confidence. 3.3 The external assessment centre (EAC) reviewed the company's selection of studies and considered that although they addressed the scope in terms of the comparators, reference test and outcomes, most included a mixture of patients with both high (over 90%) and intermediate (10% to 90%) pre-test likelihoods of disease. It also disagreed with the company's decision only to include studies that provided FFR measurements in more than 75% of blood vessels. The EAC considered this
