HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


pre-test likelihoods of disease. It also disagreed with the company's decision only to include studies that provided FFR measurements in more than 75% of blood vessels. The EAC considered this criterion not to be reflective of clinical practice, where visual assessment is sometimes used before proceeding with FFR measurements. The EAC also noted that this criterion did not reflect the company's proposed changes to the clinical pathway, where CCTA would be used to decide if HeartFlow FFR should be used. CT 3.4 To address these concerns, the EAC conducted a diagnostic literature search using extra keywords related to comparators and outcomes. It included only studies in which most patients had an intermediate pre-test likelihood of disease. The EAC identified 7 diagnostic studies, including 3 presented by the company (Bernhardt et al. 2012, Nørgaard et al. 2014 and Stuijfzand et al. 2014) and 3 that the company had identified but excluded (Danad et al. 2013, Kajander et al. 2010 and Ponte et al. 2014). Only 1 of these, Nørgaard et al. 2014, involved HeartFlow FFR . CT 3.5 Nørgaard et al. (2014) reported on a multicentre study (the NXT trial) involving 2 UK centres, which compared HeartFlow FFR (v1.4) with CCTA for diagnosing CT myocardial ischaemia in 254 patients with suspected stable coronary artery disease scheduled to have ICA. Most patients in the study (87%) were considered to have an intermediate likelihood of coronary artery disease. Invasive FFR was measured in all vessels (n=484). The study reported the diagnostic performance of HeartFlow FFR and CCTA for diagnosing ischaemia compared with FFR CT measured during ICA as the reference standard. The diagnostic accuracy of each test was presented on a per-patient and a per-vessel basis compared with the reference standard, an FFR value of ≤0.80. Per-vessel FFR was correlated to CT FFR (Pearson's correlation coefficient 0.82, p>0.001), with a slight underestimation of FFR compared with FFR. The authors concluded that CT HeartFlow FFR can identify functionally significant coronary artery disease with CT high sensitivity and specificity. Furthermore, adding FFR measurements to CT CCTA led to a marked increase in specificity. 3.6 The EAC identified 6 studies which both used the comparator tests and included patients with an intermediate likelihood of coronary artery disease. Bernhardt et al. (2012) compared the diagnostic performance of 1.5 T and 3 T MRI scanners using FFR as a reference standard in 34 patients with stable angina and
