HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


with MRI • higher sensitivity and specificity compared with SPECT. Summary of clinical-effectiveness evidence 3.9 The company conducted a literature search for evidence on the clinical outcomes specified in the decision problem for HeartFlow FFR , and the existing CT treatments, against any comparator. It identified 16 studies of which 5 included HeartFlow FFR , 1 published (Guar et al. 2014) and 4 unpublished (PLATFORM, CT Radiation FFR , Real World Usage FFR and FFR RIPCORD). CT CT CT 3.10 The EAC included extra intervention and comparator keywords and identified 11 studies, 4 of which had already been identified by the company: 2 published studies (Hachamovitch et al. 2012 and Douglas et al. 2015) and 2 unpublished studies. The EAC noted that only the 2 unpublished studies fully matched the population, intervention, comparators and outcomes defined in the scope; the other 9 included various comparators but not HeartFlow FFR . The CT 2 unpublished studies including HeartFlow FFR were PLATFORM (see CT section 3.18) and Radiation FFR ; the company provided both in the form of CT interim results for the former and an abstract for the latter. Two studies (Real World Usage FFR and FFR RIPCORD) included HeartFlow FFR but were CT CT CT excluded because they did not provide information on patients' pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease. 3.11 Radiation FFR is a single-centre modelling study, based in Canada, investigating CT the potential effect of HeartFlow FFR on radiation dose exposure and CT downstream clinical event rate. In the modelling, a clinical pathway in which CCTA plus FFR was the initial diagnostic test was compared with 3 clinical pathways CT instead utilising SPECT, ECHO or CCTA as initial diagnostic tests. The model included 100 patients with suspected coronary artery disease, 34% of whom had intermediate disease. Patients were stratified into 3 categories of likelihood of disease: 50% low, 40% moderate and 10% high. No clinical outcomes were measured in this modelled population. The primary outcome was the estimated radiation dose and the secondary outcome was death or myocardial infarction estimates at 1 year after the test. Of the 4 diagnostic pathways studied, ECHO had the lowest radiation dose (5.3 mSv) but had a higher clinical event rate related to both false-positive and false-negative findings. The FFR pathway had CT lower cumulative radiation exposure (9.4 mSv) than SPECT (26.4 mSv) or CCTA (13.9 mSv) and also had the lowest
