HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


update the evidence and cost modelling for the HeartFlow FFR assessment. The EAC repeated the evidence CT searches up to February 2016 and asked the company to identify any recent and ongoing studies. In total, the EAC assessed 7 new studies, 6 of which included HeartFlow FFR . CT 3.15 Tanaka et al. (2016) is a technical study on a subgroup of the NXT study investigating the association between FFR and invasive FFR in coronary arteries CT with serial lesions. The authors investigated patients (n=18 patients and 18 vessels) with stable angina and clinically suspected coronary artery disease. There was no clinical follow-up. The primary outcome was the per-segment correlation between FFR and invasive FFR values, expressed as translesional CT delta (the difference between the proximal and distal FFR measurement of all sequential lesions). Values of translesional delta for FFR and FFR were 0.10 plus CT or minus 0.09 and 0.09 plus or minus 0.10 in distal segments, and 0.17 plus or minus 0.10 and 0.22 plus or minus 0.13 in proximal segments respectively. The coefficient of correlation between translesional delta FFR and FFR in each CT segment was 0.92 (p<0.001). The authors concluded that translesional delta FFR is highly correlated with FFR . CT 3.16 Thompson et al. (2015) investigated the diagnostic performance of FFR in CT relation to patients' sex and age, using invasive FFR measurements as the reference standard for a subgroup of the DeFACTO study. Previous evidence from DeFACTO was not considered eligible because it included patients with a high pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease (Min et al. 2012). Thompson et al. (2015) was included because it reports results based on subgroup analyses for age and sex. The baseline pre-test likelihood did not differ in statistical significance within these subgroups, so it is not expected to bias the results. The authors investigated 252 patients (407 vessels) with stable angina, clinically suspected coronary artery disease and at least 1 coronary stenosis of 30% to 90%. For their analysis, the authors used a clinical rule that included all vessels of diameter more than or equal to 2 mm and assigned an FFR value of 0.90 for vessels with stenoses less than 30% and an FFR value of 0.50 for vessels with stenoses more than 90%. There was no clinical follow-up. The primary outcome was per-patient and vessel diagnostic performance of FFR . Using this clinical CT rule,
