HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


primary end point was the impact of FFR on further CT downstream diagnostic testing. Other end points were the agreement between FFR and invasive FFR, and the short-term clinical outcome after FFR testing CT CT defined as the occurrence of MACE (death and acute myocardial infarction) or an angina episode leading to hospital admission or visit in the outpatient clinic. The authors concluded that FFR testing is feasible in real-world scenarios involving CT patients with intermediate-range coronary stenosis determined by CCTA. They also concluded that implementing FFR for clinical decision-making may CT influence the downstream diagnostic workflow, and patients with an FFR more CT than 0.80 who are not referred for ICA have a favourable short-term prognosis. The authors highlight that in patients with FFR ranging between 0.76 and 0.80, CT a non-negligible number of false-positive results may be expected. 3.22 The EAC considered that the 1-year follow-up data from the PLATFORM study supported the company's claims about resource use, rates of ICA and percutaneous coronary intervention, and quality of life with HeartFlow FFR . CT Additionally, the 1-year follow-up evidence from the PLATFORM supports the company's claim that MACE outcomes are equivalent between the current pathway and one that uses FFR , whereas the PROMISE study showed that CT MACE outcomes at 1 year were equivalent between CCTA alone and functional testing. The EAC also considered that the evidence from the PLATFORM study showed higher 1-year radiation exposure in the HeartFlow FFR group in patients CT intended for non-invasive evaluation. However, this is to be expected because many patients in the non-invasive evaluation had a non-invasive test which did not need the use of radiation. The EAC concluded that the submitted evidence on clinical outcomes supports the value proposition of an FFR -guided strategy CT compared with standard of care, mainly in patients with planned invasive investigation, with equivalent results between FFR and functional imaging in the CT non-invasive group. Committee considerations 3.23 The committee considered that the evidence showed high diagnostic accuracy and increased specificity with HeartFlow FFR compared with CCTA alone. It CT also noted promising results from the PLATFORM study, in a population which closely matches that in the scope. The evidence was sufficient to conclude that HeartFlow FFR has a high diagnostic accuracy for coronary artery disease, and CT that its use has the potential to reduce the need for invasive coronary investigations. 3.24 The
