HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


that HeartFlow FFR has a high diagnostic accuracy for coronary artery disease, and CT that its use has the potential to reduce the need for invasive coronary investigations. 3.24 The committee considered the technology to be innovative and understood that its adoption may serve to simplify a complex patient pathway. The committee heard from clinical experts that they had confidence in the diagnostic accuracy of HeartFlow FFR , and that it could provide an effective early rule-out test for CT coronary artery disease. This would reduce the need for ICA and invasive FFR measurement, and potentially reduce radiation exposure. 3.25 The committee understood that there are differences in the local implementation of the patient pathway for diagnosing coronary artery disease. It was advised by clinical experts that the choice of functional imaging test depends on local access, available expertise and clinician preference. It heard that although HeartFlow FFR has the potential to reduce the number of tests that are done, CT the other non-invasive functional imaging tests that are part of the current patient pathway offer different functionality and in some cases provide additional information. Overall, the committee concluded that HeartFlow FFR should be CT considered for use as a non-invasive investigation for diagnosing angina in patients with stable, recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin, and that it provides the clinician with additional functional information to determine which coronary lesions are responsible for myocardial ischaemia. The committee considered that further clinical studies would be helpful to clarify the wider applicability of HeartFlow FFR in routine clinical practice. CT 3.26 The committee considered the evidence from the PLATFORM study to be most relevant to the decision problem. It considered that the results demonstrate the potential of FFR to avoid ICA and improve quality of life. CT 3.27 The committee discussed the relative importance of a per-patient or a per-vessel diagnosis. It heard from experts that per-patient diagnostic accuracy was more important for initial diagnosis, and that a per-vessel assessment provides additional information to inform patient management. The committee concluded that per-patient level figures were the most reliable and relevant to the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. 4 NHS considerations System impact 4.1 The company's claimed system benefits included reduced costs from fewer inconclusive or inaccurate diagnostic tests and avoidance of unnecessary staff and procedure costs. It claimed that this would lead to more effective use of invasive procedure suites. 4.2
