HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


from fewer inconclusive or inaccurate diagnostic tests and avoidance of unnecessary staff and procedure costs. It claimed that this would lead to more effective use of invasive procedure suites. 4.2 The company confirmed that, with specific reference to the updated NICE guideline on chest pain, the proposed place in the diagnostic pathway for HeartFlow FFR (to inform management following a positive coronary CT CT angiography [CCTA] result) was unchanged. 4.3 Conservative estimates by the NICE resource impact assessment team suggest that by 2021/22, when fully implemented, HeartFlow FFR will potentially be CT used in around 40,000 patients a year. This would equate to national savings of at least £9.1 million a year. 4.4 During selection and routing, the committee asked for additional information on compliance with data protection legislation, and the reproducibility of HeartFlow FFR analysis, especially in the face of an increasing workload which CT might be expected to arise from adoption of the technology in the NHS. The external assessment centre (EAC) produced a technical report that concluded: • The company has a quality assurance process in place that fulfils data quality needs. This includes checks by different team members, and the separation of tasks to ensure that no single analyst is fully responsible for a diagnosis. After the procedure, a more experienced analyst reviews the process, focusing mainly on areas of stenosis. Expert clinician advice is also available should it be needed. • Although the analytical process is largely automated, any part of it can be manually changed by the analyst. This may affect the fractional flow reserve CT (FFR ) estimate. Manual editing is part of the quality assurance process, CT negating the risk of spurious results generated from the automated analysis. Gaur et al. (2014) suggest that reproducibility is within acceptable 95% confidence interval limits of agreement. FFR reproducibility was found to be CT equivalent to invasive FFR reproducibility. • The reproducibility of outlining the coronary artery lumen, part of the FFR CT computation analysis, decreases in the distal portion of the vessel (Gage repeatability and reproducibility=29.4%). This could be a result of different factors including lower CT quality, lower CT resolution, smaller vessel diameter at the distal end and higher disease burden. • The company monitors FFR reproducibility by re-processing 5% of its case CT volume on a weekly basis. The company has confirmed that this has shown a reproducibility rate consistent with the
