HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating fractional flow reserve from coronary CT angiography
KEYWORDS: ffr, patients, coronary, ccta, heartflow, heartflow ffr, diagnostic, disease, artery, company, coronary artery, invasive, ica, cost, eac


company monitors FFR reproducibility by re-processing 5% of its case CT volume on a weekly basis. The company has confirmed that this has shown a reproducibility rate consistent with the literature (Gaur et al. 2014). • The company fulfils regulatory approval standards for data confidentiality and integrity protection for remote processing. It offers NHS customers the option to upload fully anonymised DICOM data to comply with UK data protection law. Committee considerations 4.5 The committee was satisfied with the EAC's conclusions on reproducibility (see section 4.4). It accepted that the company has protocols in place to manage an increased demand for HeartFlow FFR . CT 4.6 The committee considered the protection and oversight of data transferred during the administration of HeartFlow FFR to be an important factor in the CT device's adoption. The committee was satisfied, on the basis of the information available, that the company's data transfer protocols meet regulatory requirements. The committee noted that patients should be informed when sending personal data outside the European Economic Area with HeartFlow FFR , and that it may be necessary to obtain written consent. CT 4.7 The committee considered the availability of CCTA facilities. It understood that the cost model assumed access to CCTA facilities, but heard from experts that access to CCTA varies across the NHS despite recommendations in NICE's previous guideline on chest pain. Furthermore, because CT scanners are used for many purposes, a constraint currently exists with regard to both the availability of scanners and scanning time. The committee heard from experts that a sizable investment would be needed for the wider implementation of HeartFlow FFR , CT but acknowledged that this consideration was beyond the scope of the current assessment. It understood that adopting 64-slice CCTA was ongoing in the NHS, in line with the recommendations in the previous NICE guideline on chest pain. 5 Cost considerations Cost evidence 5.1 The company conducted a search of the health economics literature on HeartFlow FFR and the comparators specified in the decision problem. They CT identified a total of 174 studies, 24 of which it considered relevant to the decision problem. 5.2 The external assessment centre (EAC) reviewed this search, and considered that most of the studies included neither an appropriate patient population nor a treatment pathway. Only 1 published study, Rajani et al. (2015), was considered by the EAC to be relevant to the decision problem. It conducted
