Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


ABSTRACT Complementary and Integrative Health (CIH) approaches, otherwise known as non-mainstream practices or Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM), are commonly used by patients with diabetes. Natural products, including dietary supplements, are the most frequently used complementary approach by patients with diabetes. While popular, there are regulatory, safety, and efficacy concerns regarding natural products. Commonly used dietary supplements for diabetes can be categorized as hypoglycemic agents, carbohydrate absorption inhibitors, and insulin sensitizers. Hypoglycemic agents of interest include banaba, bitter melon, fenugreek, and gymnema. American ginseng, banaba, berberine, chromium, cinnamon, gymnema, milk thistle, prickly pear cactus, soy, and vanadium are insulin sensitizers that have been studied in patients with diabetes. The carbohydrate absorption inhibitors aloe vera gel, fenugreek, flaxseed, prickly pear cactus, soy, and turmeric may be used in patients with diabetes. Mind body therapies including yoga, massage, and Tai Chi have preliminary evidence to support use in patients with diabetes. Deceptive marketing tactics may be employed by sellers of natural products. Consumers and clinicians must be aware of potential risks and make informed choices. Resources such as the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s) MedWatch may be helpful. The FDA’s online health fraud website informs consumers on various types of fraud and how to avoid them. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . COMPLEMEMTARY AND INTEGRATIVE HEALTH APPROACHES BACKGROUND This chapter reviews information regarding Complementary and Integrative Health (CIH) approaches used to treat diabetes. First, background information on complementary health approaches (sometimes referred to as Complementary and Alternative Medicine or CAM) will be presented. This will be followed by a description of non-mainstream practices used by patients with diabetes. An evidence-based description of specific natural products used to treat diabetes will be next. Mind body practices will be addressed. The chapter will conclude with specific ways clinicians can assist patients in choosing safe natural products. Please note information regarding therapies to treat comorbidities of diabetes are covered elsewhere in this text. To help clarify the contents of this chapter, nomenclature definitions relevant to CIH will be provided as defined by the National Institute of Health (NIH) National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH). Table 1 provides definitions of commonly used terms. Complementary medicine is defined as non-mainstream practices that are used together with conventional medicine. In contrast, alternative medicine describes non-mainstream practices used instead of conventional medicine. Complementary health approaches are
