Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


guided imagery, hypnosis, biofeedback, yoga, Tai Chi, qigong, expressive arts therapies, spiritual practices, and other forms of “directed” attention Manipulative and body-based methods Osteopathic manipulative therapy, chiropractic spinal manipulation, massage therapy, physical therapy Alternative or whole medical systems Traditional Chinese medicine, ayurveda, naturopathic medicine, homeopathy, Polynesian medicine, Unani-Tibb medicine, traditional African medicine, traditional Mayan medicine Energy therapies Acupuncture, Tai Chi, qigong, reiki, therapeutic or healing touch, bioenergetic therapy, and other methods that affect the body’s “bioelectric” field REGULATIONS OF DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS AND NATURAL PRODUCTS Background Information The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) was passed in 1994. This legislation created the category of dietary supplements. Prior to DSHEA, natural products (herbs, vitamins, minerals, probiotics) were classified as either food or drug. Even though natural products are biologically active, they are considered food products and are exempt from the same approval process as drugs ( 3 ). Under DSHEA, natural product manufacturers are not allowed to sell any adulterated or misbranded product. Manufacturers are expected to ensure natural products are effective and safe. However, manufacturers are not required to provide proof of efficacy or safety before marketing and selling a particular product ( 3 ). When DSHEA was passed, it required that good manufacturing practices (GMPs) be established. Several years later the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) provided these standards. The standards say products must be labeled correctly and be free of impurities or adulterants ( 4 ). Labeling requirements for dietary supplements exist. Products sold as dietary supplements must contain certain informational pieces on their labels. Items such as the product name, the word “supplement”, the net content quantity, the name and place of business of the manufacturer/packer/distributor, directions for use, a “Supplement Facts” panel, and a listing of all nondietary ingredients must be included. Table 4 reviews labeling requirements and Figure 2 is an example “Supplement Facts” panel ( 5 ). Table 4. Information Required to Appear on Dietary Supplement Labels ( 5 ) View in own window Dietary Supplement Labeling Requirements Product Name The word “supplement” or a statement the product is a supplement Net content quantity Manufacturer’s, packer’s, or distributor’s name Manufacturer’s, packer’s, or distributor’s place of business Directions for use “Supplement Facts” panel listing serving size, dietary ingredients, amount per serving size, and percent daily value (if established) Nondietary ingredients such as fillers, artificial colors, sweeteners, binders, Figure 2. Example Supplement Facts Label. Image Source:
