Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


size, dietary ingredients, amount per serving size, and percent daily value (if established) Nondietary ingredients such as fillers, artificial colors, sweeteners, binders, Figure 2. Example Supplement Facts Label. Image Source: https://www.fda.gov/food/guidanceregulation/guidancedocumentsregulatoryinformation/dietarysupplements/ucm070597.htm#4-59 . Dietary supplement products are allowed to make claims about maintaining structure or function of the body. However, products are not allowed to make claims about diagnosis, treatment, cure, or prevention of a disease. For example, a product may claim to “maintain a healthy pancreas.” Conversely, a product may not claim to “treat diabetes.” If a product does make a health maintenance claim, the label must include the following statement: “This statement has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease” ( 5 ). Reporting of Adverse Events The Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in 2006. This act required manufacturers to report adverse events for dietary supplements and nonprescription drugs. In addition, individuals are encouraged to report supplement and nonprescription drug adverse events to the FDA ( 6 ). Despite the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act, there is concern of underreporting of adverse events. Safety Concerns Safety surrounding dietary supplements and natural products is a concern for clinicians and consumers alike. Despite DSHEA and the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act, adverse events and safety issues regarding natural products abound. In fact, an article published in 2015 in The New England Journal of Medicine estimated 23,005 emergency room visits annually were a result of adverse effects related to dietary supplements ( 7 ). The FDA publishes recalls for prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and dietary supplements. The most serious recalls are classified as Class I. A Class I drug recall is one where the product in question has “reasonable probability that the use of or exposure to . . . will cause serious adverse health consequences or death” ( 8 ). From 2008 to 2012, half of all Class I drug recalls were from dietary supplements ( 9 ). INTEGRATIVE HEALTH USE IN THE UNITED STATES According to the Council for Responsible Nutrition (CRN), Americans spend an estimated $35 billion on dietary supplements each year. The market appears to be growing each year. CRN estimates 74% of adults in the United States use supplements ( 10 ). Most users of natural products take
