Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


each year. The market appears to be growing each year. CRN estimates 74% of adults in the United States use supplements ( 10 ). Most users of natural products take a multivitamin. Other commonly used supplements include specific vitamins (D, C, and B), calcium, omega-3 fatty acids/fish oil, probiotics, green tea, protein bars, whey protein powders, and energy drinks. Mass merchandizers and pharmacies are the most common places where dietary supplements are purchased ( 10 , 11 ). Reasons for dietary supplement use vary. The most popular was to support overall health and wellness. Other popular reasons include filling nutrient gaps, heart health, healthy aging, immune health, energy, bone health, preventing illness, and joint health ( 11 ). Integrative Health Use Amongst Patients with Diabetes According to a meta-analysis published in 2021, 51% of patients with diabetes globally use some form of CAM. Use prevalence was highest in Europe, where 76% of patients with diabetes in France use CAM; prevalence was lowest in North America, where 45% of patients used CAM ( 12 ). Reasons for CAM use specific to the United States (US) include overall wellness (28% of users), treatment of diabetes (15%), or a combination of the two (57%) ( 13 ). Figure 3 illustrates the reasons for CAM use in patients with diabetes. Figure 3. Reasons for CAM Use in Patients with Diabetes in the United States. Data Source ( 13 ). Overall, the most common forms of CAM used in US patients with diabetes were herbal therapies (56.7% of users), chiropractic (25.3%), and massage (20.2%). See Figure 4 for an illustration. For those citing treatment alone as their reason for complementary health approach use, the most common types were chiropractic, herbal therapies, and massage. Those that cited wellness alone as their reason, the most common types of CAM utilized were herbal therapies, massage, and chiropractic ( 13 ). Figure 4. Most Common Types of CAM Used in Patients with Diabetes. Data Source ( 13 ). Sociodemographically, there are several differences in US CAM users with diabetes. The racial/ethnic group most likely to utilize complementary health approaches were non-Hispanic Whites. Those employed and with higher education attainment were also more likely to use CAM ( 13 ). Due to the high usage, clinicians should gather comprehensive complementary health approach use histories from patients. This may prevent dangerous CAM-herb and CAM-disease interactions. Older Adults In particular, older adults
