Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


Due to the high usage, clinicians should gather comprehensive complementary health approach use histories from patients. This may prevent dangerous CAM-herb and CAM-disease interactions. Older Adults In particular, older adults with diabetes that utilize CAM can present unique challenges. Older adults tend to have more chronic medical conditions and diabetes complications. Additionally, older adults tend to use more medications compared to the general population. One-quarter of older adults with diabetes utilize complementary, alternative, or integrative medicine ( 14 ). Of these older adults, 62.8% utilize herbal therapies specifically. Chiropractic (23.9%), massage (14.7%), acupuncture (10.2%), and yoga (5.2%) were the other most popular therapies used ( 14 ). Clinicians should query older adult patients with diabetes on active CAM use. This may prevent dangerous CAM-herb and CAM-disease interactions. NATURAL PRODUCTS Natural products have been used for thousands of years. Natural products were depicted on clay tablets in ancient Mesopotamia (2600 BC). An ancient Egyptian pharmaceutical record, the Ebers Papyrus, dates to 2900 BC and documents hundreds of natural therapies. Documented records of natural product use have also been found in China (the Chinese Materia Medica) and Greece (from the physician Dioscorides) ( 15 ). This section will discuss natural products that are commonly used in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) for glycemic control. A brief description of each product will be followed by an overview of proposed mechanisms of action. Next, currently available evidence for the product will be reviewed. A brief discussion of adverse effects and drug interactions will also be included. While botanical products are often hypothesized to work by multiple mechanisms, each product is categorized below by the major mechanism thought to exert its effect. For your convenience, an alphabetized table of botanical products is also presented. Hypoglycemic Agents The natural products covered in this section are all agents that theoretically lower blood glucose. Each individual product may have additional mechanisms of action, which are also covered. BANABA (LAGERSTROEMIA SPECIOSA) Banaba is a crepe myrtle species indigenous to Southeast Asia. The first published report of banaba use is from 1940. Banaba is used for diabetes and weight loss. See Figure 5 for an illustration of the banaba plant. The banaba leaf is the portion thought to exert beneficial effects. It is thought the active constituents of the banaba leaf are corosolic acid and ellagitannins (lagerstroemin, flosin B, and reginin A) ( 16 - 18 ). Figure
