Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


(0.48 mg) 20.2 ± 1.29 ≤0.001 Fukushima and colleagues performed a double-blind cross-over design trial in 31 subjects with type 2 diabetes. In this study, subjects were not randomized. Subjects received oral supplementation with a 10 mg corosolic acid (an active constituent of banaba) capsule or placebo five minutes prior to a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test. The majority of the subjects had type 2 diabetes (n=19) while seven had impaired glucose tolerance, one had impaired fasting glucose, and four had normal glucose according to 1998 WHO criteria. Subjects with diagnosed hypertension, hepatic, or renal disease; engaged in heavy exercise; or took any medication were excluded. Thirty minutes after the oral glucose tolerance test, there were no differences in plasma glucose levels. The corosolic acid treatment group showed lower glucose levels from 60 minutes until 120 minutes after glucose administration. Statistical significance was reached at 90 minutes (p<0.05) ( 22 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Banaba extract appears to be well tolerated when used orally. Dizziness, headache, tremor, weakness, diaphoresis, and nausea have been reported ( 23 ). Interactions As banaba lowers blood glucose, it should be used with caution in those using other hypoglycemic agents. Banaba may also lower blood pressure and may have an additive effect with other antihypertensives ( 18 , 23 ). Summary Banaba is possibly effective for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Data from human studies investigating banaba demonstrate corosolic acid’s potential to lower blood glucose. Small sample size and short study duration limit applicability of results. BITTER MELON (MOMORDICA CHARANTIA) Bitter melon is a plant cultivated in India, Asia, South America, and the Caribbean. Local nomenclature for Bitter melon varies – in India it is known as karela, bitter melon, and bitter gourd. It can also be known as wild cucumber, ampalaya, and cundeamor ( 24 , 25 ). A member of the melon family, bitter melon is consumed in Asian cuisine and used both orally and topically. Uses for bitter melon include diabetes, cancer, and HIV ( 26 ). See Figure 6 for an image of the bitter melon plant. Figure 6. Bitter Melon Plant Image Source: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Momordica_charantia_(Bitter_melon)_leaves_and_a_flower.jpg . Mechanism of Action It is thought bitter melon has insulin-like properties. More specifically, it is hypothesized bitter melon: 1) inhibits mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) in pancreatic cells; 2) promotes glucose and fatty acid catabolism;
