Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


and diarrhea ( 32 ). Bitter melon has been used as an abortifacient agent. Animal research confirms two proteins isolated from the plant possess abortifacient properties and may decrease fertility ( 33 ). Interactions As bitter melon may lower blood glucose, it should be used with caution in those using other hypoglycemic agents. Bitter melon may increase levels of drugs that are P-glycoprotein substrates. For example, levels of apixaban, cimetidine, corticosteroids, diltiazem, erythromycin, fexofenadine, linagliptin, rivaroxaban, and verapamil may be increased with concurrent bitter melon use. Those with G6PD deficiency should avoid use due to risk of developing favism ( 27 ). Summary Bitter melon is commonly used medicinally and in cuisine. There is mixed regarding bitter melon’s blood glucose lowering efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetes. Bitter melon has abortifacient properties and should be avoided in pregnancy. F ENUGREEK (TRIGONELLA FOENUM-GRAECUM) Fenugreek, a member of the Fabaceae family, is an aromatic herb native to the Mediterranean region, northern Africa, southern Europe, and western Asia. The plant appears clover-like and its leaves are used in southeast Asian cuisine (see Figure 7 for an illustration). The seed is considered to be the pharmaceutically active portion of Trigonella foenum-graecum . If consuming fenugreek seeds, one must crush them to release the viscous gel fiber to increase efficacy. The flavor and fragrance of the seed is similar to maple syrup. Fenugreek seeds are approximately 50% fiber (30% soluble and 20% insoluble fiber) ( 21 , 34 ). Figure 7. Fenugreek Plant Image Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fenugreek . Mechanism of Action Fenugreek is thought to lower blood glucose via multiple mechanisms. As fenugreek seeds are fiber rich, it is thought this may slow postprandial glucose absorption ( 34 , 35 ). Bioactive compounds in fenugreek include 4-hydroxyisoleucine (which accounts for the majority), saponins, alkaloids, and coumarins ( 36 ). 4-hydroxyisoleucine increases glucose-dependent insulin secretion in human beta-islet cells ( 21 , 37 ). Fenugreek may play a role in regulating glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) through the action of an active compound N55, which is thought to bind to GLP-1 and enhance its potency in stimulating GLP-1 receptor signaling ( 35 ). Fenugreek, along with other herbal products used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, contains biguanide-related compounds. In fact, the history of metformin can be traced back to the use of French lilac as herbal medicine in medieval Europe ( 38 ). Evidence A systematic
