Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) was lower in the fenugreek group (86.3 +/- 32 vs. 70.1 +/- 52) and insulin sensitivity increased (112.9 +/- 67 vs 92.2 +/- 57) (p < 0.05) ( 41 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Adverse effects of fenugreek include diarrhea, heartburn, and flatulence ( 34 ). Fenugreek is aromatic and smells similar to maple syrup. Consumption prior to delivery may cause the neonate to have this odor, which may lead to confusion with maple syrup urine disease ( 42 ). Patients with chickpea allergies should use fenugreek with caution as there is potential for cross-reactivity. Furthermore, fenugreek may cause uterine contractions and should be avoided in pregnancy ( 34 ). Interactions Fenugreek preparations may contain coumarin and increase the risk of bleeding with anticoagulants. Theophylline levels may be decreased with concomitant use. As fenugreek may lower blood glucose levels, it should be used cautiously with other agents that decrease glucose ( 34 ). Summary Fenugreek is a commonly used herb that is possibly effective for the treatment of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes. Due to the risk of uterine contractions, fenugreek should not be used in pregnancy. Fenugreek may contain coumarin and should be used cautiously with anticoagulants. GYMNEMA (GYMNEMA SYLVESTRE) Gymnema is a plant native to tropical and subtropical regions of Asia, Africa, and Australia. Ayurvedic medicine has long utilized gymnema and its Hindi name is gurmar, which means “destroyer of sugar” ( 43 ). The pharmaceutically active parts of the gymnema plant are the leaves and roots. See Figure 8 for an image of the gymnema plant ( 44 ). Figure 8. Gymnema Plant Image Source: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Gymnema_sylvestre_R.Br_-_Flickr_-_lalithamba.jpg . Mechanism of Action The active constituents of gymnema appear to be gymnemosides, saponins, stigmasterol, and various amino acid derivatives. In terms of glucose lowering, it appears gymnema reduces intestinal absorption of glucose. It may also increase enzymes that promote cellular glucose update. It is hypothesized gymnema impacts beta cells – particularly by increasing cell quantity and by stimulation of insulin release ( 45 - 47 ). Evidence In 2023, a systematic review and meta-analysis of six studies sought to determine the impact of gymnema on various cardiometabolic risk factors, including glycemic control. Participants had T2DM, metabolic syndrome, and/or impaired glucose tolerance. Fasting blood glucose significantly changed by -4.96 mg/dL (CI 95%: -7.65 to -2.27, p<0.001). HbA1c had a non-significant change of -1.78% (95% CI: -4.09
