Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


be insulin sensitization, but increased insulin secretion and prevention of beta-cell loss may also play a role ( 56 , 57 ). Evidence Vuksan and colleagues performed a randomized, double-blind, cross-over trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of American ginseng as complementary therapy in patients with T2DM using conventional therapy. Participants (n=24) received either 1 g of American ginseng extract or placebo for 8-weeks while continuing their original conventional therapies. After a 4-week washout period, participants were crossed over to the opposite 8-week treatment arm. American ginseng reduced HbA1c by 0.29% (p = 0.041) and plasma blood glucose by 12.8 mg/mL (p=0.008). The safety parameters studied, liver and kidney function, were not affected ( 58 ). Vuksan and colleagues performed a randomized, single-blind, controlled study in ten patients to evaluate the efficacy of various doses of American ginseng. Participants received either placebo or 3, 6, or 9 g of American ginseng prior to a 25-g oral glucose challenge. Capillary glucose was measured during the study duration. Compared to placebo, American ginseng significantly decreased glucose (p<0.05) for the 3, 6, and 9 g doses. Glucose area under the curve was also reduced (19.7% for the 3 g dose, 15.3% for the 6 g dose, and 15.9% for the 9 g dose). There was no difference between the various American ginseng doses ( 56 ). Due to concern over varying ginsenoside concentrations in different products, a follow up study was completed. The objective of this study was to determine the efficacy of American ginseng with a different ginsenoside profile. Twelve participants received 6 g of American ginseng or placebo after a 75-g oral glucose load. There was no significant difference in venous blood glucose levels at -40, 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 minutes between the groups. There was also no difference in plasma insulin levels. The American ginseng used in this study contained 1.66% total ginsenosides with the breakdown being 0.90% protopanaxodiol ginsenosides (PPD) and 0.75% protopanaxatriol ginsenosides (PPT) ( 59 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Headache is the most common side effect reported with American ginseng use ( 60 ). American ginseng should not be confused for Asian ginseng ( Panax ginseng ), Siberian ginseng ( Eleutherococcus senticosus ) ( 53 ). Interactions American ginseng may stimulate immune function and may theoretically decrease the effect of immunosuppressants ( 61 ). American ginseng can decrease the efficacy of
