Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


senticosus ) ( 53 ). Interactions American ginseng may stimulate immune function and may theoretically decrease the effect of immunosuppressants ( 61 ). American ginseng can decrease the efficacy of warfarin. Concomitant use is not advised ( 62 ). As American ginseng can lower glucose, it should be used cautiously with other glucose lowering agents ( 56 ). Summary Limited trials suggest American ginseng ( Panax quinquefolius ) may lower blood glucose. However, variability of product ginsenoside profile can impact efficacy. Concomitant warfarin use is not recommended due to decreased warfarin effectiveness. American ginseng is often confused with Asian ( Panax ginseng ) or Siberian ginseng ( Eleutherococcus senticosus) . BANABA (LAGERSTROEMIA SPECIOSA) Banaba is a natural product with multiple mechanisms. It was previously covered in the “Hypoglycemia Agents” section. BERBERINE Berberine is a bitter tasting plant alkaloid extracted from various plants. Goldenseal, goldthread, Oregon grape, European barberry, phellodendron, and tree turmeric are all sources. See Figure 10 for an image of European barberry, a source of berberine. Berberine is used for glucose lowering, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and infections ( 63 , 64 ). Figure 10. European Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) – Berberine Image Source: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Berberis_vulgaris_%27Atropurpurea%27_003.JPG . Mechanism of Action Berberine’s glucose lowering properties are thought to be from increased insulin secretion, increased glycolysis, increased levels of GLUT-4 and GLP-1, activation of PPAR gamma receptors, and alpha-glucosidase inhibition ( 65 - 68 ). Evidence The effect of berberine on metabolic profiles in patients with T2DM was studied in a systematic review and meta-analysis. Thirty-seven randomized controlled trials with 3,048 patients were included. with at least 60 participants over the age of 18 were included. Compared to the control group, berberine was associated with a significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose (-14.8 mg/dL; 95% CI: -17.1 to -0.12.6; p<0.05), HbA1c (-0.63%; 95% CI: -0.72 to -0.53; p<0.05), and two-hour post prandial blood glucose (-20.9 mg/dL; 95% CI: -24.5 to -17.3; p<0.05). There was significant heterogeneity with each of the three outcomes. Adverse effects were included in 14 of the included studies. Analysis revealed incidence of adverse effects was lower with berberine compared to the control groups. Hypoglycemia was reported in nine studies with no significant difference between the berberine and control groups (fixed effects model; RR = 0.48; 95% CI: 0.21 to 1.08; p = 0.08). Results are presented in Table 10 ( 69 ). Table 9. Berberine Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Results
