Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


the risk of bleeding when used with anticoagulants ( 64 ). Summary Berberine is an alkaloid extract derived from various plants. There is evidence to suggest berberine lowers fasting glucose, postprandial glucose, and HbA1c. Berberine may cause uterine contractions and kernicterus so should be avoided during pregnancy. There is concern that berberine inhibits several CYP enzymes and may contribute to multiple drug interactions. CHROMIUM Chromium is a mineral essential to humans. It is found naturally in brewer’s yeast (where it was first discovered), oysters, mushrooms, liver, potatoes, beef, cheese, and fresh vegetables. Chromium exists in two valences – trivalent and hexavalent. Trivalent chromium (Cr +3 or Cr III) is the biologically active form found in food and supplements. Hexavalent chromium (Cr +6 of Cr VI) is a toxic manufacturing byproduct and may cause lung cancer, dermatologic issues, and perforated nasal septum with chronic exposure ( 73 , 74 ). Chromium in this section will refer to the commercially available trivalent chromium. Chromium may be referred to as glucose tolerance factor ( 74 , 75 ). However, glucose tolerance factor is a complex that contains, amongst other molecules, chromium. There is an apparent association between low chromium levels and impaired glycemic control ( 76 ). The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine determined there was not sufficient evidence to set an Estimated Average Requirement for chromium consumption. However, they did suggest Adequate Intake (AI) levels. For adults, the AI is 35 mcg per day for men and 25 mcg per day for women. Due to the fact few serious adverse effects are associated with excess chromium from food, there is no designated Tolerable Upper Intake Level ( 74 ). Chromium is typically found in the chloride, nicotinate, and picolinate salt forms. It is thought the picolinate salt is absorbed by humans best ( 73 , 77 ). Mechanism of Action The exact mechanism of chromium has not been elucidated. Chromium has an insulin sensitizing effect by reducing the content and activity of the tyrosine phosphatase PTP-1B ( 78 ). Alternatively, chromium might act directly on the insulin receptor ( 79 , 80 ). Evidence Despite plausible mechanisms of action, there is mixed evidence surrounding chromium for the treatment of diabetes ( 75 , 81 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of ten studies (n=509) was published in 2021 to determine the effect of chromium supplementation on blood glucose
