Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


should be used cautiously with other hypoglycemia agents. Increased warfarin levels may occur with concomitant use ( 116 ). Summary Milk thistle is a member of the aster family and is used for lowering glucose, liver support, and menstrual support. There is modest evidence to suggest milk thistle may lower glucose in patients with diabetes. PRICKLY PEAR CACTUS (OPUNTIA FICUS-INDICA AND OTHER OPUNTIA SPECIES), NOPAL Prickly pear cactus is native to Mexico and found widely in the southwestern United States, Africa, Australia, and the Mediterranean. The berries of the cactus are oval, edible, and may vary in color ( 117 , 118 ). Prickly pear cactus has been used historically in Mexican cultures as a treatment for type 2 diabetes. Figure 12 illustrates the prickly pear cactus plant ( 119 ). Figure 12. Prickly Pear Cactus Plant Image Source: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Prickly_pear_cactus_in_Texas.jpg . Mechanism of Action Much of the prickly pear cactus plant is pharmaceutically active – the leaves, flowers, stems, and fruit are all thought to exert an effect. The plant contains carbohydrate, protein, fat, and fiber ( 120 ). It is thought prickly pear cactus lowers glucose by acting as an insulin sensitizer and by slowing carbohydrate absorption ( 117 , 120 , 121 ). Evidence A systematic review that included 20 articles investigated the effects of various parts of the prickly pear cactus plant on glucose and insulin. Studies that used prickly pear cactus fruit generally did not impact serum glucose or insulin. Studies that used the cladode portion of the plant (flat, leaf-like stem) predominantly demonstrated reductions in glucose and insulin ( 122 ). A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted to evaluate and effect of prickly pear cactus in obese patients with pre-diabetes. Patients received either 200 mg of a proprietary prickly pear product (n=15) or placebo (n=14). Patients underwent two different oral glucose tolerance tests – one without prickly pear cactus to determine baseline values and one half an hour after prickly pear cactus ingestion. There was a significant difference (p<0.05) in plasma glucose concentrations at 60, 90, and 120 minutes following the glucose tolerance test for the prickly pear cactus group. There was no difference in HbA1c, insulin levels, high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein, body weight, or fat mass. There was also no difference in comprehensive metabolic profile parameters ( 123 ). Most prickly pear cactus trials were published in Spanish only with abstracts available in
