Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


or fat mass. There was also no difference in comprehensive metabolic profile parameters ( 123 ). Most prickly pear cactus trials were published in Spanish only with abstracts available in English. Two trials showed a decrease in postprandial glucose from prickly pear administration ( 124 , 125 ). Another trial showed when added to a high-carbohydrate or high-soy-protein breakfast, prickly pear cactus decreased glucose area under the curve ( 126 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Prickly pear cactus is generally tolerated well when used orally. Side effects include nausea, diarrhea, and headache ( 120 ). Interactions Prickly pear cactus may lower glucose levels and should be used cautiously with other agents that impact glycemic control ( 123 , 126 ). Summary Prickly pear cactus was used historically in Mexican cultures and is gaining popularity. There is preliminary data to suggest prickly pear cactus may be effective in lowering glucose. Some parts of the plant, i.e., the cladode, may be more efficacious than others, i.e., fruit. However, more studies are needed to determine efficacy. Prickly pear cactus is usually well tolerated. SOY (GLYCINE MAX) Soy comes from the soybean, a legume originating from Asia. In fact, prior to the 1950s soybean was seldom grown outside of the region. Now soybeans are grown in other regions such as North and South America. Soybeans are used in various food preparations such as edamame, tofu, and soymilk. An image of a soybean plant can be found in Figure 13 (127. Figure 13. Soybean Plant Image Source: https://pixabay.com/en/soy-soybean-nature-green-998566/ . Mechanism of Action The portion of soy that is pharmaceutically active is the bean. Soybeans are protein-rich and contain calcium, iron, potassium, amino acids, vitamins, and fiber ( 128 ). Soybeans contain phytoestrogens (isoflavones and lignans) and phytosterols, which are biologically active (129. 130). Soy works via various mechanisms. Soy has insulin sensitizing properties and may slow carbohydrate absorption due to its fiber content. It is hypothesized that the fiber content of soy helps reduce glucose levels ( 128 , 131 ). Evidence Results on the efficacy of soy in type 2 diabetes are conflicting. A systematic review and meta-analysis summarizing the association of soy intake and the risk of type 2 diabetes was published in 2020. Fifteen studies were included (n = 565,810) and multivariable-adjusted relative risks were determined. The relative risk of incidence of type 2 diabetes was 0.83 (95% CI: 0.68 to 1.01;
