Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


2 diabetes. The glucose-lowering effect of vanadyl sulfate correlated well with the reduction in HGP, but not with insulin-mediated glucose disposal, suggesting that liver, rather than muscle, is the primary target of vanadyl sulfate action at therapeutic doses ( 143 ). Li and colleagues conducted a case-control study to explore the association of plasma vanadium with gestational diabetes mellitus. They included 252 newly diagnosed gestational diabetes mellitus cases with 252 controls matched by age, parity, and gestational age. Plasma concentrations of vanadium were significantly lower in the gestational diabetes mellitus group compared to the control group (p<0.001). The authors concluded there was an inverse association between plasma vanadium and gestational diabetes mellitus ( 144 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Acute vanadium toxicity does not appear to be a common concern. Mild gastrointestinal effects such as abdominal cramps and loose stools may occur. Animal studies suggest vanadium may cause anemia. However, this has not been shown in humans ( 74 ). Interactions There is theoretical concern that vanadium may increase the risk of bleeding in anticoagulant agents ( 145 ). Summary Vanadium is a mineral that may increase sensitivity to insulin. There is a lack of human data to support the use of vanadium as a glucose lowering agent, but there is promise. Carbohydrate Absorption Inhibitors The natural products contained in this section are known to be carbohydrate absorption inhibitors. This means they theoretically lower plasma glucose by preventing the absorption of ingested carbohydrate. Products may also employ other mechanisms of action, which are addressed. ALOE VERA GEL Aloe is a desert plant that appears similar to a cactus and typically grows in hot and dry climates. See Figure 14 for an image of the aloe plant. Aloe byproducts are commonly used in cosmetics and medicine. The byproducts aloe vera gel and aloe latex are common ( 146 ). Figure 14. Aloe Vera Plant Image Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Aloe_aristata.jpg . Mechanism of Action The portion of the aloe extract that is thought to be pharmaceutically active is the leaf. Aloe gel is clear and can be extracted from the leaf ( 147 , 148 ). Monosaccharides, polysaccharides, tannins, sterols, enzymes, amino acids, salicylic acid, arachidonic acid, lipids, vitamins, and minerals are all found in aloe vera gel ( 148 ). Studies in mice suggest aloe gel may stimulate beta-cells, while human studies show conflicting evidence. Aloe latex contains anthraquinones and may be toxic.
