Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


is native to Europe, Asia, and the Mediterranean. Flax is a blue flowering crop and the seeds exist in brown, yellow, and green colors (see Figure 15 ). Whole flaxseeds primarily contain fat (41%), dietary fiber (28%), and protein (21%). The oil contained in flaxseeds is particularly rich in polyunsaturated fat (73%) and lower in monounsaturated (18%) and saturated (9%) fats. Flaxseed oil is a rich source of the omega-3 fatty acid alpha linolenic acid (ALA) ( 155 ). Figure 15. Brown Flaxseeds Image Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flax#/media/File:Brown_Flax_Seeds.jpg . Mechanism of Action The pharmaceutically active portion of flaxseed is the seed and the oil. The high soluble fiber content is thought to decrease carbohydrate absorption. The high omega-3 fatty acid content (ALA) is also thought to play a crucial role as these acids have been shown improve insulin sensitivity and glycemic control. ALA has been shown to increase plasma GLP-1 levels ( 156 ). Flaxseeds contain lignans, which have been proven to have antioxidant effects ( 157 - 159 ). Evidence A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials aimed at determining the impact of flaxseed supplementation in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus was published in 2023. Thirteen studies were included in the analysis. HbA1c was significantly reduced in the flaxseed supplementation group (-0.19%; 95% CI: -0.38 to 0.00; p=0.045). The authors found no significant change in fasting plasma glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR, lipid parameters, body weight, BMI, or blood pressure ( 160 ). A single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial evaluated the impact of flaxseed in 53 patients with type 2 diabetes that also had constipation. Patients either received cookies with flaxseed twice a day or cookies free of flaxseed twice daily for 12 weeks. Constipation scores, weight (-3.8 kg), and fasting plasma glucose (-26.7 mg/dL) all decreased from baseline in the flaxseed group (p<0.05). Constipation scores, weight (-3.8 versus 0 kg), fasting plasma glucose (-26.7 versus 1.9 mg/dL), and HbA1c (-0.8% versus 1.0%) were significantly different in the flaxseed group compared to placebo (p<0.05) ( 161 ). A placebo-controlled, crossover study evaluated the impact of flaxseed on diabetes. Seventy-three patients with type 2 diabetes took either placebo or 360 mg daily of flaxseed for 12 weeks. After an eight-week washout period, patients crossed over to the other group. HbA1c decreased a small, but statistically significant, amount (0.1%; p=0.01). There was no significant change in fasting plasma glucose or lipoprotein levels (
