Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


patients crossed over to the other group. HbA1c decreased a small, but statistically significant, amount (0.1%; p=0.01). There was no significant change in fasting plasma glucose or lipoprotein levels ( 162 ). An open-label study evaluated the effect of flaxseed in patients with type 2 diabetes (n=29). Patients received 10 g of flaxseed daily (n=18) or placebo (n=11). Fasting glucose decreased 28.9 mg/dL in the flaxseed group (p=0.02) and slightly increased in the placebo group. HbA1c decreased 0.59% (from 8.75% to 8.16%) in the flaxseed group (p=0.009) and increased 0.1% in the placebo group. Triglycerides and LDL-C also decreased significantly in the flaxseed group (1630. Flaxseed has also been studied in patients with prediabetes. Hutchins and colleagues randomized 25 patients with prediabetes to take 26 g of flaxseed, 13 g of flaxseed, or placebo for 12 weeks. After a 2-week washout period, patients were crossed over to another group. Fasting glucose levels did not decrease significantly in the 26 g group compared to placebo. However, fasting glucose decreased significantly in the 13 g group compared to placebo (-2 mg/dL, p=0.036). Insulin levels also decreased significantly in the 13 g group (p=0.021) ( 164 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Few adverse effects are reported with flaxseed use. 161 Gastrointestinal side effects are the most commonly reported ( 155 ). Interactions Oil from flaxseeds is shown to decrease platelet aggregation and may, therefore, increase the risk of bleeding in users of anticoagulants and antiplatelets ( 165 ). Theoretically, flaxseed may decrease the absorption of acetaminophen and ketoprofen. However, this interaction has not been shown in human studies ( 166 ). Summary Flaxseed is rich in fat (primarily omega-3 fatty acids) and fiber. There are conflicting results regarding flaxseed’s efficacy in glycemic control. Most individuals tolerate flaxseed well. PRICKLY PEAR CACTUS (OPUNTIA FICUS-INDICA), NOPAL Prickly pear cactus has multiple mechanisms of action is addressed under the “Insulin Sensitizers” section. SOY (GLYCINE MAX) Soy has multiple mechanisms of action is addressed under the “Insulin Sensitizers” section. TURMERIC (CURCUMA LONGA, CURCUMA DOMESTICA, CURCUMA AROMATIC) Turmeric is a member if the Zingiberaceae (ginger) family ( 167 ). Turmeric has a long history of use in Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine (see Figure 16 ). Curcumin is considered the active constituent of turmeric and is yellow-colored and fragrant. Curcumin is typically what is used as a flavoring and coloring agent in turmeric-containing products ( 168 ). Figure 16.
