Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


the active constituent of turmeric and is yellow-colored and fragrant. Curcumin is typically what is used as a flavoring and coloring agent in turmeric-containing products ( 168 ). Figure 16. Turmeric Image Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_picture_candidates/Turmeric . Mechanism of Action Turmeric has multiple proposed mechanisms of action relating to glycemia. Turmeric can induce peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma activation. It may also activate hepatic enzymes associated with glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Turmeric may also enhance tumor necrosis factor alpha ( 168 ). Evidence In 2023, a systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials was published that compared the effectiveness of different herbs in the management of T2DM. Turmeric (curcumin) was one of the herbs studied. Forty-four trials were included in the review. Compared to controls, turmeric use was correlated with a statistically significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose (-13.15 mg/dL; 95% CI: -23.64 to -2.66; p<0.05). The authors found no change in HbA1c associated with turmeric use ( 169 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis published in 2021 was conducted to evaluate the effect of curcumin on glycemic and lipid profiles in patients with type 2 diabetes. There was a statistically significant difference in HbA1c in turmeric users (-0.42%, 95% CI -0.72 to -0.11; p< 0.05). There was non-significant (p = 0.107) moderate heterogeneity (I 2 = 42.42) ( 170 ). The effect of turmeric in delaying the development of type 2 diabetes was studied in patients with prediabetes in a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial. Subjects (n=240) were randomly assigned to curcumin capsules or placebo for nine months. After nine months, 16.4% of subjects in the placebo group were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. No subjects in the curcumin group were diagnosed in this timeframe (p<0.05). Markers of insulin sensitivity also showed favor for the curcumin group (higher HOMA-beta and lower HOMA-IR; p<0.05) ( 171 ). Adverse Effects and Warnings Turmeric is usually well tolerated. Itching, constipation, and vertigo have been reported with use ( 171 ). Interactions There is a risk of increased bleeding when turmeric is combined with anticoagulants ( 172 ). Summary Turmeric and its active constituent, curcumin, have been long used medicinally. There is limited evidence in humans to suggest curcumin use may delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in patients with prediabetes. Turmeric is typically well tolerated. Summary of Natural Products A summary of the natural products is presented alphabetically in Table 24 . Table 24. Summary
