Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention Options For Type 2 Diabetes: Complementary & Integrative Health Approaches (Including Natural Products And Mind/Body Practices)
KEYWORDS: glucose, diabetes, pubmed, patients, doi, pubmed crossref, crossref, type, type diabetes, fasting, insulin, meta-analysis, use, effect, effects


hypnotherapy, and movement manipulation ( 1 ). Mind body practices are used for overall health and to help with specific disease states. There is recent interest in studying the impact of mind body practices on type 2 diabetes. Yoga has been studied in patients with type 2 diabetes. Preliminary studies indicate yoga may reduce BMI, improve glycemic control, improve lipid levels, and improve body composition. Yoga may also decrease blood pressure ( 173 - 177 ). The impact of massage on glycemic control in patients with diabetes has been studied. One study showed parent-provided full body massage at bedtime improved serum glucose levels and decreased anxiety of both the massage giver and receiver ( 178 ). Another study compared changes in metabolic parameters of individuals with type 2 diabetes between a control group, a routine massage group, and an abdominal massage group. The control group had no significant change in fasting plasma glucose, postprandial plasma glucose, or HbA1c. The routine massage and abdominal massage groups had significant reductions in fasting plasma glucose, postprandial plasma glucose, and HbA1c ( 69 ). A meta-analysis exploring the impact of Tai Chi on glucose and lipid metabolism in patients with T2DM was conducted and included 16 randomized controlled trials. Tai Chi significantly reduced fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c ( 179 ). Individual studies on Tai Chi have shown it may decrease fasting glucose values in patients with diabetes. However, Tai Chi does not appear to reduce glucose more than other types of gentle exercise ( 180 - 182 ). RELIABLE RESOURCES FOR PROVIDERS AND PATIENTS Clinicians need to be aware of the deceptive marketing tactics employed by natural product manufacturers. Patients and clinicians need reliable and dependable resources regarding integrative medicine. MedWatch is a website developed and updated by the FDA. MedWatch provides timely safety information on dietary supplements as well as medications and cosmetics. MedWatch can be accessed at: https://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/ . The FDA also has a health fraud online resource. The website describes health fraud and provides actionable ways patients can protect themselves. The FDA’s health fraud website can be accessed at: https://www.fda.gov/consumers/health-fraud-scams . In terms of efficacy, primary literature is a reasonable resource. The US National Library of Medicine has an online database that can be searched free of change. The database can be accessed at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed . Additional online resources are provided in Table 25 . Table 25. Complementary Health Approach
