Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, cid, primary, health, primary care, cid cid, services, interventions, countries, disease, world, sector, level, local, general


in the public conditions. This difficulty is compounded by other factors, health system and affect provider behavior negatively. WHO ranging from the complexity of the study design required to (2000, 59) notes that providers “usually react to this . . . by convincinglyevaluateroutineprograms(asopposedtofieldtri- cross-subsidizing the excluded activities through the budget als)tothedifficultiesfacedbyhealthministriesinensuringthat received to pay for the defined benefit package;or by charging moniestargetedatprimarycarearetranslatedintothedelivery extra for the additional services.” ofqualityhealthservices. These considerations need to be taken into account when Thus,we are able to comment only in broad terms on the identifying clusters of interventions to be provided in local positive contributions of general primary care services,recog- contexts. Nonetheless, likely intervention clusters, with nizing that,although these contributions are potentially enor- potentially high goodness of fit at the primary care level,will mous, the gains made by such services over the past two 1196 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Stephen Tollman, Jane Doherty, and Jo-Ann Mulligan inherent weaknesses in the concept.In commenting on analy- (1993,) concluded that the results of surveys in Zaire and ses of the effectiveness of primary care, they point to “the Liberia “suggest that child survival programmes in Africa can cataclysmic effect on public health systems in less-developed reduce mortality substantially in populations living in different countries ofthe global economic recession ofthe 1980s and the environments at very different initial levels of child mortal- application of policies stressing privatisation and decreased ity. . . . In both countries, it appears that the programme public spending in that decade and the next;[this] resulted in reduced mortality under age 5 by about 20% or more.”More poorest countries”(Almeida and others 2001,). (see chapter 8). Given the paucity of evidence from developing countries, turning to the experience of high-income countries is useful, Health Effects although the configuration ofprimary care services in such set- Investing in Healthreported that in countries with moderate to tings may be quite different.Following a detailed comparative high mortality only a few conditions accounted for the major- study of 11 industrial nations (which involved the method- trated in children under 15,and 75 percent ofthis burden was associating these scores with a range ofhealth status indicators ers 1994).Except for congenital malformations,all these causes cluded that “countries with a stronger orientation to primary of which are classic components of general primary care lower costs.” Shi (1994,) found that, in the United States, (labeled the “clinical services” component of the package). availability
