Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, cid, primary, health, primary care, cid cid, services, interventions, countries, disease, world, sector, level, local, general


villages near health dispensaries were leading to the consumption of household assets in the 32 percent less likely to die than children without access to purchasing of care. Russell (2003) found that such costs modern primary care services (differential access resulted from amounted to just over 10 percent ofhousehold income in three the phased implementation ofservices,which produced a nat- developing countries,a proportion that can have a catastroph- ural quasi-experiment). Drawing on earlier work, Ewbank ic impact on the sustainability of poor households. Through General Primary Care | 1197 Box 64.1 Evidence of the Effectiveness of Primary Care Services The effectiveness of primary care services is illustrated as 3. The availability of primary care services is associated follows: with improvement in patients’ self-perceived health 1. Community-basedinterventionsimproveaccesstoser- status. vices,reducetheuseofemergencyandoutpatientdepart- 4. The longitudinal care afforded by primary care services mentsathospitals,increasetheuseof noninstitutional is independently associated with improved patient (especiallywithrespecttopreventablehospitalizations). tests, improved patient compliance, shorter length of 2. Primary care is associated with improved control of stay,and improved recognition of patients’behavioral routine illnesses that have serious consequences if problems. untreated. Source:Blumenthal, Mort, and Edwards (1995). prevention and early treatment,geographically accessible and have an independent [of income levels] effect in improving reduce absenteeism, and enhance children’s performance at that,at least within the particular settings studied,strengthen- school. ing the primary care aspects of health services could mitigate some of the adverse impacts that income inequality has on individuals’health status. Primary-level services are also potentially responsive to Serving of Equity Goals patients’nonhealth needs.These include a need for the range Primary care services have the advantage over hospital care of and quality ofhealth services to meet community expectations tending to be more physically, financially, and culturally and a need for services to treat patients in a helpful and digni- accessible to local communities.Because of their staffing and fied manner. In addition, primary-level facilities can act as organization, they are less costly and more easily able to community resources (providing communal meeting places, provide comprehensive,integrated,personalized,and continu- for example), and primary care services can contribute sup- ous care (World Bank 1993).Because that part of the burden port to neighborhood sports and community development of disease that is addressed by primary care services dispro- activities. All in all, well-functioning primary-level services ically well placed to improve equity in health and health care. inspire trust in the system as a whole. Again, few data exist to demonstrate the equity effects of Another source
