Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, cid, primary, health, primary care, cid cid, services, interventions, countries, disease, world, sector, level, local, general


individual interventions that have national health system (Travis and others 2004). been clustered into “essential packages.”According to Investing Committing More Financial Resources costing less than US$100 per disability-adjusted life year In the mid 1980s,Drummond and Mills (1987) found the best (DALY) averted (see table 64.2;World Bank 1993). estimate ofthe cost ofeffective primary health care (including General Primary Care | 1199 Table 64.3 Comparison of Per Capita Total Annual Health should be applied with great caution in poor communities Expenditure Required to Provide Minimum Packages .Yet the fact remains that an injection of addi- (2002 U.S.$, 2001 prices) tional resources is clearly one prerequisite for the successful scaling up of general primary care in the 21st century,backed Low-income Middle-income up by political commitment to the centrality of general pri- Report countries countries mary care (and primary health care more broadly) as a funda- Investing in Health 15 27 mental strategy for tackling the highest-burden diseases and (World Bank 1993) their causes. Better Health in Africa 16–20 —a (World Bank 1994) Commission on Macroeconomics Least Lower-middle Developing Human Resources and Health (Jha and Mills 2002) developed: 40 income: 39 Although increased financial resources are imperative, Other low Upper-middle Kurowski and others (2003) emphasize that “human resource income: 36 income: 331b availability is likely to determine the capacity to absorb addi- Source:Doherty and Govender 2004. tional financial resources and thus the pace of scaling up.” a. Estimate not provided. These authors warn that human resource availability is likely to b. Higher figure because of range of services provided (beyond minimum package) and higher input costs; applies to a small subgroup of countries. be grossly insufficient to meet the scaling-up needs envisioned by the CMH. The skills and competencies necessary to deliver and sup- the recurrent and capital costs ofbasic and village-level health port effective primary care are in some respects similar to services but not ofwater and sanitation) to be 2 percent ofthe those required at other levels of the health system (see chap- annual per capita gross national product (GNP).This amount, ter 71),but certain competencies warrant special emphasis at they noted, is considerable, given that many governments in the primary care level (see box 64.2). Above all, if local developing countries do not spend even 2 percent of annual per capita GNP on their entire health sector. primarycarelevelwillhavetobefreedfromtheconstraintsof More recently, the Commission on Macroeconomics and stifling,rule-bound bureaucracies and encouraged to develop Health
