Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, cid, primary, health, primary care, cid cid, services, interventions, countries, disease, world, sector, level, local, general


Home-based care (cid:2) HIV/AIDS HAART provision (cid:2) Tobacco control program (taxes, legal action, (cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2) information, nicotine replacement) Alcohol control program (cid:2) information, education, and communication education, and on selected risk factors and health communication) behaviors, plus vector control and disease surveillance) Limited care (includes treatment of infection (cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2) and minor trauma; for more complicated conditions includes diagnosis, advice, and pain relief, and treatment as resources permit) Noncommunicable diseases and injuries (cid:2) (cid:2) (selected early screening and prevention) Populationwide interventions to reduce (cid:2) the risks of cardiovascular disease (salt- and cholesterol-lowering strategies) Water and sanitation (cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2)(disinfection at point of use) Sources:Jha and Mills 2002; WHO 2000, 2002; WHO and UNICEF 1978; World Bank 1993, 1994. HAART(cid:1)highly active antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV/AIDS; IMCI(cid:1)integrated management of infant and childhood illness. Note:A “(cid:2)” that appears in a shaded cell but not in the white cells beneath this area means that no details of the exact interventions were provided in the report. a. Addressed only interventions against riskfactors. b. These and other disease prevention and control initiatives fell under a general item termed prevention and control of locally endemic diseases(HIV/AIDS was not an issue at the time). General Primary Care | 1207 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Commission on Health Research for Development.1990.Health Research: Essential Link to Equity in Development.New York:Oxford University This chapter draws considerably on the background paper by Press. Doherty and Govender (2004) titled “The Cost-Effectiveness of de Savigny,D.,H.Kasale,C.Mbuya,G.Munna,L.Mgalula,A.Mzige,and G.Reid.2002.“Tanzania Essential Health Interventions Project:TEHIP Primary Care Services in Developing Countries: A Review of the International Literature,” commissioned by the Disease Tanzania. Control Priorities Project.It draws on productive discussions Doherty,J.,and R.Govender.2004.“The Cost-Effectiveness of Primary during the workshop “Integrating Interventions and Health Care Services in Developing Countries:A Review ofthe International Literature.” Background paper for the Disease Control Priorities Systems”held in July 2004 in Johannesburg;the workshop was Project. supported by the project and convened by the School ofPublic Medicine, United Kingdom. The authors acknowledge with Africa: Evidence from Zaire and Liberia.” International Journal of Epidemiology22 (Suppl.5):S64–72. pleasure the critique, insights, and support provided by the Gilson, L. 1998. “The Lessons of User Fee Experience in Africa.” In editors and chapter reviewers. J.Doherty,L.Gilson,E.Lambo,and P.Shaw,.Washington,DC:World NOTES Bank. ———. 2003.“Trust and the Development of Health Care as a Social 1.Bobadilla and others (1994) comment that separating interventions Institution.”Social Science and Medicine 56:1453–68. according to age group is artificial because benefits may accrue in
