ABCD Arq Bras Cir Dig
KEYWORDS: patients, disease, bowel, inflammatory, doi, ibd, life, inflammatory bowel, quality, study, crohn, ibdq, bowel disease, quality life, crohn disease


bowel problem; frequency Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) refers to a group of that one has felt depressed and lacking courage; diseases [Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC)] frequency that one feels worried or anxious; how that are autoimmune, chronic, and of unknown etiology25,27. long one has felt calm and relaxed; embarrassment Moreover, it presents progressive and potentially debilitating because of the bowel problem; urge to cry; anger characteristics24. over the bowel problem; how long one has felt The study of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in angry; lack of understanding from other people; these patients is relevant, as it can lead to changes in the social, how satisfied, happy, or grateful one feels about psychological, and social-professional spheres and, during the their personal life. course of the disease, several factors that interact and combine (d) Social aspects (five questions - 04, 08, 12, 16, can cause different impacts on the degree of life satisfaction 28; ranging from 5 to 35 points): inability to go of these individuals and can even be used as a method to to school or work because of the bowel problem; evaluate the treatment2,18. need to delay or cancel social engagements; Symptoms such as profuse chronic diarrhea, abdominal pain, difficulty doing sports or having fun as one would and hyporexia affect HRQoL.3 Therapeutic measures, whether like to because of the bowel problem; avoid going definitive ostomies) , result in frequent adverse effects in the sexual activity because of the bowel problem. long term14,24, affecting the life of patient mentally, emotionally, physiologically, socially, and physically4. The score of the answers was presented through The objective was to cross-sectionally analyze epidemiological multiple choice with seven alternatives (Likert scale), with data, medications in use, previous surgeries, and hospitalizations each question ranging from 1 (representing a “worst” aspect) the impairment of QoL of these patients and the aspects the impact on QoL3,21,26. involved in this impairment. The author provided the informed consent form and then the questionnaire to the participant. If the participant had any doubts, the interviewer repeated the wording of each question to reinforce the understanding of the interviewee. The study METHODS was evaluated and approved by the Faculty of Medicine Santa Marcelina’s Research Orientation Committee (COPE-FASM: This is a prospective, cross-sectional, observational opinion number P010/2019), by Plataforma Brasil, and the study involving patients with IBD (CD and UC) followed at the consubstantiated opinion of the ROC
