ABCD Arq Bras Cir Dig
KEYWORDS: patients, disease, bowel, inflammatory, doi, ibd, life, inflammatory bowel, quality, study, crohn, ibdq, bowel disease, quality life, crohn disease


This is a prospective, cross-sectional, observational opinion number P010/2019), by Plataforma Brasil, and the study involving patients with IBD (CD and UC) followed at the consubstantiated opinion of the ROC (number: 3.574.576). Coloproctology Unit of the Department of General Surgery of Statistical analyses were performed using the IBM SPSS Patients over 18 years of age, with physical and mental correlation analysis was used with a power of 95% and alpha capacity to participate in the study and agree with the term probability fixed at 5%. The scatter diagram was used to verify of consent and participation in the work, were included. the relationship between various aspects and total score. Pregnant women and patients with an indication for emergency The differences between the total IBDQ of comparative hospitalization were excluded. groups of CD and UC were combined using the Student’s t-test. The following items were analyzed: The verification of homogeneity or heterogeneity of variances (1) General data: age, sex, race, marital status, education, was carried out by one-tailed F test. For the stratification of body mass index (BMI), smoking, and comorbidities data related to sex, the dummy binary variable was created. (2) Disease-related data: length of disease, previous The dispersion diagram with the curve plot for a trend line and and medications in use IBDQ score (Crohn’s alpha coefficient for intestinal, systemic, (3) Application of IBD Life Questionnaire: IBDQ (Intestinal emotional, social, and total with 95%), and for all analyses, a Bowel Disease Questionnaire) 7,8,13,16,18,19,20,25,27, which value of p=0.05 was considered. contains 32 items comprising four domains: (a) Intestinal symptoms (10 questions – 01, 05, 09, 13, 17, 20, 22, 24, 26, 29; ranging from 10 to 70 points): frequency of bowel movements; diarrhea; RESULTS abdominal cramping; discomfort from pain in the belly; problem with eliminating large amounts of Fifty-six patients with IBD were evaluated, with equal gas; feeling of bloating in the belly; rectal bleeding number of patients with CD and UC, and the demographic on bowel movements; discomfort from going characteristics are summarized in Table 1. to the toilet to evacuate and not being able to Figure 1 shows the prevalence of IBD and of the CD and despite effort and from accidentally evacuating UC forms in relation to the time of disease, where it can be seen in the pants; feeling of nausea that in most of the study patients the prevalence of disease (b) Systemic symptoms (five
