Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


ABSTRACT Diabetes mellitus is a common and debilitating disease that affects a variety of organs including the skin. Between thirty and seventy percent of patients with diabetes mellitus, both type 1 and type 2, will present with a cutaneous complication of diabetes mellitus at some point during their lifetime. A variety of dermatologic manifestations have been linked with diabetes mellitus; these conditions vary in severity and can be benign, deforming, and even life-threatening. Such skin changes can offer insight into patients’ glycemic control and may be the first sign of metabolic derangement in undiagnosed patients with diabetes. Recognition and management of these conditions is important in maximizing the quality of life and in avoiding serious adverse effects in patients with diabetes mellitus. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The changes associated with diabetes mellitus can affect multiple organ systems. Between thirty and seventy percent of patients with diabetes mellitus, both type 1 and type 2, will present with a cutaneous complication of diabetes mellitus at some point during their lifetime ( 1 ). Dermatologic manifestations of diabetes mellitus have various health implications ranging from those that are aesthetically concerning to those that may be life-threatening. Awareness of cutaneous manifestations of diabetes mellitus can provide insight into the present or prior metabolic status of patients. The recognition of such findings may aid in the diagnosis of diabetes or may be followed as a marker of glycemic control. The text that follows describes the relationship between diabetes mellitus and the skin, more specifically: ( 1 ) skin manifestations strongly associated with diabetes, ( 2 ) non-specific dermatologic signs and symptoms associated with diabetes, ( 3 ) dermatologic diseases associated with diabetes, ( 4 ) common skin infections in diabetes, and ( 5 ) cutaneous changes associated with diabetes medications. SKIN MANIFESTATIONS STRONGLY ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES MELLITUS Acanthosis Nigricans EPIDEMIOLOGY Acanthosis nigricans (AN) is a classic dermatologic manifestation of diabetes mellitus that affects men and women of all ages. AN is more common in type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 2 ) and is more prevalent in those with darker skin color. AN occurs more frequently in African Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans ( 3 ). AN is observed in a variety of endocrinopathies associated with resistance to insulin such as acromegaly, Cushing syndrome, obesity, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and thyroid dysfunction. Unrelated
