Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


Americans ( 3 ). AN is observed in a variety of endocrinopathies associated with resistance to insulin such as acromegaly, Cushing syndrome, obesity, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and thyroid dysfunction. Unrelated to insulin resistance, AN can also be associated with malignancies such as gastric adenocarcinomas and genitourinary cancers, as well as with autoimmune disorders, various medications, and familial disorders ( 4 , 4a-f ). PRESENTATION AN presents chronically as multiple poorly demarcated plaques with grey to dark brown hyperpigmentation and a thickened velvety to verrucous texture ( figure 1 ). Classically, AN has a symmetrical distribution and is located in intertriginous or flexural surfaces such as the back of the neck, axilla, elbows, palmar hands (also known as “tripe palms”), inframammary creases, umbilicus, or groin. Affected areas are asymptomatic; however, extensive involvement may cause discomfort or fetor. Microscopy shows hyperkeratosis and epidermal papillomatosis with acanthosis. The changes in skin pigmentation are primarily a consequence of hyperkeratosis, not changes in melanin. AN can present prior to the clinical diagnosis of diabetes; the presence of AN should prompt evaluation for diabetes mellitus and for other signs of insulin resistance. Figure 1. Acanthosis nigricans. From Wikipedia. PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of AN in diabetes is multifactorial. It is well-established that a hyperinsulin state directly activates insulin growth factor receptors (IGF), specifically IGF-1, on keratinocytes and fibroblasts, provoking cell proliferation, resulting in the aforementioned cutaneous manifestations of AN ( 5 , 6 ). Hyperinsulinemia also decreases circulating levels of IGF binding protein 1 and 2, increasing IGF-1 blood levels for the same effect ( 6a ). TREATMENT Treatment of AN may improve current lesions and prevent future cutaneous manifestations. AN is best managed with lifestyle changes such as dietary modifications, increased physical activity, and weight reduction. In patients with diabetes, pharmacologic adjuvants, such as metformin, that improve glycemic control and reduce insulin resistance are also beneficial ( 7 ). One case report demonstrated the effectiveness of the glucagon peptide receptor 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist liraglutide in improving the clinical appearance of AN ( 7a ). Primary dermatologic therapies are usually ineffective especially in patients with generalized involvement. However, in those with thickened or macerated areas of skin, topical retinoids, topical vitamin D analogs such as calciprotriol, or topical keratolytics such as ammonium lactate and salicylic acid are the primary treatments used for localized lesions ( 8 - 10 ). Systemic retinoids such as isotretinoin and acitretin
