Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


or topical keratolytics such as ammonium lactate and salicylic acid are the primary treatments used for localized lesions ( 8 - 10 ). Systemic retinoids such as isotretinoin and acitretin have been associated with improvement in patients with extensive involvement but are not often used due to risk of systemic adverse effects and relapse upon discontinuation ( 10a ). Topical urea, trichloroacetic acid, glycolic acid peels, and laser therapy have also been suggested as localized treatment modalities, though addressing the underlying disorder remains the most effective intervention. Diabetic Dermopathy EPIDEMIOLOGY Diabetic dermopathy (DD), also known as pigmented pretibial patches or diabetic shin spots, is the most common dermatologic manifestations of diabetes, occurring in as many as one-half of those with diabetes ( 11 ). Although disputed, some consider the presence of DD to be pathognomonic for diabetes. DD has a strong predilection for men and those older than 50 years of age, with the number of lesions increasing with the duration of diabetes, increasing age, and HbA1C levels ( 12 , 12a ). Although DD may antecede the onset of diabetes, it occurs more frequently as a late complication of diabetes and in those with microvascular disease. DD often occurs prior to the onset of neuropathy and retinopathy; nephropathy is also regularly present in patients with DD ( 12a ). An association with cardiovascular disease has also been identified, with one study showing 53% of non- insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with DD had coexisting coronary artery disease ( 13 ). PRESENTATION DD initially presents with rounded, dull, red papules that progressively evolve over one-to-two weeks into well-circumscribed, atrophic, brown macules with a fine scale ( figure 2 ). Normally after about eighteen to twenty-four months, lesions dissipate and leave behind an area of concavity and hyperpigmentation. At any time, different lesions can present at different stages of evolution. The lesions are normally distributed bilaterally and localized over bony prominences. The pretibial area is most commonly involved, although other bony prominences such as the forearms, lateral malleoli, or thighs may also be involved. Aside from the aforementioned changes, patients are otherwise asymptomatic. DD is a clinical diagnosis that should not require a skin biopsy, which should be especially avoided in patients with poor wound healing ( 12a ). Histologically, DD is rather nonspecific; it is characterized by lymphocytic infiltrates surrounding vasculature, engorged blood vessels in the papillary dermis, and dispersed hemosiderin deposits.
