Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


poor wound healing ( 12a ). Histologically, DD is rather nonspecific; it is characterized by lymphocytic infiltrates surrounding vasculature, engorged blood vessels in the papillary dermis, and dispersed hemosiderin deposits. Moreover, the histology varies based on the stage of the lesion. Immature lesions present with epidermal edema as opposed to epidermal atrophy which is representative of older lesions ( 14 ). Figure 2. Diabetic dermopathy. PATHOGENESIS The origin of DD remains unclear, however, mild trauma to affected areas ( 15 ), hemosiderin and melanin deposition ( 16 ), microangiopathic changes (12A, 17), and destruction of subcutaneous nerves ( 18 ) have all been suggested. TREATMENT Treatment is typically avoided given the asymptomatic and self-resolving nature of DD as well as the ineffectiveness of available treatments. However, DD often occurs in the context of microvascular complications and neuropathies ( 12 ); hence, patients need to be examined and followed more rigorously for these complications. Although improvement of DD lesions is variable with glycemic control, managing blood glucose can help prevent progression of microvascular complications ( 18a ). Diabetic Foot Syndrome EPIDEMIOLOGY Diabetic Foot Syndrome (DFS) encompasses the neuropathic and vasculopathic complications that develop in the feet of patients with diabetes. Although preventable, DFS is a significant cause of morbidity, mortality, hospitalization, and reduction in quality of life of patients with diabetes. The incidence and prevalence of DFS in patients with diabetes is 1% to 4% and 4% to 10%, respectively ( 19 ). Furthermore, DFS is slightly more prevalent in type 1 diabetes compared with type 2 diabetes ( 20 ). A more comprehensive review of diabetic foot syndrome can be found in The Diabetic Foot chapter of Endotext ( 20a ). PRESENTATION DFS presents initially with callosities and dry skin related to diabetic neuropathy. In later stages, chronic ulcers and a variety of other malformations of the feet develop. Between 15% and 25% of patients with diabetes will develop ulcers ( 21 ). Ulcers may be neuropathic, ischemic, or mixed. The most common type of ulcers are neuropathic ulcers, a painless ulceration resulting from peripheral neuropathy. Ulcers associated with peripheral vascular ischemia are painful but less common. Ulcers tend to occur in areas prone to trauma, classically presenting at the site of calluses or over bony prominences. It is common for ulcers to occur on the toes, forefoot, and ankles. Untreated ulcers usually heal within one year, however, fifty percent
