Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


site of calluses or over bony prominences. It is common for ulcers to occur on the toes, forefoot, and ankles. Untreated ulcers usually heal within one year, however, fifty percent of patients with diabetes will have recurrence of the ulcer within three years ( 22 ). The skin of affected patients, especially in those with type 2 diabetes, is more prone to fungal infection and the toe webs are a common port of entry for fungi which can then infect and complicate ulcers ( 23 ). Secondary infection of ulcers is a serious complication that can result in gangrenous necrosis, osteomyelitis, and may even require lower extremity amputation. Another complication, diabetic neuro-osteoarthropathy (also known as Charcot foot), is an irreversible debilitating and deforming condition involving progressive destruction of weight-bearing bones and joints. Diabetic neuro-osteoarthropathy occurs most frequently in the feet and can result in collapse of the midfoot, referred to as “rocker-bottom foot.” Moreover, a reduction of the intrinsic muscle volume and thickening of the plantar aponeurosis can cause a muscular imbalance that produces a clawing deformation of the toes. An additional complication of diabetes and neuropathy involving the feet is erythromelalgia. Erythromelalgia presents with redness, warmth, and a burning pain involving the lower extremities, most often the feet. Symptoms may worsen in patients with erythromelalgia with exercise or heat exposure and may improve with cooling ( 24 ). PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of DFS involves a combination of inciting factors that coexist together: neuropathy ( 25 ), atherosclerosis ( 25 ), and impaired wound healing ( 26 ). In the setting of long-standing hyperglycemia, there is an increase in advanced glycosylation end products, proinflammatory factors, and oxidative stress which results in the demyelination of nerves and subsequent neuropathy ( 27 , 28 ). Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that there is a unique subset of fibroblasts that overexpress factors associated with healing within the wound bed as opposed to the wound edge ( 28a ). Additionally, wound healers demonstrate an increase in M1 macrophages as opposed to non- wound healers which have an increase in M2 macrophages. The effect on sensory and motor nerves can blunt the perception of adverse stimuli and produce an altered gait, increasing the likelihood of developing foot ulcers and malformations. Also, damage to autonomic nerve fibers causes a reduction in sweating which may leave skin in the lower extremity dehydrated and prone to fissures and secondary
