Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


foot ulcers and malformations. Also, damage to autonomic nerve fibers causes a reduction in sweating which may leave skin in the lower extremity dehydrated and prone to fissures and secondary infection ( 29 ). In addition to neuropathy, accelerated arterial atherosclerosis can lead to peripheral ischemia and ulceration ( 30 ). It has been reported that there is an association between diabetic patients with Charcot neuroarthropathy and greater impairment of cutaneous microvascular reactivity when compared to non-complicated diabetic groups ( 30a ). Finally, hyperglycemia impairs macrophage functionality as well as increases and prolongs the inflammatory response, slowing the healing of ulcers ( 31 ). TREATMENT Treatment should involve an interdisciplinary team-based approach with a focus on prevention and management of current ulcers. Prevention entails daily surveillance, appropriate foot hygiene, and proper footwear, walkers, or other devices to minimize and distribute pressure. An appropriate wound care program should be used to care for ongoing ulcers. Different classes of wound dressing should be considered based on the type of wound. Hydrogels, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, topical growth factors, and biofabricated skin grafts are also available ( 19 ). The clinical presentation should indicate whether antibiotic therapy or wound debridement is necessary ( 19 ). In patients with chronic treatment resistant ulcers, underlying ischemia should be considered; these patients may require surgical revascularization or bypass. Diabetic Thick Skin Skin thickening is frequently observed in patients with diabetes. Affected areas of skin can appear thickened, waxy, or edematous. These patients are often asymptomatic but can have a reduction in sensation and pain. Although different parts of the body can be involved, the hands and feet are most frequently involved. Ultrasound evaluation of the skin can be diagnostic and exhibit thickened skin. Subclinical generalized skin thickening is the most common type of skin thickening. Diabetic thick skin may represent another manifestation of scleroderma-like skin changes, limited joint mobility, or scleredema diabeticorum, which are each described in more detail below. SCLERODERMA-LIKE SKIN CHANGES Epidemiology Scleroderma-like skin changes are a distinct and easily overlooked group of findings that are commonly observed in patients with diabetes. Ten to fifty percent of patients with diabetes present with the associated skin findings ( 32 ). Scleroderma-like skin changes occur more commonly in those with type 1 diabetes and in those with longstanding disease ( 33 ). There is no known variation in prevalence between males and females, or between racial groups.
