Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


in those with type 1 diabetes and in those with longstanding disease ( 33 ). There is no known variation in prevalence between males and females, or between racial groups. Presentation Scleroderma-like skin changes develop slowly and present with painless, indurated, occasionally waxy appearing, thickened skin. These changes occur symmetrically and bilaterally in acral areas. In patients with scleroderma-like skin changes the acral areas are involved, specifically the dorsum of the fingers (sclerodactyly), proximal interphalangeal, and metacarpophalangeal joints. Severe disease may extend centrally from the hands to the arms or back. A small number of patients with diabetes may develop more extensive disease, which presents earlier and with truncal involvement. The risk of developing nephropathy and retinopathy is increased in those with scleroderma-like skin changes who also have type 1 diabetes ( 33 , 34 ). The aforementioned symptoms are also associated with diabetic hand syndrome which may present with limited joint mobility, palmar fibromatosis (Dupuytren's contracture), and stenosing tenosynovitis (“trigger finger”) ( 35 ). The physical exam finding known as the “prayer sign” (inability to flushly press palmar surfaces on each hand together) may be present in patients with diabetic hand syndrome and scleroderma-like skin changes ( 36 ). On histology, scleroderma-like skin changes reveal thickening of the dermis, minimal-to-absent mucin, and increased interlinking of collagen. Although on physical exam scleroderma may be difficult to distinguish from these skin changes, scleroderma-like skin changes are not associated with atrophy of the dermis, Raynaud’s syndrome, pain, or telangiectasias. Pathogenesis Although not fully understood, the pathogenesis is believed to involve the strengthening of collagen as a result of reactions associated with advanced glycosylation end products or a buildup of sugar alcohols in the upper dermis ( 37 , 38 ). Treatment Scleroderma-like skin changes is a chronic condition that is also associated with joint and microvascular complication. Therapeutic options are extremely limited. One observational report has suggested that very tight blood glucose control may result in the narrowing of thickened skin ( 39 ). In addition, aldose reductase inhibitors, which limit increases in sugar alcohols, may be efficacious ( 38 ). In patients with restricted ranges of motions, physical therapy can help to maintain and improve joint mobility. LIMITED JOINT MOBILITY Epidemiology Limited Joint Mobility (LJM), also known as diabetic cheiroarthropathy, is a relatively common complication of long-standing diabetes mellitus. The majority of patients with LJM also present with scleroderma-like skin changes
