Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


Limited Joint Mobility (LJM), also known as diabetic cheiroarthropathy, is a relatively common complication of long-standing diabetes mellitus. The majority of patients with LJM also present with scleroderma-like skin changes ( 38 , 40 ). The prevalence of LJM is 4% to 26% in patients without diabetes and 8% to 58% in patients with diabetes ( 41 ). Presentation LJM presents with progressive flexed contractures and hindered joint extension, most commonly involving the metacarpophalangeal and interphalangeal joints of the hand. The earliest changes often begin in the joints of the fifth finger before then spreading to involve the other joints of the hand ( 38 ). Patients may present with an inability to flushly press the palmar surfaces of each of their hands together (“prayer sign”) ( figure 3 ) or against the surface of a table when their forearms are perpendicular to the surface of the table (“tabletop sign”) ( 42 ). Pathogenesis These changes occur as a result of periarticular enlargement of connective tissue. Pathogenesis likely involves hyperglycemia induced formation of advanced glycation end-products, which accumulate to promote inflammation and the formation of stiffening cross-links between collagen ( 43 ). LJM is strongly associated with microvascular and macrovascular changes and diagnosis of LJM should prompt a workup for related sequela ( 44 ). Patients with LJM may also be at an increased risk for falls ( 45 ). Treatment There are no curative treatments. Symptomatic patients may benefit from non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or targeted injection of corticosteroids ( 43 ). LJM is best managed with improved glycemic control ( 46 ), as well as regular stretching to maintain and minimize further limitations in joint mobility. Figure 3. Limited joint mobility. SCLEREDEMA DIABETOCORUM Epidemiology Scleredema is a chronic and slowly progressive sclerotic skin disorder that is often seen in the context of diabetes, in which case it is classified as scleredema diabeticorum (SD). Whereas 2.5% to 14% of all patients with diabetes have scleredema, over 50% of those with scleredema present with concomitant diabetes ( 47 ). SD has a proclivity for men with a long history of diabetes ( 47a ). It remains unclear whether there is a predilection for SD in those with type 1 diabetes ( 48 ) compared to those with type 2 diabetes ( 48 ). Presentation SD presents with gradually worsening indurated and thickened skin. These skin changes occur symmetrically and diffusely. The
