Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


48 ) compared to those with type 2 diabetes ( 48 ). Presentation SD presents with gradually worsening indurated and thickened skin. These skin changes occur symmetrically and diffusely. The most commonly involved areas are the upper back, shoulders, and back of the neck. The face, chest, abdomen, buttocks, and thighs may also be involved; however, the distal extremities are classically spared. The affected areas are normally asymptomatic but there can be reduced sensation. Patients with severe longstanding disease may develop a reduced range of motion, most often affecting the trunk. In extreme cases, this can lead to restrictive respiratory problems. A full-thickness skin biopsy may be useful in supporting a clinical presentation. The histology of SD differentiates it from the autoimmune disease scleroderma, displaying increased collagen and a thickened reticular dermis, with a surrounding mucinous infiltrate, without edema or sclerosis. Pathogenesis Although many theories center on abnormalities in collagen, there is no consensus regarding the pathogenesis of SD. The pathogenesis of SD may involve an interplay between non-enzymatic glycosylation of collagen, increased fibroblast production of collagen and mucin, or decreases in collagen breakdown (50-51a). Treatment SD is normally unresolving and slowly progressive over years. Improved glycemic control may be an important means of prevention but evidence has not shown clinical improvements in those already affected by SD. A variety of therapeutic options have been proposed with variable efficacy. The 2024 European Dermatology Forum Guidelines ( 51a ) recommend medium-to-high dose phototherapy with UVA1 or PUVA as first-line therapy, methotrexate as second-line therapy, and other treatments including immunosuppressants, corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, and electron-beam therapy as advanced therapies ( 52 ). Independent of other treatments, physical therapy is an important therapeutic modality for patients with SD and reduced mobility (51A, 53). Necrobiosis Lipoidica EPIDEMIOLOGY Necrobiosis lipoidica (NL) is a rare chronic granulomatous dermatologic disease that is seen most frequently in patients with diabetes. Although nearly one in four patients presenting with NL will also have diabetes, only 0.3% to 1.6% of patients with diabetes will develop NL (47A,54). For unknown reasons, NL expresses a strong predilection for women compared to men ( 55 ). NL generally occurs in type 1 diabetes during the third decade of life, as opposed to type 2 diabetes in which it commonly presents in the fourth or fifth decades of life ( 54 ). The majority of cases of NL presents years after a diagnosis of
