Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


2 diabetes in which it commonly presents in the fourth or fifth decades of life ( 54 ). The majority of cases of NL presents years after a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus; however, NL may precede diabetes, with 7% to 42% of patients with initial NL going on to develop impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes (47A,56). One study evaluating comorbidities and diabetic complications in patients with NL found high rates of smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, thyroid disease, poor kidney function, and poor glucose control (56A). The highest comorbidity rates in patients with NL were patients with type 2 diabetes. PRESENTATION NL begins as a single or group of firm well-demarcated rounded erythematous papules ( figure 4 ). The papules then expand and aggregate into plaques characterized by circumferential red-brown borders and a firm yellow-brown waxen atrophic center containing telangiectasias. NL occurs bilaterally and exhibits Koebnerization. Lesions are almost always found on the pretibial areas of the lower extremities. Additional involvement of the forearm, scalp, distal upper extremities, face, or abdomen may be present on occasion, and the heel of the foot or glans penis even more infrequently. If left untreated, only about 15% of lesions will resolve within twelve years. Despite the pronounced appearance of the lesions, NL is often asymptomatic. However, there may be pruritus and hypoesthesia of affected areas, and pain may be present in the context of ulceration. Ulceration occurs in about one-third of lesions and has been associated with secondary infections and squamous cell carcinoma. The histology of NL primarily involves the dermis and is marked by palisading granulomatous inflammation, necrobiotic collagen, a mixed inflammatory infiltrate, blood vessel wall thickening, and reduced mucin. Figure 4. Necrobiosis Lipoidica. PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of NL is not well understood. The relationship between diabetes and NL has led some to theorize that diabetes-related microangiopathy is related to the development of NL ( 54 ). Other theories focus on irregularities in collagen, autoimmune disease, neutrophil chemotaxis, or blood vessels ( 57 ). TREATMENT NL is a chronic, disfiguring condition that can be debilitating for patients and difficult for clinicians to manage. Differing degrees of success have been reported with a variety of treatments; however, the majority of such reports are limited by inconsistent treatment responses in patients and a lack of large, controlled studies. Corticosteroids are often used in the management of NL and may be
