Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


of such reports are limited by inconsistent treatment responses in patients and a lack of large, controlled studies. Corticosteroids are often used in the management of NL and may be administered topically, intralesionally, or orally. Corticosteroids can be used to manage active lesions but is best not used in areas that are atrophic. Success has also been reported with calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., cyclosporine), anti-tumor necrosis factor inhibitors (e.g., infliximab), pentoxifylline, antimalarials (e.g., hydroxychloroquine), PUVA, granulocyte colony stimulating factor, dipyridamole, and low-dose aspirin ( 54 ). Appropriate wound care is important for ulcerated lesions; this often includes topical antibiotics, protecting areas vulnerable to injury, emollients, and compression bandaging. Surgical excision of ulcers typically has poor results. Some ulcerated lesion may improve with split-skin grafting. Although still recommended, improved control of diabetes has not been found to lead to an improvement in skin lesions. Patients with newly diagnosed NL should be screened for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and thyroid disease ( 56a ). Bullosis Diabeticorum EPIDEMIOLOGY Bullosis diabeticorum (BD) is an uncommon eruptive blistering condition that presents in those with diabetes mellitus. Although BD can occasionally present in early-diabetes ( 58 ), it often occurs in long-standing diabetes along with other complications such as neuropathy, nephropathy, and retinopathy. In the United States, the prevalence of BD is estimated to be around 0.5% amongst patients with diabetes and is believed to be higher in those with type 1 diabetes ( 13 ); however, underreporting of blistering cases in patients with diabetes may indicate a higher prevalence ( 58a ). BD is significantly more common in male patients than in female patients ( 59 ). The average age of onset is between 50 and 70 years of age ( 59 ). PRESENTATION BD presents at sites of previously healthy-appearing skin with the abrupt onset of one or more non-erythematous, firm, sterile bullae. Shortly after forming, bullae increase in size and become more flaccid, ranging in size from about 0.5 cm to 5 cm. Bullae frequently present bilaterally involving the acral areas of the lower extremities. However, involvement of the upper extremities and even more rarely the trunk can be seen. The bullae and the adjacent areas are nontender. BD often presents acutely, classically overnight, with no history of trauma to the affected area. Generally, the bullae heal within two to six weeks, but then commonly reoccur. Histological findings are often non-specific but are useful in distinguishing
