Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


history of trauma to the affected area. Generally, the bullae heal within two to six weeks, but then commonly reoccur. Histological findings are often non-specific but are useful in distinguishing BD from other bullous diseases. Histology typically shows an intraepidermal or subepidermal blister, spongiosis, no acantholysis, minimal inflammatory infiltrate, and normal immunofluorescence. PATHOGENESIS There is an incomplete understanding of the underlying pathogenesis of BD and no consensus regarding a leading theory. Various mechanisms have been proposed, some of which focus on autoimmune processes, exposure to ultraviolet light, variations in blood glucose, neuropathy, or changes in microvasculature ( 60 ). TREATMENT BD resolve without treatment and are therefore managed by avoiding secondary infection and the corresponding sequelae (e.g., necrosis, osteomyelitis). This involves protection of the affected skin, leaving blisters intact (except for large blisters, which may be aspirated to prevent rupture), and monitoring for infection. Topical antibiotics are not necessary unless specifically indicated, such as with secondary infection or positive culture. NONSPECIFIC DERMATOLOGIC SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS Ichthyosiform Changes of the Shins Ichthyosiform changes of the shins presents with large bilateral areas of dryness and scaling (sometimes described as “fish scale” skin) ( figure 5 ). Although cutaneous changes may occur on the hands or feet, the anterior shin is most classically involved. These cutaneous changes are related to rapid skin aging and adhesion defects in the stratum corneum ( 61 ). The prevalence of ichthyosiform changes of the shins in those with type 1 diabetes has been reported to be between 22% to 48% ( 33 , 62 ). These changes present relatively early in the disease course of diabetes. There is no known difference in prevalence between males and females ( 33 ). The development of ichthyosiform changes of the shins is related to production of advanced glycosylation end products and microangiopathic changes. Treatment is limited but topical emollients or keratolytic agents may be beneficial ( 61 ). Figure 5. Acquired ichthyosiform changes. Xerosis Xerosis is one of the most common skin presentations in patients with diabetes and has been reported to be present in as many as 40% of patients with diabetes ( 63 ). Xerosis refers to skin that is abnormally dry. Affected skin may present with scaling, cracks, or a rough texture. These skin changes are most frequently located on the feet of patients with diabetes. It has been reported that diabetic patients that are obese will
