Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


cracks, or a rough texture. These skin changes are most frequently located on the feet of patients with diabetes. It has been reported that diabetic patients that are obese will experience more severe hypohidrosis of the feet ( 63a ). In patients with diabetes, xerosis occurs often in the context of microvascular complications ( 40 ). To avoid complications such as fissures and secondary infections, xerosis can be managed with emollients like ammonium lactate ( 64 ). Acquired Perforating Dermatosis EPIDEMIOLOGY Perforating dermatoses refers to a broad group of chronic skin disorders characterized by a loss of dermal connective tissue. A subset of perforating dermatoses, known as acquired perforating dermatoses (APD), encompasses those perforating dermatoses that are associated with systemic diseases. Although APD may be seen with any systemic diseases, it is classically observed in patients with chronic renal failure or long-standing diabetes ( 65 ). APD occurs most often in adulthood in patients between the ages of 30 and 90 years of age ( 65 , 66 ). The overall prevalence of APD is unknown due to rarity and/or underdiagnosis of the disease. It is estimated that of those diagnosed with APD about 15% also have diabetes mellitus ( 67 ). In a review, 4.5% to 10% of patients with chronic renal failure presented with concurrent APD ( 68 , 69 ). PRESENTATION APD presents as groups of hyperkeratotic umbilicated-nodules and papules with centralized keratin plugs. The lesions undergo Koebnerization and hence the extensor surfaces of the arms and more commonly the legs are often involved; eruptions also occur frequently on the trunk. However, lesions can develop anywhere on the body. Lesions are extremely pruritic and are aggravated by excoriation. Eruptions may improve after a few months, but an area of hyperpigmentation typically remains. Histologically, perforating dermatoses are characterized by a lymphocytic infiltrate, an absence or degeneration of dermal connective tissue components (e.g., collagen, elastic fibers), and transepidermal extrusion of keratotic material. PATHOGENESIS The underlying pathogenesis is disputed and not fully understood. It has been suggested that repetitive superficial trauma from chronic scratching may induce epidermal or dermal derangements ( 70 ). The glycosylation of microvasculature or dermal components has been suggested as well. Other hypotheses have implicated additional metabolic disturbances, or the accumulation of unknown immunogenic substances that are not eliminated by dialysis ( 65 ). APD is also considered a form of prurigo nodularis ( 70a ).
