Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


metabolic disturbances, or the accumulation of unknown immunogenic substances that are not eliminated by dialysis ( 65 ). APD is also considered a form of prurigo nodularis ( 70a ). TREATMENT APD can be challenging to treat and many of the interventions have variable efficacy. Minimizing scratching and other traumas to involved areas can allow lesions to resolve over a period of months. This is best achieved with symptomatic relief of pruritus. Individual lesions can be managed with topical agents such as keratolytics (e.g., 5% to 7% salicylic acid), retinoids (e.g., 0.01% to 0.1% tretinoin), or high-potency steroids ( 71 ). Refractory lesions may respond to intralesional steroid injections or cryotherapy ( 71 ). A common initial approach is a topical steroid in combination with emollients and an oral antihistamine. Generalized symptoms may improve with systemic therapy with oral retinoids, psoralen plus UVA light (PUVA), allopurinol (100 mg daily for 2 to 4 months), or oral antibiotics (doxycycline or clindamycin) ( 72 ). Additionally, as APD is a form of prurigo nodularis, the use of immunomodulating agents such as dupilumab may be effective in treating the condition. There is evidence of dupilumab monotherapy effectively treating certain forms of APD ( 72a ). Nevertheless, effective management of the underlying systemic disease is fundamental to the treatment of APD. In those with diabetes, APD is unlikely to improve without improved blood glucose control. Moreover, dialysis does not reduce symptoms; however, renal transplantation can result in the improvement and resolution of cutaneous lesions. Eruptive Xanthomas EPIDEMIOLOGY Eruptive xanthomas (EX) are a clinical presentation of hypertriglyceridemia, generally associated with serum triglycerides above 2,000 mg/dL ( 73 ). However, in patients with diabetes, lower levels of triglycerides may be associated with EX. The prevalence of EX is around one percent in type 1 diabetes and two percent in type 2 diabetes ( 74 , 75 ). Serum lipid abnormalities are present in about seventy-five percent of patients with diabetes ( 76 ). For a detailed discussion of lipid abnormalities in patients with diabetes see the Endotext chapter entitled “Dyslipidemia in Patients with Diabetes” ( 76a ). PRESENTATION EX has been reported as the first presenting sign of diabetes mellitus, granting it can present at any time in the disease course. EX presents as eruptions of clusters of glossy pink-to-yellow papules, ranging in diameter from 1 mm to 4 mm, overlying an erythematous area ( figure
