Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


time in the disease course. EX presents as eruptions of clusters of glossy pink-to-yellow papules, ranging in diameter from 1 mm to 4 mm, overlying an erythematous area ( figure 6 ). The lesions can be found on extensor surfaces of the extremities, the buttocks, and in areas susceptible in Koebnerization. EX is usually asymptomatic but may be pruritic or tender. Histology reveals a mixed inflammatory infiltrate of the dermis which includes triglyceride containing macrophages, also referred to as foam cells. Figure 6. Eruptive xanthomas. PATHOGENESIS Lipoprotein lipase, a key enzyme in the metabolism of triglyceride rich lipoproteins, is stimulated by insulin. In an insulin deficient state, such as poorly controlled diabetes, there is decreased lipoprotein lipase activity resulting in the accumulation of chylomicrons and other triglyceride rich lipoproteins ( 77 ). Increased levels of these substances are scavenged by macrophages ( 78 ). These lipid-laden macrophages then collect in the dermis of the skin where they can lead to eruptive xanthomas. TREATMENT EX can resolve with improved glycemic control and a reduction in serum triglyceride levels ( 79 ). This may be achieved with fibrates or omega-3-fatty acids in addition to an appropriate insulin regimen ( 80 ). A more comprehensive review of the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia can be found in the Endotext chapter entitled “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 80a ). Acrochordons Acrochordons (also known as soft benign fibromas, fibroepithelial polyps, or skin tags) are benign, soft, pedunculated growths that vary in size and can occur singularly or in groups ( figure 7 ). The neck, axilla, and periorbital area are most frequently involved, although other intertriginous areas can also be affected. Skin tags are common in the general population but are more prevalent in those with increased weight or age, and in women. It has been reported that as many as three out of four patients presenting with acrochordons also have diabetes mellitus ( 81 ). Patients with acanthosis nigricans may have acrochordons overlying the affected areas of skin. Although disputed, some studies have suggested that the amount of skin tags on an individual may correspond with an individual's risk of diabetes or insulin resistance ( 82 ). Excision or cryotherapy is not medically indicated but may be considered in those with symptomatic or cosmetically displeasing lesions. Figure 7. Acrochordons. Diabetes-Associated Pruritus Diabetes can be associated with pruritus, more often localized than generalized. Affected areas can include the
