Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


considered in those with symptomatic or cosmetically displeasing lesions. Figure 7. Acrochordons. Diabetes-Associated Pruritus Diabetes can be associated with pruritus, more often localized than generalized. Affected areas can include the scalp, ankles, feet, trunk, or genitalia ( 83 , 84 ). Pruritus is more likely in patients with diabetes who have dry skin or diabetic neuropathy. Other neuropathic conditions may arise in diabetes, such as scalp dysesthesia and meralgia paresthetica; these conditions often present with pruritus, burning, or pain ( 84a-b ). Specifically, for type 2 diabetes, risk factors for pruritus were identified to be age, duration of disease, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic chronic kidney disease, peripheral arterial disease, and fasting plasma glucose levels ( 84c,d,e ). Involvement of the genitalia or intertriginous areas may occur in the setting of infection (e.g., candidiasis). Treatments include topical capsaicin, topical ketamine-amitriptyline-lidocaine, oral anticonvulsants (e.g., gabapentin or pregabalin), and, in the case of candida infection, antifungals. Huntley’s Papules (Finger Pebbles) Huntley’s papules, also known as finger pebbles, are a benign cutaneous finding affecting the hands. Patients present with clusters of non-erythematous, asymptomatic, small papules on the dorsal surface of the hand, specifically affecting the metacarpophalangeal joints and periungual areas. The clusters of small papules can develop into coalescent plaques. Other associated cutaneous findings include hypopigmentation and induration of the skin. Huntley’s papules are strongly associated with type 2 diabetes and may be an early sign of diabetic thick skin ( 85 , 86 ). Topical therapies are usually ineffective; however, patients suffering from excessive dryness of the skin may benefit from 12% ammonium lactate cream ( 87 ). Keratosis Pilaris Keratosis pilaris is a very common benign keratotic disorder. Patients with keratosis pilaris classically present with areas of keratotic perifollicular papules with surrounding erythema or hyperpigmentation ( figure 8 ). The posterior surfaces of the upper arms are often affected but involvement of the thighs, face, and buttocks can also be seen. Compared to the general population, keratosis pilaris occurs more frequently and with more extensive involvement of the skin in those with diabetes ( 33 , 62 ). Keratosis pilaris can be treated with various topical therapies, including salicylic acid, moisturizers, and emollients. Figure 8. Keratosis pilaris. Pigmented Purpuric Dermatoses Pigmented purpuric dermatoses (also known as pigmented purpura) are associated with diabetes, more often in the elderly, and frequently coexist with diabetic dermopathy ( 88 , 89 ). Pigmented purpura
