Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


Pigmented purpuric dermatoses (also known as pigmented purpura) are associated with diabetes, more often in the elderly, and frequently coexist with diabetic dermopathy ( 88 , 89 ). Pigmented purpura presents with non-blanching copper-colored patches involving the pretibial areas of the legs or the dorsum of the feet. The lesions are usually asymptomatic but may be pruritic. Pigmented purpuric dermatoses occur more often in late-stage diabetes in patients with nephropathy and retinopathy as a result of microangiopathic damage to capillaries and sequential erythrocyte deposition ( 90 ). Palmar Erythema Palmar erythema is a benign finding that presents with symmetric redness and warmth involving the palms ( figure 9 ). The erythema is asymptomatic and often most heavily affects the hypothenar and thenar eminences of the palms. The microvascular complications of diabetes are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of palmar erythema ( 91 ). Although diabetes associated palmar erythema is distinct from physiologic mottled skin, it is similar to other types of palmar erythema such as those related to pregnancy and rheumatoid arthritis. Figure 9. Palmar erythema. From Wikipedia. Periungual Telangiectasias As many as one in every two patients with diabetes are affected by periungual telangiectasias ( 92 ). Periungual telangiectasias presents asymptomatically with erythema and telangiectasias surrounding the proximal nail folds ( 71 ). Such findings may occur in association with “ragged” cuticles and fingertip tenderness. The cutaneous findings are due to venous capillary dilatation that occurs secondary to diabetic microangiopathy. Capillary abnormalities, such as venous capillary tortuosity, may differ and can represent an early manifestation of diabetes-related microangiopathy ( 93 ). Rubeosis Faciei Rubeosis faciei is a benign finding present in about 7% of patients with diabetes; however, in hospitalized patients, the prevalence may exceed 50% ( 94 ). Rubeosis faciei presents with chronic erythema of the face or neck. Telangiectasias may also be visible. The flushed appearance is often more prominent in those with lighter colored skin. The flushed appearance is thought to occur secondary to small vessel dilation and microangiopathic changes. Complications of diabetes mellitus, such as retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy are associated with rubeosis faciei ( 90 ). Facial erythema may improve with better glycemic control and reduction of caffeine or alcohol intake. Yellow Skin and Nails It is common for patients with diabetes, particularly elderly patients with type 2 diabetes, to present with asymptomatic yellow discolorations of their skin or fingernails. These benign
