Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


Skin and Nails It is common for patients with diabetes, particularly elderly patients with type 2 diabetes, to present with asymptomatic yellow discolorations of their skin or fingernails. These benign changes commonly involve the palms, soles, face, or the distal nail of the first toe. The accumulation of various substances (e.g., carotene, glycosylated proteins) in patients with diabetes may be responsible for the changes in complexion; however, the pathogenesis remains controversial ( 95 ). Onychocryptosis Onychocryptosis, or ingrown toenails, have been reported in patients with diabetes, specifically type 2 diabetes ( 95a ). The great toes are most affected. It is hypothesized that this nail change can occur in diabetic patients because onychocryptosis is correlated with increased body mass index, trauma, weak vascular supply, nail plate dysfunction, and subungual hyperkeratosis. DERMATOLOGIC DISEASES ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES Generalized Granuloma Annulare EPIDEMIOLOGY Although various forms of granuloma annulare exist, only generalized granuloma annulare (GGA) is thought to be associated with diabetes. It is estimated that between ten and fifteen percent of cases of GGA occur in patients with diabetes ( 96 ). Meanwhile, less than one percent of patients with diabetes present with GGA. GGA occurs around the average age of 50 years. It occurs more frequently in women than in men, and in those with type 1 diabetes ( 97 ). PRESENTATION GGA initially presents with groups of skin-colored or reddish, firm papules which slowly grow and centrally involute to then form hypo- or hyper-pigmented annular rings with elevated circumferential borders ( figure 10 ). The lesions can range in size from 0.5 cm to 5.0 cm. The trunk and extremities are classically involved in a bilateral distribution. GGA is normally asymptomatic but can present with pruritus. The histology shows dermal granulomatous inflammation surrounding foci of necrotic collagen and mucin. Necrobiosis lipoidica can present similarly to GGA; GGA is distinguished from necrobiosis lipoidica by its red color, the absence of an atrophic epidermis, and on histopathology: the presence of mucin and lack of plasma cells. Figure 10. Generalized granuloma annulare. From Wikipedia. PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of GGA is incompletely understood. It is believed to involve an unknown stimulus that leads to the activation of lymphocytes through a delayed- type hypersensitivity reaction, ultimately initiating a proinflammatory cascade and granuloma formation ( 98 ). Recent studies have identified Th1, JAK-STAT, and perhaps also Th2 pathway dysregulation in GA lesional skin ( 97a ). TREATMENT
