Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


initiating a proinflammatory cascade and granuloma formation ( 98 ). Recent studies have identified Th1, JAK-STAT, and perhaps also Th2 pathway dysregulation in GA lesional skin ( 97a ). TREATMENT GGA has a prolonged often unresolving disease course and multiple treatments have been suggested to better manage GGA. However, much of the information stems from small studies and case reports. Several large retrospective studies suggest the efficacy of intralesional and topical corticosteroids in some patients, with phototherapy being an option for GA refractory to corticosteroids ( 97a ). Antimalarials, retinoids, dapsone, methotrexate, cyclosporine, and calcineurin inhibitors have also been suggested as therapies ( 97a , 98 ). Psoriasis Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disorder that may present with a variety of symptoms, including erythematous, indurated, and scaly areas of skin. Psoriasis has been found to be associated with a variety of risk factors, such as hypertension, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, that increase the likelihood of cardiovascular disease. The development of diabetes mellitus, an additional cardiovascular risk factor, has been strongly associated with psoriasis ( 99 ). In particular, younger patients and those with severe psoriasis may be more likely to develop diabetes in the future ( 99 ). Lichen Planus Lichen planus is a mucocutaneous inflammatory disorder characterized by firm, erythematous, polygonal, pruritic, papules. These papules classically involve the wrists or ankles, although the trunk, back, and thighs can also be affected. A number of studies have cited an association between lichen planus and abnormalities in glucose tolerance testing. Approximately one in four patients with lichen planus have diabetes mellitus ( 100 ). Although the association is contested, it has been reported that patients with diabetes may also be more likely to develop oral lichen planus ( 101 ). Vitiligo Vitiligo is an acquired autoimmune disorder involving melanocyte destruction. Patients with vitiligo present with scattered well-demarcated areas of depigmentation that can occur anywhere on the body but frequently involves the acral surfaces and the face ( figure 11 ). Whereas about 1% of the general population is affected by vitiligo, vitiligo is much more prevalent in those with diabetes mellitus. Vitiligo occurs more frequently in women and is also more common in type 1 than in type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 96 , 98 ). Coinciding vitiligo and type 1 diabetes mellitus may be associated with endocrine autoimmune abnormalities of the gastric parietal cells, adrenal, or thyroid ( 102
