Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


mellitus ( 96 , 98 ). Coinciding vitiligo and type 1 diabetes mellitus may be associated with endocrine autoimmune abnormalities of the gastric parietal cells, adrenal, or thyroid ( 102 ). A more comprehensive review of polyglandular autoimmune disorders can be found in the Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes section of Endotext ( 102a ). Figure 11. Vitiligo. From Wikipedia. Hidradenitis Suppurativa Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic inflammatory condition characterized by inflamed nodules and abscesses located in intertriginous areas such as the axilla or groin ( figure 12 ). These lesions are often painful and malodorous. HS is frequently complicated by sinus formation and the development of disfiguring scars. HS occurs more often in women than men and usually presents in patients beginning in their twenties ( 103 ). The prevalence of HS is 0.095% in White populations, increasing more than 3-fold in Black populations ( 103a ). Compared to the general population, diabetes mellitus is three times more common in patients with HS; HS has also been associated with cigarette smoking, diabetes, and low socioeconomic status ( 103a , 104 ). It is recommended that patients with HS be screened for diabetes mellitus. Although there is no standardized approach to the treatment of HS, a multimodal approach may address underlying follicular occlusion, inflammation, bacterial overgrowth, hormonal and metabolic dysregulation and lifestyle modifications ( 103a ). Some benefits have been reported with the use of antibiotics, retinoids, antiandrogens, or immunomodulators such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors ( 105 ). Figure 12. Hidradenitis suppurativa. From Wikipedia. Glucagonoma Glucagonoma is a rare neuroendocrine tumor that most frequently affects patients in their sixth decade of life ( 106 ). Patients with glucagonoma may present with a variety of non-specific symptoms. However, necrolytic migratory erythema (NME) is classically associated with glucagonoma and presents in 70% to 83% of patients ( 106 ) ( 107 ). NME is characterized by erythematous erosive crusted or vesicular eruptions of papules or plaques with irregular borders ( figure 13 ). The lesions may become bullous or blistered and may be painful or pruritic. The abdomen, groin, genitals, or buttocks are frequently involved, although cheilitis or glossitis may also be present. Biopsy at the edge of the lesion may demonstrate epidermal pallor, necrolytic edema, and a perivascular inflammatory infiltrate ( 108 ). Patients with glucagonoma may also present with diabetes mellitus. In patients with glucagonoma, diabetes mellitus frequently presents
