Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


demonstrate epidermal pallor, necrolytic edema, and a perivascular inflammatory infiltrate ( 108 ). Patients with glucagonoma may also present with diabetes mellitus. In patients with glucagonoma, diabetes mellitus frequently presents prior to NME ( 107 ). Approximately 20% to 40% of patients will present with diabetes mellitus before the diagnosis of glucagonoma ( 107 , 109 ). Of those patients diagnosed with glucagonoma but not diabetes mellitus, 76% to 94% will eventually develop diabetes mellitus ( 110 ). A more comprehensive review of glucagonoma can be found in the Glucagonoma section of Endotext ( 110a ). Figure 13. Necrolytic migratory erythema. From Endotext chapter entitled Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome. Melanoma Type 2 diabetes mellitus does not increase the risk of melanoma, but it is associated with more advanced melanoma stages at the time of diagnosis as well as the presence of ulceration ( 110b ). Furthermore, type 2 diabetes mellitus may promote more aggressive melanoma, but further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms involved ( 110c ). Skin Infections The prevalence of cutaneous infections in patients with diabetes is about one in every five patients ( 111 ). Compared with the general population, patients with diabetes mellitus are more susceptible to infections and more prone to repeated infections. A variety of factors are believed to be involved in the vulnerability to infection in patients with uncontrolled diabetes, some of these factors include angiopathy, neuropathy, hindrance of the antioxidant system, abnormalities in leukocyte adherence, chemotaxis, and phagocytosis, as well as a glucose-rich environment facilitates the growth of pathogens. Host risk factors associated with skin and soft tissue in patients with DM are uncontrolled hyperglycemia, disruption of skin barrier, elevated skin pH sensory or autonomic neuropathy, trauma/pressure, venous or arterial insufficiency, and immune system dysfunction ( 111a ). BACTERIAL Erysipelas and Cellulitis Erysipelas and cellulitis are cutaneous infections that occur frequently in patients with diabetes. Erysipelas presents with pain and well-demarcated superficial erythema. Cellulitis is a deeper cutaneous infection that presents with pain and poorly demarcated erythema. Folliculitis is common among patients with diabetes, and is characterized by inflamed, perifollicular, papules and pustules. Treatment for the aforementioned conditions depends on the severity of the infection. Uncomplicated cellulitis and erysipelas are typically treated empirically with oral antibiotics, whereas uncomplicated folliculitis may be managed with topical antibiotics. Colonization with methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is not uncommon among patients with diabetes (
