Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


typically treated empirically with oral antibiotics, whereas uncomplicated folliculitis may be managed with topical antibiotics. Colonization with methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is not uncommon among patients with diabetes ( 112 ); however, it is debated as to whether colonized patients are predisposed to increased complications ( 113 ) such as bullous erysipelas, carbuncles, or perifollicular abscesses. Regardless, it is important that appropriate precautions are taken in these patients and that antibiotics are selected that account for antimicrobial resistance. Diabetic Foot Infection Infection of the foot is the most common type of soft tissue infection in patients with diabetes. If not managed properly, diabetic foot infections can become severe, possibly leading to osteomyelitis, sepsis, amputation, or even death. Although less severe, the areas between the toes and the toenails are also frequently infected in patients with diabetes. Infections can stem from monomicrobial or polymicrobial etiologies. Staphylococcal infections are the most common ( 114 ), although complications with infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa are also common ( 115 ). Pseudomonal infection of the toenail may present with a green discoloration, which may become more pronounced with the use of a Wood’s light. Treatment frequently requires coordination of care from multiple medical providers. Topical or oral antibiotics and surgical debridement may be indicated depending on the severity of the infection. Necrotizing Fasciitis Necrotizing fasciitis is an acute life-threatening infection of the skin and the underlying tissue. Those with poorly controlled diabetes are at an increased risk for necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis presents early with erythema, induration, and tenderness which may then progress within days to hemorrhagic bullous. Patients will classically present with severe pain out of proportion to their presentation on physical exam. Palpation of the affected area often illicit crepitus. Involvement can occur on any part of the body but normally occurs in a single area, most commonly affecting the lower extremities. Fournier’s gangrene refers to necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum or genitals, often involving the scrotum and spreading rapidly to adjacent tissues. The infection in patients with diabetes is most often polymicrobial. Complications of necrotizing fasciitis include thrombosis, gangrenous necrosis, sepsis, and organ failure. Necrotizing fasciitis has a mortality rate of around twenty percent ( 116 ). In addition, those patients with diabetes and necrotizing fasciitis are more likely to require amputation during their treatment ( 117 ). Treatment is emergent and includes extensive surgical debridement and broad-spectrum antibiotics. Erythrasma Erythrasma
