Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


with diabetes and necrotizing fasciitis are more likely to require amputation during their treatment ( 117 ). Treatment is emergent and includes extensive surgical debridement and broad-spectrum antibiotics. Erythrasma Erythrasma is a chronic asymptomatic cutaneous infection, most often attributed to Corynebacterium minutissimum . Diabetes mellitus, as well as obesity and older age are associated with erythrasma. Erythrasma presents with non-pruritic non-tender clearly demarcated red brown finely scaled patches or plaques. These lesions are commonly located in intertriginous areas such as the axilla or groin. Given the appearance and location, erythrasma can be easily mistaken for tinea or Candida infection; in such cases, the presence of coral-red fluorescence under a Wood’s light can confirm the diagnosis of erythrasma. Treatment options include topical erythromycin or clindamycin, Whitfield’s ointment, and sodium fusidate ointment. More generalized erythrasma may respond better to oral erythromycin. Malignant Otitis Externa Malignant otitis externa is a rare but serious infection of the external auditory canal that occurs most often in those with a suppressed immune system, diabetes mellitus, or older age. Malignant otitis externa develops as a complication of otitis externa and is associated with infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Patients with malignant otitis externa present with severe otalgia and purulent otorrhea. The infection can spread to nearby structures and cause complications such as chondritis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, or cerebritis. If untreated, malignant otitis externa has a mortality rate of about 50%; however, with aggressive treatment the mortality rate can been reduced to 10% to 20% ( 118 ). Treatment involves long-term systemic antibiotics with appropriate pseudomonal coverage, hyperbaric oxygen, and possibly surgical debridement. FUNGAL Candida Candidiasis is a frequent presentation in patients with diabetes. Moreover, asymptomatic patients presenting with recurrent candidiasis should be evaluated for diabetes mellitus. Elevated salivary glucose concentrations ( 119 ) and elevated skin surface pH in the intertriginous regions of patients with diabetes ( 120 ) may promote an environment in which candida can thrive. Candida infection can involve the mucosa (e.g., thrush, vulvovaginitis), intertriginous areas (e.g., intertrigo, erosion interdigital, balanitis), or nails (e.g., paronychia). Mucosal involvement presents with pruritus, erythema, and white plaques which can be removed when scraped. Intertriginous Candida infections may be pruritic or painful and present with red macerated, fissured plaques with satellite vesciulopustules. Involvement of the nails may present with periungual inflammation or superficial white spots. Onychomycosis may be due to dermatophytes (discussed below) or Candidal infection. Onychomycosis, characterized by subungual
