Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


satellite vesciulopustules. Involvement of the nails may present with periungual inflammation or superficial white spots. Onychomycosis may be due to dermatophytes (discussed below) or Candidal infection. Onychomycosis, characterized by subungual hyperkeratosis and onycholysis, is present in nearly one in two patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Candidiasis is treated with topical or oral antifungal agents. Patients also benefit from improved glycemic control and by keeping the affected areas dry. Dermatophytes Although it remains controversial, dermatophyte infections appear to be more prevalent among patients with diabetes ( 121 - 123 ). Various regions of the body may be affected but tinea pedis (foot) is the most common dermatophyte infection affecting patients; it presents with pruritus or pain and erythematous keratotic or bullous lesions. Relatively benign dermatophyte infections like tinea pedis can lead to serious sequela, such as secondary bacterial infection, fungemia, or sepsis, in patients with diabetes if not treated hastily. Patients with diabetic neuropathy may be especially vulnerable ( 124 ). Treatment may include topical or systemic antifungal medications depending on the severity. Mucormycosis Mucormycosis is a serious infection that is associated with type 1 diabetes mellitus, particularly common in those who develop diabetic ketoacidosis. A variety of factors including hyperglycemia and a lower pH, create an environment in which Rhizopus oryzae, a common pathogen responsible for mucormycosis, can prosper. Mucormycosis may present in different ways. Rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis is the most common presentation; it develops quickly and presents with acute sinusitis, headache, facial edema, and tissue necrosis. The infection may worsen and cause extensive necrosis and thrombosis of nearby structures such as the eye. Mucormycosis should be treated urgently with surgical debridement and intravenous amphotericin B. When it is not suitable to administer amphotericin B in patients, the alternative use of new triazoles, posaconazole and isavuconazole, may be beneficial ( 124a ). Toe Web Findings Lastly, abnormal toe web findings (e.g., maceration, scale, or erythema) may be an early marker of irregularities in glucose metabolism and of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus ( 125 ). Additionally, such findings may be a sign of epidermal barrier disruption, a precursor of infection ( 125 ). CUTANEOUS CHANGES ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES MEDICATIONS Insulin A number of localized changes are associated with the subcutaneous injection of insulin. The most common local adverse effect is lipohypertrophy, which affects less than thirty percent of patients with diabetes that use insulin ( 126 , 127 ). Lipohypertrophy is characterized
