Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


insulin. The most common local adverse effect is lipohypertrophy, which affects less than thirty percent of patients with diabetes that use insulin ( 126 , 127 ). Lipohypertrophy is characterized by localized adipocyte hypertrophy and presents with soft dermal nodules at injection sites. Continued injection of insulin at sites of lipohypertrophy can result in delayed systemic insulin absorption and capricious glycemic control. With avoidance of subcutaneous insulin at affected sites, lipohypertrophy normally improves over the course of a few months. Furthermore, lipoatrophy is an uncommon cutaneous finding which occurred more frequently prior to the introduction of modern purified forms of insulin. Lipoatrophy presents at insulin injection sites over a period of months with round concave areas of adipose tissue atrophy. Allergic reactions to the injection of insulin may be immediate (within one hour) or delayed (within one day) and can present with localized or systemic symptoms. These reactions may be due to a type one hypersensitivity reaction to insulin or certain additives. However, allergic reactions to subcutaneous insulin are rare, with systemic allergic reactions occurring in only 0.01% of patients ( 126 ). Other cutaneous changes at areas of injection include the development of pruritus, induration, erythema, nodular amyloidosis, or calcification. Oral Medications Oral hypoglycemic agents may cause a number of different cutaneous adverse effects such as erythema multiforme or urticaria. DPP-4 inhibitors, such as vildagliptin, can be associated with inflamed blistering skin lesions, including bullous pemphigoid and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, as well as angioedema ( 128 , 129 ). Allergic skin and photosensitivity reactions may occur with sulfonylureas ( 130 ). The sulfonylureas, particularly the first-generation drugs chlorpropamide and tolbutamide, are associated with the development of a maculopapular rash during the initial two months of treatment; the rash quickly improves with stoppage of the medication ( 131 , 132 ). In certain patients with genetic predispositions, chlorpropamide may also cause acute facial flushing following alcohol consumption ( 133 ). SGLT-2 inhibitors have been associated with an increased risk of genital fungal infections and Fournier’s gangrene ( 134 ) (for details see Endotext chapter Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes) ( 135 ). Fixed drug eruptions, drug-induced pruritus, and Sweet syndrome/acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis have also been observed in patients with type 2 diabetes using SGLT2 inhibitors, among other skin lesions ( 135a ). Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, such
