Skin Manifestations of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, patients, skin, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, diabetic, journal, patients diabetes, associated, type, changes, dermatology, present, cutaneous


have also been observed in patients with type 2 diabetes using SGLT2 inhibitors, among other skin lesions ( 135a ). Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, such as semaglutide, liraglutide, exenatide, and dulaglutide, are primarily used to manage type 2 diabetes and support weight loss. They can be administered via subcutaneous or oral routes. Dermatologists should be prepared to counsel patients about the possibility of rapid weight loss leading to facial fat loss; this can manifest as the “development of wrinkles, sunken eyes, a hollowed appearance, sagging jowls around the neck and jaw, and alterations in the cheeks, lips, and chin,” with effects also often noticed in the buttocks ( 135c ). This phenomenon is thought to be due to a natural consequence of rapid weight loss combined with slow elastin turnover, rather than a direct effect of these drugs on adipocytes of the face or buttocks and may resolve with weight gain upon drug cessation ( 135b ). While the common drug-related side effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists are gastrointestinal, there have been reports of dermatologic reactions, though these are relatively rare ( 136 , 137 ). Altered skin sensation (including dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, allodynia, and paresthesia) and alopecia were found to be significantly associated with a 50mg weekly dose of oral semaglutide, though the mechanisms and risk factors for these events remain to be characterized ( 136 ). Among the few case reports of severe cutaneous adverse events in patients taking GLP-1 agonists, exenatide was the most mentioned drug ( 136 , 137 ). Cases included angioedema, bullous pemphigoid, dermal hypersensitivity, eosinophilic fasciitis, and leukocytoclastic vasculitis, with >90% recovering within days to months of discontinuing the drug ( 136 , 137 ). Despite the side effects, GLP-1 agonists have been used off label in several cases to effectively manage diabetes-associated cutaneous conditions including psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, and acanthosis nigricans ( 138 ). Diabetes Devices Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and continuous subcutaneous insulin infusions (CSIIs) are devices used in the treatment of type 1 diabetes. Contact dermatitis is associated with both CGMs and CSIIs, while CSIIs inject insulin subcutaneously and thus carry the risk of insulin-associated skin changes ( 139 ). CONCLUSION Diabetes mellitus is associated with a broad array of dermatologic conditions ( Table 1 ). Many of the sources describing dermatologic changes associated with diabetes mellitus are antiquated; larger research studies utilizing modern analytic tools
