Received: 8 November 2023 | Revised: 21 March 2024 | Accepted: 3 April 2024
KEYWORDS: liver, cell, cells, activated, proliferation, bile, role, chloride, hcc, disease, secretion, expression, hepatic, calcium, channel


bound GSH transferase on the inner mi- different research methods.21–23 ANO1 is also known as transmem- tochondrial membrane with cyclophilin D, which promotes oxidant- brane protein 16A (TMEM16A), gastrointestinal mesenchymal stro- induced increases in membrane permeability.40 Interestingly, ANO1 mal tumour 1 (DOG1), oral cancer overexpressed 2 (ORAOV2), and can be expressed in mitochondrial membranes and regulates the tumour- amplified and overexpressed 2 (TAOS2). As a CaCC protein, opening of mitochondrial membranes in a procyclin D- dependent it is widely expressed in vivo.21–24 Compared to that in other tissues, manner,41 suggesting that ANO1 may play an important role in GSH ANO1 is more highly expressed in the liver and gallbladder, repro- transport. In addition, ANO1 acts as a CaCC, and increased intra- ductive system tissues, salivary glands, adrenal glands, and intes- cellular Ca2+ activates ANO1,42 which is also associated with GSH tine25 (Table 1). A large body of literature suggests that ANO1 plays transport. Similarly, GSH acts as a protective factor for the liver, an important role in many pathophysiological processes, including ensuring the reduction of lipid peroxidation.3 Conversely, lipid per- oxidative stress,26 the inflammatory response,27 smooth muscle oxidation can activate ANO1, which can also cause lipid peroxida- contraction,15 secretory epithelium secretion,18 slow- wave activity tion.26,43 This finding also suggested that ANO1 is associated with in the gastrointestinal tract,28 cell proliferation13,29 and tumour13,29 GSH. Furthermore, it has also been demonstrated that ROS scaven- development. Many of these pathophysiological processes are gers, such as GSH and the natural parent compound coenzyme Q10, closely related to the development of liver diseases (e.g. hepatic inhibit ANO1 activation.26 In conclusion, the relationship between ischemia–reperfusion injury (IRI)30 NAFLD,31 portal hypertension ANO1 and GSH deserves further investigation. Thus, ANO1 may (PHT),32 and HCC33), which provides new insights into the patho- play an important role in liver diseases caused by impaired GSH reg- genesis of liver diseases. ulation (e.g. NAFLD31 and cholestasis44). In this paper, we reviewed The liver is a major site of glutathione (GSH) production and the role of ANO1 in the development of several liver diseases and export.34 Studies have shown that the liver can be protected from provided strategies or directions for the diagnosis and treatment of oxidative damage by the regulation of GSH in hepatocytes.3 GSH liver diseases. TABLE 1 Expression and physiological function of Ano1 in organs and tissues. Tissue or organ Cellular localization Function Refs Liver Biliary epithelial cells, portal smooth
