Received: 8 November 2023 | Revised: 21 March 2024 | Accepted: 3 April 2024
KEYWORDS: liver, cell, cells, activated, proliferation, bile, role, chloride, hcc, disease, secretion, expression, hepatic, calcium, channel


Bcl- 2- p62 complexes, thereby inhibiting that GSH, an oxygen scavenger, can reduce oxidative stress.44 autophagy.66 In summary, ANO1 plays an important role in vascular ANO1 can also cause oxidative stress and exacerbate oxidative pressure regulation and vascular remodelling in PHT and may be a damage in the liver. Thus, regulating ANO1 could provide a new potential therapeutic target. LI et al. | 5 of 11 4 | PATHOLOGIC ROLE OF ANO1 IN THE characterized by the gradual accumulation of lipids in the liver, which LIVER usually evolves from steatohepatitis to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and even HCC.105 In recent years, NAFLD has received increasing attention. 4.1 | ANO1 and hepatic IRI Guo et al31 reported increased expression of ANO1 in the liver of mice and patients with hepatic steatosis. As the NAFLD score in- When blood flow is restored in transiently ischemic liver tissues, creased, the abundance of ANO1 in the liver also increased, sug- it may lead to reinjury of already ischemic liver tissues, a phenom- gesting that ANO1 may play a role in hepatic steatosis. In mice with enon known as hepatic IRI.97 IRI is the leading cause of LF.98 The hepatocyte- specific ANO1 overexpression, obesity and insulin re- inflammatory response is considered a key mechanism in the pro- sistance induced by a high- fat diet (HFD) were markedly increased, cess of IRI.99,30 By comparing ANO1 expression in the livers of whereas the hepatic steatosis, adipogenesis, and inflammation in- humans and mice before and after partial hepatectomy, Guo et al. duced by a HFD were reduced when ANO1 was specifically knocked found that ANO1 expression was increased in hepatocytes after down. Further analysis revealed that ANO1 in hepatocytes binds to IRI. Further experiments revealed that the lack of hepatocyte- vesicle- associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3), leading to degra- specific ANO1 ameliorated inflammation in hepatic IRI, and mice dation of VAMP3, as well as inhibition of the formation of VAMP3/ overexpressing ANO1 exhibited the opposite phenotype. This synuclein 4 and VAMP3/synaptosome- associated protein 23 com- finding suggested that ANO1 could be involved in promoting he- plexes, which results in hepatic glucose transport protein 2 (GLUT2) patic IRI and that IRI could also stimulate ANO1 expression, but translocation and impaired glucose uptake, leading to disorders of the specific mechanism of action is not known. Ferroptosis is an glucose metabolism with the secondary effects of increased insulin iron- dependent cell death process
