Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


ABSTRACT Despite a notable decline over the past few decades, cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the leading cause of premature mortality in individuals with diabetes mellitus. Compared to individuals without diabetes, there is ~2-fold or higher increase in CVD and mortality in those with diabetes. While CVD-related complications are seen predominantly during adulthood, the atherosclerotic process begins in childhood and is accelerated in individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1D), and even more so in type 2 diabetes (T2D). While there are improved methods of achieving glycemic control, earlier recognition and management of CVD risk factors, and advances in treatment, an increase in the prevalence of both T1D and T2D among youth continues to present additional challenges, especially because newer medications are underutilized. In this review, we discuss the origin and progression of atherosclerosis in youth with both T1D and T2D, CVD risk factors, and current guidelines. We conclude with key clinical questions that urgently need to be addressed to increase risk factor screening rates and treatment to improve outcomes in this high-risk population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of premature mortality in individuals with diabetes ( 1 , 2 ). There is ~2-fold increase in CVD and premature mortality in those with versus those without diabetes ( 3 - 5 ). Moreover, the incidence and prevalence of diabetes continues to increase, both in adults and children. It is estimated that by 2025, 1.3 billion individuals are projected to have diabetes worldwide. In addition to the individual burden of this disease, diabetes increases health care utilization and costs. Despite these challenges, within the past two decades there has been a significant reduction in all-cause and CV-related mortality in this population ( 6 ). When CV risk factors (hemoglobin A1c, LDL cholesterol, albuminuria, smoking and blood pressure) are within the target ranges, risk of death, myocardial infarction, or stroke appears similar to the general population ( 6 ). TYPES OF DIABETES IN YOUTH T1D results from destruction of pancreatic beta-cells, secondary to an autoimmune process. It is characterized by dysregulation of plasma glucose, resulting in chronic hyperglycemia. An inability to secrete insulin necessitates exogenous insulin to maintain normal or near-normal levels of plasma glucose. Improved formulations of insulin, automated delivery systems, and continuous glucose monitoring devices have significantly improved the management of T1D. T2D
