Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


the presence of atherosclerosis, the underlying origin of CVD, beginning in childhood, and is accelerated in youth with T1D and T2D ( 27 ). Although randomized controlled trials (RCT) have conclusively demonstrated that intense glycemic control can reduce the risk of microvascular complications in both T1D and T2D ( 28 ), the relationship of glycemia per se to macrovascular risk in diabetes has been mixed ( 29 ). Risk factors other than hyperglycemia (e.g. hypertension, dyslipidemia, overweight/obesity, chronic inflammation, and renal impairment) are key determinants of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) event risk and often precede the onset of hyperglycemia, especially in T2D ( 30 , 31 ). Additionally, chronic hyperglycemia, if present, is strongly associated with worsening of retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy ( 32 ). There may also be aspects of less-than-ideal medication adherence which also contribute to higher CVD risk ( 33 ). Reduction in ASCVD related morbidity and mortality is possible with early identification and aggressive management of concomitant risk factors ( 34 - 36 ). Further, optimal glycemic control, is helpful to achieve better clinical outcomes in both T1D and T2D ( 6 ). To improve outcomes for youth with diabetes, global risk factor screening, including assessment of modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors (enhancers), health behaviors and social determinants of health ( Figure 1 ) screening should be performed to help appropriately categorize risk and define targets for early intervention. Particularly concerning are genetic disorders, such as familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and elevated levels of lipoprotein (a) which, when present, result in lifetime exposure to atherogenic lipoproteins and a significant increase in CVD risk independent of diabetes ( 37 , 38 ). Figure 1. Global risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease. Adapted from ( 39 ). Non-Modifiable Risk Factors Risk factors for CVD are generally classified as non-modifiable or modifiable. Non-modifiable risk factors are those that cannot be changed. These include sex, race/ethnicity, and family history of premature CVD. There is evidence that the in-utero environment (gestational diabetes, maternal hypercholesterolemia), low birth weight, and polygenic risk factors play a significant role in the future CVD risk of a child. While non-modifiable risk factors are not amenable to therapy, their presence suggests the need for early identification and optimal management of modifiable risk factors. Modifiable Risk Factors CV biomarkers, such as lipids and lipoprotein levels are commonly used to assess risk and serve as therapeutic targets. Published guidelines provide
