Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


management of modifiable risk factors. Modifiable Risk Factors CV biomarkers, such as lipids and lipoprotein levels are commonly used to assess risk and serve as therapeutic targets. Published guidelines provide recommendations for initial and follow-up measurements of key CV risk factors in youth with diabetes, as well as goals to achieve optimum health ( 40 , 41 ). While an in-depth discussion of modifiable risk factors is beyond the scope of this review, several highlights by diabetes type are discussed below and in the Table 1 . Table 1. Recommendations for Cardiovascular Risk Factor Screening in Youth with Diabetes View in own window Risk Factor Recommendations for T1D Differences for T2D Goals Comments Hyperglycemia Real-time CGM or intermittently scanned CGM should be offered Glycemic status should be assessed at least every 3 months Automated insulin delivery systems may be considered to improve glycemic control. Glycemic status should be assessed at least every 3 months Real-time CGM or intermittently scanned CGM should be offered when on multiple daily injections or on continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion An A1 C of <7% is appropriate for many children and adolescents with T1D and T2D. In T1D an A1c target of 7.5 or 8% may be appropriate for selected individuals. In T2D an A1c target <6.5% may be appropriate for selected individuals. A1c targets need to consider risk of hypoglycemia and be adjusted accordingly. Dyslipidemia Initial lipid profile should be performed soon after diagnosis, preferably after glycemia has improved and age is ≥2 years. If initial LDL-C is ≤100 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L), subsequent testing should be performed at 9-11 years of age. If LDL-C values are within the accepted risk level (<100 mg/dL [2.6 mmol/L]), a lipid profile repeated every 3 years is reasonable. Initial lipid profile should be performed soon after diagnosis, preferably after glycemia has improved. If LDL-C values are within the accepted risk level (<100 mg/dL [2.6 mmol/L]), a lipid profile repeated annually. LDL-C value <100 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L). Non-HDL-C level has been identified as a significant predictor of the presence of atherosclerosis—as powerful as any other lipoprotein cholesterol measure in children and adolescents. Non-HDL-C target is <130mg/dL Initial testing may be done with a non-fasting lipid level with confirmatory testing with a fasting lipid panel. Children with a primary lipid disorder (e.g., familial hyperlipidemia) should be referred to a lipid specialist. A major advantage of non-HDL-C is that it can be
