Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


a fasting lipid panel. Children with a primary lipid disorder (e.g., familial hyperlipidemia) should be referred to a lipid specialist. A major advantage of non-HDL-C is that it can be accurately calculated in a non-fasting state and therefore is practical to obtain in clinical practice as a screening test Blood Pressure BP should be measured at every routine visit. Same as T1D BP <90th percentile for age, sex, and height or, in adolescents aged ≥13 years, <130/80 mmHg. In youth with high BP (≥90th percentile for age, sex, and height or, in adolescents aged ≥13 years, BP ≥120/80 mmHg) on three separate measurements, ambulatory BP monitoring should be strongly considered. Abbreviations: BP, blood pressure; GFR, glomerular filtration rate; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; HDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; LDL-C, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; Non-HDL-C, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; T1D, type 1 diabetes mellitus. HYPERGLYCEMIA Although glycemic control is critically important in managing diabetes, data linking improved glycemic control to a reduction in macrovascular complications are limited ( 27 ). Nonetheless, compared to those receiving standard care, CVD events in individuals with T1D who received intense insulin treatment at diabetes onset were reduced by 42% (95% CI, 9-63%) and the combined end-point of non-fatal MI, stroke or mortality by 57% (95% CI, 12-79%), despite similar treatment and glycemic control after completion of the study ( 42 , 43 ). Similarly, results from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) ( 44 ) and its 10-year cohort follow-up ( 45 ) suggest that intensive glucose control may be of greater CVD benefit when initiated early in T2D. One study found a 1% increase in HbA1c was associated with a 6-fold increase in coronary artery stenosis ( 46 ). In youth with diabetes, noninvasive measures of subclinical CVD, such as arterial stiffness and carotid intima media thickness (cIMT) are correlated with glycemic control ( 46 - 51 ). While hyperglycemia promotes endothelial dysfunction and arterial stiffness, there is growing evidence that optimum glycemic control alone is insufficient to significantly reduce the burden of CVD in persons with diabetes ( 52 , 53 ). Glycemic recommendations for youth with diabetes are shown in Table 1 . DYSLIPIDEMIA There is a high prevalence of dyslipidemia in adolescents with T1D; with 24-35% estimated to have hypercholesterolemia ( 54 , 55 ). In the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study, approximately 15% of youth with T1D had high triglycerides,10% with low HDL-C and
