Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


estimated to have hypercholesterolemia ( 54 , 55 ). In the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study, approximately 15% of youth with T1D had high triglycerides,10% with low HDL-C and 10% with elevated apoB levels ( 56 ). In youth with T2D, 65% had elevated triglyceride levels, 60% had low HDL-C levels and 35% had elevated apoB levels. In a Denver cohort of youth, Maahs et al. demonstrated sustained abnormalities of total cholesterol, HDL-C and LDL-C over 10 years in children and adolescents with T1D, with 28% and 11% having LDL-C levels ≥160 and 190 mg/dL, respectively. They also reported that 40-63% of childhood lipid abnormalities track from childhood to adulthood ( 57 ). In a retrospective analysis by Pelham et al, higher hemoglobin A1c levels were associated with higher LDL-C and apoB levels in youth with type 2 ( 58 ). Moreover, youth with T2D who had hemoglobin A1c levels of greater than 8% had significantly higher total cholesterol, LDL-C, and apoB levels compared to youth whose hemoglobin A1c levels were <8% ( 58 ). The adverse vascular effects of prolonged exposure to atherogenic lipoproteins are well known and likely contribute to the subclinical atherosclerosis at an early age and accelerated in youth with diabetes ( 59 ). The current LDL-C goal of < 100 mg/dL (< 2.6 mmol/L) is supported by data in adults with childhood onset T1D which show that LDL-C levels of > 100 mg/dL are associated with increased CVD ( 54 ). Currently, guidelines for youth with diabetes do not recommend screening or treatment for apoB or lipoprotein (a) concentrations. Lipid recommendations are shown in Table 1 . Interested readers can find more information about the roles of lipid and lipoprotein atherosclerosis at Endotext [Internet]: Linton MF, Yancey PG, Davies SS, Jerome WG, Linton EF, Song WL, Doran AC, Vickers KC. The Role of Lipids and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis. PMID: 26844337 ( 19 ). There has been one RTC evaluating atorvastatin 10mg in youth 10-16 years of age with T1D. Compared to placebo, in the statin treated group there was a significant reduction in total, LDL-C, and non-HDL-C levels as well as in triglyceride levels, and in the ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1. Of note, statin use during 48 months of the trial was not associated with differences between groups in carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT), glomerular filtration rate, or progression of retinopathy (
