Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


Of note, statin use during 48 months of the trial was not associated with differences between groups in carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT), glomerular filtration rate, or progression of retinopathy ( 60 ). HYPERTENSION Hypertension in youth with diabetes is common, with an estimated prevalence of 4-7% in youth with T1D ( 61 ); and 25-40% in those with T2D ( 62 ). In the TODAY study baseline prevalence of hypertension among youth with T2D was 19.2%. Over 14- years the cumulative incidence was 59.2%. Males were at higher risk of developing hypertension as were non- Hispanic whites compared with Hispanic youth ( 63 ). Hypertension is likely under-recognized, in part related to the challenges of measuring blood pressure in an ambulatory setting. Increases in arterial stiffness and cIMT have been observed in the setting of hypertension ( 2 , 62 ), and correlate with the progression of diabetic nephropathy ( 64 ). While there are data that support hypertension-related target organ damage beginning in youth, CV clinical trials with measures of hard outcomes, such as fatal and non-fatal MI and stroke, are lacking in children. Nonetheless, current guidelines recommend blood pressures of ≤ 90 th percentile for age, sex and height (<120/80 if over age 13 years) and intervention when higher BP levels are sustained, Table 1 . OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY The prevalence of obesity (BMI > 95 th percentile), a known risk factor for CVD, has been estimated to be 4.4-25% in T1D youth ( 65 - 67 ). T1D youth with obesity have a higher prevalence of hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and elevated alanine aminotransferase than those with a normal BMI ( 68 ). Prevalence of obesity approaches ~80% among youth with T2D; ~10% being overweight ( 67 ). In the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study among children 3-19 years-of-age, the prevalence of a BMI >85 th in those with diabetes was higher than those without diabetes. In a 20-year follow-up of 655 individuals with T1D, an age-independent increase in overweight/obesity was observed; the relationship of adiposity with mortality resembling that of the general population, albeit with a marked increased risk in those who are underweight ( 69 ). Increased food intake secondary to concerns of hypoglycemia and intense insulin regimens may also contribute to excessive weight gain ( 69 ). Compared with BMI or percent body fat, central adiposity may be a better predictor of cardiovascular risk
