Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


intense insulin regimens may also contribute to excessive weight gain ( 69 ). Compared with BMI or percent body fat, central adiposity may be a better predictor of cardiovascular risk ( 2 , 70 ). Higher waist circumference is an independent risk factor of subclinical CVD (arterial stiffness and cIMT) in youth with diabetes ( 2 , 47 , 49 , 71 ). Current guidelines utilize BMI targets for weight optimization. Health Behaviors and Conditions PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Numerous studies have found that a sedentary lifestyle is a risk factor for future CVD. Moreover, physical activity is inversely related to hemoglobin A1c, occurrence of diabetic ketoacidosis, BMI, dyslipidemia, and hypertension as well as retinopathy and microalbuminuria ( 72 ). Conversely, interventions to increase physical activity have demonstrated positive effects on hemoglobin A1c, BMI, triglycerides, and total cholesterol ( 73 ); the most effective being interventions >12 weeks in duration, with 3 or more 60-minute sessions per week which include resistance and aerobic exercise ( 74 ). Exercise once a week for 30 minutes has also been reported to lower hemoglobin A1c and diastolic blood pressure and improve dyslipidemia ( 72 ). Regardless of diabetes type, current pediatric guidelines recommend 3 or more 60-minute sessions per week which include resistance training and aerobic exercise. SMOKING In adults, active as well as passive smoking has been shown to be major risk factor for CVD and associated with poor glycemic control, adverse changes in lipid profile, nephropathy, endothelial dysfunction, and vascular inflammation ( 75 - 77 ). Although limited, there are data that demonstrate similar findings in teens ( 77 ). The prevalence of smoking in children and young adults with T1D is estimated to be 3-28%, with higher prevalence in those 15 years-of-age and older ( 2 , 54 , 78 ). In the TODAY study smoking incidence increased 6-fold over the 14-year study with the average prevalence of 24% in youth 18 years and older ( 63 ). All youth should be encouraged to avoid/cease cigarette smoking, including electronic cigarettes. KIDNEY DISEASE The presence of target organ damage, particularly related to renal function, is a strong risk factor for CVD ( 1 , 64 ). Persistent albumin excretion rate of 30 to 299 mg/24h and >300 mg/24hr are associated with CVD, and increased mortality with reduced glomerular filtration rates in individuals with T1D ( 79 - 81 ). Although the underlying mechanisms
