Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


variability by mutation type. This finding, if confirmed, raises the possibility of a causal relationship between LDL receptor-mediated transmembrane cholesterol transport and T2D ( 91 ). OTHER DISORDERS Other chronic conditions known to be associated with CVD include connective tissue disorders, thyroid abnormalities, and acquired conditions, such as HIV/AIDS. In addition to accelerating risk, the presence of other health conditions may present unique challenges, including financial, psychosocial, relational, and quality of life. Keeping up with personal, social, and work demands is often challenging for young adults with one or more chronic conditions in addition to diabetes. Growing up with a chronic disease showed a lower likelihood of having a paid job ( 92 ), higher unemployment and sick leave rates compared to the general population ( 93 , 94 ), and fatigue. ( 95 , 96 ). Figure 2 below outlines several health conditions commonly associated with increased risk of premature CVD. Children with these conditions should be monitored frequently and abnormal values optimally managed to improve outcomes. Figure 2. Health Conditions Associated With Increased Risk of CVD ( 97 ). †Any moderate-risk condition with ≥2 additional risk enhancers. ‡Severe obesity is defined as BMI ≥99th percentile or ≥35 kg/m2, and obesity is defined as BMI ≥95th percentile to <99th percentile. §Defined as blood pressure >95th percentile or ≥130/80 mmHg on 3 separate occasions. ΔDefined as ≥3 risk enhancers. ‖ Involves obstructive lesions of the left ventricle and aorta, cyanotic congenital heart defects leading to Eisenmenger syndrome, and congenital coronary artery anomalies in isolation or in association with other congenital defects. ApoB, apolipoprotein B; BMI, body mass index; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CVD, cardiovascular disease; DM, diabetes mellitus; ESRD, end-stage renal disease; FH, familial hypercholesterolemia; HeFH, heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; HoFH, homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia; Lp(a), lipoprotein (a); MI, myocardial infarction. Social Determinants of Health Social determinants of health (SDOH) play a major role in access to appropriate health care and clinical outcomes including CVD. These include food insecurity, housing instability, transportation barriers, low socioeconomic status, limited access to healthcare, early childhood adversity, and social isolation, all of which adversely influence the level and distribution of health within a society. Political systems and racism have been cited as upstream drivers of SDOH ( 98 ). Although recognized as obstacles, appropriate assessment and understanding of SDOH in youth with diabetes is limited, and strategies to improve health challenging. Lack
