Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


upstream drivers of SDOH ( 98 ). Although recognized as obstacles, appropriate assessment and understanding of SDOH in youth with diabetes is limited, and strategies to improve health challenging. Lack of understanding of what interventions work, entrenched interests that benefit from health-harming aspects of the status quo, and the need to establish new mechanisms of finance for these programs have all made progress difficult ( 99 ). In the U.S. T2D affects racial and ethnic minorities, including children, and low-income populations disproportionately, resulting in consistently higher risk of diabetes and rates of diabetes complications and premature mortality ( 100 ). Evidence supports an association of socioeconomic status (SES), neighborhood and physical environment, food environment, health care, and social context with diabetes-related outcomes. The living and working conditions and the environments in which children reside have a direct impact on biological and behavioral outcomes associated with diabetes prevention and control. Food insecurity and adverse childhood experiences have been highlighted as important mediators of CVD in children ( 101 , 102 ). For a comprehensive review, see https://www.fao.org/publications/home/fao-flagship-publications/the-state-of-food-security-and-nutrition-in-the-world/2022/en . Although food insecurity has been associated with the development of childhood obesity and cardiometabolic disease in adults, this relationship is inconsistent in youth ( 103 , 104 ). While some studies have detected relationships, the National Human and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2012 (NHANES) in adolescents at or below 300% of the poverty line did not find a relationship between food insecurity and childhood CVD risk factors ( 105 ). Further analysis of these findings suggests that socio-ecological factors such as household income and parental education as well as individual level of physical activity, sedentary time, and smoking status may be interdependent mediators of CVD risk in youth. Youth and young adults with T1D and T2D report nearly twice the prevalence of food insecurity; predictors of household food insecurity include youth without insurance or receiving Medicaid or Medicare, level of parental education, and lower household income ( 106 ). Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are also closely associated with poor cardiovascular outcomes with or without underlying food insecurity ( 107 ) resulting from 1) unhealthy behaviors such as physical inactivity, poor-quality diet, poor quality and duration of sleep, and smoking; 2) adverse physiologic mechanisms including inflammation and hypercortisolemia; 3) substance abuse and mental health disorders and mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety. Current recommendations for the care of children with diabetes include assessing
