Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


inflammation and hypercortisolemia; 3) substance abuse and mental health disorders and mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety. Current recommendations for the care of children with diabetes include assessing psychosocial concerns (e.g., diabetes distress, depressive symptoms, and disordered eating), family factors, and behavioral health concerns that could impact diabetes management. Health care professionals should also screen for food security, housing stability/homelessness, health literacy, financial barriers, and social/community support and incorporate that information in treatment decisions. Social workers and behavioral health professionals should be considered integral members of the pediatric diabetes interprofessional team to aid in screening, assessment and interventions ( 108 ). PRINCIPLE OF RISK FACTOR SCREENING AND MANAGEMENT Guidance for screening and management of youth with diabetes has been published by a number of professional organizations ( 40 , 41 ). Cardiovascular risk in diabetes arises from microvascular and macrovascular pathology, as well as changes in cardiac structure and function. Therefore, the objectives of efforts to reduce CV risk are to maintain glycemic control, which is a key driver of microvascular complications and a contributor to macrovascular complications, as well as optimally managing cardiometabolic risk factors to reduce the risks for ASCVD and heart failure ( 26 ). Challenges to Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes SCREENING Despite evidence in youth with T1D and T2D demonstrating an increased prevalence of modifiable risk factors, and risk factors present at an early age predict premature CVD during adulthood, screening rates are less than ideal based on the limited available data. A study in the United Kingdom found 83.5% compliance with lipid screening in patients with T1D ( 109 ), while in children with T2D only half had lipid testing ( 68 ). In a survey of 1,514 US clinicians, blood pressure was stated to be measured at most or all visits in 95% and lipid screening in 88% of patients (although less frequently in older patients with T2D (69%) ( 110 ). When adherence to the International Society of Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD) clinical practice guidelines was assessed for patients with T1D, two-thirds of physicians reported adherence to nephropathy and retinopathy screening and only half reported adherence to recommendations for neuropathy and macrovascular disease risk factors. Patient financial issues, the lack of laboratory resources and/or other equipment, and the need for referral were cited as the main reasons for variation in screening practices ( 111 ). TREATMENT Treatment
