Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Youth with Diabetes- Opportunities and Challenges
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, pubmed, youth, type, type diabetes, free, pmc, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc free, factors, risk factors, cvd


cardiorenal protection at 2-year follow-up ( 117 ). GUIDELINES AND RECOMMENDATIONS Inconsistencies in pediatric versus adult guidelines for risk factor screening and management in individuals with diabetes creates challenges when children transition into adult health care. Complex treatment algorithms to determine the timing and frequency of risk factor assessment also appear to complicate screening of CV risk factors. Multiple guidelines for the identification and management CVD risk factors in youth with diabetes have been published ( 43 , 118 - 122 ) with the goal of achieving CVD risk reduction. While some guidelines are applicable to all children, others specifically address risk assessment and management in those with diabetes. The latter contains unique recommendations based upon the type of diabetes, necessitating an accurate classification (i.e. T1D vs T2D). While highly desirable, differentiation between the diagnosis of T1D and T2D in youth can be challenging and not always performed/feasible in clinical practice. Although all published guidelines identify glycemic control, hypertension, and dyslipidemia as targets for CVD risk reduction, differences exist in optimum goals and approaches to risk factor reduction as outlined in Table 1 . Additional research is needed to understand the role of CVD risk factors in diabetes and identify barriers to screening and treatment in clinical practice. While the advantages of early CV risk reduction appear clear, there is also potential hesitancy due to unanswered questions. Ideally, professional societies and organizations would work together to provide viable solutions to several urgent clinical questions, Table 2 . Table 2. Key Clinical Questions Regarding CV Risk Management and Treatment in Youth View in own window Screening What is the ideal age to begin screening? Which CV risk factors should be measured and how often? If low risk (or values are normal), how often should risk factors measurements be repeated? Management What BMI/waist circumference is ideal to aid in CV risk reduction? How do we define optimal therapeutic goals? What is the impact of MASLD and other diabetes related co-morbidities and complications? Should risk factor screening and management be the same for T1D and T2D? Should risk factor screening differ in children vs adults? What if there is concomitant FH? Treatment Is lowering hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure and lipids enough to reduce CV risk and disease? What thresholds suggest the need for pharmacotherapy? Dose escalation? Dose reduction? Should certain risk factors be more aggressively targeted to reduce future CV risk and CVD?
