Inpatient Diabetes Management
KEYWORDS: insulin, dose, units, patient, basal, nutritional, glucose, units units, based, correctional, aspart, lispro, total, glulisine, regular


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Background Appropriate inpatient glycemic management limits the risks of severe hypo- and hyperglycemia. Preventing and treating hyperglycemia reduces infections and minimizes fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Specific glucose goals remain fluid. Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia are associated with poor outcomes but the few prospective randomized studies have failed to demonstrate consistent improvements. For example, intensive glycemic control in the ICU increased mortality in one large trial. At this point, glucose goals should be thoughtful and tailored to the institution and its resources. To successfully manage inpatient diabetes, institutional infrastructure must be in place with institution specific guidelines and protocols for which all nursing staff, pharmacy staff, physicians and others must be educated. The general guidelines below are appropriate at most institutions. Physiologic Insulin Regimen All patients have “basal, nutritional, and correctional” requirements which they must meet with endogenous or exogenous insulin. Basal: insulin needed even when patient is not eating (to control gluconeogenesis). Use glargine (usually once daily in AM or at bedtime), NPH (at bedtime or AM and bedtime), detemir (once daily or q 12 hours), or a continuous insulin infusion. Nutritional: insulin to cover carbohydrate intake from food, dextrose in IV fluid, tube feeds, TPN. Use rapid-acting insulin (aspart, lispro, or glulisine) or short-acting insulin (regular). Correctional: insulin given to bring a high blood glucose level down to target range (with target usually below 150 mg/dL pre-meal, and below 200mg/dL at bedtime or 2am). Use rapid-acting insulin (aspart, lispro, or glulisine) or short-acting insulin (regular). General Rules A PATIENT WITH TYPE 1 DM WILL ALWAYS NEED EXOGENOUS BASAL INSULIN, EVEN IF NPO. FAILURE TO GIVE SUCH A PATIENT INSULIN WILL LEAD TO DKA. Arbitrary sliding scale insulin should be avoided as it is not only ineffective but also potentially dangerous. Ad hoc insulin orders should not be used. Comprehensive electronic medical record (EMR) order sets, or pre-printed order forms should only be used to order subcutaneous insulin and insulin infusions. This standardization will decrease the risks of insulin dosing and administration errors. Check blood glucose (BG) before meals and at bedtime. Check BG q 4 or q 6 hours in a patient who is NPO or is receiving continuous tube feeds or TPN. Involve the diabetes educator or nurse specialist if available. On admission, begin planning discharge, especially if the discharge plan will require new outpatient insulin use. Identify whether the patient will need a new glucose meter.
