Inpatient Diabetes Management
KEYWORDS: insulin, dose, units, patient, basal, nutritional, glucose, units units, based, correctional, aspart, lispro, total, glulisine, regular


patient will always require his or her basal insulin, even while NPO, and should not become hypoglycemic if that basal insulin is dosed appropriately. For safety purposes, however: The night before, give the usual dose of bedtime NPH, if applicable, or decrease the usual dose of bedtime glargine by 25%. The morning of, if applicable, decrease the usual dose of morning NPH by 50%, or decrease the usual dose of morning glargine by 25%. Do not give nutritional insulin (as patient is not eating), but continue the usual correctional insulin. ( an online resource to determine patient specific instructions when preparing for an NPO episode is at http://ucsf.logicnets.com ) INSULIN REGIMEN FOR AN ICU OR SURGICAL PATIENT WHO IS NPO Consider insulin infusion therapy. INSULIN REGIMEN FOR A PATIENT STARTING CONTNUOUS TUBE FEEDING Consider insulin infusion therapy. If moving from IV to SQ see below. Basal need: The daily basal dose (glargine, detemir or total bid NPH dose) is the estimated total daily dose divided by 2. Nutritional need: Divide the estimated total daily dose by 10 for the total nutritional (lispro, aspart, glulisine or regular) dose, to be given q 4 hours while tube feeding is active. Correctional need: Order a correctional scale (lispro, aspart, glulisine or regular) based on total insulin dose or BMI ( Table 1 ) If not using IV insulin to start: Estimate the tube feed formula’s 24-hour carbohydrate load. Estimate the total daily dose (TDD) of insulin, starting with 1unit insulin for every 10 grams carbohydrate. INSULIN REGIMEN FOR A PATIENT RECEIVING TPN Standard TPN often contains 25% glucose, which, if 100 ml/hour, yields 25 g glucose/hour. Basal and nutritional needs: Adding insulin to the TPN is safest, as the unexpected discontinuation of TPN will also mean the discontinuation of the insulin. Start with 0.1 unit per gram glucose. If patient previously needed high doses of basal insulin, divide that total daily dose by the number of TPN bottles to be administered daily, and add that to the prior calculation. Correctional: Order a correctional sliding scale (lispro, aspart, glulisine or regular) based on BMI ( Table 1 ). INSULIN REGIMEN TO TRANSITION FROM AN INSULIN INFUSION TO SUBCUTANEOUS INSULIN Calculate the patient’s total daily dose (TDD) of insulin, based on the most recent insulin infusion rate. For safety purposes, take 80% of that dose. Basal need: Divide the 80% of the TDD by 2
