Inpatient Diabetes Management
KEYWORDS: insulin, dose, units, patient, basal, nutritional, glucose, units units, based, correctional, aspart, lispro, total, glulisine, regular


dose (TDD) of insulin, based on the most recent insulin infusion rate. For safety purposes, take 80% of that dose. Basal need: Divide the 80% of the TDD by 2 and give half for the daily glargine, detemir or total NPH dose. Nutritional need: If the patient is eating, divide the 80% of the TDD by 6 for the pre-meal lispro, aspart. Glulisine or regular dose. If the patient is receiving tube feeds, divide the 80% of the TDD by 10 for the nutritional (lispro, aspart. Glulisine or regular) dose, to be given q 4 hours. If the patient is not receiving nutrition, do not order nutritional insulin. Correctional need: Order a q4h correctional scale (lispro, aspart, glulisine or regular) based on total insulin dose or BMI ( Table 1 ). Give the first basal insulin SQ injection 1-2 hours before the infusion is discontinued. If the transition is being made in the morning, consider using a one-time AM NPH injection or ½ of daily glargine or detemir dose to bridge until bedtime glargine, detemir or NPH begins. INSULIN REGIMEN FOR A PATIENT RECEIVING GLUCOCORTICOIDS Glucocorticoids may dramatically increase postprandial BG levels but have little effect on gluconeogenesis (fasting glucose levels). Often, BG levels are very high during the day, then lower overnight. Anticipate post-prandial hyperglycemia by increasing the nutritional insulin doses. The insulin dose will typically increase by 50% from before glucocorticoid use and the total amount may be 0.5 to significantly >1 Unit/kg DAILY INSULIN ADJUSTMENTS There are no validated formulas for making these adjustments, but the following rules generally work well. Basal Insulin: Generally, the basal insulin dose is adjusted based on fasting glucose levels. For example, if FBS <140, no change. If FBS 141-160, increase basal dose by 2-3 units. If FBS 160-180, increase basal dose by 4-5 units. If FBS 180-200, increase basal dose by 6-7 units. If FBS >200, increase basal dose by 8 units. With this approach, the basal insulin can be titrated up to the patient’s actual requirement relatively quickly. Nutritional Insulin: The adequacy of the nutritional insulin dose is based on the glucose level prior to the next meal. For example, the glucose level just before lunch will indicate whether the insulin given at breakfast was appropriate. The glucose level at bedtime will indicate whether the insulin given at dinner was appropriate. A simple approach is as follows: If there was
