Inpatient Diabetes Management
KEYWORDS: insulin, dose, units, patient, basal, nutritional, glucose, units units, based, correctional, aspart, lispro, total, glulisine, regular


insulin given at breakfast was appropriate. The glucose level at bedtime will indicate whether the insulin given at dinner was appropriate. A simple approach is as follows: If there was no significant change in the glucose level from before breakfast to before lunch, then the total dose of insulin the patient received at breakfast (nutritional plus correctional) should be used as the nutritional dose for breakfast the next day. If there was a significant increase in the glucose level from before breakfast to before lunch, then the total dose of insulin the patient received at breakfast (nutritional plus correctional) should be increased and should become the nutritional dose for breakfast the next day. If the glucose level before breakfast was high, and the glucose level at lunch was at goal, then no change in the nutritional dose will be required for the next day. Finally, no matter what the glucose level was at breakfast, if the glucose level after breakfast or before lunch was low, then the breakfast nutritional dose should be decreased for the next day. Hypoglycemic Protocols BG <70 mg/dL: If patient taking po, give 20 grams of oral fast-acting carbohydrate either as glucose tablets or 6 oz. fruit juice. If patient cannot take po, give 25 mL D50 IV push. Check BG every 15 minutes and repeat above treatment until BG is ≥100 mg/dL. Insulin Infusions Use your hospital’s pre-printed order form or protocol in EMR and hospital-specific protocol for insulin infusions. Using an insulin infusion without a standardized protocol and trained providers can be unsafe. Continuous glucose intake (in IV fluid or continuous TPN or tube feeds) is required during the infusion. Remember to manually adjust the infusion rate and/or the algorithm if there are changes in nutrition (e.g., if tube feeding or TPN is held) or other rapid changes in medical status. When converting to SQ insulin, give the basal SQ dose 1-2 hours before discontinuing the insulin infusion. GUIDELINE Umpierrez GE, Hellman R, Korytkowski MT, Kosiborod M, Maynard GA, Montori VM, Seley JJ, Van den Berghe G. Endocrine Society. Management of hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients in non-critical care setting: an endocrine society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Jan; 97 (1):16–38. [ PubMed : 22223765 ] REFERENCES Society for Hospital Medicine Diabetes Resource Room. American Diabetes Association Diabetes Care in the Hospital: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes—2019. Diabetes Care. 2019 Jan;
