MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


REVIEW ARTICLE Prostatitis and Male Pelvic Pain Syndrome Diagnosis and Treatment Florian ME Wagenlehner, Kurt G Naber, Thomas Bschleipfer, Elmar Brähler, Wolfgang Weidner SUMMARY A bout 10% of all men suffer from the symptoms of prostatitis syndrome (1). However, the frequency Background:The prostatitis syndrome is a multifactorial of bacterial prostatitis is only 7% (2). It may be assumed condition of largely unknown etiology. The new NIH classification divides the prostatitis syndrome into a number that all other symptomatic patients suffer from inflam- of subtypes:acute bacterial prostatitis,chronic bacterial matory or noninflammatory pelvic pain syndrome and prostatitis,inflammatory and noninflammatory chronic the prostate is not involved in all cases. Asymptomatic pelvic pain syndrome,and asymptomatic prostatitis. prostatitis is almost always histologically detected in prostatic resection or biopsy specimens from patients Methods:This article is based on a selective review of the with benign prostatic hyperplasia (3) or prostatic carci- literature regarding the assessment and management of noma (4). The frequency of prostatitis in infertility is the prostatitis syndrome and on a recently published still unclear. consensus statement of the International Prostatitis The objective of the current review article is to Collaboration Network. describe practical management of the complex syndro- Results:Pathogenic organisms can be cultured only in me of prostatitis. For this purpose, the authors have per- acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis. These conditions formed a selective review of the literature in "Medline" should be treated with antibiotics,usually fluoroquinolones, and "Pubmed," together with a recently published consen- for an adequate period of time. 90% of patients with sus report from the International Prostatitis Collaboration prostatitis syndrome,however,suffer not from bacterial Network on this theme (1). prostatitis but from chronic (abacterial) prostatitis / chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS). It remains unclear Definitions whether CP/CPPS is of infectious origin,and therefore the In accordance with the classification of the National utility of a trial of antimicrobial treatment is debatable. Treatment with alpha receptor blockers is recommended if sified into four categories (5). functional subvesical obstruction is documented or suspected. Symptomatic therapy for pelvic pain should be Acute bacterial prostatitis (ABP),category I given as well. ABPis characterized by severe obstructive and irritative Conclusions:The prostatitis syndrome is a complex conditi- symptoms of the lower respiratory tract, pain in the area onwith a tendency toward chronification. It is important, of the prostate, and acute bacterial urinary tract infection therefore,that the patient be fully informed about the (UTI), with systemic involvement. diagnostic uncertainties and
