MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


tendency toward chronification. It is important, of the prostate, and acute bacterial urinary tract infection therefore,that the patient be fully informed about the (UTI), with systemic involvement. diagnostic uncertainties and the possibility that treatment may meet with less than complete success. Chronic bacterial prostatatis (CBP),category II Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 CBP is caused by chronic bacterial infection of the DOI: prostate, with or without prostatic symptoms. The same Key words:prostatitis,chronic disease,NIH classification, bacterial pathogen is often found with recurrent urinary fluorquinolones,alpha blockers tract infection. Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) CP/CPPS is split into inflammatory CP/CPPS (category IIIa) and noninflammatory CP/CPPS (IIIb). CP/CPPS is characterized by chronic pelvic pain and often by diffi- culties in micturition, without detection of an infection of the urinary tract. Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie,Justus-Liebig-Universität Gießen:Priv.-Doz.Dr.med.Wagenlehner,Dr.med.Dr.phil.Bschleipfer,Prof.Dr. med.Weidner Asymptomatic prostatitis,category IV In asymptomatic prostatitis, inflammation of the prostate Technische Universität München:Prof.Dr.med.Naber is detectable, although the patient does not report any Abteilung für Medizinische Psychologie und Medizinische Soziologie,Univer- sität Leipzig:Prof.Dr.rer.biol.hum.Brähler symptoms or difficulties in this area. Deutsches Ärzteblatt International⏐⏐Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 175 MEDICINE BOX 1 FIGURE 1 Evaluation of prostatitis syndrome (1) II.. AAccuuttee bbaacctteerriiaall pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy II)) – Men with symptoms of ABP should be given urine analysis,with urine culture and sensitivity testing. – Initial imaging is normally not recommended; if a prostate abscess is suspected,transrectal sonography should be performed. IIII.. CChhrroonniicc bbaacctteerriiaall pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIII)) – 4-glass or 2-glass test to detect leukocytes,with bacterial culture and sensitivity testing – Ejaculate culture is of poor sensitivity and should not be performed as primary diagnostic measure. – Prostate imaging should only be performed in special cases,for example,if the condition is resistant to treat- ment. – The CPSI questionnaire should be used to evaluate the symptoms,but should not be used for diagnosis in iso- lation. IIIIII.. CChhrroonniicc pprroossttaattiittiiss // cchhrroonniicc ppeellvviicc ppaaiinn ssyynnddrroommee ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIIIII)) a) Recommended investigations – 4-glass or 2-glass test to detect leukocytes,with bacterial culture and sensitivity testing – The CPSI questionnaire should be used to evaluate the Algorithm for the management of acute bacterial prostatitis symptoms,but should not be used for diagnosis in isolation. – Digital rectal investigation of the prostate and other pelvic structures – Psychological (psychosomatic) evaluation for specific patients—for example,if depressive disorder suspected b) Optional investigations – Urinary flow rate,determination of residual urine,and other urodynamic studies – Examination of ejaculate for leukocytes using
