MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


Psychological (psychosomatic) evaluation for specific patients—for example,if depressive disorder suspected b) Optional investigations – Urinary flow rate,determination of residual urine,and other urodynamic studies – Examination of ejaculate for leukocytes using special methods,such as peroxidase staining,leukocyte elastase Etiology and pathogenesis c) Investigations not routinely recommended Acute bacterial prostatitis – Serum PSA – Modified potassium chloride test ABPis a severe systemic infection. It may arise spon- – Prostate imaging taneously (90% of cases) or after manipulations on the – Detection of C.trachomatis and mycoplasmas urogenital tract (6). Pathogens include Escherichia – Cytoscopy coli, other enterobacteria, enterococci, and occasion- ally Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Complications from d) Investigations not conclusively recommended ABP include acute urinary retention, epididymitis, – Evaluation of prostate by histopathology and molecular prostatic abscess, urosepsis, and CBP. Development microbiology of urosepsis or CBPcan be prevented by timely and – Immune cells and mediators effective therapy. Aprostatic abscess develops in about 3% of all cases; ABPafter manipulations significantly IIVV AAssyymmppttoommaattiicc pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIVV)) more often leads to an abscess than does spontaneous – No evaluation,unless antibiotic therapy is considered ABP(6). because of PSA increase or infertility CPSI,Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; Chronic bacterial prostatitis PSA,prostate-specific antigen 5% to 10% of patients with the diagnosis of prostatitis syndrome are suffering from CBP(1). This is often trig- gered by an infection of the urinary tract. The pathogen 176 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International⏐⏐Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 MEDICINE Algorithm for the FIGURE 2 management of chronic bacterial prostatitis (1); UTI,urinary tract infection spectrum includes that of complex urinary tract infec- bladder emptying. Inadequate relaxation of the tions, with gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, bladder neck during micturition leads to turbulent although the latter often occur only transiently. Animal infravesicular urinary flow, with urinary reflux into experiments have shown that chronic infection leads to the prostatic canaliculi. This results in chemically the formation of a biofilm in the prostatic acini. This triggered inflammation of the prostate with release means that the pathogens form colonies there with special of mediators. The effects of these include stimula- growth conditions (7). tion of the pain nerve fibers (1). (cid:2)Other studies have shown that patients with Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome CP/CPPS exhibit raised levels of pro-inflammatory The etiology of CP/CPPS is often unclear. Five different cytokines and lowered levels of anti-inflammatory causes have been discussed—infection, detrusor-sphincter cytokines, as well as evidence of autoimmune pro- dysfunction, immunological dysfunction, interstitial cesses (1). cystitis, and
