MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


unclear. Five different cytokines and lowered levels of anti-inflammatory causes have been discussed—infection, detrusor-sphincter cytokines, as well as evidence of autoimmune pro- dysfunction, immunological dysfunction, interstitial cesses (1). cystitis, and neuropathic pain (1): (cid:2)An American group has found a positive intra- (cid:2)Prokaryotic DNAsequences are found in some pa- vesicular potassium sensitivity test in patients with tients with CP/CPPS IIIa and this may indicate that CP/CPPS. This may indicate interstitial cystitis. there are pathogenic micro-organisms in the prostate The authors concluded that CP/CPPS and inter- which cannot be cultured (1). stitial cystitis share the feature of uroepithelial (cid:2)It has frequently been reported that patients with dysfunction (1). These findings have not yet been CP/CPPS suffer functional obstruction during confirmed. Deutsches Ärzteblatt International⏐⏐Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 177 MEDICINE FIGURE 3 FIGURE 4 Sketch of the 4-glass test for the diagnosis of chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome (9) Algorithm for the management of chronic pelvic pain syndrome (1); LUTS,symptoms of the lower urinary tract; CPSI,Chronic Prostatitis Symptoms Index; NSAIDs,nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs (cid:2)There is experimental evidence for an axis between Acute bacterial prostatitis sensory nerves and mast cells as a pain mechanism. Acute bacterial prostatitis (NIH category I) is an acute that neural structures lie extremely close to prostate fever, and chills. There are dysuric and pollakisuric glands. Spinal neurons are stimulated through mast symptoms, which can peak in urinary retention. Prostatic cell–induced PAR-2 (protease-activated receptor-2) abscesses are possible, as is urosepsis, the most severe activation and this may produce pain. complication (1). ABPis diagnosed microbiologically by detecting the pathogens in the midstream urine. Prostatic Asymptomatic prostatitis massage is contraindicated. Regularly increased PSA Chronic inflammation can lead to the release of reactive values are a serum marker; these regress after antibiotic oxygen species and these not only have deleterious therapy. Transrectal ultrasound of the prostate (TRUS) effects on sperm parameters, but also induce other should be carried out to exclude prostatic abscess. damage to cell walls and DNAin prostate epithelial cells and could even contribute to prostatic neoplasias in this Chronic bacterial prostatitis way (4). Serum PSA(prostate-specific antigen) may be The symptoms of CBP(NIH category II) cannot be dis- raised and then return to normal values once the inflam- tinguished from those of CP/CPPS (NIH category III). mation decreases (8). The symptom complex can be split into (cid:2)pain, Diagnosis (cid:2)irritative symptoms during micturition, and The recommended evaluation of prostatitis
