MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


be validated with the standard questionnaire of PPL,peroxidase-positive leukocytes; elastase,leukocyte elastase; IL-8,interleukin 8. the National Institute of Health—Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) (10). This questionnaire has three sections—pain, micturition, and quality of life. Experience has shown that the section on pain provides carcinoma. The histological diagnosis of prostatitis the best discrimination between men with and without should employ the standardized classification of the CP/CPPS. From a pain score of >10, it is generally International Prostatitis Network (16). Whether histo- assumed that the patient has manifest prostatitis symp- logically manifest chronic prostatitis with inflammatory toms (11). Changes in the overall score correlate with proliferative atrophy can develop into prostatic carci- the therapeutic response (15). Depression and psycho- noma is currently a matter of violent controversy (4, 17). social symptoms are concentrated in patients with CP/CPPS and these must be addressed at the same time Treatment (11). Cooperation with a psychologist or a physician The recommended treatment of prostatitis syndrome is trained in psychosomatic medicine is helpful here. The shown in box 2and in figures 1, 2, and 3(1). 4-glass or 2-glass tests and the ejaculate test can be used to distinguish between the inflammatory and Acute bacterial prostatitis noninflammatory forms (12). The exact limits in the Antibiotic therapy is started empirically. Fluoroquino- ejaculate for distinguishing between inflammatory and lones are the most effective antibiotics for sensitive bac- noninflammatory CP/CPPS are currently being discussed teria. After resistance has been determined, specific oral (table 2) (13, 14). antibiotic therapy should be performed for at least 2 to 4 If there is evidence for obstructive micturition symp- weeks. The recurrence rate for ABPis about 13% (6). If toms, this must be investigated with uroflowmetry and there is residual urine, alpha-receptor blockers should residual urine, possibly with cystomanometry. Cystos- be used. If there is urine retention, a single-use or copy, computed tomography, and MRI of the prostate indwelling suprapubic catheter should be laid. At least are not recommended (1). Possible differential diagnoses from 1 cm in size, a prostatic abscess should be treated are diseases of the rectum, the external genitals, the by puncture and drainage. These recommendations are urethra, and the bladder, as the nerves of other pelvic based on an international consensus (1). organs may interact with prostatic innervation (15). Chronic bacterial prostatitis Asymptomatic prostatitis Fluoroquinolones penetrate relatively well into the Asymptomatic prostatitis is diagnosed by chance, for prostate and are therefore the
