MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


organs may interact with prostatic innervation (15). Chronic bacterial prostatitis Asymptomatic prostatitis Fluoroquinolones penetrate relatively well into the Asymptomatic prostatitis is diagnosed by chance, for prostate and are therefore the therapy of choice for CBP. example, during investigation of infertility or prostatic They should be administered for 4 weeks. If the pathogen Deutsches Ärzteblatt International⏐⏐Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 179 MEDICINE is resistant to fluoroquinolones, therapy with cotrimoxa- BOX 2 zole for 3 months is recommended (1). Treatment of prostatitis syndrome (1) For recurrent CBP, either each episode can be treated with antibiotics, or long-term antibiotic prophylaxis can II.. AAccuuttee bbaacctteerriiaall pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy II)) be performed for at least 6 months. Surgical procedures – Broad spectrum penicillin with beta-lactamase inhibitor; third generation and radical prostatectomy must be regarded as the last cephalosporin,fluoroquinolone,aminoglycoside in combination with resort, or as therapy for concomitant obstruction ampicillin for empirical therapy (TURP) (1, 18). The results of selected studies are – If indicated,indwelling urinary catheter shown intable 3. – Drainage if prostatic abscess – Further treatment with oral fluoroquinolones for 2 to 4 weeks Chronic pelvic pain syndrome As functional obstruction may cause this syndrome, IIII.. CChhrroonniicc bbaacctteerriiaall pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIII)) therapy with alpha-receptor blockers is of great signifi- – Oral fluoroquinolones for ceptible bacteria for 4 to 6 weeks cance. Therapy for at least 6 months is recommended, as – Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for fluoroquinolone-resistant bacteria for this leads to down-regulation of the alpha-receptors in 3months the prostate (1). Muscle relaxants may be used if there is – For treatment resistant patients: evidence for functional abnormalities in the pelvic floor (cid:2) Intermittent antibiotic treatment of acute symptomatic cystitis muscle. Intraprostatic injection of botulinum toxin Ais (cid:2) Low dose antibiotic suppression therapy (for example,nitrofurantoin) currently being investigated in these patients (19) and (cid:2) Radical TURP or simple prostatectomy (as last resort) may offer a new therapeutic approach. Another pathogenetic hypothesis is chronic infec- IIIIII.. CChhrroonniicc pprroossttaattiittiiss // tion with bacteria that are difficult to detect and cannot cchhrroonniicc ppeellvviicc ppaaiinn ssyynnddrroommee ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIIIII)) be cultured. For this reason, it is justified to treat a) Recommended therapies CP/CPPS IIIa patients with fluoroquinolones if they – Alpha-receptor blocker therapy for newly diagnosed patients not previously have previously not been exposed to antibiotics—just treated with alpha-blockers as with CBP patients (1). If the symptoms do not – Antimicrobial therapy for newly diagnosed patients not previously treated improve
