MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, pain, prostatic, bacterial, syndrome, pelvic, prostate, therapy, bacterial prostatitis, patients, pelvic pain, treatment, pain syndrome, cpps


previously not been exposed to antibiotics—just treated with alpha-blockers as with CBP patients (1). If the symptoms do not – Antimicrobial therapy for newly diagnosed patients not previously treated improve within two weeks, antibiotic therapy should with antibiotics not be continued. – Multimodal symptomatic therapy Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce prostaglandin synthesis by inhibiting the enzyme b) Not recommended therapies cyclooxygenase, leading to a favorable effect on prostatic – Alpha-receptor blockers for patients with prior multiple therapies inflammation (20). For this reason, patients with domi- – Anti-inflammatory monotherapy nant pain may be given NSAIDs. Some herbal medicines – Antimicrobial therapy for patients with prior multiple therapies act in a similar manner and could possibly be used, – 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor monotherapy although they have not yet been subjected to adequate – Invasive surgical therapies,such as TURP and radical prostatectomy action (e.g. central) are indicated for intense pain. Anticholinergic drugs may be used for symptomatic treat- c) Therapies which cannot yet be conclusively evaluated ment of patients with dominant micturition problems, – TUMT including urinary urgency linked to irritable bladder. – Mepartricin If a patient exhibits the symptoms of CP/CPPS, but – Quercetin and other herbal drugs – Biofeedback picture is often classified as psychosomatic (21). The – Physical therapies (such as hyperthermia) diagnosis of a somatoform disorder must be carefully – Acupuncture considered in the context of other possible diagnoses, in – Electromagnetic stimulation close cooperation with a urologist. In such cases, it is – Immunomodulatory substances particularly important to define accompanying depressive – Muscle relaxants symptoms and these must be diagnosed and treated – Neuromodulatory substances separately from the actual prostatitis symptoms. Sexual – Modulation of the Nervus pudendus problems with the partner are frequently accompanied by significant consequences for the relationship (22). IIVV.. AAssyymmppttoommaattiicc pprroossttaattiittiiss ((NNIIHH ccaatteeggoorryy IIVV)) Physical options include repetitive prostate massage Antimicrobial therapy can be considered for specific patients with raised PSA or or methods to apply energy to the prostate. There is not infertility. enough evidence for these approaches and they are therefore controversial. If there are anatomical changes such as cysts in the TURP,transurethral resection of the prostate; TUNA,transurethral needle ablation of the prostate; TUMT,transurethral microwave thermotherapy of the prostate; PSA,prostate-specific antigen prostate and these cause infravesicular obstruction, sur- gical procedures should be performed to remove the obstruction. 180 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International⏐⏐Dtsch Arztebl Int 2009; 106(11):175–83 MEDICINE TABLE 3*1 Cumulative microbiological eradication rates in
