Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


ABSTRACT The ovaries affect far more than reproductive health. Estrogen affects cardiovascular, skeletal, mental health, and numerous other aspects of wellness. Additionally, ovarian dysfunction can reflect disequilibrium relating to multiple conditions. Efficient and effective ovarian testing can give women valuable answers about their fertility, time to menopause, and other conditions and symptoms they may face. Though no test is perfect, antral follicle count (AFC) and anti- Müllerian hormone (AMH) provide more sensitive and specific results that allow for the continuum of ovarian function and have advantages over classic tests such as follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol, the clomiphene citrate challenge test (CCCT), and others. This chapter explores these and additional ovarian assays, their underlying mechanisms, and limitations that may favor one test over another depending on circumstances. Particular emphasis is given to evaluating perimenopausal status, procreation, and etiologies for amenorrhea. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Ovarian endocrinology is dynamic. Years of quiescence are followed by oscillating secretion until near burnout, but some function remains even after menopause. “Ovarian reserve testing” assesses where the ovaries are within this spectrum. These measures seem to most clearly relate to oocyte quantity, as multiple other factors (especially age) meaningfully affect oocyte quality and fecundability. However, quantity and quality are not completely independent, as abnormal ovarian reserve testing has been linked to increased blastocyst aneuploidy ( 1 ). This chapter will characterize the main biochemical and sonographic approaches used in both classic and modern testing. Moreover, an assay, like any tool, has value relative to the task to which it is applied. Accordingly, this chapter will also discuss application of ovarian reserve tests to several common areas: assessing perimenopausal status, evaluating ovarian reserve for fertility, and addressing primary and secondary amenorrhea. Because consensus can be difficult, the following summaries reflect trends, though different perspectives exist, and the literature continues to evolve. Existing research on ovarian reserve testing is often confusing because of heterogeneity among tested populations (the general population, infertility patients of all ages, infertility patients more than 35 years old, etc., see also data from the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART), Figure 1 , (2)). Additionally, one must always keep in mind that as with all screening tests, no single result is definitive, since findings must be interpreted in context and should be repeated or supplemented as appropriate. Figure 1.
