Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


in mind that as with all screening tests, no single result is definitive, since findings must be interpreted in context and should be repeated or supplemented as appropriate. Figure 1. The relative effect of age on fecundity through in vitro fertilization (IVF) in 2023 according to the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART) ( 2 ). MARKERS OF OVARIAN RESERVE Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) MECHANISM FSH was the first hormone directly linked to ovarian aging ( 3 ). It is secreted by the anterior pituitary and promotes the progression of antral follicles into dominant follicles. Feedback from estrogen, inhibin, and activin influence hypothalamic GnRH pulsatility, which determines pituitary FSH expression. Elevated FSH levels can be seen with dwindling reserve, where a greater FSH stimulus is required to drive folliculogenesis, but elevated levels also can be found in normal ovarian reserve if measured at the time of the LH surge. Low FSH levels are seen prior to puberty or with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. In addition to medical conditions that shift pituitary FSH expression, exogenous hormones and their modulators (clomiphene, letrozole, etc.), cimetidine, phenothiazines, and other medications can also shift levels. TESTING Many non-FSH substrates can induce an FSH-like effect. Without describing in detail the spectrum of FSH assays that bypass this challenge, for which an excellent review is available ( 4 ), in the clinical setting FSH is typically measured by immunoassay. The sample is usually acquired by phlebotomy (24-hour urine collections are rarely used) on menstrual cycle day three for ovulatory patients, with day one being the first full day of flow. Testing on cycle days two, four, or five is not unreasonable, but if a normal result would prompt retesting, a day three measurement or a different assay is preferred. Multiple cutoffs are used, with FSH levels of >16.7, >11.4, and <10 mIU/mL reflecting high, moderately high, and normal levels based on the World Health Organization (WHO) Second International Standard ( 5 ). Because ovarian reserve is on a continuum, any cutoff selected should relate to goals of balancing positive and negative predictive values, and this is an issue that applies to other measures of ovarian reserve as well. In amenorrheic patients, a random sample is preferred to testing after hormonally induced menses. In the setting of amenorrhea, a concurrent progesterone level (<2 ng/mL) is a reasonable control to ensure that one is in the follicular phase. LIMITATIONS Interpersonal and
