Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


hormonally induced menses. In the setting of amenorrhea, a concurrent progesterone level (<2 ng/mL) is a reasonable control to ensure that one is in the follicular phase. LIMITATIONS Interpersonal and intercycle variation can be meaningful in patients at risk for moderately elevated FSH, which is why it has been jokingly called “Fluctuating Severely Hormone.” The problems with FSH’s sensitivity in part stem from it being a late marker of dwindling ovarian function, as summarized in Stages of Reproductive Aging Workshop + 10 conclusions ( 6 ). This limited predictive value is reflected in the NHANES III data, which showed 75% of women aged 40 to 44 years having normal levels at less than 10 mIU/mL, even though ovarian factor is typically the rate limiting step at this age, and half of women aged 45 to 49 years had levels less than 11 mIU/mL ( 7 ). Sensitivity for FSH is often worse than specificity, with findings ranging from 11-86% and 45-100%, respectively ( 8 ). With anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) and antral follicle count (AFC) demonstrating better predictive value for ovarian response than FSH, these are more likely to be the tests of choice ( 9 ). Accordingly, relative to emerging alternatives, FSH testing increasingly is seen as less valuable than it used to be for procreative testing and more useful for evaluating perimenopausal status, hypergonadotropic and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and central precocious puberty. Estradiol MECHANISM As with FSH, estradiol levels vacillate over the course of a menstrual cycle, peaking in both the late follicular and mid luteal phases. As ovarian reserve declines, the follicular phase shortens because of decreasing feedback inhibition by follicles recruited during the previous cycle. (This is why the first clinical sign of decreasing ovarian reserve is shortening menstrual cycle length.) With the follicular phase starting earlier, estradiol levels start rising closer to menses (and the classic day three FSH peak actually can occur prior to menses). As a result, an elevated day three estradiol level could reflect diminishing ovarian reserve. Elevated estradiol (>60-80 pg/mL) may also lead to an artificially normal FSH, where higher estradiol levels lead to feedback suppression of FSH. Conversely, estradiol levels <20 pg/mL on day three depending on the circumstances can be consistent with normal ovarian function, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, or ovarian failure. TESTING Estradiol is also typically measured by immunoassay after phlebotomy. The sample is usually drawn at the same time as FSH
