Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


with normal ovarian function, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, or ovarian failure. TESTING Estradiol is also typically measured by immunoassay after phlebotomy. The sample is usually drawn at the same time as FSH levels or randomly when assessing amenorrhea. Estrone, the primary postmenopausal estrogen, and estriol, the primary pregnancy estrogen, are not typically tested when evaluating ovarian function. Also, because oral estrogens are typically metabolized into many byproducts (with varying activity), serum estradiol levels often won’t reflect exogenous exposure. (However, transdermal estrogen administration can be monitored through serum levels.) Medical conditions, glucocorticoids, sex steroids, clomiphene, letrozole, GnRH agonists and antagonists, and other medications can alter estradiol levels, just as they could shift FSH levels. LIMITATIONS For many conditions an estradiol level is a reasonable proxy for ovarian inactivity. However, for assessing decreasing ovarian reserve, estradiol is neither a sensitive nor specific assay ( 9 ). Accordingly, when used for measuring ovarian reserve, estradiol has its greatest value as an internal control to ensure that one is testing at the expected portion of the menstrual cycle ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Ovarian, hormonal, and endometrial changes over the menstrual cycle. Adapted from Hall, et al., Hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion and follicle-stimulating hormone dynamics during the luteal follicular transition ( 10 ). Clomiphene Citrate Challenge Test (CCCT) MECHANISM The clomiphene citrate challenge test combines measurement of FSH and estradiol levels prior to clomiphene exposure and FSH levels after clomiphene exposure. Clomiphene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that inhibits negative feedback inhibition by estradiol on the hypothalamus. Normally, increased estrogen levels decrease GnRH pulsatility, resulting in lower FSH levels through negative feedback. By using clomiphene to block feedback inhibition by estradiol, there is an increase in FSH, which enhances follicular recruitment, and which is why clomiphene can be used for ovulation induction and superovulation. TESTING FSH and estradiol levels are assessed through immunoassay, as previously described. The CCCT is performed by having an FSH level drawn on the third day of the menstrual cycle, taking 100 mg of clomiphene orally cycle days five to nine, and then repeating the FSH level on cycle day number ten ( 11 , 12 ). An estradiol level is also frequently drawn on the third day and sometimes on the tenth day as well. LIMITATIONS When assessing ovarian reserve for fertility, FSH is a limited measure of ovarian response, and a poor predictor of pregnancy and estradiol
