Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


sometimes on the tenth day as well. LIMITATIONS When assessing ovarian reserve for fertility, FSH is a limited measure of ovarian response, and a poor predictor of pregnancy and estradiol is predictive of neither ( 9 ). When combining the two through the CCCT, it is difficult to assess the degree of benefit through receiver operator curves ( 9 ). If benefit is unclear, cost-effectiveness is even less so. Accordingly, other measures of ovarian reserve are increasingly used instead of the CCCT, although this assay is still more commonly used than other provocative tests, such as the exogenous FSH ovarian reserve test (EFORT) and the GnRH agonist stimulation test (GAST). The CCCT has particularly suboptimal value in anovulatory patients. The reason is that the CCCT is primarily used to help discriminate normal ovarian reserve from poor reserve in patients with potentially borderline function. However, the typical anovulatory patient tends to have robust reserve (PCOS, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism) or poor reserve (primary ovarian insufficiency), so relative to alternative assays, a test designed to elicit subtleties is typically less important in this population. Antral Follicle Count (AFC) MECHANISM Follicular recruitment is in constant flux during the reproductive years, with less than 0.1% of oogonia present at birth ever making it to ovulation. Fluid surrounding numerous oocytes not selected to be the dominant follicle can be seen sonographically prior to regression. The more follicles visualized within the ovary, the greater the probable ovarian reserve, and AFC has been shown to correlate closely with the primordial follicular pool on histologic analysis ( 13 , 14 ), even if this is not universal with less close association for pre-pubertal girls and early teens. Though it remains for debate as to how much a dwindling follicular pool reflects oocyte quality as well as quantity, women with infertility are more likely to have lower antral follicle counts than those without infertility ( 15 ). Similarly, women with low antral follicle counts are much more likely to have cancellation for under response with IVF than those with normal counts ( 16 ). However, though low quantity in younger women may reflect fewer oocytes with which blastocysts can form, it does not clearly seem associated with higher rates of aneuploidy or miscarriage ( 17 ). TESTING Antral follicle count can be measured at any time during the menstrual cycle, as well as when a woman is on hormonal contraceptives or
