Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


or miscarriage ( 17 ). TESTING Antral follicle count can be measured at any time during the menstrual cycle, as well as when a woman is on hormonal contraceptives or is pregnant. Classically, a woman’s AFC is the total number of ovarian follicles measuring between two and nine millimeters, though many studies count follicles up to and including ten millimeters in size ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Ovarian sonographic imaging of women in their mid-30’s. Figure 3a is from a woman with premature ovarian failure and there are no visualized antral follicles (the sonographically anechoic regions measuring approximately two to nine millimeters within the ovary). Figure 3b is from a woman with tubal factor infertility, and for whom seeing a few follicles within a single plane of the ovary would be normal. Figure 3c is from a woman with polycystic ovarian syndrome. Though her ovary is arguably more multicystic than polycystic (which would typically have follicles concentrated on the periphery of the ovary), she met the criteria for PCOS, and her ovary is clearly distinct from those shown in 3a and 3b. Of note, all three ultimately conceived with their own oocytes, so it should be remembered that the absence of visualized antral follicles makes conception far less probable, but not impossible. Multiple cutoffs are used for what constitutes normal and poor ovarian reserve. Given that antral follicle count varies among cycles, it is reasonable to view the AFC as a continuum, with four total antral follicles reflecting limited reserve, but five antral follicles not being entirely reassuring. Additionally, what constitutes normal is age dependent, where ten total antral follicles may be common for women in their 30’s, but not their teens. Though many measures have been used to define polycystic ovarian morphology, the most accepted standard is that used in the Rotterdam criteria of, “12 or more follicles in each ovary measuring 2 to 9 mm in diameter, and/or increased ovarian volume (>10 ml).” This cutoff was chosen, as it was associated with 75% sensitivity and 98% specificity for distinguishing polycystic ovarian morphology (PCOM) from normal ovaries ( 18 ). Revised guidelines were proposed in 2018 and reaffirmed in 2023 to have an AFC ≥ 20 (or an ovarian volume ≥ 10 mL) on either ovary in the context of no corpora lutea, cysts, or dominant follicles being present ( 19 ). Of note, in the development of
