Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


ovarian volume ≥ 10 mL) on either ovary in the context of no corpora lutea, cysts, or dominant follicles being present ( 19 ). Of note, in the development of guidelines for the WHO on PCOS, sonography was deemed preferable to AMH levels from a pragmatic standpoint. ( 20 ) LIMITATIONS There is debate as to how much moving outside of the early follicular phase or hormonal modulation such as pregnancy and oral contraceptives will shift the measurement of antral follicle count. Both central and paracrine effects can occur, and these are more likely to be meaningful in patients with suboptimal ovarian reserve. However, patients with reassuring ovarian reserve are unlikely to move into a non-reassuring category through these conditions if the ultrasound resolution allows for early antral follicle visualization and measurement. Patient dependent and observer dependent limitations should also be considered. Patients with elevated BMI (particularly with increased vaginal adiposity) and/or scarring of the pelvis may be more likely to have ovaries with limited resolution for assessment, which could potentially underestimate ovarian reserve. Similarly, large cysts or endometriomas could exert a temporary paracrine effect underestimating reserve. Patients with previous ovarian surgery could also have inclusion cysts appearing similar to antral follicles, but these won’t develop with stimulation or have oocytes at follicular aspiration for IVF. For observer dependent limitations, it should be noted that in some multi-center studies where anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) is found superior to antral follicle count, one can find most institutions having AMH and AFC equally predictive, but one site has an observer where there is a meaningful difference. This has led some to conclude AMH superior to AFC, but failure to properly train observers prior to research is a limitation to study design and may not necessarily reflect true diminished value in utilizing AFC for assessing ovarian reserve. ASRM 2022 Practice Committee Guidelines note, “When performed in an experienced center, AFC is a reasonable alternative to AMH” ( 29 ). Anti-Müllerian Hormone (AMH, Müllerian Inhibiting Substance, MIS) MECHANISM AMH is a homodimeric glycopeptide that in reproductive aged women is predominantly granulosa cell derived. The role of systemic AMH is not clear, but at the level of the ovary, it is believed to downregulate FSH mediated folliculogenesis. AMH expression is highest in secondary, preantral, and small antral follicles up until approximately 4 mm in size, and it stops being expressed by granulosa cells when the follicle
