Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


folliculogenesis. AMH expression is highest in secondary, preantral, and small antral follicles up until approximately 4 mm in size, and it stops being expressed by granulosa cells when the follicle measures in the 4 to 8 mm range ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. The interplay of follicular development and hormonal secretion and responsiveness. AMH seems to have a role in selecting the dominant follicle in addition to generally mediating preantral follicular recruitment. AMH levels start undergoing a log-linear decline approximately fifteen years prior to menopause and drop to very low levels approximately five years before menopause ( 21 ). The AMH level associated with diminished ovarian reserve is assay specific and depends on the desired balance of sensitivity and specificity but is typically below 1 ng/mL. The threshold for menopause is typically lower than the lower detectable limit for many assays, being slightly below 0.1 ng/mL ( 22 ). AMH <0.5 ng/mL seems associated with fewer than three follicles available at retrieval, 0.5-1 ng/mL with reduced response, 1-3.5 ng/mL with normal response, and >3.5 ng/mL with overresponse, reflecting greater risk for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome ( 23 ). Normal AMH values often exceed 2 ng/mL at 30, 1.5 ng/mL at 35, and 1 ng/mL at 40 as a quick reference for expected reserve at a given age. The role of weight loss on AMH levels is for debate but should be sub-stratified in women without and with PCOS ( 51 ). Though a lack of association cannot be excluded due to limitations in sample size, there does not seem to be a clear shift in AMH with weight loss for non-PCOS patients. However, for those with elevated AMH from PCOS that have been effectively treated through diet, exercise, and/or bariatric surgery, there is improved fertility, even as AMH lowers to more normal levels ( 51 ). It is unclear which signal transduction pathways drive these lower levels, as one would expect weight loss-associated shifts in adiponectin, leptin, and insulin to actually increase AMH through recognized mechanisms. Lifestyle may have a broader impact beyond weight on ovarian reserve, as both AMH and AFC are statistically lower in women with lower socioeconomic status ( 56 ). TESTING AMH levels are measured through immunoassay on a sample obtained through phlebotomy. Values obtained have the distinct advantage of being equally valid at any point in the menstrual cycle. Because AMH is expressed primarily before
