Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


immunoassay on a sample obtained through phlebotomy. Values obtained have the distinct advantage of being equally valid at any point in the menstrual cycle. Because AMH is expressed primarily before FSH responsiveness occurs, it is believed that AMH remains a valid assay even when ovarian suppression occurs through smoking, oral contraceptives, GnRH agonists, and pregnancy ( 24 ). Though these factors can lead to transient ovarian suppression, they are unlikely to change levels so much as to meaningfully underestimate true reserve. The magnitude of effect through these reversible factors seems to be low, with age-specific AMH percentiles decreasing by 11% with oral contraceptives and 17% with pregnancy ( 25 ). Additionally, AMH levels drawn on day seven of the pill free interval seem to closely correlate with levels seen after oral contraceptive discontinuation ( 26 ). A popular misconception is that just because it is valid to assess AMH throughout the menstrual cycle and under a variety of inhibitory conditions, this should not be mistaken as meaning that AMH levels are static. Though levels of AMH tend to be in a steady state in perimenopausal patients, for those with higher ovarian reserve, AMH levels fluctuate significantly. This fluctuation, however, is not to the point where a person with robust ovarian reserve is likely to be categorized as having limited reserve ( 21 ). LIMITATIONS AMH seems to have fewer limitations than most other assays. In fact, it seems to have the advantage that it not only is useful in predicting ovarian response to gonadotropin stimulation but may even have limited value in predicting pregnancy rates ( 27 ). However, like other ovarian reserve assays, it does not appear particularly valuable in predicting viability once pregnancy has already been established. When there is discordance between AFC and AMH levels (e.g. low AFC but normal AMH or vice versa), ovarian response is often a hybrid of the two findings (above those with diminished reserve but less than that of those with normal reserve) ( 28 ). To acknowledge a previously stated limitation, it needs to be reemphasized that while AMH is an excellent measure of the functional ovarian reserve (available follicular pool), quantity does not always reflect oocyte quality (euploidy), particularly in younger women. Inhibin B MECHANISM Inhibin B is similar to AMH in that it is a glycoprotein secreted by preantral follicles, with levels declining with age. Both inhibin A and
