Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


younger women. Inhibin B MECHANISM Inhibin B is similar to AMH in that it is a glycoprotein secreted by preantral follicles, with levels declining with age. Both inhibin A and B downregulate pituitary FSH secretion. However, Inhibin A levels are not used to predict ovarian reserve because they arise primarily from the dominant follicle rather than an earlier follicular cohort and therefore are less predictive. Inhibin B levels are relatively more useful, but overall remain suboptimally predictive, as they are a late finding for diminished ovarian reserve and typically start falling around four years prior to menopause ( 21 ). TESTING Inhibin levels are measured by immunoassay after phlebotomy. Inhibin B levels fluctuate over the menstrual cycle, with peaks in the early to mid-follicular phase, as well as during ovulation. Accordingly, inhibin B is typically measured on the third day of the menstrual cycle in ovulatory women. Outside of ovarian reserve testing, in postmenopausal women, where inhibin B levels should be consistently low, a random level is particularly good for following granulosa cell tumors (>89% have elevated inhibin B) and also can be useful for following some epithelial cell ovarian tumors. LIMITATIONS In addition to significant variation within the cycle, there is also meaningful variation among cycles. Because of limited sensitivity and specificity, this assay has greater value in those far more likely to have diminished reserve. Some have proposed using inhibin B in combination with other assays, but it is the opinion of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine that “combined ovarian reserve tests models do not consistently improve predictive ability over that of single ovarian reserve tests” ( 29 ). Ovarian Volume MECHANISM Follicles, stroma, and vasculature all contribute to ovarian volume. The percentage that each contributes depends on the individual, her age, underlying gynecologic conditions, and where she is during the menstrual cycle. TESTING Typically, ultrasound is used to measure the ovary in all 3 dimensions. These measurements are then applied in the formula for calculating the volume of an ellipse (D1 x D2 x D3 x 0.523). An ovarian volume of >10 mL is considered consistent with PCOS ( 19 ). Although increased ovarian stromal volume distinguishes polycystic ovarian morphology from the multicystic ovary, stromal volume is not routinely measured. Alternative approaches that may improve the effectiveness of ovarian volume include the use of trapezoidal volume ( 30 ), 3D ultrasound ( 31 ), and color
