Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


is not routinely measured. Alternative approaches that may improve the effectiveness of ovarian volume include the use of trapezoidal volume ( 30 ), 3D ultrasound ( 31 ), and color Doppler ( 32 ). LIMITATIONS Ovarian volume shifts in response to normal physiologic changes (such as the presence of a dominant follicle) and coexisting medical conditions (such as endometriomas). Exogenous hormones can decrease ovarian volume ( 33 ), even though ovarian reserve itself has not changed. For these reasons, if evaluating the ovaries by ultrasound, antral follicle count is believed to be a better proxy for ovarian reserve. APPLICATION OF OVARIAN RESERVE TESTING Assessing Perimenopausal Status Classically, ovarian insufficiency and failure have been defined as present when persistent FSH levels >40 µIU/mL are found with at least two radioimmunoassays more than a month apart. No detectable antral follicles in a patient without ovarian suppression is consistent with a perimenopausal state and fewer than two antral follicles has been deemed a more sensitive cutoff ( 29 ). The reason to not require the complete absence of follicles is that minimal follicular development is not unusual in postmenopausal women, as there can be a 14% prevalence and an 8% incidence of simple cysts in a given year ( 34 ). Similarly, though an undetectable AMH level would be consistent with menopause, in women with primary ovarian insufficiency, approximately a quarter of them will have below normal but detectable AMH levels and a sixth will have normal AMH levels ( 35 ). Though women with advancing age will have higher FSH levels, it remains unclear if women with elevated FSH earlier in their reproductive life will go through menopause earlier ( 36 ). Finally, it should be remembered that confirmation of primary ovarian insufficiency does not automatically mean completion of testing, as fragile X carrier screening and other evaluations may be appropriate. Evaluating Ovarian Reserve for Fertility in Ovulatory Patients For ovarian reserve testing prior to fertility therapy, there is more data on FSH than other measures. Generally, women of the same age with higher FSH levels seem to have lower fecundability ( 37 ). However, younger women with elevated FSH levels often have much better fecundability than older women with comparably elevated FSH ( 38 ) and age can be a better predictor of outcome than FSH ( 39 ). Though differences in pregnancy rates can be shown between those with high
