Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


FSH ( 38 ) and age can be a better predictor of outcome than FSH ( 39 ). Though differences in pregnancy rates can be shown between those with high and low FSH, the assay in general has suboptimal sensitivity for both ovarian response and pregnancy rates, as reflected by receiver-operator curves ( 9 ). A rarely addressed caveat is that though it is true that multiple studies are showing AMH and AFC to have a better balance of sensitivity and specificity than FSH, meta-analyses regarding the predictive value of FSH run the risk of being biased towards the null. The reason is that the earliest ovarian reserve testing research (using FSH) was done at a time when IVF success rates were lower. This caveat won’t apply to modern studies where FSH is directly compared with AMH or AFC, but one should account for temporal bias in meta-analyses if studies from the 1990s are included. One should also note, that 20% of the time there will be AMH and FSH discordance, particularly in older women where this can be as high as 33%. ( 55 ) Anti-Müllerian hormone levels and antral follicle count seem to be emerging as the best approaches to procreative testing. A survey of 796 centers noted 51% thought AMH the best measure for ovarian reserve, while 40% selected AFC, though ultimately 80% felt age was the best predictor for pregnancy ( 50 ). After accounting for age, AFC and AMH seem highly accurate in predicting poor response with IVF, while FSH does so only moderately ( 40 ). Not only are these measures commonly used for predicting under response, but they can also be used to predict hyperstimulation ( 41 ). Ovarian reserve assessment for reproductive purposes is fraught with controversy because different practitioners prefer different balances of sensitivity and specificity. At the minimum it should be recognized that this type of testing is meant to be screening for women who are more likely to have a poor response to ovarian stimulation, and findings are not necessarily diagnostic of ovarian failure or the degree of risk for premature menopause. However, results consistent with perimenopausal findings should be confirmed and appropriate counseling given. As stated by ASRM, “Extremely low AMH levels should not be used to refuse treatment in IVF” ( 29 ). The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) draws similar conclusions ( 42 ).
