Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


“Extremely low AMH levels should not be used to refuse treatment in IVF” ( 29 ). The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) draws similar conclusions ( 42 ). Since combined tests do not consistently improve the ability to predict ovarian response, many clinicians are simply using either AMH or AFC in the context of the patient’s age and reserve additional testing for atypical clinical pictures or to confirm significant ovarian insufficiency. In spite of this ASRM recommended approach, some argue that combined testing improves sensitivity in detecting suboptimal ovarian reserve. Whether or not the literature ultimately demonstrates this, a way of side-stepping this debate is by noting that combined testing is unlikely to be cost-effective. The reason is that if additional testing is unlikely to change management (especially when the vast majority of patients have normal results), it is very hard to show cost-effectiveness when doubling or tripling costs without clear benefit. Accordingly, if using combined testing, it should be selective rather than universal. An additional note on ovarian reserve tests in procreation relates to their limitations. Though some appear better than others in predicting ovarian response to stimulation, most are limited at best in predicting pregnancy, and this predictive value is highly dependent on patient demographics within a study. This is not inherently a flaw in the assays; rather, infertility is often multifactorial, so when ovarian reserve testing is a subset of factors, this tends to bias its relevance towards the null. Studies showing an ovarian reserve test to be predictive of pregnancy in general tend to have older populations. (It has been argued as to whether this constitutes enrollment bias or limits external validity; however, it is reasonable to find a test having greater value when applied to a population at risk.). Another limitation is that abnormal ovarian reserve testing does not always increase miscarriage rates ( 43 ), despite an association between abnormal testing and blastocyst aneuploidy ( 1 ). Studies show roughly a 25% increase in the probability per embryo of being aneuploid in the setting of diminished ovarian reserve ( 52 , 53 ). This may underestimate the magnitude of effect, as many aneuploid embryos may not survive to biopsy and evaluation. This is why one can see the bottom quartile having higher rates of all embryos being aneuploid (19.3% vs 10.3%) and of having only one embryo to biopsy (31% vs 11%)
