Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


is why one can see the bottom quartile having higher rates of all embryos being aneuploid (19.3% vs 10.3%) and of having only one embryo to biopsy (31% vs 11%) ( 52 ). Further muddying the waters, for a particular age, though women with diminished ovarian reserve may have quantity issues without this always translating to quality (euploidy), looking at the 5%-10% of patients with lowest reserve may give a different answer than looking at the bottom quartile. The better performers among the population with the lowest reserve may bias the data towards the null. This is why when comparing the cited Jaswa ( 53 ) and Fouks ( 52 ) articles, one sees a higher rate of aneuploidy in the Jaswa study (71% DOR vs 55% controls) relative to Fouks (50% bottom quartile vs 60% middle quartiles), as the Jaswa DOR group arguably had more pronounced diminished ovarian reserve. A study by Morin focused on those with the bottom 10% for ovarian reserve and noted a decline in quantity didn’t shift quality ( 54 ). However, the bottom decile had triple the rate of no usable blastocysts (17% vs 5.3%) and lower live birth rates (41.2% vs 53.1% per cycle start), where arguably successful pregnancy is the ultimate metric of quality. The Morin DOR population was meaningfully younger than the Jaswa population, so DOR associated with aging is likely to be more concerning than comparable ovarian reserve in younger women ( 53 , 54 ). To further complicate the quantity vs. quality debate, there can be heterogeneity, where some women with DOR have far lower quality than others. Finally, follicular quantity is more valuable in identifying ovarian factors for subfertility patients but does not seem predictive of outcomes in patients who have suboptimal reserve but have never tried to conceive ( 44 ). That being said, while a single test (particularly AFC or AMH) coupled with age is often sufficient for screening, particularly in lower resource settings, if there is a meaningful gap between expectations and findings or if levels are suggestive of diminished ovarian reserve, additional affirmation is more likely to be warranted. Even if confirmatory testing is believed unlikely to change the diagnosis, given the implications of ovarian insufficiency, multiple consistent findings can help with acceptance of an unfortunate reality as well as be viewed as engagement and thoroughness by the clinician. Evaluating Amenorrhea in the Post-menarche,
