Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


ovarian insufficiency, multiple consistent findings can help with acceptance of an unfortunate reality as well as be viewed as engagement and thoroughness by the clinician. Evaluating Amenorrhea in the Post-menarche, Pre-menopausal Patient Numerous conditions can cause amenorrhea in reproductive aged women. Testing falls into two categories: diagnosing etiology and reassuring the patient that she is not in ovarian failure. For a more comprehensive discussion of how to evaluate etiology, please see the ENDOTEXT chapter entitled “Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding. In general, and in addition to remembering to exclude pregnancy as a cause for amenorrhea, ASRM Practice Committee guidelines recommend FSH, TSH, and prolactin levels in addition to the usual history and physical exam ( 45 ) (An important contextual caveat is that AMH and AFC were not as well established when these guidelines came out in 2008). Though increasingly AFC is used in place of FSH, especially for evaluating hyperandrogenic women since AFC is part of the Rotterdam criteria ( 46 ), FSH still has a role in differentiating PCOS and forms of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea ( 47 ). Figure 5. Laboratory parameters in the setting of amenorrhea ( 43 ). Reproduced with permission of the author. Regarding reassuring the patient, for gynecologists a transvaginal ultrasound to assess antral follicle count is relatively easy to perform, can often be performed promptly at the initial office visit, and can have a reassuring tangibility to patients when antral follicles are identified and their importance is explained. When sonographic evaluation of ovarian reserve is less available, a normal AMH level should be reassuring. Additionally, for patients who have been placed on oral contraceptives or other hormonal therapy without a diagnosis of etiology for amenorrhea, AFC and AMH levels may be lowered, but are still likely to remain within the normal range if the patient truly has normal reserve. Figure 6. Relative strengths of assays for determining ovarian reserve (balancing positive and negative predictive values, typical costs, and available alternatives). AFC= antral follicle count, AMH= anti-mullerian hormone, CCCT= clomiphene citrate challenge test. * When combined with LH. LOOKING TO THE FUTURE OF OVARIAN RESERVE TESTING Advancing technologies and improving cost has made direct to consumer (DTC) fertility testing a reality. DTC testing enhances patient access care, but can do so at the expense of oversight, insight, and broader perspective. Moreover, though abnormal results may encourage a patient to seek out a
