Ovarian Reserve Testing
KEYWORDS: ovarian, reserve, ovarian reserve, pubmed, fsh, testing, levels, amh, women, antral, hormone, follicle, patients, follicles, age


testing enhances patient access care, but can do so at the expense of oversight, insight, and broader perspective. Moreover, though abnormal results may encourage a patient to seek out a physician for counseling, normal results may provide false security for fertility, which is multifactorial and more than ovarian reserve. Additionally, ovarian reserve testing in patients with untested fertility may provide limited predictive value for fecundability and ultimately fecundity ( 57 ). Oocyte quantity doesn’t always predict quality, as previously noted. Ultimately, how do physicians interpret results in patients who may not warrant assessment? If DTC ovarian reserve testing is typically performed by fingerstick blood sampling, relative to a larger, better-preserved sample through traditional phlebotomy, sample accuracy at times can be suboptimal. Additionally, lack of assay standardization among labs can also hinder counseling patients on their results ( 58 ). This creates the dilemma where patients have more knowledge about their health status affordably, conveniently, and privately is a positive step, but without proper guidance, misapplication and misinterpretation of findings can lead to unnecessary anxiety, false reassurance, and misdirection regarding implications and action. When (and if) ovarian reserve testing is predictive, therapy can be focally applied early. Current testing methods are often more reliable after DOR has already occurred and better predict response to therapies than pregnancy itself. The known causative association between Fragile X premutation in women and risk of decreased ovarian reserve leads to interest in genetic causes of decreased ovarian reserve. Studies have linked target genes and epigenetic changes to patients with diagnosed DOR ( 59 , 60 ). If testing Fragile X, as well as testing for blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus (BPES), can anticipate DOR, the challenge is not just in making the most of ovarian reserve where possible, but there is also a role for potentially reducing transmissible morbidity. CONCLUDING REMARKS It has been said that a Rolex keeps time well but makes for a lousy hammer. All ovarian reserve tests are merely tools and their value relates to the task to which they are applied. Even as we see increased use of AFC and AMH ( 48 ), we have to remember that ideal testing is “systematic, expeditious, and cost-effective” ( 49 ). In other words, when evaluating ovarian reserve, one should account for not only the symptoms and probable diagnosis, but also the turnaround time for results, and how to maximize value in
