Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


ABSTRACT Diabetes presents a significant risk factor for all kinds of infections. It has been well described to increase rates of outpatient infection as well as the incidence of infections requiring hospitalization. This appears to be related to deficits in the immune system, particularly changes seen in innate immunity. Respiratory infections, skin and soft tissue infections, gastrointestinal and genitourinary infections all appear to occur more frequently in patients with DM. Not only are they more frequent, but these infections appear to have a poorer response to therapy and more rapid progression to severe forms of infection. There is good evidence that reduction of hyperglycemia can improve outcomes. Among the antihyperglycemic agents available, translational and clinical data exists that insulin can help to improve immune function and potentially metformin as well. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The 2020 release of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Diabetes Statistics Report revealed that in 2018, 34.2 million individuals had diabetes mellitus (DM), representing approximately 10.5% of the US population and a total cost of care in excess of US $300 billion ( 1 ). Part of these numbers reflects the impact of DM on infection rates and morbidity/mortality. Both type 1 and type 2 DM are associated with a significantly higher risk of infection, both in the outpatient and inpatient context, and the outcomes are generally worse than in those without diabetes. We will discuss here the impact of diabetes on the immune system, specific infections which are commonly seen in diabetes, and the influence of various therapies targeted both at glycemic control and also on immunomodulation on infection outcomes. EPIDEMIOLOGY DM, both type 1 and type 2, is associated with a high risk of infection. A large retrospective study of primary care patients revealed that diabetes is likely to account for 6% of infection-related hospitalizations and 12% of infection-related deaths, with the strongest associations being for bone and joint infections, development of sepsis, and cellulitis ( 2 ). Outpatient A number of studies have been performed on the rate of infection among patients with diabetes in the primary care and other outpatient settings. In a Canadian cohort of 1,779 patients with DM matched to 11,066 without DM the patients with DM had an increased risk of infection (adjusted odds ratio 1.21, adjusted for confounding variables). with
