Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


cohort of 1,779 patients with DM matched to 11,066 without DM the patients with DM had an increased risk of infection (adjusted odds ratio 1.21, adjusted for confounding variables). with skin and soft tissue infections having the strongest association with having DM. Interestingly, DM was not found in this study to be associated with head and neck, musculoskeletal, or viral infections ( 3 ). Another large Canadian study including more than a million individuals matched those with DM to those without, and assessed all physician and hospital claims for infectious disease. It found that almost half of all individuals with DM had a claim for an infectious disease within a cohort year compared with 38% of those without DM. The risk ratio was skewed most towards those with DM for upper respiratory tract infections, cystitis, and pneumonia ( 4 ). Inpatient In one study, having diabetes led to a 2-fold increased risk for hospitalization when presenting with an infection to the emergency room, and up to 12% of inpatient admissions in patients with diabetes were the consequence of an infection ( 5 ). A South Korean showed that those with diabetes had a significantly greater risk of infection-related ICU admission and death when hospitalized with infections of skin or soft tissue, central nervous system infection, or bone and joints ( 6 ). The previously-mentioned Canadian retrospective cohort study showed that, while the overall risk ratio for infection in those with diabetes versus without was 1.21, this number rose to 2.17 and 1.92 when considering infection which led to hospitalization and death, respectively ( 4 ). These and other studies ( 7 , 8 ) have revealed that not only is diabetes associated with (and causative of) an increased risk of infection, but also with higher rates of hospitalization, ICU stays, and death related to these infections. Of note, many of these patients with DM have other comorbidities which may not be able to be fully controlled for in these epidemiologic studies demonstrating higher estimates of the risk of infection with DM. One important entity to consider in the inpatient arena is sepsis. The studies on sepsis are not consistent — though some show worse outcomes from DM, others have suggested either no effect or even a protective effect from DM ( 9 ). Data for the latter come from studies assessing acute respiratory failure and respiratory distress syndrome in the
