Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


either no effect or even a protective effect from DM ( 9 ). Data for the latter come from studies assessing acute respiratory failure and respiratory distress syndrome in the ICU, and it may be that the blunted immune response that we see in some patients with DM are responsible for the findings (i.e., reduced inflammation and injury related to impaired neutrophil function as described in section on Innate Immunity) ( 10 ). More studies are needed to better understand in what specific clinical contexts DM results in higher risk. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF DIABETES AND IMMUNE SYSTEM There is well-known disruption of the immune system in diabetes which occurs at multiple levels. Innate and adaptive immunity are affected along with cytokine signaling within both. This dysregulation occurs both in those with type 1 and 2 DM. Microvascular complications such as neuropathy also increase susceptibility to an accidental lesion in the barrier of the skin which forms one of the first lines of defense. Furthermore, poor vascular flow to sites of infection can further compromise an appropriate immune response and healing leading to worsening or secondary infections ( 11 , 11b ). In our discussion on alterations of the immune system, it is important to note that we have focused on alterations in function as opposed to baseline differences in the number of immune cells or cytokine levels between those with and without DM. Table 1 provides a summary of the alterations in immune dysfunction that are known. Innate Immunity COMPLEMENT SYSTEM The complement system plays a critical role in both innate and adaptive immunity and leads to the opsonization, lysis and phagocytosis of pathogens along with recruitment of immune cells to the site of infection. There is known to be a reduction in the complement factor 4 (C4) level in those with type 1 DM, although it is unclear if that alone can precipitate an increased risk of infection ( 12 ). A variety of studies demonstrate that hyperglycemia can inhibit phagocytosis through the system, potentially by reducing complement binding to immunoglobulins. Glycosylation of C3 can also impair its ability to attach to the pathogen surfaces ( 13 ). Table 1. Impact of Diabetes and Hyperglycemia on the Immune System View in own window Innate Immunity Complement System Reduction in C4 levels (Unclear relevance for infection risk) Reduction complement binding to immunoglobulins Glycosylation of C3 can impair binding to pathogen surface
