Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


been described as well ( 19 ). SPECIFIC CELLULAR DYSFUNCTION Multiple immune cells are impacted in DM. Neutrophil recruitment is not only reduced, but there are also good data demonstrating their reduced phagocytic activity and hydrogen peroxide production, leading to reduced bactericidal ability ( 20 - 23 ). The mechanism for the alteration appears may be partially linked to impaired metabolism of glucose and glutamine, as was demonstrated in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats ( 24 ). Macrophages are also similarly affected. Examination of cells from patients with type 2 DM have revealed that there is impairment of both the complement and Fc-gamma receptor-mediated pathways by which macrophages are able to phagocytize pathogens ( 25 ). When macrophages from diabetic mice were cultured in normal versus high glucose, there was a reduction in the phagocytic and bactericidal activity, apparently through a defect similar to that seen in neutrophils, specifically impaired metabolism of glucose ( 26 ). NK cell activity is also known to be reduced in a manner which is related to level of glycemic control, demonstrated in multiple studies comparing NK cells from patients with DM, prediabetes, and also without DM ( 27 ). The mechanism of the reduced activity may be in part related to decreased expression of activating receptors NKG2D and NKp46 on the NK cells in patients with DM ( 28 ). Adaptive Immunity The adaptive immune system is activated in response to specific pathogens and involves the immunologic memory for those pathogens. There are two components of adaptive immunity, the humoral and cellular, which carry out the major purposes of generating an antibody and cellular (involving B and T cells) response to a specific antigen. The adaptive humoral immunity is involved in antibody production. This appears to be preserved in those with DM on the basis of overall appropriate response to various vaccines ( 29 , 30 ). However, there may be some dysregulation of the adaptive cellular immunity. There is a depletion of memory CD4+ cells that has been noted prior to the development of type 1 DM ( 31 ). Furthermore, a dysfunction of and an impaired response of these cells to Streptococcus pneumoniae has been described ( 32 ). However, the dysfunction seen in DM with innate immunity is better understood than that the dysfunction in adaptive immunity ( 33 ). Cytokine Signaling Defects Cytokines play a vital role in the signaling cascades which
