Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


DM with innate immunity is better understood than that the dysfunction in adaptive immunity ( 33 ). Cytokine Signaling Defects Cytokines play a vital role in the signaling cascades which underpin the immune system, allowing for full activation of both innate and adaptive immune responses. Multiple points of dysregulation have been identified in DM. With stimulation, multiple of these cytokines have been shown to be secreted at lower levels than would be typical with stimulation. In vitro studies done on monocytes isolated from patients without DM showed suppression of IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, and IL-10 secretion in the presence of hyperglycemia ( 34 - 36 ). In diabetic mice, there was noted to be immune dysregulation and also inflammation which was related to IL-22 deficiency reversed with provision of IL-22 ( 37 ). There is also evidence for impaired interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and TNF alpha production from T cells in the setting of methylglyoxal, a compound which is increased in those with DM ( 38 ). The end result of these deficits is that there is attenuation of the phagocytic and cellular immune response. COMMON INFECTIONS, OUTCOMES, AND GENERAL DRUG OF CHOICE In addition to many infections having a worse course in those with diabetes, specific types of infections are also significantly more common in those with diabetes. We will review these diabetes-predominant infections ( 39 - 42 ). Table 2 also provides an overview of common infections and considerations in those with DM. Table 2. Common infections seen in patients with diabetes with attention to diagnosis, common responsible organisms, management, and outcomes View in own window Respiratory Infections Pneumonia Higher rates of hospitalization and also mortality in those with DM compared with those without Less commonly presents with purulent cough and pleuritic chest pain, more commonly with altered consciousness Aspiration and skin colonization common etiologies S pneumonia , S aureus , and K pneumoniae among most common organism Rx with amoxicillin/clavulanate or cephalosporin + macrolide/doxycycline vs fluoroquinolone Tuberculosis Higher risk contracting with risk corresponding with level of glycemic control Higher risk of treatment failure Isoniazid needs to be taken with pyridoxine to prevent neuropathy Rifampin can cause hyperglycemia and also induces cyp450 leading to increased clearance of various DM agents Skin and Soft Tissue Cellulitis/Abscess Most common SSTI seen in those with DM Most common organism Staph species For abscess culture is needed to determine organism and resistance Oral abx:
