Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


(Urinary tract infection) Respiratory Infections Pneumonia is a frequently-seen infection in those with DM. In a large Danish population-based case-control study of 34,239 patients, the relative risk for hospitalization from community-acquired pneumonia was 1.26 compared with patients without DM. Furthermore, the risk appeared to be correlated with level of glycemic control with relative risk (RR) for those with HbA1c <7% being 1.22, versus a RR of 1.6 when HbA1c was ≥9% ( 43 ). A Portuguese study similarly showed DM prevalence was higher in those with pneumonia and that outcomes were worse with a longer hospital stay and significantly higher mortality in patients with DM versus those without (15.2% vs 13.5%) ( 44 ). These trends were also seen in another Danish study which showed mortality was greater in those with type 2 DM compared with other patients at both 30 and 90 days after the initial pneumonia episode ( 45 ). The presentation of pneumonia is potentially different in those with DM as typically bacterial pneumonia presents with a purulent cough and pleuritic chest pain, symptoms which are less commonly seen in those with DM. The hypothesis is that the lowered immune defense results in a decreased inflammatory response and symptoms. Notably, altered consciousness is more common on presentation with pneumonia in those with DM. The causative agent of pneumonia is similar in those with and without DM with the most common being Streptococcus pneumoniae ( 46 ). However, there is an over-representation of organisms such as Staphylococcus aureus and Klebsiella pneumoniae related to skin colonization and more frequent aspiration in those with DM. Management is using combination therapy with amoxicillin/clavulanate or cephalosporin and a macrolide or doxycycline versus monotherapy with respiratory fluoroquinolone ( 47 ). Use of certain DM medications like metformin have been shown to reduce the risk of development of bacterial pneumonia (odds ratio 0.89) and also morbidity and mortality when pneumonia develops, hypothesized to be related to improvement in function of the innate immune system and reduction in levels of inflammation which is explored later in this chapter (47b). Diabetes also represents an important risk factor for contracting tuberculosis (TB). The odds of developing tuberculosis appear to be higher in those with DM compared to those without with the odds ratio ranging from 2.44-8.33 in various studies. Furthermore, severity of DM appears to be correlated with greater risk of contracting TB based on studies comparing
