Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


those without with the odds ratio ranging from 2.44-8.33 in various studies. Furthermore, severity of DM appears to be correlated with greater risk of contracting TB based on studies comparing the incidence of TB in those with insulin-dependent versus non-insulin dependent DM. Risk of treatment failure despite good adherence to medication regimen and also death from tuberculosis all appear to be increased ( 48 ). There are side effects of medications targeted at tuberculosis with particular relevance in DM. Isoniazid can cause peripheral neuropathy that could be mistaken for diabetic neuropathy, and pyridoxine should be administered to ameliorate this risk. Rifampicin has the ability to cause hyperglycemia. Rifampicin also is a powerful inducer of the cytochrome P450 system leading to increased clearance of multiple DM agents (i.e., sulfonylurea, pioglitazone, meglitinides). Hence while the regimen to treat TB seen in patients with DM is the same as the regimen in those without, special attention must be paid to these DM specific issues. Skin and Soft Tissue Infections (SSTI) There is a significantly increased risk of skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI) in DM. Up to 80% of patients with DM will experience a skin complication related to DM during their lifetime, many of which are SSTIs ( 48b ). Using a large administrative claims database (HealthCore Integrated Research Database), Suaya et al were able to demonstrate complications from SSTI were five times higher, and hospitalization four times higher, in patients with DM than those without DM in their cohort ( 49 ). The most common agent of infection is Staphylococcus aureus ( S aureus ). The foot represents the most common site of infection as well which has been expertly covered in another chapter (50). In the last few years, a number of therapies directed at improving immune function, blood flow, and better restoring integrity of the barrier of the skin have been developed that likely have implications for other non-foot related infections ( 50b ). For cellulitis, the diagnosis is typically clinical, as opposed to an abscess which often is cultured for organism identification and resistance profiling. The decision for antibiotics in cellulitis and with abscess is often empiric, and in those with DM it is imperative that the choice cover Staphylococcus species. Potential first line therapy for outpatient oral antibiotics includes doxycycline, clindamycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and cephalexin. If there is admission due to SIRS criteria being present or a suspected
