Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


cover Staphylococcus species. Potential first line therapy for outpatient oral antibiotics includes doxycycline, clindamycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and cephalexin. If there is admission due to SIRS criteria being present or a suspected complication, then the recommendations change to IV predominant choices including vancomycin, linezolid, and ceftaroline ( 51 ). Necrotizing fasciitis is a life-threatening condition involving the subcutaneous fat and deep fascial layers. A retrospective report of 59 necrotizing fasciitis cases at a single center revealed that 11 of the cases had DM, and another study showed that 51% of 84 patients in the cohort with necrotizing fasciitis had DM ( 52 , 53 ). Though most commonly a polymicrobial infection, Klebsiella pneumoniae is also commonly seen as a single isolate ( 53 ). Prognosis appears to be poorer in those with DM, with a higher rate of limb loss than that seen in those without DM. Broad spectrum antibiotics are utilized, related to the frequent polymicrobial nature of the infection. However, ischemia compromises appropriate antibiotic concentration at the site, therefore the management is primarily surgical involving a combination of debridement, necrosectomy, and fasciotomy frequently ( 54 ). Fournier gangrene represents a particularly serious SSTI, defined as a necrotizing skin infection of the scrotum and penis or vulva. Typically, patients are between the age of 50-60 years and DM represents a serious risk factor for development. Usually, the infection will begin in the perianal or retroperitoneal region and then spreads to the genitalia or as a urinary tract infection which then also moves towards the genitalia. There will be necrosis and crepitus which is an indication of involvement of the underlying skin and soft tissue. The etiology is usually a mix of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria which can commonly include S aureus and Pseudomonas ( 51 ). Surgical debridement is typically necessary. This condition has become of particular relevance with the release of a warning from the US Food and Drug Administration in August 2018 that Fournier’s represented a rare but serious complication of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), a newer but increasingly utilized class of DM medications ( 55 ). There were 55 cases of Fournier’s reported to the FDA between March 2013 and January 2019 ( 56 ). However, it is important to note that while this number appears to be higher than for other anti-hyperglycemic agents, that there has not been a clear establishment of causality here. In fact,
