Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


is important to note that while this number appears to be higher than for other anti-hyperglycemic agents, that there has not been a clear establishment of causality here. In fact, other studies including a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials involving SGLT2i and a “real-world” study using IBM MarketScan were unable to confirm an increased risk of Fournier’s Gangrene for those using SGLT2i versus those who did not ( 57 , 58 ). Intriguingly, a single center retrospective review of cases of Founier Gangrene admitted actually suggested use of SGLT2i and metformin were both protective in reducing length of ICU and hospital stay ( 58b ). Sternal wound infections after surgery are also known to occur more frequently in those with DM. After coronary artery bypass, presence of DM is one the strongest predictors for a deep sternal wound infection (odds ratio 2.6) ( 59 ). Improved glycemic control in the post-operative period has been shown to be able to significantly reduce the rate of sternal wound infection ( 60 - 62 ). Furnary et al in their seminal study were able to demonstrate in a prospective manner that use of an IV insulin infusion to keep glucose <200 mg/dL resulted in a 66% reduction in risk of sternal infection compared with nonrandomized historical controls ( 60 ). Gastrointestinal Infections The presence of DM has been known to worsen viral hepatitis. The outcome in chronic hepatitis C infection is worse in those with DM as compared to those without, corresponding to a significantly increased risk for cirrhosis and a reduced response to antiviral therapy in those with DM and hepatitis C ( 63 ). Emphysematous cholecystitis is a rare progression of acute cholecystitis, defined as presence of gas in the gallbladder wall for which DM serves as a major risk factor. The prevalence of DM among those with emphysematous cholecystitis has been described as high as 50% in the literature ( 64 ). Sonography is able to detect the presence of gas within the gallbladder wall and an abdominal radiograph will show a curvilinear lucency around the gallbladder. CT can also detect the condition with nearly 100% sensitivity. The two most common causative agents are Clostridium perfringens and Escherichia coli . The treatment is often surgical with prompt cholecystectomy although for a mild case antibiotic therapy can be initiated but without improvement within 3-4 days then the recommendation is still for
