Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


The treatment is often surgical with prompt cholecystectomy although for a mild case antibiotic therapy can be initiated but without improvement within 3-4 days then the recommendation is still for cholecystectomy ( 65 ). Genitourinary Infections Urinary tract infections (UTI) are significantly more common in patients with DM with a large UK study showing an incidence of UTI of 46.9 per 1000 person- years among those who had type 2 DM versus 29.9 for those without DM ( 66 ). The most common pathogens in those with DM are Escherichia coli and the Enterobacteriaceae ( Klebsiella , Proteus , E nterobacter , etc.). There is an increased risk of drug- resistant organisms being present. In making the diagnosis, beyond the typical clinical symptoms of dysuria and increased frequency, it is important to note that a urine culture really should be obtained in all individuals with DM prior to therapy ( 67 ). Outcomes are worse in those with DM, being associated with increased relapse and reinfection (at 7.1% and 15.9% respectively in those with DM versus 2% and 4.1% in those without) ( 68 ). Asymptomatic bacteriuria should not be treated even in those with DM. In those with symptoms, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and ciprofloxacin are good choices but the general consensus is to follow local infection and resistance trends and tailor antibiotic therapy towards those organisms ( 67 ). From a lower UTI, there is also more risk of progression to pyelonephritis (both emphysematous and nonemphysematous) which tends to be more severe requiring hospitalization and are often bilateral in those with DM ( 69 , 70 ). It would be important to note that the class of medications called SGLT2i, previously mentioned under the section of Fournier gangrene, was initially thought to be associated with increased risk of UTIs. The purported mechanism is the increased glucose level in the urine, favoring the growth of microorganisms. However, database-driven studies and meta-analyses have not borne out this association ( 70b , 70c ). The initial observation of increased rates of UTI may have been related to surveillance bias or mycotic infections being mistaken for UTI in patients on SGLT2i. Head and Neck Infections Consistent with the findings in many types of infections, head and neck infections are more common and appear to be more severe in those with DM. An assessment of 185 patients at the National Taiwan University Hospital with deep neck
