Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


and neck infections are more common and appear to be more severe in those with DM. An assessment of 185 patients at the National Taiwan University Hospital with deep neck infections found that those with DM had a significantly higher rate of abscess formation than those without (89.3% vs 71.3%) and that surgical drainage was required more frequently as well (86% vs 65.2%) ( 71 ). One concerning entity commonly associated with DM is necrotizing external otitis. This term references an infection which has spread to the temporal and adjacent bones at the base of the skull. The causative agent is often Pseudomonas aeruginosa . The increased frequency of this in those with DM appears to be related in part to the vascular compromise seen in DM combined with a pseudomonal vasculitis ( 72 , 72b ). A certain level of suspicion for this condition needs to be present when there is external otitis in a patient at risk of necrotizing progression. Imaging is often needed to confirm with CT used. Systemic antibiotics are a requirement along with local treatment of the canal (i.e., cleaning, antimicrobial topicals, etc.). The antibiotic chosen needs to have antipseudomonal action such as the fluoroquinolones with the understanding that poor vascularization of the area often means higher doses are required ( 72 ). Fungal Infections Infection with Candida species is common in those with DM ( 73 ). Skin and soft tissue along with mucosa can be commonly impacted. Assessment of mouth swabs from patients with and without DM revealed that there was a higher frequency of Candida infection in the patients with DM ( 74 ). This appears to be related to decreased salivary pH and salivary flow which promoted colonization with the yeast. But there is also the possibility that in DM there is increased ability of Candida to bind to its receptor ( 75 ). Onychomycosis, a fungal infection of the nails, is also very common with DM with some studies suggesting up to 1/3 of individuals with DM are impacted. Diagnosis is made based on a positive fungal culture for a dermatophyte or microscopy showing fungus prior to initiation of therapy. Oral agents tend to be the most efficacious but topical lacquers are used as well ( 76 ). Beyond the skin and mucosa, there is a high rate of genitourinary infections with Candida species. Among fungal infections of the urinary
