Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


lacquers are used as well ( 76 ). Beyond the skin and mucosa, there is a high rate of genitourinary infections with Candida species. Among fungal infections of the urinary tract system, the vast majority involve Candida species. For both outpatient and inpatient urinary tract infections where Candida species was the causative agent, DM is present as a comorbid condition in 29% and 39% of cases respectively. Initial work-up would be similar to that of any other for urinary tract infection including urinalysis and culture. If there is a concern for Candida then that should be communicated with the reporting lab as there can be slow growth on certain cultures. It is important to remember that symptomatic urinary tract infections with Candida are rare. However, if truly a symptomatic infection is felt to be present, then fluconazole is typically the first line therapy of choice because of its ability to accumulate in high concentrations within the urine. If there is progression to pyelonephritis then speciation and sensitivities will be required given the presence of resistant strains and often dual agent therapy is required ( 77 ). Mycotic genital infections are driven by Candida species. in both men and women ( 78 ). A very large percentage of women will experience symptomatic vulvovaginal candidiasis within their lifetime, and DM represents a risk factor for development of infection, with worsening glycemic control predisposing to an even higher risk ( 73 ). This appears to be related to known defects in immune cell function (PMNs and macrophages) and the impact of glucose in the urine, leading to worsening virulence in addition to improved adherence of yeast. Clinically, women present with pruritis and discomfort. Diagnosis is best made with microscopy and can be suspected in those with a negative amine (“whiff”) test and normal pH. Treatment is typically with a short course of intravaginal imidazole or triazole as opposed to oral fluconazole ( 78 ). For male patients, a similar finding of increased risk of balanitis (i.e., inflammation of the glans penis and prepuce) with DM and with increasing HbA1c is noted ( 73 , 79 ). This condition also occurs almost exclusively in males who have not been circumcised. Diagnosis is best made based on clinical presentation (burning and itching of penis worse after intercourse) in combination with a subpreputial culture. Imidazole or triazole creams represent the mainstay of therapy ( 78 ).
