Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


based on clinical presentation (burning and itching of penis worse after intercourse) in combination with a subpreputial culture. Imidazole or triazole creams represent the mainstay of therapy ( 78 ). It is worth mentioning that SGLT2i as a class are known to be associated with genital infections, particularly mycotic genital infections caused by Candida species. Using information from two US based health insurance databases, Dave et al were able to demonstrate in a retrospective cohort study that use of an SGLT2i compared with dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists led to an approximately three-fold increase in risk of genital infection ( 80 ). This might be mitigated in part by improved hygiene (i.e., rinsing the genital area with water after every episode of urination and before going to bed) ( 81 ). Interestingly, the association between use of SGLT2i and genital infections does not appear to extend to UTIs ( 82 ). This may be related to increased volume and flow through the urinary tract preventing excess bacterial load from developing ( 83 ). As SGLT2i are increasingly a mainstay of therapy for patients with type 2 DM, this association with mycotic genital infections needs to be carefully considered. Mucormycosis is a rare but life-threatening fungal infection caused by a mucormycetes, a group of molds (commonly the mucor and rhizppus species). A metanalysis of cases of mucormycosis showed that DM was the commonest underlying condition present in 40% of cases ( 84 ). Frequently the DM associated is type 2 and uncontrolled. It carries with it a high fatality rate which ranges from 32-57%. The most common site of infection (66% of cases in a large 929 case series) is the sinus-cavity leading to rhinocerebral infection which can also impact the orbits. In these cases, there are often symptoms of sinus congestion/inflammation, fever, facial swelling along with ophthalmoplegia, cellulitis, and cranial nerve palsies. Necrotic eschars in the nasal cavity and on the hard palate are classic findings and also indicate a rapidly progressive infection. The respiratory tract is the second most commonly affected location (16%) with endobronchial lesions commonly found in those with DM. The subsequent invasion of the vasculature can lead to more distant infection. Finally, the third most common site is the skin (10%). Cutaneous mucormycosis presents with erythematous or ulcerative necrotic lesions which can also lead to osteomyelitis ( 85 , 86 ).
