Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


Finally, the third most common site is the skin (10%). Cutaneous mucormycosis presents with erythematous or ulcerative necrotic lesions which can also lead to osteomyelitis ( 85 , 86 ). Tissue biopsy is a requirement for diagnosis while various imaging modalities can help provide further evidence of an infection. Debulking of the infection through surgery is necessary. Amphotericin B and isavuconazole have been utilized as adjunctive therapies ( 85 , 87 ). COVID-19 and DM There is clearly a significant interaction between DM and SARS-CoV-2 (causative agent of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)). Multiple risk factors for contracting and having a more severe course of COVID-19 have been identified, including advanced age and male gender, but both type 1 and type 2 DM are now known to be important risk factors for morbidity and mortality with the disease ( 88 ). An assessment of patients who contracted COVID-19 and were tested within the Vanderbilt University Medical system demonstrated that there was a significantly increased risk for hospitalization in those with DM compared to without DM (odds ratio 3.36 for type 2 and 3.9 for type 1) and also for more severe disease course (odds ratio 3.42 for type 2 and 3.35 for type 1) ( 89 ). From a cohort of patients in England, there is evidence that poorly-controlled DM as compared with well-controlled DM (HbA1c 6.5-7% versus greater than 10%) results in significantly increased mortality in both type 1 and type 2 DM (hazard ratio 2.23 and 1.61 respectively) ( 90 ). Increased mortality has also been seen in another English cohort ( 83 ). A more comprehensive review on this topic is offered by Lim et al, where the multiple points at which COVID-19 and DM interact – including the impact of glucotoxicity on the lungs, increased thromboembolic risk, worsened oxidative stress. and inappropriately high levels of cytokine production leading to organ damage – are outlined ( 91 ). IMPACT OF GLYCEMIC CONTROL AND OTHER THERAPIES Glycemic Control and Diabetes Therapies There is good evidence that glycemic control is correlated with infection. A study of 69,318 patients with type 2 DM in Denmark revealed an association between increased risk for community- and hospital- treated infection in those with higher HbA1c ≥10.5% compared with HbA1c 5.5-<6.4% ( 92 ). Similarly, in a large English cohort there was an increasing risk of infection in parallel with HbA1c for patients with both
