Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


HbA1c ≥10.5% compared with HbA1c 5.5-<6.4% ( 92 ). Similarly, in a large English cohort there was an increasing risk of infection in parallel with HbA1c for patients with both type 1 and type 2 ( 2 ). In a Taiwanese study looking at outcomes from a community-based health screening program, the authors found that fasting plasma glucose >200 mg/dL and DM was associated with the highest risk of infection and also a 3-fold higher risk of death than those without DM ( 93 ). Looking at an older population, the risk of certain infections was significantly higher in those with poor glycemic control HbA1c >8.5% compared with good glycemic control (relative risk infections ranging from 1.28-2.38) ( 94 ). Intervening to lower glucose appears to mitigate the risks. Zerr et al assessed incidence of sternal wound infection in patients with and without DM before and after implementation of a postoperative continuous IV insulin protocol to keep blood glucose <200 mg/dL. They found that lower glucose in the first 2 days postoperatively was associated with a decrease in deep wound infection from 2.4% to 1.5% ( 62 ). Insulin, in both translational and clinical studies, has been suggested to have a protective effect against infection risk in those with DM ( Table 3 ). A large surgical ICU trial assessing tight (80-110 mg/dL) versus conventional (treatment with insulin only if glucose >215 mg/dL) glycemic control using IV insulin found a lower mortality with tight glycemic control, and the greatest reduction in mortality was seen in those with sepsis leading to multi-organ dysfunction. In those treated with IV insulin, there was a significant reduction in the risk of developing sepsis (46%) ( 95 ). While these data were later brought into question by the findings of the NICE-SUGAR trial ( 96 ) which demonstrated increased mortality with intensive glycemic control using IV insulin, other studies have suggested that there is improvement in rates of infection with use of insulin ( 60 , 97 ) particularly in the post-cardiac surgery setting for sternal wound infections. Furthermore, the increased risk of mortality in the intensive glycemic control arm in NICE-SUGAR is felt to be related to an excess of hypoglycemia seen in the cohort compared with normal care. If improved glycemic control can be achieved without causing a significant increase in hypoglycemia, a different outcome may be able to be achieved ( 98
