Diabetes Mellitus and Infection
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, infection, risk, patients, infections, free, article pubmed, free article, article, pmc free, pmc, type, immune, common


cohort compared with normal care. If improved glycemic control can be achieved without causing a significant increase in hypoglycemia, a different outcome may be able to be achieved ( 98 ). Translational studies have been able to show in vivo that T cells which lack insulin receptor expression are unable to proliferate and produce cytokines properly and that insulin enables the cells to take up nutrient which supports their function ( 99 ). As mentioned earlier chemotaxis of PMNs is impaired in patients with DM and it has been noted that provision of glucose and insulin can restore these to baseline ( 15 ). While data for immune function improvement and infection using other antihyperglycemic medications are relatively sparse, there are some suggestions that therapies beyond insulin can have an immune- restorative effect ( Table 3 ). Metformin has demonstrated an ability to increase the number and action of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, resulting in improved production of cytokines IL-2, TNFα, and IFNγ ( 100 ). In a mice model with an absence of the TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), there is a relative inability to generate memory T cells that is related to defects in fatty acid metabolism. When TRAF6-deficient antigen specific effector T cells and TRAF6-deficient mice were exposed to metformin, there was a restoration of the production of memory T cells ( 101 ). While a number of other diabetes therapies have well-established anti- inflammatory effects (i.e., peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor-γ agonists, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors) data are lacking as to their specific impact on immune function with regards to infection risk apart from their reduction of hyperglycemia ( 102 - 104 ). Immunomodulating Therapies There are data showing that the use of granulocyte- colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), which induces differentiation and release of PMN from marrow, is able to assist with healing in foot infections ( 105 ). While a subsequent meta-analysis did not show that the use of G-CSF was able to significantly impact the resolution or healing of wounds, there was a reduction in risk of needing amputation or surgical intervention ( 106 ). While not a “medication”, physical activity has long been known to be associated with improvement in the immune system which are known to extend as well to those with DM ( 107 ). In diabetic rats, exercise was able to improve the neutrophil and lymphocyte count significantly
