Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


Neemisha Jain, R. Lodha and S.K. Kabra New Delhi, India. Abstract. Acute respiratory infections accounts for 20-40% of outpatient and 12-35% of inpatient attendance in a general of the total episodes of respiratory infections. The vast majority of acute upper respiratory tract infections are caused by viruses. Common cold is caused by viruses in most circumstances and does not require antimicrobial agent unless it is complicated by acute otitis media with effusion, tonsillitis, sinusitis, and lower respiratory tract infection. Sinusitis is commonly associated with common cold. Most instances of rhinosinusitis are viral and therefore, resolve spontaneously without antimicrobiat therapy. The most common bacterial agents causing sinusitis are S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, M. catarrhalis, S. aureus and S. pyogenes. Amoxycillin is antibacterial of choice. The alternative drugs are cefaclor or cephalexin. The latter becomes first line if sinusitis is recurrent or chronic. Acute pharyngitis is commonly caused by viruses and does not need antibiotics. About 15% of the episodes may be due to Group A beta hemolytic streptococcus (GABS). Early initiation of antibiotics in pharyngitis due to GABS can prevent complications such as acute rheumatic fever. The drug of choice is penicillin for 10-14 days. The alternative medications include oral cephalosporins (cefaclor, cephalexin), amoxicillin or macrolides. Indian J Pediatr 2001; 68 (12) : 1135-1138 Key words : Upper respiratory tract infections; Pharyngitis; Sinusitis; Nasopharyngitis Acute respiratory infections are a major cause of pathogens are significant as far as severe lower respiratory morbidity and mortality in children and of particular tract infections are concerned, but the vast majority of significance in developing countries like India. Outpatient acute respiratory infection are upper respiratory, and viral attendance attributed to acute respiratory infections is as agents are the primary causal agents. In a hospital-based high as 20-40% of all outpatients and 12-35% of in study on under-five children with acute respiratory patients. 1 In a study in rural zone of Delhi with an infection, 38% were upper respiratorytract infection. Viral estimated population of 3700, the prevalence of acute etiological agent was detected in 16.6% and the viruses respiratory infection was 12.1% for the under-fives as a isolated were influenza A and B (45.65%), parainfluenza 1 whole. 2 The overall incidence of acute respiratory and 3 (26.08%), adenovirus (19.56%) and respiratory infection in the under-fives was observed to be 2.5 syncytial virus (6.52%). episodes per child per year, of which, 2.2 episodes per This bring forth
