Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


(26.08%), adenovirus (19.56%) and respiratory infection in the under-fives was observed to be 2.5 syncytial virus (6.52%). episodes per child per year, of which, 2.2 episodes per This bring forth the fact that, majority of respiratory year per child were upper respiratory tract infections. infections on children are due to a viral etiology which do Upper respiratory tract infections including not need antibiotics for management and judicious use of nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, tonsillitis and otitis media antibiotics is most imperative in upper respiratory tract constituted 87.5% of the total episodes of infection. Lower infections. respiratory tract infections including pneumonia and The principles of judicious use of antibiotics in upper bronchiolitis constituted the remaining 12.5%. 2 respiratory tract infections outlined below are based on In a survey of acute respiratory infection in a rural area recent reviews. of South India, the prevalence of acute respiratory Common Cold infection was 7.6 % in a total of 10,951 children below 5 years. Majority of acute respiratory infection was mild Most children have 3-8 episodes of common cold per (defined by cough + respiratory rate <50) only 1.7% year. 9-1~C ommon cold is a viral illness, the most common episodes were severe in nature (cough + respiratory rate cause being rhinovirus; others being parainfluenza, >50 + chest indrawing/inability to drink). 3 respiratory syncytial, corona virus, adenovirus, echovirus, Thus, acute respiratory infection constitutes a coxsackievirus and parainfluenza virus, n Rhinovirus significant problem in childhood and the majority of these accounts for upto 60% of infections. 12 The etiological infections are upper respiratory infection. Bacterial agents vary with host age, and time of the year. Symptoms include nasal discharge, nasal obstruction, and Pediatric Pulmonolog~ AIIMS, New Delhi-110029. grade fever, malaise, sneezing and nasal secretions can E-mail : Indian Journal of Pediatrics, Volume 68---December, 2001 1135 N. Jain R. Lodha and S.K. Kabra become purulent. Symptoms are non-specific and not of common cold. n Even in uncomplicated viral upper characteristic for any agent. The usual duration of respiratory infection, as occurs in common cold, there is symptoms is about 7 days. inflammation and congestion of both the nasal and the Common cold in children resolves on its own and no sinus mucosa. These infections should, therefore, be specific therapy is indicated in majority of cases. Use of considered as rhinosinusitis. 19 This inflammation antibiotics does not change either the course or the undergoes a spontaneous resolution in vast
