Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


therapy is indicated in majority of cases. Use of considered as rhinosinusitis. 19 This inflammation antibiotics does not change either the course or the undergoes a spontaneous resolution in vast majority of outcome. 6 On the contrary antibiotic use is potentially cases. About 0.5 to10 percent of upper respiratory harmful, because it increases the risk of colonization with infections are complicated by development of acute resistant organisms. This may result in subsequent sinusitis. TM Since only a small percentage of children with bacterial infection being unresponsive to standard symptoms of rhinosinusitis have a bacterial etiology, the antibiotics. 13 use of appropriate diagnostic criteria is essential, as this Common cold almost always has an excellent outcome will avoid the overuse of antibiotics. This is all the more with complete recovery, but at times complications can important because viral rhinosinusitis is 20 -200 times occur. These include acute otitis media with effusion, more common than bacterial sinusitis. 7 tonsillitis, sinusitis, and lower respiratory tract infection.' ~ Sinusitis is classified as per the duration of symptoms Unless specific diagnostic criteria for the diagnosis of into acute (upto 3 weeks), subacute (3-10 weeks), and these complications are met, antibiotics should not be chronic (>10 weeks). used for the signs and symptoms of cold alone? Studies Sinusitis is almost always precipitated when a viral have shown that use of antibiotics for the prevention of upper respiratory infection produces mucosal bacterial complication of common cold has no use. A inflammation leading to obstruction of the sinus ostia. meta-analysis of five randomized clinical trials of efficacy This in turn leads to fluid trapping in the sinus cavities of antimicrobial treatment of cold to prevent lower and the normal upper respiratory bacterial flora respiratory infection found that it had no protective effect. proliferates. The most common organisms causing It also did not shorten the duration of the upper sinusitis are S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, M. catarrhalis, S. respiratory illness. 14 aureus and S. pyogenesJ ~ But it must be emphasized that Recognizing the signs and symptoms of the usual majority of rhinosinusitis is viral and therefore, course of common cold will help to prevent the over- approximately 60% resolve spontaneously without prescription of antibiotics. Unfamiliarity with them can antimicrobial therapy. 2~ lead to the mistaken diagnosis of secondary bacterial The major problem in the diagnosis of sinusitis in infection and the inappropriate use of antibiotics. children is to
