Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


antimicrobial therapy. 2~ lead to the mistaken diagnosis of secondary bacterial The major problem in the diagnosis of sinusitis in infection and the inappropriate use of antibiotics. children is to distinguish simple upper respiratory tract Mucopurulent nasal dicharge, which is thick, opaque viral infections and allergic inflammation from bacterial at times greenish or yellowish frequently accompanies infection of the sinuses. The signs and symptoms in older common cold. n Antimicrobial treatment is not indicated children can be classical i.e. sinus tenderness, tooth pain, for such a discharge unless it persists for more than 10-14 headache, and high fever. However, in young children days. 6 these classical sign and symptoms are almost never In a study on 142 children with mucopurulent present. Persistence of signs and symptoms of upper nasopharyngitis, a comparison of cephalexin treatment respiratory infection i.e. rhinorrhea or cough for more with placebo was done. Five to six days after initiation of than 10-14 days is a pointer towards sinusitis. The treatment, cephalexin and placebo groups did not differ rhinorrhea mostly is purulent but can be serous or watery. in the presence of nasal discharge, incidence of Thus, the character of the discharge is not helpful in complications, or parental opinion of benefit of distinguishing infected sinus fluid, from uninfected medicationY fluid. 21 Other indicators of sinusitis are the presence of Cough occurs in 60-80% of common cold and does not severe signs and symptoms during an episode of upper suggest a bacterial etiology. Duration of symptoms is respiratory infection. These include high fever > 39 ~C , TM usually 2-7 days. Patients usually improve within 10 days, persistent fever, periorbital swelling and facial pain. but at times cough and nasal discharge can persist for 2 Diagnosis of sinusitis is clinical and rarely are weeks or moreY investigations warranted. Radiographic evaluations are To summarize 1. Antibiotics should not be given for indicated when episodes of sinusitis are recurrent, when common cold. 2. Mucopurulent nasal discharge is feature complications are suspected or when the diagnosis is not of common cold and is alone not an indication of clear. 7 The plain radiograph shows air fluid level, antibiotics unless it persists for more than 10-14 days. opacification, or mucosal thickeningY CT scan or MRI can be done for a more detailed examination and show the Sinusitis same findings. These features can also be present in viral Sinusitis is defined as inflammation
