Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


scan or MRI can be done for a more detailed examination and show the Sinusitis same findings. These features can also be present in viral Sinusitis is defined as inflammation of the mucosal lining rhinosinusitis and therefore, X-ray should only be done of one or more of the paranasal sinusesY It can occur when indicated. In a study evaluating CT findings in 31 from infection or non-infectious (allergic) causes. In adults during first 48-96 hours of uncomplicated viral children sinusitis almost always occurs as a complication respiratory illnesses, 90% had abnormality of the 1136 Indian Joumal of Pediatrics, Volume 68~December, 2001 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection maxillary sinus cavity. After two week these findings is certain. This will prevent the unnecessary overuse of resolved in 79% even though none received any antibiotics. antibiotics? 9W hen the child is younger than six months of Symptoms of sore throat accompany pharyngitis but age, opacification of the ethmoid air cells is normal. When its presence alone should not be used for diagnosis as the child is under the age of one year, opacification or these complain can be present even in common cold. The thickening of the mucosa of the maxillary sinusitis may be objective evidence of inflammation in the form of normal. 11 This should be kept in mind when evaluating X- erythema, exudate or ulceration in the pharynx is ray findings. necessary for the diagnosis. But, these signs can also be The primary treatment of sinusitis is antibiotics once present in some viral infections like adenovirus or the diagnostic criteria have been met. Amoxycillin (40 enterovirus. mg/kg/day) is successfiJ1 for the initial treatment of acute The classical features of Group A streptococcal uncomplicated sinusitis in most children.2 ~A bout 35% of pharyngitis include acute onset of pharyngeal pain, nontypable H. influenzae and 85% of M. catarrhalis strains dysphagia and fever. Rhinorrhea, cough, hoarseness, produce beta-lactamases and are resistant to amoxicillin. 21 conjunctivitis and diarrhea suggest a viral etiology. Therefore, if there is no response within 48 hours a Presence of patchy exudate on the posterior pharynx, beta-lactamase-stable antibiotic like amoxycillin- palatal petechie and enlarged and tender anterior cervical clavulanate or cephalexin or cetactor should be lymph nodes favour Group A streptococci pharyngitis. considered. These drugs should be considered first line if But in an individual child the clinical distinction between sinusitis is recurrent, fails to improve, or is a severe streptococcal pharyngitis
