Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


considered. These drugs should be considered first line if But in an individual child the clinical distinction between sinusitis is recurrent, fails to improve, or is a severe streptococcal pharyngitis and viral pharyngitis is infection with high fever and facial swelling. The duration unreliable. Therefore, in all cases of acute pharyngitis, of therapy should be minimum of 10 days.2 2 streptococcal disease must be considered. To summarize, 1. Diagnosis of sinusitis should be Diagnosis of Group A streptococcal pharyngitis should made when symptoms of nonspecific upper respiratory be based on throat swab culture, which is the standard for infection are present for more than 10-14.days or there are diagnosis. Antigen-detection tests alone can miss some severe upper respiratory signs and symptoms in the form cases; therefore the recommendation is to do a culture if of facial pain, facial swelling and high fever. 2. Since antigen-detection test is negative in a child with suspected radiological evidence of sinusitis may be seen even in streptococcal pharyngitis.2 6 Furthermore, if antibiotics common cold, radiographs should be interpreted with have been started in a child with suspected streptococcal caution and done when indicated. 3. Antimicrobial for pharyngitis and subsequently, the cultures are negative sinusitis should be narrow spectrum against the likely the treating physician should inform the parents to stop pathogen. the antibiotic therapy. Some studies have shown that early initiation of antibiotic on clinical suspicion can result Pharyngitis in decreased desirable antibody response, thus allowing Pharyngitis is an inflammatory illness of the mucous reinfection with type specific organisms.2 7 membranes and underlying structures of the throat. The Bacteria other than Group A streptococci are rare subdivided into two categories: illness with nasal pharyngitis in children is viral in etiology. Therefore, symptomatology (nasopharyngitis) and illness without antibiotics should not be given to a child with pharyngitis nasal involvement (pharyngitis or tonsillopharyngitis). in the absence of diagnosed Group A streptococcal Nasopharyngitis nearly always is a viral etiology, whereas pharyngitis or other bacterial infection. pharyngitis without nasal signs has diverse etiologic The recommendation is to use 10-day course of possibilities including bacteria, viruses, fungi and other penicillin for the treatment of Group A streptococcal infectious agents. Adenoviruses are the most common pharyngitis. This is because it has a narrow spectrum of cause of nasopharyngitis, other viruses being influenza, activity, low cost and high efficacy. Group A streptococcal parainfluenza and enteroviruses. The bacterial agents resistance to macrolide
