Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
KEYWORDS: respiratory, pharyngitis, infection, sinusitis, common, infections, acute, antibiotics, upper, cold, viral, streptococcal, group, common cold, children


has a narrow spectrum of cause of nasopharyngitis, other viruses being influenza, activity, low cost and high efficacy. Group A streptococcal parainfluenza and enteroviruses. The bacterial agents resistance to macrolide antibiotics has been observed, causing pharyngitis include Streptococcus pyogenes, H. whereas, resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics has not been influenzae, C. diphtheriae, and N. meningitides. 23 detected to date. Resistance to macrolides like Group A streptococci accounts for approximately 15% azithromycin or clarithromycin would be similar to that of bacterial pharyngitis and about 1-2 patients out of 10 for erythromycin. A meta-analysis of 19 studies favoured with sore throat. Infection in most of the others is cephalosporins over penicillin in terms of higher attributable to viruses, u Early diagnosis and treatment of eradication of GABS from oropharynx.2 8,29 These agents Group A streptococcal pharyngitis is important, as have a wide spectrum of activity against bacteria and thus antibiotics initiated with nine days of onset are effective in encourage the emergence of resistance over a broad range preventing acute rheumatic feverY But since most sore of bacterial pathogens. Alternative treatments must be throats are viral in etiology antibiotic have to be given used in patients with penicillin allergy, compliance issues only when diagnosis of Group A streptococcal pharyngitis or penicillin treatment failure. Patients who do not Indian Journal of Pediatrics, Volume 68--December, 2001 1137 N. Jain R. Lodha and S.K. Kabra respond to initial treatment should be given an 13. Horn ME, Brain E, Gregg Iet al. Respiratory viral infection in childhood. A survey in general practice, Rohanpton. 1967- antimicrobial that is not inactivated by penicillinase- 1972. J Hyg 1975; 74 : 157-168. producing organisms (e.g., amoxycillin-clavulanate 14. Gadomski AM. Potential intervention for preventing potassium, cefaclor, cephalexin or a macrolides). pneumonia among young children : lack of effect of antibiotic To summarize 1. Group A streptococcal pharyngitis treatment for upper resiratory infections. Pediatr Infect Dis should be diagnosed using laboratory tests with clinical 1993; 12 : 115-120. 15. Todd JK, Todd N, Damato Jet al. Bacteriology and treatment and epidemiological findings. 2. Antibiotics should be of purulent nasopharyngitis: a double blind, placebo given to a child with pharyngitis only when Group A controlled evaluation. Pediatr Infect Dis J 1984; 3 : 226-232. streptococcal or other bacterial infection has been 16. Jackson GG, Dowling HF, Huldoon RL. Present concepts of identified. 3. Penicillin is the drug of choice for Group A the common
