ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: polyuria, polydipsia, polydipsia polyuria, hypothalamic, patients, amenorrhea, doi, disorders, cases, lesions, partiallyinfiltrated, symptoms, hypothalamus, enhancement, hyperintensity


hypothalamus or direct PET/CT scanner (Siemens Biograph Sensation 16; Siemens, invasion of this diencephalic region. The etiology of Berlin,Germany). hypothalamic lesions is various, includes congenital developmental malformations, primary tumors, metastatic Surgery and Biopsy tumors, hemangioma, inflammatory and granulomatous Stereotactic hypothalamic biopsy in 6 patients, surgical biopsy diseases, trauma, infections, etc. (1). Cases of intracranial through transcranial approaches or endoscopic endonasal solitary hypothalamic mass are rarely reported. Such patients, approach in 10 patients, and surgical resection of the hypothalamuslesionsin4patientswereperformed.Thedetailed manifestations and radiological features. The etiological procedure of stereotactic biopsy can be referred to in our diagnosis of solitary hypothalamus lesion is crucial to publishedpaper(4). determine the treatment. But it is very challenging in practice and often unachievable. Few cases about intracranial solitary Endocrine Evaluation hypothalamus mass with a confirmed pathological diagnosis Endocrine functions were routinely evaluated in most patients. were reported (2, 3). Considering the vital role in regulating Blood and urine samples were obtained at 8:00 AM before any metabolism and energy balance, patients with hypothalamic medication.Centraladrenalinsufficiency(CAI)wasdefinedasa lesions tend to have metabolic disorders. However, few serumcortisollevel<3mg/dLorapeakserumcortisollevel<18.1 reports have addressed the subject comprehensively. To mg/dLat30or60minutesinacorticotropinstimulationtest(5). explore the diagnosis procedures and to reveal the endocrine Central hypothyroidism (CHT) was defined as a free T4 level andmetabolicconsequencesofsolitaryhypothalamuslesions,we belowthelaboratoryreferencerangeinconjunctionwithalow, present a case series report of 25 patients with intracranial normal, or mildly elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone (5, 6). solitaryhypothalamicmass. Thediagnosisofcentralhypogonadism(CHG)wasmadebased onlowmorningserumtotaltestosteronelevelswithnon-raised gonadotropin levels in men or a low serum estradiol level METHOD simultaneously low luteinizing hormone and follicle- stimulating hormone in women presenting oligomenorrhea or This is a retrospective study including 25 patients with amenorrhea (7). Hyperprolactinemia (HPL) was defined as a intracranial solitary hypothalamic lesions admitted to Huashan serum PRL level above the laboratory reference range. Central Hospital from January 2010 to December 2020. The clinical diabetes insipidus (CDI) was confirmed by a water deprivation manifestations, endocrine and metabolic disorders, and test followed by a desmopressin test. A urine osmolality of less pathologywerereviewed. than 300 mOsm/kg in the presence of fluid deprivation and subsequent rise of urine osmolality by no less than 50% after Radiological Examinations argininevasopressinstimulationsupportedthediagnosisofCDI Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in all (7).Besides,forpatientswithsignificantpolyuria(morethan50 patients, using a 3-T scanner (Signa; GE Medical Systems, mL/kgofbodyweight/24hours),CDIcouldalsobediagnosedby Shanghai, China). Precontrast T1-weighted spin-echo images thepresenceoflowurinespecificgravityandagoodresponseto and T2-weighted fast spin-echo images were recorded, a therapeutic trial of desmopressin (5, 7). Evaluation of the followed by contrast-enhanced T1-weighted imaging (T1WI). growthhormone(GH)axisonlyincludedtheassessmentofIGF- An intracranial solitary hypothalamic lesion is defined
