ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: polyuria, polydipsia, polydipsia polyuria, hypothalamic, patients, amenorrhea, doi, disorders, cases, lesions, partiallyinfiltrated, symptoms, hypothalamus, enhancement, hyperintensity


symptoms include cognitive severe hypernatremia. As diabetes insipidus was the most impairment, affective disorders, food intake disorders, body common initial symptom in our report, it could be inferred weight alternations (either gain or loss), fever, somnolence, that a primary hypothalamus lesion often firstly affects the oligodipsia, lactation, neurologic symptoms, psychiatric supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. The susceptibility of symptoms, and cutaneous/subcutaneous involvement. Our developing hypogonadism can be another characteristic of institution mainly deals with adult patients. The youngest age solitary hypothalamus lesions. In our study’s evaluation ofonsetwastenyearsoldinourreport.That`swhy precocious of pituitary functions, central hypogonadism had the highest FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 9 September2021 | Volume12 | Article693669 Xiangetal. DiagnosisofHypothalamicMass A B C D E FIGURE4| HistopathologyandimmunohistochemistrymanifestationsofLangerhanscellhistiocytosis(LCH)inpatientNo.10.(A)H&Estainingreflectedmarked histiocyteproliferation(H&E,×200originalmagnification);Immunohistochemistryindicatedclustersofvariousimmunophenotypicalmarkers[(B):CD68+,(C):CD1a+, (D):leukocytecommonantigen(LCA)+,(E):CD138+,×200originalmagnification]. A B C D E F G FIGURE5| HistopathologyandimmunohistochemistrymanifestationsofhypothalamitisinpatientNo.17.(A)Notableproliferationoflymphocyte,plasmacellsand histiocytewasfoundinH&Estaining(H&E,×200originalmagnification);ImmunohistochemicalanalysisrevealedscatteredCD68(B),CD138(C)andCD3(D)cells, withIgGdeposition(E).CD20(F)andCD1a(G)cellswereabsent. FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 10 September2021 | Volume12 | Article693669 Xiangetal. DiagnosisofHypothalamicMass A B D C FIGURE6| Pituitarydysfunctionsandmetabolicdisorders.(A)Descriptionofhypopituitarismofallthecases;(B)BMIsoftheevaluatedcases(n=20);(C)Blood lipidlevelsoftheevaluatedcases(n=16);(D)Serumuricacidlevelsoftheevaluatedcases(n=20).CAI,centraladrenalinsufficiency;CHT,centralhypothyroidism; CHG,centralhypogonadism;HPL,hyperprolactinemia;CDI,centraldiabetesinsipidus;N/A,notavailable. prevalence (95.5%) of all axes. Similarly, as one of the most ventromedialhypothalamuswasdestroyedbyasmallneoplasm frequentlyaffectedaxisinsellarlesions,thepreviouslyreported manifested rage attacks, hyperphagia, and dementia (12). prevalenceofcentralhypogonadismcouldbeashighas95%in Bilateral involvement of ventromedial nuclei and adjacent patientswithsellartumorsandaftersurgeryorradiotherapy(5). pathways contribute to such a triad. Cognition impairment in The mechanisms of hypothalamic hypogonadism are complex, our reports mainly manifested as memory deterioration, which including the disorders of gonadotropin-releasing hormone might be associated with dysfunctions of ventromedial nuclei (GnRH) secretion/transportation, pulsatile release of and the communications between the hypothalamus and brain luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone stemreticularformationandlimbicsystem(1).Also,posteriorly (FSH), and/or hyperprolactinemia, etc. (1) Manifestations of the tuber cinereum lie the mammillary bodies. They include somnolence were common in our and the previous reports (8). important nuclei of the memory circuit, and hypothalamic The mechanisms of sleep-wake cycle regulation are rather lesions affecting the fornices and the afferent input to the complex. The hypothalamus harbors nuclei and regions mammillary bodies could cause memory defects (13). Such controlling sleep-wake cycles, and they communicate with manifestations had been widely described in Korsakoff’s other areas of the brain, especially the reticular activating syndrome, which is mainly characterized by amnesia (both system of the brain stem, to maintain a normal circadian retrograde and anterograde) (14). The pathology in Korsakoff’s rhythm (10). Destructions of the hypothalamus could impair syndrome almost always involves the mammillary bodies. normalwakefulnessandarousalandleadtoprolongedhoursof Although Korsakoff’s syndrome is most frequent in alcoholics, sleep(1).Feverwithnoevidenceofinfectionoccurredin7cases. it is also described for craniopharyngiomas affecting the third The preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus is thought to be ventricle (15). It can be inferred that
