ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: polyuria, polydipsia, polydipsia polyuria, hypothalamic, patients, amenorrhea, doi, disorders, cases, lesions, partiallyinfiltrated, symptoms, hypothalamus, enhancement, hyperintensity


in alcoholics, sleep(1).Feverwithnoevidenceofinfectionoccurredin7cases. it is also described for craniopharyngiomas affecting the third The preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus is thought to be ventricle (15). It can be inferred that Korsakoff-like amnesia the key integratory site for thermoregulation in the brain (11). could be a significant determinant of memory deteriorations in The symptoms of fevers in such patients could very possibly our case series. Besides, disorders of the sleep-wake cycle and resultfromtheabnormalcentralregulationofbodytemperature. poor quality of sleep could increase the possibility of cognitive Affectivedisorders,especiallyirritability,werefoundinsomeof impairmentaswell(10).Inadditiontoemotionalandcognitive ourcases.Lesionsintheventromedialnucleushavebeenfound alterations, strange behaviors and changes in personality, even toberelatedtoaggressiveandevenviolentbehaviorsinanimals accompanied by psychotic symptoms can occur, as was in the (1). Early in 1969, Reeves and Plum described a case whose case No. 23. Such symptoms reflect lesions affecting more FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 11 September2021 | Volume12 | Article693669 Xiangetal. DiagnosisofHypothalamicMass diffuselythehypothalamicnetworksandtheconnectivityofthe diagnostic immunohistochemical features. However, the hypothalamus with themedial-basal frontal cortices and limbic following subcutaneous lump in patient No. 20 gave rise to the system (16). Our study validates the hypothalamic lesions as a finaldiagnosisofLCH.Similarly,theskinlesionsinpatientNo. clinicalmodelofpsychiatricdisturbances,similarlytothecaseof 22madethediagnosisofLCH.ThelymphnodebiopsyinPatient craniopharyngiomas developing or invadingthe thirdventricle. No.18helpedtoconfirmthehistopathologicaldiagnosisoflow- Accordingly, a wider set of symptoms than the insufficiency of differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma originated from the hormonesoftheendocrineaxescontrolledbythehypothalamus lung. So, the mass of the hypothalamus was thought of as a can be grouped under the term “hypothalamic syndrome” in metastatic lesion. Such cases indicated that careful systemic contrast to the restricted involvement of the infundibulum- evaluations are critical, including detailed physical examination tubercinereum. andhistory-taking,evaluationofimportantdiagnosticmarkers, between the patient’s syndrome and the anatomical structures whole body 18-FDG-PET-CT scan can help to find potential involved by the tumor had been proven (17). Structural/ extracranial lesions for biopsy or surgery. Also, the multi- functional impairment of the infundibulum-tuber cinereum disciplinary workup and consultation consisting of specialties complex encompassing damage of the median eminence, ofdifferentdepartmentscanbevitaltoreachthefinaldiagnosis. arcuate nucleus, and tubero-mammillary nuclei, leads to the Here we present an algorithm of diagnosis of a solitary infundibulo-tuberal syndrome. It was originally described by hypothalamuslesion(Figure7). French authors Claude and Lhermitte in 1917 (18), including Inourcases,themetabolicdisorderswereremarkable,which symptoms of Fröhlich`s syndrome, obesity, diabetes insipidus, appearedbeforeanyetiologicaltherapy.Previousreportsseldom and/or sleep alterations due to lesion of the histaminergic emphasized the problems of metabolism. The hypothalamus neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus (19). Infundibulo- plays a vital role in regulating body weight by balancing the tuberal syndrome was found to occur in craniopharyngiomas intake of food and energy expenditure and storage. which replaced or invaded the TVFs (17). Furthermore, injury
