ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: polyuria, polydipsia, polydipsia polyuria, hypothalamic, patients, amenorrhea, doi, disorders, cases, lesions, partiallyinfiltrated, symptoms, hypothalamus, enhancement, hyperintensity


body weight by balancing the tuberal syndrome was found to occur in craniopharyngiomas intake of food and energy expenditure and storage. which replaced or invaded the TVFs (17). Furthermore, injury Hypothalamic obesity (HO) is defined as significant to structures above the infundibulum and tuber cinereum hyperphagia and weight gain after any damage to the energy- level (ventromedial and dorsomedial hypothalamus and controlling center of the hypothalamus (20).HO is most fornices) induces complex psychiatric, behavioral, or emotional commonly described in the context of craniopharyngioma, and alterations, memory impairment (including Korsakoff’s most patients with HO have large lesions or extensive syndrome), abnormal body temperature, and so on. In our involvement of the hypothalamus (21). Previous reports Hyperphagia and somnolence, as typical manifestations of individuals with anatomically proven lesions in the infundibulo-tuberal syndrome, were only seen in cases with the hypothalamus(8,9).Theprevalenceofweightgaincouldbeas TVF involvement. Besides, those with complex hypothalamic high as 90% in craniopharyngioma after surgery (21). In our symptoms associated to cognition, mood and body temperature reports, hyperphagia was seen in 48% (12/25) of cases, and tended to have larger mass sizes, wider involvement of third overweight/obesitywasfoundin65%(13/20).Themechanisms ventricleandTVFs. ofHOcouldbevarious,includinghyperphagia,impairedenergy The solitary hypothalamic lesion occurs rarely, and patients expenditure and thermoregulation, vagally mediated withdifferentetiologycouldhavesimilarclinicalmanifestations hyperinsulinemia, and defective hypothalamic leptin signal and MR imaging features. Final diagnoses highly depend transduction (1, 22). Lesions affecting the arcuate nucleus, the on histopathological evidence. The surgical procedures in the paraventricular nucleus, the ventromedial nucleus, the hypothalamusregioncouldberiskyandchallenging.Diagnostic dorsomedial nucleus, and the dorsal hypothalamic area could radiation and steroid treatment are alternatives when the contribute to HO, which play vital roles in the regulation of etiology is hard to confirm. However, the treatment can be satiety and energy expenditure (23). Besides, some patients in ineffective and induce lots of complications. Only in very few our study presented with amenorrhea, sexual dysfunction, HO casereportsthepathologicaldiagnoseswereestablished(2–4).In and hyperphagia. Early in 1901, Alfred Fröhlich published his ourcaseseries,stereotactichypothalamicbiopsy/surgicalbiopsy/ famousworkdescribinga14-year-oldboywithalargepituitary surgical resection was performed in 20 patients by the most tumor presenting sexual infantilism and obesity (24). These experienced surgeons in our institution. 16 of the 20 cases manifestations were defined as Fröhlich’s syndrome or achieved histopathological diagnoses. Either surgical or adiposogenital dystrophy, which featured excessive eating, stereotactic biopsy will be a reliable and relatively safe obesity, pubertal delay, and hypogonadism (25). The procedure to help to reach the pathological diagnosis of destruction/anatomic distortion of the median eminence, solitary hypothalamic mass. The stereotactic biopsy can be
