ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: polyuria, polydipsia, polydipsia polyuria, hypothalamic, patients, amenorrhea, doi, disorders, cases, lesions, partiallyinfiltrated, symptoms, hypothalamus, enhancement, hyperintensity


obesity, pubertal delay, and hypogonadism (25). The procedure to help to reach the pathological diagnosis of destruction/anatomic distortion of the median eminence, solitary hypothalamic mass. The stereotactic biopsy can be where axonal endings from GnRH neurons establish their used for most hypothalamic primary lesions with synaptic contacts with the complex capillary network of diameters≥5mm. For lesions located at the bottom area of the fenestrated vessels and tanycytes, could contribute to the hypothalamusorclosetothepituitarystalk,asurgicalbiopsyis development of Fröhlich’s syndrome (26, 27). In addition, more likely to be chosen. In patients No.1, 6, 20, and 24, only the interrupted communication between GnRH neurons and gliosis and inflammatory cell infiltration were found, with no the network of astrocytes processing the feedback metabolic FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 12 September2021 | Volume12 | Article693669 Xiangetal. DiagnosisofHypothalamicMass FIGURE7| Analgorithmofthediagnosisofanintracranialsolitaryhypothalamuslesion.MRI,magneticresonanceimaging;ACE,angiotensin-convertingenzyme; T-SPOT.TB,T-cellspotoftuberculosistest;CT,computedtomography;PET/CT,Positronemissiontomography-computedtomography. information of blood energy molecules and hormones to the who presented a notable elevation of blood glucose along with arcuate nucleus is also a fundamental anatomical correlate of the increase of the size of the lesion, and the blood glucose suchafunctionalimpairment(26,28,29).HOhasasignificant returned to normal after post-therapeutic size decrease of the adverseimpactonqualityoflifeandincreasestheriskofcardio- lesion(4).Forthiscase,itcanbeinferredthatthehyperglycemia and cerebrovascular mortality. In spite of a great deal of was mainly caused by the lesion itself, which induced severely theoretical understanding, an effective treatment for impaired hypothalamic regulation of glucose homeostasis. The hypothalamic obesity has not been developed. The trials with diabetesmellitusresultingfromreasonslikethiscouldbedefined GLP-1(30,31)andgastricbypasssurgery(32)haveprovedtobe as a new type: hypothalamic diabetes mellitus. SUA levels effective. We expect more effective therapy in the future. were elevated in 60% (12/20) patients, in which 5 cases had no Hyperlipidemia developed in 81.3% (13/16), and hepatic elevated serum sodium level. All the patients with adipose infiltration in 68.8% (11/16) of the evaluated cases. hyperuricaemia were asymptomatic. Aside from diabetes Fattyliverinfiltrationmightbeinduced byobesity, considering insipidus and the following dehydration, hyperuricaemia was thesignificantdifferenceinBMIbetweenthosewithandwithout generally thought to be associated with genes, obesity, gender, fatty liver. Hyperglycemia and fatty liver infiltration were also diet,insulinresistance,druguse,chronickidneydisease,andso reportedinthefollow-upofcraniopharyngioma(33).Abnormal on (34). Levels of SUA were positively related to BMI in our glucosemetabolism(eitherDMorIGT)wasfoundin62.5%(10/ study,indicatingthecontributionofobesityinthedevelopment 16). The disorders in lipid and glucose metabolism could be of hyperuricaemia. Besides, it has been reported that electrical causedbyHO,hypopituitarism,anddisturbedcentralmetabolic stimulationoftheventromedialhypothalamusinratscaninduce regulation. Specially, we had reported a case of hypothalamitis a rise of plasma uric acid, which possibly can be due to the FrontiersinEndocrinology | www.frontiersin.org 13 September2021 | Volume12 | Article693669 Xiangetal. DiagnosisofHypothalamicMass accelerationofepinephrinereleasefromtheadrenalmedulla(35, AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 36).Moreresearchesareneededtoexplorehowserumuricacid levelsareregulatedbythehypothalamus. HY,YFW,andQMdesignedthestudy.BX,QS,MH,WW,QM, BL,SZ,ZZ,YY,YL,YW,ZY,HC,LP,YFW,andHYdiagnosed, treated,andfollowedthepatients.YWandZYanalyzedtheMRI CONCLUSION images. HC reviewed the histopathology
