Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


buds increases to as many as 50 in type 2 and 80 in type 3 lobules. The entire differentiation process takes years after the onset of puberty and, if pregnancy is not achieved, may never be completed ( 2 ). On the contrary, there is usually no further development of breast because of the rising testosterone concentrations at puberty. Some peri-pubertal boys may transiently develop type 1 lobules that may undergo atrophy at a later stage. HORMONAL REGULATION OF BREAST DEVELOPMENT The initiation and progression of breast development involves a coordinated effort of pituitary and ovarian hormones, as well as local mediators ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Hormones affecting growth and differentiation of breast tissue. ESTROGEN, GH AND IGF-1, PROGESTERONE, & PROLACTIN Estrogen and progesterone act in an integrative fashion to stimulate normal adult female breast development. Estrogen, acting through its estrogen receptor (ER), promotes ductal growth, while progesterone, acting through its receptor (PR), promotes alveolar development ( 1 ). This is demonstrated by experiments in ER knockout mice that display grossly impaired ductal development, whereas PR knockout mice possess significant ductal development, but lack alveolar differentiation ( 3 , 4 ). Although estrogens and progestogens are vital to mammary growth, they are ineffective in the absence of anterior pituitary hormones ( 5 ). Thus, neither estrogen alone nor estrogen plus progesterone can sustain breast development without other mediators, such as GH and IGF-1. This was confirmed by studies involving the administration of estrogen and GH to hypophysectomized and oophorectomized female rats that resulted in breast ductal development. The GH effects on ductal growth are mediated through stimulation of IGF-1. This is demonstrated by studies of estrogen and GH administration to IGF-1 knockout rats that showed significantly decreased mammary development when compared to age-matched IGF-1- intact controls. Combined estrogen and IGF-1 treatment in these IGF-1 knockout rats restored mammary growth ( 6 , 7 ). In addition, Walden et al. demonstrated that GH-stimulated production of IGF-1 mRNA in the mammary gland itself, suggesting that IGF-1 production in the stromal compartment of the mammary gland acts locally to promote breast development ( 8 ). Furthermore, other data indicates that estrogen promotes GH secretion and increases GH levels, stimulating the production of IGF-1, which synergizes with estrogen to induce ductal development. In a population-based study of healthy boys and adolescents, IGF-I levels were found to be elevated in boys with pubertal
