Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


of IGF-1, which synergizes with estrogen to induce ductal development. In a population-based study of healthy boys and adolescents, IGF-I levels were found to be elevated in boys with pubertal gynecomastia compared with boys without gynecomastia suggesting that the GH-IGF-I axis may be involved in the pathogenesis of pubertal gynecomastia ( 9 ). Indeed, dating back to 1950, it had already been reported that gynecomastia was found in a young patient with acromegaly ( 97 ). Progesterone has minimal effects on breast development without concomitant anterior pituitary hormones, indicating that progesterone also interacts closely with pituitary hormones. For example, prolonged treatment of dogs with progestogens such as depot medroxyprogesterone acetate or with proligestone was associated with increased GH and IGF-1 levels, suggesting that progesterone may stimulate GH secretion ( 10 ). In addition, clinical studies have correlated maximal cell proliferation to specific phases in the female menstrual cycle. For example, maximal proliferation occurs not during the follicular phase when estrogens reach peak levels and progesterone is low (less than 1 ng/mL [3.1nmol/mL]), but rather, it occurs during the luteal phase when progesterone reaches concentrations of 10-20 ng/mL (31- 62 nmol/mL) and estrogen concentrations are two to three times lower than in the follicular phase ( 11 ). Furthermore, immunohistochemical studies of ER and PR showed that the highest percentage of proliferating cells, found almost exclusively in the type 1 lobules, contained the highest percentage of ER and PR positive cells ( 2 ). Similarly, there is immunocytological presence of ER, PR, and androgen receptors (AR) in gynecomastia and male breast carcinoma. ER, PR and AR expression was observed in 100% (30/30) of gynecomastia cases ( 12 ). Given these data and the fact that PR knockout mice lack alveolar development in breast tissue, it seems that progesterone, analogous to estrogen, increases GH secretion and acts through the PR on mammary cells to enhance breast development and alveolar differentiation ( 13 , 4 ). Prolactin is another anterior pituitary hormone integral to breast development. Prolactin is not only secreted by the pituitary gland but may be produced by normal mammary tissue epithelial cells and breast tumors ( 14 , 15 ). Prolactin stimulates epithelial cell proliferation only in the presence of estrogen and enhances lobulo-alveolar differentiation only with concomitant progesterone. Gynecomastia is seen rarely in hyperprolactinemia, possibly because of the low estrogen levels due to suppression of LH secretion. Previously, receptors
