Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


estrogen and enhances lobulo-alveolar differentiation only with concomitant progesterone. Gynecomastia is seen rarely in hyperprolactinemia, possibly because of the low estrogen levels due to suppression of LH secretion. Previously, receptors for LH/ human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) have been found in male and female breast tissues, but their functional roles remain to be determined ( 16 ). ANDROGEN AND AROMATASE Estrogen effects on the breast is the result of circulating estradiol levels or locally produced estrogens. Aromatase P450 catalyzes the conversion of the C19 steroids-- androstenedione, testosterone, and 16- α- hydroxyandrostenedione-- to estrone, estradiol-17β and estriol. As such, an overabundance of substrate (e.g., testosterone) or an increased enzyme activity (aromatase) for estrogen production can increase serum and breast estrogen concentrations and initiate the cascade to breast development in females and males. For example, in the more complete forms of androgen insensitivity syndromes in genetically male (XY) patients, excess androgen is aromatized into estrogen that results in gynecomastia and an overall phenotypic female appearance. Furthermore, the loss of the anti-proliferative effect of androgens on breast also contributes significantly to breast development in XY individuals with complete androgen insensitivity. Likewise, the biologic effects of over-expression of the aromatase enzyme in female and male mice transgenic for the aromatase gene result in increased breast proliferation. In female transgenics, over-expression of aromatase promotes the induction of hyperplastic and dysplastic changes in breast tissue. Over-expression of aromatase in male transgenics causes increased mammary growth and histological changes similar to gynecomastia, increased estrogen and progesterone receptors, and increased downstream breast growth factors such as TGF-beta and βFGF ( 17 ). Interestingly, treatment with an aromatase inhibitor leads to involution of the mammalian gland phenotype ( 18 ). Thus, although androgens do not stimulate breast development directly, they may do so if they aromatize to estrogen. This occurs in cases of androgen excess or in patients with increased aromatase activity. PHYSIOLOGIC GYNECOMASTIA Gynecomastia, breast development in males, can occur normally during three phases of life. The first occurs shortly after birth in both males and females. This is partly caused by the high fetal blood levels of estradiol and progesterone (produced by the mother) that stimulate breast tissue in the newborn. Another mechanism is the increased conversion of steroid hormone precursors to sex steroids and increased aromatization of androgen as a result of neonatal surge of luteinizing hormone (LH). Neonatal gynecomastia may persist for several weeks after birth
