Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


steroid hormone precursors to sex steroids and increased aromatization of androgen as a result of neonatal surge of luteinizing hormone (LH). Neonatal gynecomastia may persist for several weeks after birth and may be associated with a milky breast discharge called "witch's milk" ( 2 ). Puberty marks the second period when gynecomastia can occur physiologically. In fact, up to 60% of boys have clinically detectable gynecomastia by age 14. Although it is mostly bilateral, it is often asymmetrical and can occur unilaterally. Pubertal gynecomastia usually resolves within 3 years of onset ( 2 ). In early puberty, the pituitary gland releases gonadotropins at night and stimulates testicular production of testosterone during the very early morning hours. Serum estradiol concentration, however, remains elevated above prepubertal concentrations throughout the day. Compared with boys who do not develop gynecomastia, boys with pubertal gynecomastia have a decreased androgen to estrogen ratio ( 19 , 100 ). Furthermore, another study showed increased aromatase activity in the skin fibroblasts of boys with gynecomastia ( 103 ). Thus, the mechanism by which pubertal gynecomastia occurs may be due to either decreased production of androgens or increased aromatization of circulating androgens, thus increasing the estrogen to androgen ratio ( 20 ). The third age range in which gynecomastia is frequently seen is during older age (>60 years). The reported prevalence varies from 36 to 57%, possibly because of different selected populations and different diagnostic criteria ( 101 ). Although the exact mechanisms by which this occurs have not been fully elucidated, evidence suggests that it may result from increased peripheral aromatase activity secondary to increased total body fat, relatively elevated LH concentrations, and decreased serum testosterone concentrations associated with male aging. For instance, investigators have shown increased urinary estrogen concentrations in obese individuals and have demonstrated aromatase expression in adipose tissue ( 21 ). Thus, like the gynecomastia of obesity, the gynecomastia of aging may partly result from increased aromatase activity, causing increased conversion of androgens to estrogens ( 22 ). Moreover, not only does total body fat increase with age, but there may be an increase in aromatase activity in the adipose tissue already present, further increasing circulating estrogens. Serum sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) concentrations increase with age in men. Because SHBG binds estrogen with less affinity than testosterone, the bioavailable estradiol to bioavailable testosterone ratio may increase in older men. Lastly, elderly patients may take
