Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


with age in men. Because SHBG binds estrogen with less affinity than testosterone, the bioavailable estradiol to bioavailable testosterone ratio may increase in older men. Lastly, elderly patients may take multiple medications associated with gynecomastia. One cohort study suggests medications play a role in 80% of gynecomastia in older men ( 23 ). PATHOLOGIC GYNECOMASTIA Pathologic gynecomastia is due to an increase in the circulating and/or local breast tissue ratio of estrogen to androgen. Increased Estrogen Breast development requires the presence of estrogen. Androgens, on the other hand, have anti-proliferative effects on breast tissue. Thus, an equilibrium exists between estrogen and androgens in the adult male to prevent growth of breast tissue, whereby either an increase in estrogen or a decrease in androgen can tip the balance toward gynecomastia. Increased estrogen levels will increase glandular proliferation by several mechanisms. These include direct stimulation of glandular tissue and by suppressing LH, therefore decreasing testosterone secretion by the testes and exaggerating the already high estrogen to androgen ratio. Since the development of breast tissue in males occurs in an analogous manner to that in females, the same hormones that affect female breast tissue can cause gynecomastia. In post-pubertal boys and adult men, the testes secrete 6-10 µg of estradiol and 2.5 µg of estrone per day. Testicular production comprises a small fraction of estrogens in circulation (i.e., 15% of estradiol and 5% of estrone), and the remainder of estrogen in men is derived from the extraglandular aromatization of testosterone and androstenedione to estradiol and estrone ( 24 ). Thus, any cause of estrogen excess from overproduction to peripheral aromatization of androgens can initiate the cascade to breast development. TUMORS Testicular tumors can lead to increased blood estrogen levels by the following mechanisms: estrogen overproduction, androgen overproduction with extragonadal aromatization to estrogens, and secretion of hCG that stimulates normal Leydig cells (via the LH receptor). Tumors causing an overproduction of estrogen represent an unusual but important cause of estrogen excess. Examples of estrogen-secreting tumors include Leydig cell tumors, Sertoli cell tumors, granulosa cell tumors, and adrenal tumors. Leydig cell tumors constitute 1%-3% of all testicular tumors. Usually, they occur in men between the ages of 20 and 60, although up to 25% of them occur prepubertally. In prepubertal cases, isosexual precocity, rapid somatic growth, and increased bone age with elevated serum testosterone and urinary 17-ketosteroid levels are the presenting features. In adults, elevated
