Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


them occur prepubertally. In prepubertal cases, isosexual precocity, rapid somatic growth, and increased bone age with elevated serum testosterone and urinary 17-ketosteroid levels are the presenting features. In adults, elevated estrogen levels coupled with a palpable testicular mass and gynecomastia suggests a testicular tumor. Of note, feminization (particularly gynecomastia) is common in adults, but it is rare in boys. Some Leydig cell tumors may only be apparent on ultrasound because of their small size; some may produce testosterone and do not cause gynecomastia. Though mostly benign, Leydig cell tumors may be malignant and metastasize to lung, liver, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes ( 25 , 26 ). Sertoli cell tumors comprise less than 1% of all testicular tumors and occur at all ages, but one third have occurred in patients less than 13 years, usually in boys under 6 months of age. Although they arise in young boys, they usually do not produce endocrine effects in children. Again, the majority are benign, but up to 10% are malignant. Gynecomastia occurs in one third of cases of Sertoli cell tumors, presumably due to increased estrogen production ( 26 ). Sertoli cell tumors in boys with Peutz-Jegher syndrome, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by pigmented macules on the lips, gastrointestinal polyposis, and hormonally active tumors in males and females, for instance, have aromatase overactivity, resulting in gynecomastia, rapid growth, and advanced bone age as presenting features ( 29 , 30 , 31 ). Feminizing Sertoli cell tumors with increased aromatase activity can also be seen in the Carney complex, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by cardiac myxomas, cutaneous pigmentation, adrenal nodules and hypercortisolism. Granulosa cell tumors, occurring very rarely in the testes, can also overproduce estrogen. Gynecomastia at presentation was reported in some cases ( 27 ). Germ cell tumors are the most common cancer in males between the ages of 15 and 35. They are divided into seminomatous and non-seminomatous subtypes and include embryonal carcinoma, yolk sac carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, and teratoma. Elevated serum hCG or hCG subunits (e.g., may be present in both seminomatous and non-seminomatous types of germ cell tumors), whereas AFP may be elevated only in the non-seminomatous type. As a result of the increased hCG that stimulates the Leydig cell via the LH receptor, testicular testosterone and estrogen (estrogen out of proportion to testosterone) production is increased and may cause gynecomastia. Although germ cell tumors generally arise in the
