Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


cell via the LH receptor, testicular testosterone and estrogen (estrogen out of proportion to testosterone) production is increased and may cause gynecomastia. Although germ cell tumors generally arise in the testes, they can also originate extragonadally, specifically in the mediastinum. These extragonadal tumors also possess the capability of producing hCG, but they must be differentiated from a multitude of other tumors such as large cell carcinomas of the lung that can synthesize hCG or hCG subunits ( 28 ). Some neoplasms that overproduce estrogens also possess aromatase overactivity. Other than sex-cord tumors, fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma has also been shown to possess ectopic aromatase activity, causing severe gynecomastia in two boys ( 32 , 33 ). Furthermore, adrenal tumors can secrete excess dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA-sulfate (DHEAS), and androstenedione that can then be aromatized peripherally to estradiol. Some adrenal tumors may secret estrogen directly. Typically, feminizing-adrenal tumors are large, aggressive, and malignant ( 90 ). Table 1. Tumors Causing Gynecomastia View in own window Tumor type Hormone produced Aromatase overactivity Leydig cell tumor Testosterone, estrogen Sertoli cell tumor Estrogen + (in Peutz-Jegher syndrome), + (in Carney complex) Granulosa cell tumor Estrogen Adrenal tumor Estrogen, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S), and androstenedione that are converted in the periphery to estrogens. Gonadal germ cell tumor hCG and β-hCG Extragonadal germ cell tumor e. G lung, gastric, renal cell and hepatocellular carcinoma hCG and β-hCG NON-TUMOR CAUSES OF ESTROGEN EXCESS Increased Aromatase Activity Besides tumors, other conditions have also been associated with excessive aromatization of testosterone and other androgens to estrogen leading to gynecomastia. For instance, obesity is strongly associated with gynecomastia. The mechanism is thought to be related to the increased aromatase activity in adipose tissues, but most obese men do not have high estrogen concentrations ( 104 ). Leptin has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of gynecomastia because it might stimulate aromatase in adipose and breast tissue. Leptin might also directly stimulate the growth of epithelial cells in the breast or enhance the sensitivity of epithelial cells to estrogen ( 98 ). There is a very rare familial form of gynecomastia in which affected family members have an elevation of extragonadal aromatase activity ( 34 ). Novel gain-of-function mutations in chromosome 15 have been reported to cause gynecomastia, possibly by forming cryptic promoters that lead to over expression of aromatase ( 35 ). Polymorphism of the aromatase cytochrome P45019 (CYP19) has also been
