Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


been reported to cause gynecomastia, possibly by forming cryptic promoters that lead to over expression of aromatase ( 35 ). Polymorphism of the aromatase cytochrome P45019 (CYP19) has also been found to be associated with gynecomastia ( 36 ). Displacement of Estrogens From SHBG Another cause of gynecomastia from estrogen excess includes steroid displacement from SHBG. SHBG binds androgens more avidly than estrogen. Thus, any condition or drug such as spironolactone that displaces steroids from SHBG more easily displace estrogen than testosterone, resulting in a higher estrogen to testosterone ratio. Drugs can cause gynecomastia by numerous mechanisms besides displacement from SHBG. These drugs and their mechanisms are discussed below. Decreased Testosterone and Androgen Resistance Besides increased estrogen production, decreased testosterone levels can cause an elevation in the estrogen to androgen ratio, thereby producing gynecomastia. Primary hypogonadism, with its reduction in serum testosterone and increased serum LH levels increases aromatization of testosterone to estradiol and is associated with an increased estrogen to androgen ratio. Klinefelter syndrome occurs in 1 in 600-700 males and is caused by supernumerary X chromosomes (XXY or XXXY karyotype) and primary testicular failure and often prominent gynecomastia, due to decreased testosterone production, compensatory increased LH secretion, overstimulation of the Leydig cells, and relative estrogen excess. In addition, any acquired testicular disease resulting in primary hypogonadism such as severe, postpubertal viral and bacterial orchitis, or scrotal trauma or radiation can promote gynecomastia by the same mechanisms ( 24 ). Lastly, enzyme deficiencies in the testosterone synthesis pathway from cholesterol also result in depressed testosterone levels and hence a relative increase in estrogen. Deficiency of 17-oxosteroid reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of androstenedione to testosterone and estrone and estrone to estradiol, for example, will cause elevation in estrone and androstenedione, which is then further aromatized to estradiol ( 22 ). Secondary hypogonadism results in low serum testosterone and unopposed estrogen effect from increased conversion of adrenal precursors to estrogens ( 24 ). Thus, patients with Kallmann syndrome, a form of congenital secondary hypogonadism with anosmia, also develop gynecomastia. In fact, androgen deficiency (hypogonadism) from whatever cause constitutes most cases of gynecomastia. The androgen resistance syndromes, including complete and partial testicular feminization are characterized by gynecomastia and varying degrees of pseudohermaphroditism. Kennedy disease, a neurodegenerative disease, is caused by an increased number of CAG (polyglutamine) repeats in the androgen receptor gene that leads to a decrease in sensitivity
