Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


degrees of pseudohermaphroditism. Kennedy disease, a neurodegenerative disease, is caused by an increased number of CAG (polyglutamine) repeats in the androgen receptor gene that leads to a decrease in sensitivity of the receptor ( 2 ). The gynecomastia is the combined result of decreased androgen responsiveness at the breast level and increased estrogen production as a result of elevated androgen precursors of estradiol and estrone. Androgen resistance at the pituitary results in elevated serum LH levels and increased circulating testosterone. The increased serum testosterone is then aromatized peripherally, promoting gynecomastia. Other Diseases Men with end-stage renal disease may have reduced testosterone and elevated gonadotropins. This apparent primary testicular failure may then lead to increased breast development ( 13 ). The gynecomastia of liver disease, particularly cirrhosis, does not have a clear etiology. Cirrhosis is associated with increased SHBG that binds testosterone more avidly than estrogen. Some have speculated that the gynecomastia is the result of estrogen overproduction, possibly secondary to increased extraglandular aromatization of androstenedione, which may have decreased hepatic clearance in cirrhosis. However, testosterone administration to patient with cirrhosis causes a rise in estradiol, but decreases the prevalence of gynecomastia ( 5 , 37 , 38 ). Therefore, although the association of gynecomastia with liver disease is apparent, current data are conflicting and the mechanism remains unclear. Thyrotoxicosis is associated with gynecomastia. Patients often have elevated estrogen that may result from a stimulatory effect of thyroid hormone on peripheral aromatase. In addition, LH is also increased in many men with thyrotoxicosis, and LH also stimulates aromatization of testosterone ( 13 , 39 , 96 ). Furthermore, thyroxine stimulates production of SHBG in the liver. Because SHBG binds testosterone more avidly than estradiol, there is a higher ratio of free estradiol to free testosterone. Thus, with normal testosterone and increased estrogen, there is an elevated free estrogen to testosterone ratio. Gynecomastia is associated with spinal cord disorders. Most patients with spinal cord disorders often have low testosterone levels and, in fact, can develop testicular atrophy with resultant hypogonadism and infertility, which may be exacerbated by increased scrotal temperature. The exact mechanism, however, remains elusive ( 40 ). Refeeding gynecomastia refers to breast development in men recovering from a malnourished state ( 1 ). Although most cases regress within several months, the etiology of this phenomenon has not been fully elucidated. HIV patients can also develop gynecomastia. There is a high
