Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


( 1 ). Although most cases regress within several months, the etiology of this phenomenon has not been fully elucidated. HIV patients can also develop gynecomastia. There is a high incidence of androgen deficiency due to multifactorial causes, including primary and secondary hypogonadism and certain drugs used to treat HIV (e.g., efavirenz) ( 24 ). Drugs About 20% of gynecomastia is caused by medications or exogenous chemicals ( 41 ). Some drugs may increase estrogen effect by several mechanisms: 1) they possess intrinsic estrogen-like properties, 2) they increase endogenous estrogen production, or 3) they supply an excess of an estrogen precursor (e.g., testosterone or androstenedione) that can be aromatized to estrogen. Examples of drugs that cause gynecomastia are listed in Tables 2 and 3 . Contact with estrogen vaginal creams, for instance, can elevate circulating estrogen levels. Since some of the creams contain synthetic estrogens, they might not be detected by standard estrogenic qualitative assays. An estrogen-containing embalming cream has been reported to cause gynecomastia in morticians ( 42 , 43 ). A topical estrogen spray, used for relief of menopausal hot flushes may lead to gynecomastia in children through skin contact ( 44 ). Recreational use of marijuana, heroin, methadone, and amphetamines has also been associated with gynecomastia ( 45 ). Herbs containing phytoestrogen or ginseng with estrogen-like structure ( 46 ) may also lead to gynecomastia. It has been suggested that digitalis causes gynecomastia due to its ability to bind to estrogen receptors ( 13 , 47 ). The appearance of gynecomastia has been described in body builders and athletes after the administration of aromatizable androgens. The gynecomastia was presumably caused by an excess of circulating estrogens due to the conversion of androgens to estrogen by peripheral aromatase enzymes ( 48 ). Table 2. Drugs That May Induce Gynecomastia by Known or Proposed Mechanisms View in own window Estrogen-like, or binds to estrogen receptor Stimulate estrogen synthesis Supply aromatizable estrogen precursors Direct Testicular Damage Block testosterone synthesis Block androgen action Displace estrogen from SHBG Estrogen vaginal cream Gonadotropins Exogenous androgen Busulfan Ketoconazole Flutamide Spironolactone Estrogen-containing embalming cream Growth Hormone Androgen precursors (i.e., androstenedione and DHEA) Nitrosurea Spironolactone Bicalutamide Ethanol Delousing powder Vincristine Metronidazole Finasteride Digitalis Ethanol Etomidate Cyproterone Clomiphene Tyrosine kinase inhibitor Zanoterone Marijuana* Cimetidine Ranitidine* Spironolactone * Weak evidence Table 3. Drugs That May Cause Gynecomastia by Uncertain Mechanisms View in own window Cardiac and antihypertensive medications:
