Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


Clomiphene Tyrosine kinase inhibitor Zanoterone Marijuana* Cimetidine Ranitidine* Spironolactone * Weak evidence Table 3. Drugs That May Cause Gynecomastia by Uncertain Mechanisms View in own window Cardiac and antihypertensive medications: Calcium channel blockers (verapamil, nifedipine, diltiazem) Angiotensin-converting enzyme Inhibitors* (captopril, enalapril) Alpha-blockers* Amiodarone Methyldopa Reserpine Nitrates Psychoactive drugs: Neuroleptics Anxiolytic agents* (e.g., diazepam) Phenytoin Tricyclic antidepressants Haloperidol Atypical antipsychotic agents Drugs for infectious diseases: Antiretroviral therapy for HIV/AIDS (e.g., efavirenz) Isoniazid Ethionamide Griseofulvin Minocycline Drugs of Abuse: Amphetamines Heroin Methadone Others: Theophylline Omeprazole Auranofin Diethylpropion Domperidone Penicillamine Sulindac Heparin Methotrexate Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors Statin* * Weak evidence Drugs and chemicals that cause decreased testosterone levels either by causing direct testicular damage, by blocking testosterone synthesis, or by blocking androgen action can also produce gynecomastia. For instance, phenothrin, a chemical component in delousing agents, possessing anti-androgenic activity, has been attributed as the cause of an epidemic of gynecomastia among Haitian refugees in US detention centers in 1981 and 1982 ( 49 ). Chemotherapeutic drugs, such as alkylating agents and tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( 102 ), can cause Leydig cell and germ cell damage, resulting in primary hypogonadism. Flutamide, an anti-androgen used as treatment for prostate cancer, blocks androgen action in peripheral tissues. Ketoconazole, on the other hand, can inhibit steroidogenic enzymes required for testosterone synthesis. 5α-reductase inhibitors, finasteride and dutasteride, that reduce the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone may cause gynecomastia ( 50 ). They also cause an increase in the synthesis of testosterone and, subsequently estrogen through aromatization. Spironolactone causes gynecomastia (up to 10%) by several mechanisms. Like ketoconazole, it can block androgen production by inhibiting enzymes in the testosterone synthetic pathway (i.e., 17α-hydroxylase and 17-20-desmolase), but it can also block receptor-binding of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone ( 51 ). In addition to decreasing testosterone levels and biologic effects, spironolactone also displaces estradiol from SHBG, increasing free estrogen levels. Of note, the anti-androgenic property of spironolactone has been used in gender identity disorder (from male to female) and spironolactone is considered to be a cost-saving medication ( 52 ). On the other hand, eplerenone is more specific for the mineralocorticoid receptor and less associated with ant-androgenic effects such as gynecomastia (up to 0.5%) ( 53 ). Switching from spironolactone to eplerenone may reverse painful gynecomastia induced by spironolactone in patients with cirrhosis ( 54 ). Ethanol increases the estrogen to androgen ratio and induces gynecomastia by multiple mechanisms as well.
