Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


eplerenone may reverse painful gynecomastia induced by spironolactone in patients with cirrhosis ( 54 ). Ethanol increases the estrogen to androgen ratio and induces gynecomastia by multiple mechanisms as well. Firstly, it is associated with increased SHBG, which decreases free testosterone levels. Secondly, it increases hepatic clearance of testosterone, and thirdly, it has a direct toxic effect on the testes ( 24 ). Besides the drugs stated, a multitude of others have been associated with gynecomastia by unknown mechanisms ( 92 ) ( Table 3 ). For many of these drugs, the causal relationship with gynecomastia has not been established or the evidence is weak. MALE BREAST CANCER Male breast cancer is rare and comprises only 0.2% of all male cancers. The overall prevalence of invasive carcinomas was 0.11% and of in situ carcinomas was 0.18% in in a 20-year national registry study of surgically excised breast specimens with the diagnosis of gynecomastia ( 55 ). Although male breast cancer is rare and gynecomastia is not considered a premalignant condition ( 101 ), men with gynecomastia, especially elderly, worry about breast cancer and often seek medical advice ( 56 ) and it is important to differentiate male breast cancer from gynecomastia ( Table 4 ). Of note, men with Klinefelter syndrome have a 20- to 50-fold increased risk of breast cancer. Other risk factors include hyperestrogenic conditions like obesity, alcohol, exogenous estrogen exposure (e.g., gender reassignment), and testicular disorders. It is unclear if these are specific risks for breast cancer are linked to the stimulatory process responsible for gynecomastia ( 57 ). Old age, working in environment with high temperature, exhaust emissions, radiation to chest, and liver damage are also risk factors for male breast cancer ( 58 ). Family history should always be explored. In particular, a family history of BRCA2 positive breast cancer significantly increases the risk of male breast cancer in carriers of mutation ( 59 ). Table 4. Clinical Findings of Gynecomastia and Male Breast Cancer View in own window Clinical findings Gynecomastia Male breast cancer Unilateral/ bilateral Mostly bilateral, can be unilateral Unilateral Consistency Rubbery or firm Firm or hard Location Concentric, around the nipple More peripheral, outside the nipple Pain Painful if recent onset or rapid enlargement Usually painless Associated features such as skin dimpling, nipple retraction, bloody discharge No Possible Palpable axillary or supraclavicular lymph node(s) No Possible PATIENT EVALUATION History Taking and
