Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


or rapid enlargement Usually painless Associated features such as skin dimpling, nipple retraction, bloody discharge No Possible Palpable axillary or supraclavicular lymph node(s) No Possible PATIENT EVALUATION History Taking and Physical Examination At presentation, all patients require a thorough history and physical exam. Particular attention should be given to medications, drugs and alcohol abuse, as well as other chemical exposures. Symptoms of underlying systemic illness, such as hyperthyroidism, liver disease, or renal failure should be sought. Furthermore, the clinician must recall neoplasm as a possible etiology and should establish the duration and timing of breast development. Chronic gynecomastia is more reassuring because it is almost never due to malignancy. Additionally, the clinician should inquire about fertility, erectile dysfunction, and libido to rule out hypogonadism. In our experience, the breast examination is best performed with the patient supine and with the examiner palpating from the periphery to the areola. When firmness is noted, the glandular mass should be measured in diameter. Clinically, gynecomastia is diagnosed by finding subareolar breast tissue of 2 cm in diameter or greater. Malignancy should be suspected if an immobile, firm mass is found on physical examination. Skin dimpling, nipple retraction or discharge, and large, firm axillary or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy further support malignancy as a possible diagnosis. Tenderness may be present in patients with gynecomastia of less than 6 months’ duration, but it is unusual in patients with breast cancer ( Table 4 ). A thorough testicular exam is essential. When clinical exam suggests a testicular mass or when serum hCG is elevated, testicular ultra-sound (USG) is warranted. Bilaterally small testes imply testicular failure, while asymmetric testes or a testicular mass suggest the possibility of neoplasm. Visual field impairment may suggest pituitary disease. Physical findings of underlying systemic conditions such as thyrotoxicosis, HIV disease, liver, or kidney failure should also be assessed. As obesity is often associated with gynecomastia, body mass index should be documented ( 56 ). Laboratory Evaluation All patients who present with gynecomastia should have serum testosterone, estradiol, LH, and hCG measured ( 93 ) (using an assay that detects all forms of hCG) ( Fig 2 ). Further testing should be tailored according to the history, physical examination and the results of these initial tests. An elevated beta hCG or hCG or a markedly elevated serum estradiol suggests neoplasm and a testicular ultrasound is warranted to identify a testicular tumor. However, non-testicular tumors
