Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


initial tests. An elevated beta hCG or hCG or a markedly elevated serum estradiol suggests neoplasm and a testicular ultrasound is warranted to identify a testicular tumor. However, non-testicular tumors can also secrete beta hCG or hCG and therefore further imaging such as CT thorax and abdomen is indicated if ultrasound does not show a testicular mass. A low testosterone level, with an elevated LH indicates primary hypogonadism. If the history suggests Klinefelter syndrome, then a karyotype should be performed for definitive diagnosis. Low testosterone and low LH indicate secondary hypogonadism, and hypothalamic or pituitary causes should be sought. If testosterone and LH are elevated, then the diagnosis of androgen resistance should be considered. In case of estrogen-secreting tumor, LH is usually suppressed with low or low normal testosterone concentrations and negative pituitary imaging. Estradiol concentrations are high. Liver, kidney and thyroid function should be assessed if clinically indicated. Furthermore, if examination of breast tissue suggests malignancy, a biopsy should be performed. This is of particular importance in patients with Klinefelter syndrome, who have an increased risk of breast cancer. On the other hand, if the examination finding is compatible with breast abscess, then fine needle aspiration for microscopy and culture is warranted ( 60 ). Acid-fast bacilli and tuberculosis culture can be done if there is risk factor(s) for tuberculosis. Figure 2. Algorithm for investigation of gynecomastia. TREATMENT Treatment of the underlying endocrinologic or systemic disease that has caused gynecomastia is appropriate when possible. Testicular tumors, such as Leydig cell, Sertoli cell, or granulosa cell tumors should be surgically removed. In addition to surgery, germ cell tumors are further managed with chemotherapy involving cisplatin, bleomycin, and either vinblastine or etoposide ( 25 , 26 ). Should underlying thyrotoxicosis, renal, or hepatic failure be discovered, appropriate therapy should be initiated. Medications that cause gynecomastia should also be discontinued whenever possible based on their role in management of the underlying condition. The improvement should be apparent within a month after discontinuation of the culprit drug ( 61 ). If the gynecomastia has been present for more than six months, regression is unlikely because of the presence of less reversible fibrotic tissues ( 62 ). Of course, if a breast biopsy indicates malignancy, then mastectomy should be performed. If no pathologic etiology is detected, then appropriate treatment is close observation. A careful breast exam should be done initially every 3-6 months until
