Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


malignancy, then mastectomy should be performed. If no pathologic etiology is detected, then appropriate treatment is close observation. A careful breast exam should be done initially every 3-6 months until the gynecomastia regresses or stabilizes, after which a breast exam can be performed yearly. It is important to remember that most cases of pubertal gynecomastia may resolve spontaneously within one to two years, around 20% of patients have residual gynecomastia at the age of 20 ( 63 ). An information sheet about gynecomastia is available for those patients who are interested to know more about their conditions ( 64 ). Medical Treatment If the gynecomastia is severe, does not resolve, of recent onset (less than 6 months) and does not have a treatable underlying cause, some medical therapies may be attempted. There are 3 classes of medical treatment for gynecomastia: androgens (testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, danazol), anti-estrogens (clomiphene citrate, tamoxifen), and aromatase inhibitors such as letrozole and anastrozole. Once gynecomastia is established, testosterone treatment of hypogonadal men with gynecomastia often fails to produce breast regression. Testosterone treatment may theoretically produce the side effect of gynecomastia by being aromatized to estradiol, but this side effect is uncommon and transient. Having said that, there is limited data to suggest its use to specifically counteract gynecomastia in hypogonadism ( 65 ). Dihydrotestosterone, a non-aromatizable androgen, has been used in patients with prolonged pubertal gynecomastia with good response rates but it is not commercially available ( 66 ). Danazol, a weak androgen that inhibits gonadotropin secretion, resulting in decreased serum testosterone levels, has been studied in a prospective placebo-controlled trial, whereby gynecomastia resolved in 23 percent of the patients, as opposed to 12 percent of the patients on placebo ( 67 ). The dose used for gynecomastia is 200 mg orally twice daily. Unfortunately, undesirable side effects including edema, acne, and cramps have limited its use ( 24 ). Investigators have reported a 64 percent response rate with 100 mg/day of clomiphene citrate, a weak estrogen and moderate anti-estrogen in a cohort study ( 68 ). Lower doses of clomiphene have shown varied results, indicating that higher doses may need to be administered, if clomiphene is to be attempted. Tamoxifen, also an anti-estrogen, has been studied in 2 randomized, double-blind studies in which a statistically significant regression in breast size was achieved, although complete regression was not documented ( 69 ). One retrospective study compared tamoxifen
