Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


in 2 randomized, double-blind studies in which a statistically significant regression in breast size was achieved, although complete regression was not documented ( 69 ). One retrospective study compared tamoxifen with danazol in the treatment of gynecomastia. It was found that patients taking tamoxifen had a greater response with complete resolution in 78 percent of patients treated with tamoxifen, as compared to only a 40 percent response in the danazol-treated group, and the relapse rate was higher for the tamoxifen group ( 70 ), though the relapse was not systemically defined and patients with chronic gynecomastia were included. Another prospective cohort study found that 90% of patients taking tamoxifen had successful resolution of their symptoms ( 89 ). Although there is a chance of recurrence with cessation of therapy, tamoxifen, due to relatively lower side effect profile and high efficacy, may be a more reasonable choice when compared to the other therapies. If used, tamoxifen should be given at a dose of 10 mg twice or 20 mg daily a day for 3-6 months ( 24 ). Responders usually improve with reduced pain within 1 month. Another anti-estrogen, raloxifene, has also been used in the treatment of pubertal gynecomastia but its efficacy needs to be evaluated in randomized prospective studies ( 71 ). An aromatase inhibitor, testolactone, has also been studied in an uncontrolled trial with promising effects ( 72 ). Further studies must be performed on this drug before any recommendations can be established on its usefulness in the treatment of gynecomastia. Newer aromatase inhibitors such as anastrozole and letrozole may have therapeutic potential ( 73 , 74 ), but randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials have not confirmed their efficacy. In a study involving patients receiving bicalutamide therapy for prostate cancer, only tamoxifen, but not anastrozole, significantly reduced the incidence of gynecomastia/breast pain when used prophylactically and therapeutically ( 75 , 76 ). In another study with pubertal gynecomastia, no significant difference was demonstrated between the anastrozole and placebo groups in patients suffering from pubertal gynecomastia ( 77 ). The use of aromatase inhibitors is notorious for accelerated bone loss in women, but it is uncertain whether the extent of bone loss is similar in adult men ( 91 ). Furthermore, men taking anastrozole results in an increase in body fat and decline in sexual function ( 105 ). From various case series, many patients with idiopathic gynecomastia show no
