Gynecomastia: Etiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment
KEYWORDS: gynecomastia, pubmed, estrogen, breast, testosterone, patients, increased, cancer, aromatase, treatment, tumors, androgen, development, cell, tamoxifen


Furthermore, men taking anastrozole results in an increase in body fat and decline in sexual function ( 105 ). From various case series, many patients with idiopathic gynecomastia show no significant improvement after medical treatment. The disappointing result may be related to the stage of disease at which medical treatment is initiated. It is likely that many or all of the men who failed to respond to medical therapy had chronic gynecomastia with fibrotic breast tissue that will not change with medical therapy or over time ( 56 , 63 ). Medical therapy is only used for a short time (up to 6 months) in men with idiopathic and acute (tender, breast tissue present < 6 months) gynecomastia. Tamoxifen has the best evidence for effective medical therapy of acute, idiopathic gynecomastia. Surgical Treatment When medical therapy is ineffective, particularly in cases of longstanding gynecomastia, or when the gynecomastia interferes with the patient's activities of daily living, or when there is suspicion of malignancy of breast, then surgical therapy is appropriate. On the other hand, surgical treatment should be postponed in pubertal gynecomastia, after completion of puberty, to minimize the chance of recurrent gynecomastia after surgery ( 62 ). Surgery should also be deferred until the underlying cause of gynecomastia has resolved or been treated. Surgical treatment includes removal of glandular tissue coupled with liposuction, if needed, preferably with an individualized approach ( 78 , 79 ). Nowadays, minimally invasive surgery is available and it may be associated with few complications and prompt recovery ( 80 ). If malignancy is suspected, histological examination is mandatory ( 56 ). Use of delicate cosmetic surgical techniques are warranted to prevent unsightly scarring. PREVENTION OF GYNECOMASTIA IN MEN WITH PROSTATE CANCER Because androgen deprivation is one of the commonly used treatment modalities for advanced prostate cancer, its possible role in the development of gynecomastia is of particular concern to clinicians. Up to 80% of patients receiving non-steroidal anti-androgen therapy may develop gynecomastia, usually 6-9 months after hormonal treatment. Some patients may have painful and disfiguring gynecomastia ( 81 ). Preventive options include tamoxifen, radiation therapy, or aromatase inhibitors. Tamoxifen is the most effective preventive therapy for gynecomastia due to anti-androgen therapy for treatment of prostate cancer. Tamoxifen is superior to radiotherapy in preventing gynecomastia in patients receiving bicalutamide (Casodex) for prostate cancer in a randomized controlled trial ( 82 ). Tamoxifen is superior to
