An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


the goal”. Georges Sarton ( 1 ) This brief historical review will examine some of the ‘wanderings’ that have occurred in the search for medications to use in the management of obesity (anti-obesity medications, or AOM’s). It is set against the broader long-time changes in our knowledge of how obesity develops and the result of attempts to treat it effectively. Over human history since the Cognitive Revolution some 75,000 years ago ( 2 ), knowledge has expanded logarithmically ( Figure 1 ). There is every indication that it is continuing to expand as evidenced by the explosion of knowledge around the SARS-Covid-19 Pandemic of 2020 and its detrimental impact of people with obesity. Figure 1. Expansion of Knowledge since the Cognitive Revolution. Beginning in the upper Paleolithic era between 25,000 and 35,000 years ago we find the first representations of obesity in human figurines, including the Venus of Hohle Fels ( 3 ), and mere 10,000 years later the Venus of Willendorf ( 4 ). The agricultural revolution and domestication of animals occurred about 10,000 years ago and during this period there were many other representations of the human with obesity from many parts of the world. Compared to the long 15,000 year interval between carving of the Venus of Willendorf and the Agricultural Revolution we are living in a very small slice of time. This slice might appropriately begin with the Scientific Revolution dated to 1543 CE, when Copernicus published his theory of the heliocentric nature of the planetary system, Vesalius published his anatomy on the fabric of the human body and the subsequent Industrial Revolution that began about 1750 CE ( 5 ). During the next 500 years, the oxygen theory of metabolism was articulated by Laennec (1793), the first law of thermodynamics was published by von Helmholtz (1848), the concept of cells as the basic of life was presented by Schwann and Schleiden (1839), and the first clear differentiation of types of obesity were made by Babinski (1900), Frohlich (1901), and Cushing (1912). The 20 th century has brought enormous changes to health care and offers great promise for people with obesity, but the road to discovery of medications for treatment of obesity has been a tortuous one but one that finally offers promise of success. In the past 100 years, earnest efforts to deploy anti-obesity treatments were repeatedly tried and failed. The first three are the
