An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


one but one that finally offers promise of success. In the past 100 years, earnest efforts to deploy anti-obesity treatments were repeatedly tried and failed. The first three are the story of thyroid hormones, the story of dintrophenol, and the story of amphetamines. These 3 medications were tested in people with obesity against a background of growing governmental regulation of medicines and rapidly expanding knowledge about the causes of obesity. Although the timing for different treatments often overlap, Figure 2 illustrates the gradual evolution to the present day. We begin with the colorful history of the Rainbow Pills, followed by the anorectic drugs. The year 1994 marks a major milestone – it was the year that leptin was discovered – a discovery that gave obesity a strong biological base from which further discoveries have continued ( 6 ). Figure 2. Historical events and the development of anti-obesity medications in the past 100 years. There are three underlying principals in developing any treatment for managing obesity: First, do no harm. This is a principal that dates back at least to the time of Hippocrates 2500 years ago . The second concept is that treatments don’t work unless used. If you don’t take the medicine designed to treat obesity you can’t expect the obesity to disappear as if by magic. Third, if an individual being treated for their obesity doesn’t lose weight for one reason or another it is unreasonable to anticipate that they will get any benefits that might be associated with weight loss. THE FAILURE OF MEDICATIONS USED TO TREAT OBESITY Management of obesity is strewn with misadventures ( Table 1 ) ( 7 ). Below is a selected list of failures in the search for treatments for obesity. Some of these problems occurred before marketing, but others only after the drug had been approved for marketing. Table 1. Some of the Unintended Consequences that have Led to the Withdrawal of Medications Used for Management of Obesity View in own window Year Drug Alleged Mechanism Reason for Discontinuation 1892 Thyroid Thermogenesis Hyperthyroidism 1932 Dintrophenol Thermogenesis Disapproved due to Cataracts/Neuropathy 1937 Amphetamine Sympathomimetic Disapproved due to Addiction 1961-90 Human chorionic gonadotropin Reduce food intake Disapproved - Ineffective compared to placebo 1971 Aminorex Sympathomimetic Withdrawn after marketing due to Pulmonary hypertension 1985 Gelatin-based very low-calorie diet Reduce food intake Cardiovascular Deaths (Torsade de Points) 1991-95 Fluoxetine Serotonin reuptake inhibitor Weight regain after
