An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Aminorex Sympathomimetic Withdrawn after marketing due to Pulmonary hypertension 1985 Gelatin-based very low-calorie diet Reduce food intake Cardiovascular Deaths (Torsade de Points) 1991-95 Fluoxetine Serotonin reuptake inhibitor Weight regain after loss 1985-98 β-3 Agonists Increased thermogenesis Limited Effect; Increased HR 1997 Fenfluramine Serotonergic receptor activation (? 5HT2c) Withdrawn after marketing due to cardiac valvulopathy and pulmonary hypertension 1998 Phenylpropanolamine Sympathomimetic Withdrawn after marketing for Strokes 1999 Leptin Leptin receptor agonist-reduced food intake Limited Weight Loss 2003 Ephedrine/Caffeine & Herbal Ma Huang Sympathomimetic and adrenergic blocker Withdrawn after marketing for Heart attacks/stroke 2003 Ciliary Neurotrophic Factor Acts on leptin receptor Produced neutralizing antibodies 2007 MK-0557 Neuropeptide Y5 (NPY) receptor antagonist-reduced food intake. Limited effectiveness 2007 Ecopipam D2/D5 agonist-Reduce food intake Suicidality 2008 Tesofensine Triple Monoamine Reuptake Inhibitor Raised blood pressure 2009 Melanocortin-4 Receptor Agonist Reduce Food Intake Limited effectiveness, priapism 2010 Capsinoids Thermogenesis Limited effectiveness 2010 Rimonabant Endocannabinoid agonist Suicidality 2011 Sibutramine Triple Reuptake Inhibitor Withdrawn after marketing for cardiovascular toxicity 2020 Lorcaserin Serotonergic Reduce Food Intake Cancer TREATMENT OF OBESITY BEFORE THE SCIENTIFIC REVOLUTION, C. 1543 CE Diet (meaning limiting total calories) and exercise have been the cornerstones of treatment for the patient with obesity since at least the time of Hippocrates 2500 years ago. Following are a few examples of where medications have been used as adjuncts, and sometimes as the main line of treatment throughout these many centuries. Greco-Roman Medicine The problem of obesity was well known to physicians in the Greco-Roman period from 500 BCE to 500 CE. “An Egyptian pharaoh was said to have a middle wider than the span of his slave’s outstretched arms.” Nichomachus of Smyrna “…was so huge that he couldn’t even get up from his bed” (( 8 ); p 20). Dionysius of Heraclea was so obese that his attendants needed to stick pins into him to keep him from falling asleep on his throne. In retrospect some observers think he may have had a sleep disturbance like sleep apnea ( 9 ). The enormous size of a Roman Senator was such that he could only walk when two of his slaves carried his belly for him. Among the earliest attempts at producing weight loss by adding compounds to the treatment regimen have been ascribed to Soranus of Ephesus, a 2 nd century CE Greek physician. Much of what we know about Soranus’ work in the 2 nd century CE comes from
