An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


have been ascribed to Soranus of Ephesus, a 2 nd century CE Greek physician. Much of what we know about Soranus’ work in the 2 nd century CE comes from translations by Caelius Aurelianus in the 5 th Century. Both describe obesity as a disease where the body keeps acquiring additional flesh beyond what is needed. They believe it is an “unsightly affliction” because there are no apparent symptoms other than the increase of flesh. The Greek model of disease involved four humors (blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile) being out of balance. Treatment was needed to rebalance what was out of balance – for obesity this meant less intake and more output through purgatives and diuresis ( 10 ). Soranus’ regimen consisted of laxatives and purgatives along with exercise, heat, and massage. Indeed, laxatives have been a recurrent theme in the historic management of obesity. Induction of vomiting was also used for treating both the obese and to remove excess alcohol during Roman orgies. “Fat individuals should vomit in the middle of the day, after a running or marching exercise and before taking any food”. The emetic for this purpose was half a cup of the hyssop plant (0.15 L) ground with three liters of water to which vinegar and salt are added. Vinegar was another favorite for use in the context of humoral medicine (( 8 ); p 18). Since obesity was considered as a “moist and cool” condition in the humoral view of health, vinegar which is dry and warm would be an appropriate balancing agent. We will see vinegar resurface in later periods. Obesity in the Hindu Tradition Ayurvedic Medicine originated in India more than 3,000 years ago and is derived from the Sanskrit words ayur (life) and veda (science or knowledge). In India, Ayurvedic Medicine is considered a form of medical care equal to conventional Western medicine, traditional Chinese medicine, naturopathic medicine, or homeopathic medicine. Practitioners of Ayurveda in India undergo state-recognized, institutionalized training. Two names are primarily associated with the early writings on Ayurvedic medicine, Sushruta and Charaka. Although the exact dates are unclear, they probably lived between 600 BCE and 100 CE. Sushruta, often referred to as the “Father of Indian Medicine” or the “Father of Plastic Surgery,” developed the Sushruta Samhita, one of the foundational texts of Ayurvedic Medicine. The second text, the Charaka-Samhita or “compendium of Charaka,” was composed by
