An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


or the “Father of Plastic Surgery,” developed the Sushruta Samhita, one of the foundational texts of Ayurvedic Medicine. The second text, the Charaka-Samhita or “compendium of Charaka,” was composed by Charaka. Both texts remained foundational for 2 millennia and were translated into many foreign languages. They both discussed general principles of medicine, pathology, diagnoses, anatomy, therapeutics, pharmaceutics, and toxicology. The Sushruta Samhita provides more exposure to surgery. These texts are credited with very early recognition of the sugary taste of diabetic urine and that this disease often affected indolent, overweight people who ate excessively, especially sweet and fatty foods. “[O]vereating... causes illness and shortens life span. It is a contraindication to the use of compresses or mild enemas. For treatment of obesity two suggestions are made…The vigorous massage of the body with pea flour counteracts phlegm diseases and obesity...The gullet hair compress and flesh of a wolf remedy [to treat] goiters, dropsy and obesity.” ( 11 ). Obesity in the Islamic Tradition: 10 th and 11th Century In the 7 th century following the revelations from God, the prophet Muhammad began preaching his religious beliefs that gradually unified Arabia into a single entity. The Islamic religion spread rapidly across the Middle East, North Africa and into the Iberian Peninsula. Centers of cultural excellence in Baghdad in the east, and in Cordoba, on the Iberian Peninsula soon appeared. We will focus on two physician-scholars and their impact on management of obesity in the 10 th and 11 th century. Ibn Sinha (980-1037 CE), anglicized as Avicenna was from the Middle Eastern part of the Islamic Caliphate, and the Jewish physician Hasdai ibn Shaprut (917-970 CE) from the Western Islamic area of Cordoba on the Iberian Peninsula. Abu Ali Ibn Sina (Avicenna) was a prolific and influential author who published the most influential medical textbook of the Middle Ages called the Canon ( 12 , 13 ). The Canon contains no personal experiences and no new ideas but was rather a summary of existing knowledge and was widely used in medical schools for hundreds of years. Avicenna surpassed both Aristotle and Galen in his dialectical subtlety ( 14 , 15 ), and by some estimates published more than 100 medical books, as well as books in other areas. Avicenna describes how to manage the patient with obesity in four stages: 1) Produce a rapid descent of the food from the stomach and
