An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


well as books in other areas. Avicenna describes how to manage the patient with obesity in four stages: 1) Produce a rapid descent of the food from the stomach and intestines, in order to prevent completion of absorption by the mesentery ( 16 ); 2) Take food which is bulky but feebly nutritious ( 17 ); 3) Take the bath before food, often ( 18 ); and 4) Hard exercise ( 19 ). Hasdai ibn Shaprut enters this story because he treated King Sancho I (aka Sancho the Fat). Sancho I (935-966) became king of Leon (Pamplona, Spain) in 958 A.D when the elder King Ordono III died. Sancho’s reign was short-lived because of his fatness. “The nobility of Leon thought of him as weak-willed because of his obesity” and he was deposed ( 20 ). Sancho’s grandmother, Toda Arnez, who had once ruled the kingdom, was determined to help Sancho regain his throne. First, she took him to the local physicians who were unsuccessful in helping him lose weight. Although she loathed the Muslims, who occupied the southern part of the Iberian Peninsula in the 10 th century, Toda and Sancho sought the help of Hasdai ibn Shaprut (917-970 CE), a brilliant and learned Jewish physician living in Cordoba. Shaprut was physician to the Muslim Caliph, Abd al Rahman in Cordoba, a major cultural center in the 10 th century. Cordoba in the 10 th century occupied a place similar to Rome in the 1 st century or New York City in the 20 th century. It was also renowned as one of the great medical centers of the late Middle Ages. In a day when house calls were still in fashion, Shaprut went to Pamplona to evaluate Sancho, and agreed to take him as a patient, but advised that it would be a long treatment requiring Sancho to relocate to Cordoba. Because of the seriousness of the problem, both medically and politically, Sancho and his grandmother Toda moved from Pamplona to the Muslim southern Iberian city of Cordoba. The medicine that Sancho received was “Theriaca.” This mixture of ingredients is said to have originated with Mitridates VI in Grecian times. He developed it as an antidote for snake bites. It can be compounded with up to 64 or more ingredients, with principal ingredients being opium, ginger, cinnamon, myrrh, saffron, and castor oil, a well-known laxative. Over time, Sancho
