An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


bites. It can be compounded with up to 64 or more ingredients, with principal ingredients being opium, ginger, cinnamon, myrrh, saffron, and castor oil, a well-known laxative. Over time, Sancho gradually lost weight. When he returned to Leon as a leaner man who could mount his horse, and he was able to retake his throne. From this story, it is clear that not even kings and rulers are immune to obesity or the bias against obesity that led to his overthrow. Apparently, a king may be cruel, but not fat. Another lesson is that medical treatment of obesity can be effective if properly done. For Sancho, theriac had a dramatic success and allowed him to regain his throne and his kingdom ( 21 ). DRUGS FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY: 1500-1900 CE The year 1543 CE is an appropriate one for demarcating a big divide in our view of progress in the management of obesity. It was the year that the Polish monk, Copernicus, published his book showing that the planets revolved around the sun, thus destroying the long-held view that the sun rotates around the earth. Less than 50 years earlier, movable type was invented by Gutenberg in Mainz, Germany a discovery that revolutionized the transmission of knowledge. In 1492 Columbus discovered the New World, opening up new wealth, cultures and lands and products such as tobacco that affect body weight. At about the same time, the dramatic events of the Protestant Reformation begun by Martin Luther challenged the primacy of the Roman Catholic Church. In the same year as Copernicus published his book, the first scientifically accurate book on human anatomy was published by Vesalius. Heady times these! The five centuries since the scientific revolution have seen the industrial revolution (ca 1750), the second agricultural revolution (1750-1900) and the internet revolution of the present day. This expanding base of knowledge ( Figure 1 ) provides the intellectual basis for understanding obesity as we know it today. Sixteenth Century The 16 th century is often labeled the “century of discovery.” It is also the century where the corpulent King Henry VIII showed what happens when excess food is abundant, and exercise too little. Christopher Columbus had just discovered the New World in 1492 and brought tobacco, tomatoes, and many other products back to Europe with him. Tobacco became a treatment for obesity. We now know that nicotine is addictive, and
