An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


World in 1492 and brought tobacco, tomatoes, and many other products back to Europe with him. Tobacco became a treatment for obesity. We now know that nicotine is addictive, and that smoking can both reduce food intake and stimulate energy expenditure ( 22 ). Cessation of smoking is associated with weight gain ( 22 ), making this one of the challenges of stopping smoking. In the 16 th century, the use of vinegar originally described many centuries earlier was again used as a treatment for obesity. However, obesity was less common in the 16 th century, and maintaining good health through diet and exercise remained the goals for healthy living. Seventeenth Century Obesity gradually increased in prevalence such that strategies for its management appeared in textbooks for physicians in the 17 th century. There were several formulas for treating “obesitas or corpulency,” listed in the textbook by Theophile Bonet (Bonetus), a leading physician of the time. They give a flavor of the strategies beyond diet and exercise that were used by physicians to treat obesity in the 17 th century. To quote from Bonet (( 23 ); p 390): 1. “Chiapinius Vitellius, Camp Master-General, a middle-aged man, grew so fat, that he was forced to sustain his belly by a swathe, which came about his neck: And observing that he was every day more unfit for the Wars than others, he voluntarily abstained from Wine, and continued to drink vinegar as long as he lived; upon which his Belly fell, and his Skin hung loose, with which he could wrap himself as with a Doublet. It was observed that he lost 87 pounds of weight. [Note: Vinegar and cleansing, or cathartic agents have a long history for treating obesity-See Grecian Medicine above] (Underlining mine). 2. “Lest any great mischief should follow, we must try to subtract by medicine, what a spare diet will not; because it has been observed, that a looseness either natural, or procured by Art, does not a little good. But this must be done by degrees and slowly, since it is not safe to disturb so much matter violently, lest it should come all at once. Therefore, the best way of Purging is by Pills, of Rheubarb , Aloes each 2 drachms [1drachm = 1/8 ounce or 60 grains], Agarick 1 drachm, Cinnamon , yellow Sanders , each half a drachm. Make them up with Syrup
