An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Rheubarb , Aloes each 2 drachms [1drachm = 1/8 ounce or 60 grains], Agarick 1 drachm, Cinnamon , yellow Sanders , each half a drachm. Make them up with Syrup of Chichory. They must be taken in this manner; First, 1 Scruple* must be given an hour and a half before Meal; then two or three days afterwards, take half a drachm or two scruples before Meal. Thus, purging must be often repeated at short intervals, till you think all the cacochymie is removed. *[scruple – a unit of apothecary weight equal to about 1.3 grams, or 20 grains] [Note: Purgatives also go back to Grecian Medicine] 3. “A certain Goldsmith, who was extreme fat, so that he was ready to be choaked, took the following Powder in his Meat, and so he was cured; Take of Tartar two ounces, Cinnamon three ounces, Ginger one ounce, Sugar four ounces. Make a Powder. 4. “ Horstius found the things following to take down fat Men; especially onions , Garlick , Cresses , Leeks , Seed of Rue , and especially Vinegar of Squills : Let them purge well: Let them Sweat, and purge by Urine: Let them use violent exercise before they eat: Let them induce hunger, want of Sleep and Thirst. Let them Sweat in a Stove and continue in the Sun. Let them abstain from Drink between Dinner and Supper: for to drink between Meals makes Men fat. 5. “I knew a Nobleman so fat, that he could scarce sit on Horse-back, but he was asleep; and he could scarce stir a foot. But now he is able to walk, and his body is come to itself, only by chewing of Tobacco Leaves , as he affirmed to me. For it is good for Phlegmatick and cold Bodies. 6. “Let Lingua Avis , or Ash-Keyes be taken constantly about one drachm in Wine. According to Pliny it cures Hydropical persons, and makes fat people lean” ( 23 ). Eighteenth Century The 18 th century witnessed publication of the first two English monographs dealing exclusively with obesity. In each book, the author proposed a new way of treating obesity based on his own theory of how obesity developed. The first book by Dr. Thomas Short was published in 1727 ( 24 ). From Short’s perspective, treatment of obesity required restoring the natural balance and removal of the secondary causes. If
