An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


book by Dr. Thomas Short was published in 1727 ( 24 ). From Short’s perspective, treatment of obesity required restoring the natural balance and removal of the secondary causes. If possible, one should pick a place to live where the air is not too moist or too soggy and one should not reside in flat, wet countries or in the city or the woodlands. He thought that exercise was important and that the diet should be “moderate spare and of the more detergent kind” ( 24 ). The second book was by Dr. Malcolm Flemyng, a graduate of the medical school in Edinburgh ( 25 ). His approach to treatment of obesity was based on the results of a patient that he presented to the Royal Society in London in 1757 and subsequently published in 1760. Flemyng’s theory was that sweat, urine, and feces all contained “oil” and that effective treatment for obesity required increased loss of “oil” by one or more of these 3 routes. Thus, laxatives, diuretics and sweating were his principal approach to the treatment of obesity. To quote Flemyng: “Now we are so happy as to be in possession of a diuretic medicine, which has that quality [increases the quantity of urine and “renders the animal oil more mixable with the watery vehicle of the blood, that otherwise it would be” (a diuretic which) in a singular degree; and is withal so safe, as that it may be taken in large quantities every day for years together, without remarkably impairing the general health: that medicine is soap” (( 25 ); p. 19). Flemyng believed that obesity, or corpulency as it was often called, could be prevented as well as cured by the medical use of soap. In his book he presents a physician weighing 291 pounds (20 stone 11 lbs.) who lost more than 28 lbs. (2 stone) with this treatment. DRUG TREATMENT OF OBESITY IN MODERN TIMES: 1900-2020 CE The progress of science from 1543 onward has had an impact on obesity that is nicely illustrated in the effects on measurement of body composition. From the time of Hippocrates 2500 years ago it has been possible to assess obesity at the whole-body level, referred to as Level I in the model of Wang et al ( 26 ). With the accurate description of human anatomy beginning with Vesalius in 1543, obesity could be viewed from
