An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


as Level I in the model of Wang et al ( 26 ). With the accurate description of human anatomy beginning with Vesalius in 1543, obesity could be viewed from the tissue and organ level (level II). In 1839 the concept of the “cell” was introduced leading to a cellular analysis of obesity or Level III in this model. As chemistry advanced in the 19 th century, obesity could be viewed at the molecular level or Level IV in this model. Finally in the 20 th century techniques for measuring body composition at the atomic level were introduced adding Level V to the model. Advancing basic science thus clearly provided a base for improving measurements of body composition and for understanding how and why obesity develops. Thyroid Hormone: 1893-1994 THE BEGINNING The introduction of thyroid hormone as a treatment for obesity can be dated to 1893 and represents the first drug used on a rational basis for treatment of this problem. In 1888 the Myxedema Commission published a report on a disease called myxedema, a form of severe hypothyroidism ( 27 ). They found that it resulted from failure of the thyroid gland. Patients with myxedema have a puffy type of weight gain, slowing of their thought processes and speech, and, if severe, a drop in body temperature and coma. When these patients are treated with thyroid extract, all these symptoms, including the weight gain are reversed. Proof of a cause-and-effect relationship of the thyroid gland to myxedema came when the thyroid was removed and the symptoms were corrected by treatment with thyroid hormone extract. In 1893, less than 5 years after the Myxedema Commission Report, the use of thyroid preparations for treatment of obesity had appeared in medical literature. Thyroid extract was the major form of thyroid hormone available until thyroxine was isolated by Kendall in 1915 ( 28 ) and synthesized in 1926 by Harrington ( 29 ). THE GENIE IS OUT OF THE B0TTLE: 1893 TO 1953 Once it was clear that thyroid could increase metabolic rate, the genie was out of the bottle. In 1893 in his report on “Cases of Myxedema and Acromegalia Treated with Benefit of Sheep’s Thyroid” Dr. J.J. Putnam from the Massachusetts General Hospital included a footnote (( 30 ); p. 130) saying: “Dr. Barron has very kindly written to me that he has used the treatment [with thyroid] in 5 cases
