An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


General Hospital included a footnote (( 30 ); p. 130) saying: “Dr. Barron has very kindly written to me that he has used the treatment [with thyroid] in 5 cases of ordinary corpulence. One lost twenty-eight pounds in 6 weeks, three a moderate amount, and all lost more or less. I [Putnam] am trying it in two cases but have no results to report as yet” ( 30 ). Following in the footsteps of this this report were two others: one by Yorke-Davies in 1894 ( 31 ) and another independently by Wendelstadt ( 32 ) describing the use of thyroid substance to treat patients with obesity. Their communications, and that of Leichtenstern ( 33 ), brought a short wave of popularity for the treatment of corpulency [obesity] by thyroid preparations that, along with iodine, soon became the mainstays of patent medicines and various nostrums used for weight loss. As Foxcroft notes: “It [iodine] was one of the secret ingredients in some of the most popular and widely advertised patent medicines against fat including: Allan’s Anti-Fat; Frank J Kellogg’s Safe Fat Reducer; Dr. Bertha C. Day’s Fort Wayne prescriptions, Marmola, Newman’s Obesity Cure, Chichester’s Corpus Lean, Rengo, Dr. Gordon’s Elegant Pill, Corpulin, Elimiton, Phy-th-rin, San-Gri-Na Trilene tablets – all these contained either fucus (bladderwrack) or thyroid extract, or Ipecac (a plant-based emetic), camphor (an appetite suppressant), potassium acetate (a diuretic) and digitalis ( a stimulant)” (( 8 ); p. 103). Many of these ingredients were subsequently found in “Rainbow Pills” that were popular later in the 20 th century (See below). From the beginning, use of thyroid hormone to treat obesity raised concerns ( 8 ). For example, Woods Hutchinson, a medical professor in the United States who frequently wrote for women's magazines such as Cosmopolitan, said in 1894 that physicians didn't have any idea how thyroid, often prescribed with potassium (and sometimes arsenic), worked: "Both [thyroid and arsenic] cause, in some curious manner which we do not as yet understand, such an interference with the normal metabolism of the body as to cause the burning up and elimination of considerable amounts of body fat." Hutchinson further noted that if patients lost more than ten percent of their body weight—the "movable ten percent," he called it—the results could be injurious. "The appetite becomes impaired, the sleep broken, and the heart's action irregular." If prolonged, the drug would set up a
