An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


"movable ten percent," he called it—the results could be injurious. "The appetite becomes impaired, the sleep broken, and the heart's action irregular." If prolonged, the drug would set up a "serious and obstinate disturbance of the nervous system, and particularly of the nerves controlling the heart, accompanied by palpitation, sweating, weakness, and intense nervousness." ( 8 ) Also expressing concern was Professor Sajous, first President of the Endocrine Society who said: “The fact that thyroid preparations in sufficient doses promote the rapid combustion of fats has caused them to be used extensively in this disorder…In large doses (thyroid gland) imposes hyperoxidation upon all cells…we behold gradual emaciation beginning with the adipose tissues, which are the first to succumb. Hence the use of thyroid preparations in obesity. Briefly, in all cases of obesity in which thyroid gland is rationally indicated, the feature to determine is whether directly or indirectly hypothyroidea underlies the adiposis.” ( 34 ) Administration of thyroid hormone to obese subjects whose basal metabolism is normal seemed illogical and was contraindicated according to some physicians ( 35 , 36 ). However, Evans and Strang, two highly respected physicians, did use thyroid therapy in two percent of their cases, selecting those in which the initial level of the twenty-four-hour resting metabolic rate was not greatly above “ideal” ( 37 ). Two other physicians, Lyon and Dunlop, reported on the effects of diet and thyroid treatment in 24 hospitalized patients with obesity who were prescribed a 1000 kcal/d diet. The average daily weight loss was 162 g/d. When non-toxic doses of thyroid were added, the average daily weight loss increased to 273 g/d and then fell back to 153g/d when thyroid was withdrawn ( 38 ). Some physicians used thyroid hormone as an adjunct to a hypocaloric or sub-maintenance diet in all forms of obesity, provided that that there were no contraindications. In an outpatient study of 106 unselected patients with obesity, Bayer and Gray treated 100 with diet alone, 51 with added thyroid and 23 with added dinitrophenol (see below) ( 39 ). Diet alone produced a weight loss of 15 lbs. (6.8 kg) in 3 1/2 months, after which weight stabilized following a loss of 10 to 20 pound (4.5 to 9.1 kg). Next, 41 of these patients were given thyroid extract averaging 1½ grains (96 mg/d) per day and lost a further 11 pounds (5.0 kg). Eleven other
