An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


(4.5 to 9.1 kg). Next, 41 of these patients were given thyroid extract averaging 1½ grains (96 mg/d) per day and lost a further 11 pounds (5.0 kg). Eleven other patients were given dinitrophenol at an average dose of 165 mg/d and lost a further 12 pounds (5.4 kg). This study demonstrated the value of adding either thyroid or dinitrophenol after weight loss ceased on a sub-maintenance calorie diet. Both drugs seemed to be more effective when the metabolic rate was low. When one drug followed the other there was a small additional weight loss, which was similar at about 4 pounds (1.8 kg) with either order of transfer. One downside to using supraphysiologic doses of thyroid hormone in the management of obesity is that it increases the catabolism of protein, and thus the loss of lean body mass, which is a proportionally larger amount of the weight loss than is the loss of fat ( 40 ). At the time of World War II, the status of thyroid hormone was summarized in two monographs. In the first famous monograph, Obesity and Leanness by Rony, 1940 ( 41 ), the author wrote: “When thyroid is administered to obese subjects with a normal level of basal metabolism, living on unrestricted diet, a few of the subjects lose considerable weight when the basal metabolism is increased by 10 to 20 per cent. However, administration of non-toxic doses of thyroid is not followed by appreciable loss of weight in most subjects as long as the food intake remains unrestricted. In other words, for most obese patients a sub-maintenance [hypocaloric] diet must accompany thyroid administration if consistent loss of weight is to be effected.” (( 41 ), p 257). Further, Rony concluded: “Therefore, in the absence of contraindications a trial with thyroid in the later stages of the sub-maintenance regime seems to be justified in most cases of obesity.” (( 41 ), p 259). His contraindications to use of thyroid were: 1. Advanced Age. Rarely used in individuals > 50 years old and never > 60 years old. 2. Hypertension 3. Valvular or myocardial heart disease, arrhythmia, tachycardia, regardless of origin 4. High basal metabolic rate. 5. Marked vasomotor disturbances during the menopause 6. Marked nervous irritability or emotional instability 7. Intolerance to small doses of thyroid, manifested by rapid pulse, palpitations of the heart, tremor, insomnia or suppression of menstruation.” In 1949, ten
