An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Marked nervous irritability or emotional instability 7. Intolerance to small doses of thyroid, manifested by rapid pulse, palpitations of the heart, tremor, insomnia or suppression of menstruation.” In 1949, ten years after Rony’s report on thyroid hormone usage in obesity, Rynearson and Gastineau from the Mayo Clinic provided another summary ( 42 ). They noted, as documented earlier, that thyroid hormone was introduced into clinical practice in 1894 and rapidly grew in popularity because of the belief that many patients with obesity had low metabolic rates that were consistent with hypothyroidism. In addition to “replacement doses” some clinicians began using higher doses of thyroid hormone that were “calorigenic”; that is they raised metabolic rate by as much as 15-20% ( 43 ). Another rationale for the use of thyroid hormone was to restore to “normal” the metabolic rate that declined with weight loss ( 38 , 44 - 47 ). As Rynearson and Gastineau noted, Wilder had shown that if adequate amounts of protein were provided in the diet, metabolic rate did not fall ( 48 ), removing this argument for the use of thyroid hormone. Although thyroid hormone was widely used to treat obesity in 1949, there were several, mainly academic physicians, who opposed its use including Professor Means from the Massachusetts General Hospital at Harvard Medical School ( 47 ), Professor Severinghaus from the University of Michigan ( 49 , 50 ), and others ( 51 ). Opposition to use of thyroid hormone also came from two reports that failed to find weight loss from treatment with thyroid hormone ( 52 , 53 ). As Rynearson and Gastineau noted, thyroid hormone also increased heart rate, putting a load on the cardiovascular system as well as increasing protein breakdown ( 54 , 55 ). Rynearson and Gastineau concluded by adding their caution about the use of thyroid hormone to treat obesity. However, caution at the academic level did not necessarily translate into caution by practitioners in the office. TRIIODOTHYRONINE IS DISCOVERED AFTER WORLD WAR II AND THE WATER GETS MUDDIER The identification of triiodothyronine by Gross and Pitt-Rivers in 1952 opened the door on a new chapter in the use of thyroid hormones for treatment of obesity ( 56 ). Triiodothyronine is derived from thyroxine by deiodination and works more rapidly with a shorter half-life than thyroxine. Studies of triiodothyronine were aided by the development of a radioimmunoassay that
