An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


). Triiodothyronine is derived from thyroxine by deiodination and works more rapidly with a shorter half-life than thyroxine. Studies of triiodothyronine were aided by the development of a radioimmunoassay that was specific for this molecule ( 57 ). During weight loss, circulating levels of T3 decline, as does energy expenditure. This raised the obvious question of whether increasing the level of this hormone back to pre-weight loss levels would reverse the lower metabolism and thus enhance weight loss and weight loss maintenance. This hypothesis was tested by Byerley & Heber ( 58 ) who showed that during a 10 day fast where serum T3 and metabolic rate both declined, restoring T3 to normal levels during the last 3 days of the fast did not raise the metabolic rate. According to Garrow in 1974, the results of weight studies with triiodothyronine vary from modest enthusiasm to outright condemnation ( 59 ). In one study ( 60 ), T3 was given in more or less physiological levels of 105 mcg/d to 29 patients with obesity. Weight loss averaged 8.6 kg (19 lbs) over 17 weeks. However, after one-year weight loss was only 3.6 kg, leading the authors to conclude that T3 in these doses was not a valuable tool for treating obesity. In a second study, Hollingsworth et al ( 61 ) treated 17 patients who weighed between 110 and 179 kg with an 800 kcal/d diet along with a placebo or triiodothyronine 225 mcg/d, about triple the maintenance dose. Weight loss over 6 months in the patients treated with T3 was 21.9 kg compared to 13.3 kg in the placebo-treated patients. In still another early study, Drenick and Fisler used triiodothyronine or thyroxine to help patients who had lost weight in the hospital maintain their weight loss ( 62 ). These 21 men had lost 42.3 kg in the hospital and were able to maintain most of it, although with troublesome side effects of T3. After reviewing these three studies using triiodothyronine, Garrow concludes: “Thyroid preparations are not a satisfactory substitute for a low energy diet, but in a severely obese person who has become adapted to a low energy diet after several months, and hence has ceased to lose weight, thyroid hormones may provide the only practical line of treatment. It should be emphasized that this line of treatment should only be used if it is certain that the patient
