An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


thyroid hormones may provide the only practical line of treatment. It should be emphasized that this line of treatment should only be used if it is certain that the patient is in fact on a low energy diet, and usually this means supervision in hospital for a period of at least 2-3 weeks with appropriate measurements of metabolic rate.” (( 59 ); p 171) Against this pessimistic view of triiodothyronine, Garrow relates his personal experience with individuals who are “resistant” to weight loss even under observation. He studied two patients living on the United Kingdom’s Medical Research Council’s metabolic ward at the Northwick Park Hospital who claimed to have “refractory” obesity. The first was a 54-year-old woman who had a low metabolic rate, but normal thyroid function tests and who lost only 1 kg/week while eating an 800 kcal/d diet while under observation. Dr. Garrow treated her with 100 mcg/d of triiodothyronine along with a selective beta-blocker to prevent tachycardia. On this treatment she lost 21 kg in 6 weeks with remission of her angina pectoris. A similar patient with significant osteoarthritis also benefited from triiodothyronine. Garrow summarizes these studies by saying: “…there are patients who do not lose much weight on an 800 kcal diet under close supervision, and this is due to a low metabolic rate, although there is no clinical or biochemical evidence of hypothyroidism. In such cases it seems justifiable, if the obesity is disabling, to increase the metabolic rate with thyroid preparations, providing that this process is properly controlled” (( 59 ); p 279-281). It was about this time, in 1981, that 3 cases of death were reported in individuals who were taking high doses of thyroxine (T4) ( 63 ), an observation that raised a red flag. However, the debate about use of thyroid hormones to treat obesity has continued into the 21 st Century. In a review in 200 2, Krotkiewski concluded the following on the use of triiodothyronine, thyroxine, or thyroid extract to ameliorate the metabolic effects of a very low calorie diet on serum T3 or metabolic rate ( 64 ): “Thus, it seems reasonable to recommend small doses of T3 as an adjunct to dietary treatment of obesity in the following groups of patients: 1. In patients receiving beta-adrenergic receptor blockers, showing verified resistance to dietary therapy. 2. In overweight patients on T4 replacement therapy after successful treatment of hyperthyroidism.
