An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


following groups of patients: 1. In patients receiving beta-adrenergic receptor blockers, showing verified resistance to dietary therapy. 2. In overweight patients on T4 replacement therapy after successful treatment of hyperthyroidism. 3. In overweight patients on habitual food intake receiving T4 replacement therapy (previously hypothyroid). 4. In patients showing `dietary treatment-resistant' weight increase while stopping cigarette smoking. 5. In patients eating a very-low calorie diet (VLCD) and/or a low-calorie diet (LCD) showing low T3, parallel to slowed rate of body weight loss despite continued calorie restriction. 6. In patients with abdominal obesity and metabolic syndrome, resistant to dietary treatment or showing inadequate improvement in associated metabolic aberrations. 7. In patients showing, before or during dietary treatment, signs and symptoms of sub-clinical hypothyroidism. Triiodothyronine acts through one of 2 receptors, the T3 receptor alpha (TRα) and T3 receptor beta (TRβ). The TRα receptor appears to mediate the effects on heart rate, whereas the TRβ receptor mediates the effect on cholesterol and on metabolic rate ( 65 ). Activation of the TRβ receptor may provide a strategy for lowering lipoprotein cholesterol and for increasing metabolic rate in animals and human beings. Thus, the status of thyroid hormone in management of the patient with obesity is still open for further investigations with the last word yet to be written. Dinitrophenol: 1918-1938 Dinitrophenol has had more than one life. First, as an explosive during World War I. Then, as a weight loss agent. Finally, as a drug for potential use in neurological diseases ( 66 ). I will focus on its use as a weight loss drug. DINITROPHENOL: INITIAL BENEFITS AND TOXICITIES During the rapid growth of the chemical industry in Germany in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many compounds were made for dyeing cloth. A major offshoot of this development was the introduction of dyes to stain histological samples for study of tissue structure under the microscope. Another outgrowth was a supply of chemicals to synthetic organic chemists and pharmacologists. Paul Ehrlich (1854-1915) was a pioneer with these dyes and can be called “The Father of Pharmacology.” Among his many contributions to biomedical science is his concept of the “magic bullet” – the idea that a chemical molecule could act like a key in a lock to provide a way to target chemicals to treat disease-causing processes within cells. One of the fruits of his labor was arsphenamine, or salvarsan; also called
