An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


key in a lock to provide a way to target chemicals to treat disease-causing processes within cells. One of the fruits of his labor was arsphenamine, or salvarsan; also called “606,” for the number of different molecules that were tried before he found his “magic bullet” for the treatment of syphilis ( 5 ). Another product of the chemical industry that had a direct impact on obesity was the synthesis of 2,4-dinitrophenol. French factory workers preparing this chemical in munitions factories during World War I were noted to lose weight. As Perkins put it in his lengthy report on Munitions Intoxications in France: “Workers claim that they have grown thin to a notable extent after several months of work with DNP” (( 67 ); p 2341). This observation was picked up by Tainter and his colleagues at Stanford University in 1931. They initially conducted animal experiments with DNP before using it in patients ( 68 , 69 ). During studies for drug safety, they noted that the therapeutic index of dinitrophenol, that is the relation of therapeutic to toxic effects, was razor thin, so they proceeded carefully with their clinical studies. They treated 20 men and 150 women with obesity using doses of dinitrophenol up to 0.3 g daily along with a moderately restricted diet. Of these individuals, 71 had been treated previously with dietary measures, thyroid hormone, or both. The average total dose of drug was 26 kg per patient and an average treatment duration of 88 days. Weight loss averaged 17.1 lb. (7.8 kg) or 1.4 lb. (0.64 kg) per week and only 5 patients failed to lose weight. The largest weight loss was 82 lb. (37.3 kg) which occurred over 198 days. Mild toxicity occurred in 28 individuals, and consisted of skin rashes, pruritus, and peripheral neuritis. There was no evidence of changes in red or white blood cells and no change in blood pressure. In his review in 200 7, Colman noted that, by 1934, Tainter estimated that as many as 100,000 Americans had used dinitrophenol emphasizing the “desire” of Americans to become slimmer ( 70 ). In 1934 Tainter and his colleagues wrote: “It can now be said that dinitrophenol is of definite value as a drug for treating obesity” ( 71 ). He also reported three deaths, skin rashes and the yellow skin color associated with DNP as well as rashes and peripheral neuritis
