An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


a drug for treating obesity” ( 71 ). He also reported three deaths, skin rashes and the yellow skin color associated with DNP as well as rashes and peripheral neuritis in some patients – a finding indicating the drug should be discontinued ( 72 ). However, it wasn’t long until other problems surfaced including cataracts ( 73 ) as well as neuropathy. By one estimate, 2,500 people lost their sight using dinitrophenol. Reports of deaths also continued to be reported. Other clinicians did not have the same enthusiasm as Tainter. In 1935, McGavack from San Francisco reviewed the use of dinitrophenol by some 290 individuals and reached several conclusions ( 74 ). First, the loss of weight using diet and dinitrophenol was not strikingly greater than with diet alone. Second, many people had distressing symptoms from its use. Third, there were significant toxic effects of the DNP on body function and tissues. Finally, the reported deaths from dinitrophenol when used in accepted therapeutic dosages made it hard to justify for widespread use in treating overweight, which he called the relatively benign condition. This was supported by two other studies that compared the effects of DNP to other ways of managing the patient with obesity. Bayer and Gray ( 39 ) reported on 100 individuals who were treated diet alone (920 kcals/d), or with diet and the addition of either thyroid extract (up to 3 grains/d) or dinitrophenol up to 300 mg/d. On diet alone, weight stabilized in 72 of these patients after 4 months and an average 15 lb. (6.8kg) weight loss. Thyroid extract induced an extra weight loss averaging 11 lb. (5.0 kg) in 41 patients during 90 days of treatment with thyroid extract, compared to dinitrophenol, which produced an average loss of 12 lbs. (5.5 kg) in 13 patients over 50 days. Dinitrophenol seemed to be most effective when the BMR was normal. In a second report Strang and Evans observed greater weight losses in the cases receiving dinitrophenol than in those treated by diet alone but felt that the difference was hardly striking enough to offset the discomfort and possible damage of treatment with DNP ( 75 ). With this information as a background in 1935, the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association concluded that the dinitrophenol was too hazardous to include in the AMA publication of New and Non-official Remedies ( 76
