An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association concluded that the dinitrophenol was too hazardous to include in the AMA publication of New and Non-official Remedies ( 76 ). At the time that dinitrophenol was being touted for obesity in 1935, the US FDA was limited in its power to regulate drugs based on The Food and Drugs Act, which was passed in 1906 and brought the FDA into existence. It wasn’t until this law was updated as the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 that the FDA had the authority needed to act against drugs like dinitrophenol. In 1938, they turned their attention on the Isabella Laboratories which was selling capsules containing 1.5 g of dinitrophenol as Formula 281. When the hazards became clear, the FDA moved to ban DNP as too dangerous for use in humans ( 70 ). THE DINITROPHENOL RENAISSANCE: 1980- Although it had been banned in 1938, dinitrophenol made a come-back in 1981 ( 77 ). In this year, a Texas physician named Dr. Bachynsky began to process industrial DNP and put it into tablets which he dispensed and marketed under the trade name ‘Mitcal’. He advertised that ‘Mitcal’ produced weight loss by a mechanism he called intracellular hyperthermia i.e., uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. In subsequent court proceedings it was alleged that over 14,000 people were treated with Mitcal by Dr. Bachynsky. Individuals using Mitcal started reporting adverse effects, such as fever, shortness of breath and sweating, to the US Food and Drugs Administration in late 1982. Additionally in 1984, there was a fatality associated with an intentional overdose of ‘Mitcal’. Dr. Bachynsky was convicted in 1986 of drug law violations, fined and prohibited from dispensing DNP to any patients. However, Dr. Bachynsky continued to use DNP for a variety of different ‘medicinal claims.’ He was eventually jailed for fraud in 2008 in the USA for developing DNP for use in Europe as a cancer treatment again called intracellular hyperthermia therapy. Outside of the medical community, DNP is still marketed on the Internet without regulation, primarily to body builders who are attempting to lose weight. To address this growing use, the Food Standards Agency in 2011 issued a warning that this product is “not fit for human consumption” given its short- and long-term effects. Nonetheless, gym enthusiasts continue to obtain and use DNP, even though there were sporadic reports of deaths (
