An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


is “not fit for human consumption” given its short- and long-term effects. Nonetheless, gym enthusiasts continue to obtain and use DNP, even though there were sporadic reports of deaths ( 78 ). To obtain insight into the reasons for this continued use of DNP, Ainsworth et al interviewed 14 users who reported that the internet was the main source of their information about DNP ( 79 ). The authors found that these individuals valued “self-control” and their own judgment in minimizing potential risks. This is, of course, against the background of continuing deaths associated with use of DNP. In their review, Grundlingh et al plotted the deaths associated with DNP by decade ( 77 ). In the 1930s there were 8 deaths, which declined to only one per decade in the 1940s and 1950s during the time of stringent regulation. Subsequently, after 4 decades with no deaths, thirteen deaths were recorded in the first decade of the 21 st century. In addition, DNP at doses that do not affect weight is being explored for its potential use in neurodegenerative disease where mitochondrial dysfunction is often observed. DNP has been shown to induce neurotrophic growth factors involved in neuronal health, cognition, and learning. It is now being investigated through approved FDA channels with an Investigational New Drug Application for a group of neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington’s disease, multiple sclerosis, and Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy ( 80 ). In summary, DNP has had many lives. As an explosive during World War I, as a treatment for obesity during the 1930’s (first discredited and then resurfacing in the 1980s), as a weight control agent for body-builders using the internet to obtain supplies, and most recently as a potential agent for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Amphetamine: 1932-1968 SYNTHESIS AND INITIAL TESTING The rise, fall, and return to restricted medical use of amphetamine is the story of the first psychoactive mood-altering prescription drug ( 81 ). Amphetamine might be described as a Janus drug – that is it has two faces – one the pharmacological side to constrict blood vessels, suppress food intake, and either stimulate the central nervous system or calm it in individuals with attention deficit disorder. The other face is the potential for abuse, first recognized in the late 1930s and brought into stark focus by “street-use” of methamphetamine. Amphetamine is a sympathomimetic drug originally labeled in 1910 ( 82 ). The
