An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


for abuse, first recognized in the late 1930s and brought into stark focus by “street-use” of methamphetamine. Amphetamine is a sympathomimetic drug originally labeled in 1910 ( 82 ). The name amphetamine comes from its chemical structure – α - m ethyl-β- ph en et hyl amine . It was first synthesized in 1887 by the Romanian chemist Edeleanu , who was working in Germany. The stimulant properties of his compound, phenylisopropylamine as he called it, were unknown until it was independently resynthesized and tested clinically by Gordon Alles. Alles, a chemist in California, was searching for an alternative decongestant to compete with ephedrine in the treatment of allergy and asthma. In 1929 Alles synthesized what he called beta-phenyl-isopropylamine (amphetamine). To test the clinical effects of his discovery, Alles became a “human guinea” when he was injected with 50 mg, a relatively large dose of his product. Within seven minutes he noted that his nose was dry and clear when he sniffed. His blood pressure climbed dramatically and by 17 minutes he noted heart palpitations. He also had a “feeling of well-being.” That evening at a dinner party he grew chatty, considering himself unusually witty. He recorded that he had a “Rather sleepless night. Mind seemed to run from one subject to another” ( 83 ). In 1932 Alles patented his compound and its medical uses ( 81 ). In 1933 Smith, Kline and French (SKF), an American pharmaceutical company began selling Benzedrine, a decongestant that they had patented that was identical to the one Alles had patented ( 81 ). 1935 was another key year in the history of amphetamine. Alles thought that the stimulant properties of amphetamine might help people suffering with narcolepsy, a disorder of sleep. He supplied amphetamine to Myron Prinzmetal, who had worked with Alles as a medical student at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), to test in patients with narcolepsy. Prinzmetal et al published their affirmation of this effect in 1935 ( 84 ) and their findings were soon replicated by Ullrich et al in 1936 ( 85 ). Both groups showed that the drug did reduce sleep time in people with narcolepsy, and this became an indication for amphetamine use. Of interest to this paper, these authors also noted that the patients who were treated for narcolepsy also lost weight. To explore amphetamine as an agent that might improve mood, SKF
