An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


interest to this paper, these authors also noted that the patients who were treated for narcolepsy also lost weight. To explore amphetamine as an agent that might improve mood, SKF teamed up with Dr. Abraham Myerson, a highly respected professor of psychiatry working at both Tufts and Harvard who operated a well-funded laboratory. His books for the public had given him public visibility. In addition to his work on amphetamine for psychiatric problems, Myerson picked up on the reported weight loss during treatment for narcolepsy. Together with Mark Falcon-Lesses, Myerson designed a clinical trial to assess the effects of amphetamine for weight loss ( 86 ). A group of 16 women and 1 man were treated for 6 to 23 weeks with Benzedrine sulfate in doses of 10 to 30 mg/d. Patients weighed between 145 and 316 lbs. (66 to 144 kg) when the trial began and lost an average of 1.46 lbs/week (0.66 kg/week) during treatment. There were no untoward side effects, and the results were published in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine in 1938 ( 86 ). As Rasmussen summarized the situation in 1938: ”Despite the study by Lesses and Myerson, SKF did not market Benzedrine Sulfate to treat obesity, although the firm did follow-up earlier observations by Nathanson and others that Benzedrine resulted in weight loss. For instance, SKF sponsored testing of the drug’s impact on metabolic rate and trials evaluating its effects on appetite. Initially, SKF thought that marketing of Benzedrine for weight loss might interfere with its development as a respectable psychiatric drug. On the other hand, SKF might have realized that amphetamine was “selling itself” for weight loss since many smaller companies were profiting from the weight loss market, even though they were violating the patents owned by SKF. However, by the end of World War II amphetamine and methamphetamine were extensively used by both the Allied and Axis forces because they seemed to enhance performance and SKF would move to capture the weight-loss market” ( 87 ). In a review of 1946, Bett described the setting for amphetamine (Benzedrine) and obesity this way: “The value of Benzedrine sulphate as an ‘adjunct' to diet and other measures in the treatment of obesity may thus be summarized: it decreases appetite and helps the patient to follow a diet, possibly also by producing a sense of well-being. Increasing activity, it promotes proper balance between
