An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


may thus be summarized: it decreases appetite and helps the patient to follow a diet, possibly also by producing a sense of well-being. Increasing activity, it promotes proper balance between energy output and caloric intake. It educates the patient to new eating habits, so that weight loss is maintained after stopping the drug. It has no appreciable effect on basal metabolic rate.” ( 88 ). AMPHETAMINE AND ADDICTION A warning about the risk of addiction with the use of amphetamine was sounded in an editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) in 1938 ( 89 ). The observation that the use of Benzedrine over long periods is "certainly not without danger, particularly to the circulatory system," prompted this comment from Lesses : ( 90 )"…the drugs to which human beings become addicted are the narcotics. There is no evidence in the entire literature of medicine that stimulants become habit forming." This, in retrospect, was clearly inaccurate. Even though in Myerson’s clinical experience with Benzedrine for more than two years in a very large number of cases he had not seen "a single case of addiction in the sense that a person, otherwise, now feels it necessary to take the drug habitually and in ascending doses to produce the desired effect." In 1937 abuse of the drug was reported among Midwestern college students, particularly at the University of Minnesota. Moreover Benzedrine Sulfate tablets were taking on the identity as “pep pills” or “pepper-uppers” in the popular imagination as Myerson recognized two years later ( 91 ). Based on the growing evidence of abuse, amphetamine became a strictly regulated prescription drug, but its illegal use in the popular culture has been difficult to control and addiction to methamphetamine has become a major modern problem. AMPHETAMINE REVIVAL FOR TREATING ATTENTION DEFICIT/HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER Racemic amphetamine can be used to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and binge-eating disorder. Lisdexamfetamine, a combination of lysine and d-amphetamine, which is hydrolyzed once inside the red blood cell has become a drug of choice for this diagnosis ( 92 ). Although recreational use of amphetamine produces serious risk of addiction, this is unlikely to occur when amphetamine-derivatives are used at therapeutic doses for long-term treatment of attention deficit disorder. In fact, lifetime stimulant therapy for ADHD that begins during childhood reduces the risk of developing substance abuse as an adult. Rainbow Pills: 1940-1968 Rainbow Pills
