An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


of attention deficit disorder. In fact, lifetime stimulant therapy for ADHD that begins during childhood reduces the risk of developing substance abuse as an adult. Rainbow Pills: 1940-1968 Rainbow Pills are a continuation of the amphetamine story ( 93 ). The Miriam Webster Dictionary defines Rainbow Pills as “any of a combination of pills (as of amphetamines, laxatives, and thyroid hormones) typically of different colors that were formerly taken to curb appetite and promote weight loss” (“Rainbow pill.” The Merriam-Webster.com Medical Dictionary , Merriam-Webster Inc., https://www.merriam-webster.com/medical/rainbow%20pill. Accessed 5 January 2020). I have picked the start date of 1940 for the beginning of the Rainbow Pill period since it was the date for the first of 27 meetings sponsored by Western Research Laboratories held to introduce weight loss specialists to the use of their Rainbow Pills. Their 27 th Annual Symposium on Obesity was held in Denver on April 13-15, 1967, and I was in attendance. Amphetamine was one of the many-colored pills included in what came to be called the "rainbow diet pill" regimen. In addition to amphetamine, Rainbow Pills included thyroid hormone, laxatives, diuretics, and digitalis ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Ingredients in One or More of The Rainbow Pills View in own window Ingredients for Weight Loss Ingredients to Mask Side Effects d-Amphetamine Cardiac glycosides (digitalis) Diuretics Barbiturates Thyroid hormones Corticosteroids Laxatives Potassium Phenolphthalein Belladonna Herbal ingredients Glandular extracts Adapted from ( 93 ). Digitalis was included since it can cause “nausea,” with weight loss as a consequence. The downside of digitalis is that it has a narrow window of tolerance between its therapeutic effect and toxicity. Diuretics were included to increase fluid (and weight) loss even though this is not fat loss. As we noted earlier, “diuresis” was one strategy used for weight loss dating from Greco-Roman times. Rainbow Pills often contained a barbiturate to suppress some of the side effects of amphetamine stimulation. To reduce middleman costs, the distribution of these pills to patients was directly from the physicians’ own offices rather than through a pharmacy. The route to regulate Rainbow Pills was a prolonged one. Following the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 and the formation of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), enforcement powers of the FDA were significantly enhanced with passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938. In 1962, the Kefauver-Harris amendment required drug manufacturers to provide
