An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


(FDA), enforcement powers of the FDA were significantly enhanced with passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938. In 1962, the Kefauver-Harris amendment required drug manufacturers to provide proof of both the safety and effectiveness of their drugs prior to approval for sale to the public. It also required drug advertising to disclose accurate information about side effects, and stopped cheap generic drugs being marketed as expensive drugs under new trade names and calling them new "breakthrough" medications. In 1967-1968, a number of deaths attributed to use of Rainbow Pills triggered a Senate investigation and the gradual implementation of greater restrictions on drug marketing for obesity management. At the beginning of my research career into the causes and treatment of obesity, the U.S. Senate Select Committee held their first hearings on the misuse of anti-obesity medications ( 94 ). As a young Assistant Professor, I was invited to give a talk at the 28 th Annual Western Research Laboratories Symposium on Obesity being held in the elegant Brown Palace hotel in downtown Denver, Colorado. The title of my talk was “Some New Thoughts on the Treatment of Obesity: Growth Hormone; Thyroid Hormone and Appetite Control.” Other topics on the program included “Abnormal Thyroid Transport Mechanisms in Obesity” by Dr. Irving B. Perlstein; “Exercise and Fitness Programs for the Overweight” by Captain McHargue from the US Air Force Academy; “Is the sound medical management of obesity successful? (A preliminary study of 6,000 cases histories) by Wilmer Asher; “Digitalis and The ‘Normal’ Heart, Some Controversial Aspects” by Richard Bloomfield; and finally “Obesity and its effects on Man-Hours of Work Loss” by Dr. Raymond E. Dietz. The invitees included physicians and their staff involved in delivering weight loss programs around the country. At the Saturday morning breakfast, a prominent member of the group sat down next to me. He had been summoned to testify before Senator Hart at the Rainbow Pill Hearings in the U.S. Senate ( 94 ). He said, slamming his fist on the table, that “Senator Hart had accused him of making more than $1 million dollars a year.” He went on to say, “I hardly ever made more than $750,000 per year”! This was 1968, and I was a young faculty member making a mere $12,000 per year. I listened in astonishment! I was undeterred from my academic career by the possibilities of making large amounts of
