An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


was a young faculty member making a mere $12,000 per year. I listened in astonishment! I was undeterred from my academic career by the possibilities of making large amounts of money from treating patients with obesity, and my table mate continued to operate his financially rewarding clinics for many more years. RAINBOW PILLS RESURFACE After the rainbow diet pills were banned in the US in the late 1960s, they largely disappeared from the market during the 1970s and 1980s. They reappeared in Brazil in South America and in Spain in the 1980s. The re-entry of Rainbow Pills into the United States market was facilitated by passage of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act and Supplement Act (DSHEA Act) of 1994 which states that dietary supplements do not require premarket review by the FDA. More about the DSHEA Act later. Thus, federal regulators are powerless to stop the pills from hitting store shelves, and thanks to the Internet, the distribution network of rainbow pills is larger than ever and they can purchased in many forms ( 93 ). Benzocaine Benzocaine is a topical anesthetic that in lozenge form can numb the nerve endings in the mouth, which might, in turn, reduce the pleasure of eating. To test this, 40 women with obesity received one of four treatments: 1) a chewing gum containing 96 mg/day of benzocaine alone, 2) phenylpropanolamine alone at a dose of 75 mg/day, 3) the combination of these two agents; and 4) a placebo gum and pill. At the end of 8 weeks, those treated with phenylpropanolamine lost twice as much weight as the placebo-treated group, whereas those receiving benzocaine lost essentially no weight ( 95 , 96 ). Interestingly, weight loss in the group receiving the combination of phenylpropanolamine and benzocaine was equal to that of the placebo group. Clearly local anesthesia in the mouth using benzocaine is of no value in the treatment of obesity. Anorectic Sympathomimetic Drugs: 1950-1997 Amphetamine is the grandfather of this class of drugs. Amphetamine reduces food intake, and through activation of the sympathetic nervous system, raises blood pressure and has neurophysiological effects. Efforts by chemists to separate these physiological effects occupied much of the period between the end of World War II with approval of the final sympathomimetic anorectic drugs, fenfluramine and chlorpentermine, in 1973. The anorectic sympathomimetic drugs can be divided into three groups. The first is a non-prescription
