An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


years phenylpropanolamine was sold over-the-counter under the trade name Dexatrim, which was owned by Thompson Medical Company. When the patent protection for phenylpropanolamine ended in the 1980s, Ciba-Geigy began a marketing campaign for Acutrim (Oros TM), an over-the-counter product containing phenylpropanolamine. In a randomized 14-week randomized, clinical trial, participants who took Acutrim lost 8.0% of their body weight compared to 5.4% in those receiving the placebo ( 102 ). Concerns about detrimental effects of phenylpropanolamine on blood pressure and the cardiovascular system had been a recurring issue. To examine this possibility critically, a double-blind, multicenter clinical trial funded in part by Thompson Medical, examined the effects of phenylpropanolamine on the changes in blood pressure in 881 individuals ( 103 ). In this parallel arm study, one group received a placebo three times a day, a second group received 75 mg of a sustained-release form of phenylpropanolamine once daily followed by two placebo capsules, and a third group received 25 mg of immediate-release phenylpropanolamine three times a day. Thirty percent of the 811 participants were above their ideal body weight. Blood pressure increased significantly in the first 6 hours following the 25 mg dose, and even more in those receiving the sustained-release preparation. However, the authors did not consider this to be clinically important ( 103 ). Baseline body weight and diastolic blood pressure were significant and independent determinants of the pressor effect of phenylpropanolamine. This study, however, did not allay concerns about effects of phenylpropanolamine on blood pressure and the risk of stroke. To provide more perspective, an epidemiological study was designed to compare individuals using phenylpropanolamine who had had a hemorrhagic stroke with a control group without a history of stroke. This study found a significant association between hemorrhagic stroke and the use of phenylpropanolamine ( 104 ). As a result of this study and two years after Thomson Medical sold its interest in Dexatrim to Chattem Pharmaceuticals, the FDA took steps on Nov 6, 2000 to remove phenylpropanolamine from all drug products in the United States and requested that all drug companies discontinue marketing products containing phenylpropanolamine. This was one of the first examples of off-target effects derailing the clinical use of a drug in the management of obesity. ANORECTICS: 1959-1973 Anorectic drugs refer to medications derived from the chemical backbone of amphetamine, which act as sympathomimetics, specifically mimicking the effects of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. After attention was
