An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


obesity. ANORECTICS: 1959-1973 Anorectic drugs refer to medications derived from the chemical backbone of amphetamine, which act as sympathomimetics, specifically mimicking the effects of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. After attention was drawn to the risk of dependence and addiction from amphetamine, organic chemists began the search for drugs that retained the appetite suppressant properties but that did not have the abuse potential of amphetamine ( 105 ). The structural features needed to retain anorectic activity were defined. They included a chain between the amino group and the phenyl ring restricted to two carbon atoms; the binding of the amino group to a secondary carbon atom; and substitutions at other positions, which may lead to reduction in anorectic activity. A large number of molecules were synthesized and tested for their effects on food intake and risk of habituation ( 106 ) and some of the marketed one are shown in Table 3 . Table 3. Drugs Evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration in 1973 View in own window Generic Name Proprietary Names Year Approved DEA Schedule Current Status d,l-amphetamine Benzedrine & Many others 1936 II Not approved for obesity d-amphetamine Dexedrine & Many others Before 1952 II Not approved for obesity Methamphetamine Desoxyn & Many others 1947 II Not approved for obesity Phenmetrazine Preludin 1959 II Not Marketed Benzphetamine Didrex 1962 III Available by prescription Phendimetrazine Plegine 1960 III Available by prescription Chlorphentermine Pre-Sate 1962 III Not Marketed Phentermine Ionamin, Wilpo 1959 IV Most widely used drug for obesity Mazindol Sanorex; Mazanor 1980 III Not Marketed Diethylpropion Tenuate; Tepanil 1959 IV Available by prescription Data from ( 100 , 107 ). At the request of the Bureau of Drugs at the FDA, a group of “Consultants on Anorectic Drugs” was empaneled. They issued their report in 1973, the same year that the NIH sponsored a major conference on obesity ( 107 ). In his letter to the Director of the Bureau of Drugs at the FDA, Dr. Thaddeus Prout, Chairman of this review group summarized the view of the consultants on current anorectic drugs ( 108 ). Their conclusions are summarized in abbreviated form as follows: 1. “Adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with anorectic drugs on the average tend to lose more weight than those treated with placebo in relatively short-term trials.” 2. “The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “anorectic” drug varies
