An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


average tend to lose more weight than those treated with placebo in relatively short-term trials.” 2. “The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “anorectic” drug varies from trial to trial.” [Note: In an aside this germane comment was made: “Dr. Scoville noted in answer to a question that there were no statistically significant overall differences comparing two anorectic drugs.” (p 498).] 3. “The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug treated patients over placebo treated patients was only a fraction of a pound a week.” 4. “…the total impact of drug-induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically trivial. The limited usefulness of these agents must be measured against any possible risk factors inherent in their use.”. 5. “The amphetamines, including methamphetamine have been widely abused in numerous populations. It is thus in the best interest of the public health to limit the use of amphetamines as far as is compatible with adequate therapy.” 6. “Evidence presented for newer “anorectic” congeners of the amphetamine family and non-amphetamine drugs do not set them apart as having higher benefit or lower risks than older available drugs. The risk potential of fenfluramine may be an exception to this general statement.” 7. “There is no evidence in the data reviewed which showed that combination of an ‘anorectic’ agent with other drugs increase the benefits or reduce the risks of the ‘anorectic’ agent.” 8. “There is no clinical data which support the parenteral use of these drugs in the treatment of obesity.” Based on these findings, The FDA Consultant Panel also made several recommendations summarized below: 1. “That all “anorectics” reviewed (dl-amphetamine, d-amphetamine, methamphetamine, benzphetamine, phentermine, chlorphentermine, chlortermine, phenmetrazine, phendimetrazine, fenfluramine, mazindol, diethylpropion), with the exception of fenfluramine, be placed on Schedule II on the basis of abuse potential.” 2. That combinations of “anorectics” with other drugs be evaluated in accordance with the policy of the FDA on combination drugs”. 3. That amphetamines prepared for, or in a form suitable for, parenteral use not be approved for use in the treatment of obesity. 4. “The single-entity oral “anorectic” preparations including the amphetamine be permitted to be labeled for restricted use in obesity provide that they are used in association with a specific weight reduction program and that the clinically trivial contribution of these drugs to the overall weight reduction is properly emphasized. To carry out the latter
