An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


in association with a specific weight reduction program and that the clinically trivial contribution of these drugs to the overall weight reduction is properly emphasized. To carry out the latter recommendation, a statement such as that made in the conclusions drawn from this review must be included in all labeling and promotional products. This statement should include the following points: Studies of the effect of “anorectic” drugs in the treatment of obesity when compared with the effects of patients treated in a similar manner without the use of the drugs demonstrated that the magnitude of weight loss of drug treated patients over no-drug treated patients was only a fraction of a pound a week. The rate of weight loss was greatest in the first weeks of study for both the drug and the non-drug treated subjects and tended to decrease in succeeding weeks. The natural history of obesity is measured in years whereas the studies offered for review are restricted to a few weeks duration. Thus, the total impact of ‘drug induced” weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically trivial. The limited usefulness of these agents must be measured against any possible risk factors such as nervousness, insomnia, and drug habituation that might be inherent in their use. Moreover, these agents can only be recommended for short term use in the treatment of obesity in a carefully monitored and specified weight reduction program under the care of a physician” ( 108 ). 5. That future approval of all ‘anorectic’ drugs prepared for future use be based on demonstration of efficacy as measured by statistical superiority of the drug over placebo in trials using FDA recommended protocols. These protocols should include provisions, among others, for the testing of a specific target populations, specification of a minimum duration trial to assure clinical relevance of the study, and give consideration to the handling of patient dropout. 6. Further, that appropriate summary data derived from efficacy studies be presented in labeling and in all promotional material to indicate the degree of weight loss that was found. For this purpose guidelines note in ( 4 ) above should be supplemented by the addition of the specific facts found for the specific drug under consideration. Shortly after this letter, the US FDA issued new Guidelines on Labeling for Single-Entity Amphetamine Products. The FDA also approved d,l-fenfluramine, chlortermine, and mazindol. These were the
