An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


drug under consideration. Shortly after this letter, the US FDA issued new Guidelines on Labeling for Single-Entity Amphetamine Products. The FDA also approved d,l-fenfluramine, chlortermine, and mazindol. These were the last drugs in this class to be approved. Chlortermine is no longer marketed and d,l-fenfluramine and d-fenfluramine have been removed from the market as described below. All the derivatives of amphetamine have been tarred with the same brush – that of risk for addiction. Since then, for better or for worse and whether deserved or not, as amphetamine fell from grace, a similar pall fell over the entire class of derived compounds. As we will see, one of these derivatives, fenfluramine, had no demonstrated abuse potential at all and yet was still regulated by the U.S. Government as though it did. AMINOREX- ANORECTIC WITHDRAWN FOR TOXICITY Aminorex demonstrates the law of unintended consequences as applied to drug development for obesity management. This drug is an “amphetamine-like” drug that was developed by McNeil pharmaceuticals in the United States and licensed in 1965 for sale in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland under the trade names of Menocil or Apiquel ( 109 ). Soon after its launch, Berne, Switzerland noted an increase in the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension. This was eventually linked to the use of aminorex, which appears to have been responsible for a 5 to 20-fold increase in incidence of primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) in Switzerland. In Berne, up to 20% of those taking aminorex who were admitted to the hospital died, with up to 50% more dying over the next 10 years. A retrospective analysis in deaths in Austria, Switzerland, and Germany during the late 1960s showed that this drug was responsible for most of the cases of PPH between 1968 and 1972. Experimental studies subsequently confirmed that aminorex can produce pulmonary hypertension in animals ( 110 - 112 ). This outbreak of PPH was the canary in the coal mine signaling a potential relationship between some β-phenethylamines and PPH, a form of plexogenic arteriopathy ( 113 ). Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is a rare disease that occurs with a frequency of about 1–2 per million persons per year. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure is directly related to body mass index. The risk of PPH appears to have a genetic basis which was brought to the fore by 3 anorectic drugs, aminorex, fenfluramine, and chlorphentermine which modulate serotonin activity ( 113 ).
