An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


However, several studies have evaluated the longer-term use of phentermine ( 118 - 120 ). In one older study ( 118 ), a group of patients received a placebo, the second group received phentermine resin 30 mg/day, while the third group was treated with phentermine resin alternating with placebo at 1-month intervals. The two groups given phentermine in either intermittent or continuous form lost similar amount of weight which averaged 20.5% of their initial body weight compared to only 6% in the placebo group. The group treated intermittently showed the effect of stopping and starting an active drug to placebo relative to continuous treatment. These authors concluded that intermittent phentermine was preferable because it was cheaper, gave equivalent weight loss, and reduced exposure to medication; although this runs counter to current concepts of chronic disease management in which continuous use is recommended. In another older study ( 120 ), patients with osteoarthritis were treated with phentermine-resin, 30mg/day for 6 months or with placebo. The group treated with phentermine lost 12.6% of their body weight, compared to 9.2% in the placebo group. In a third older study ( 119 ), 59 subjects were treated for 14 weeks with either a placebo or phentermine 30 mg/day. The group receiving phentermine lost 8.7% of their body weight compared with only 2.0% in the placebo-treated group. Two more recent studies have evaluated the effects of phentermine in children ( 121 ) and in adults ( 122 ). In a retrospective study of children treated with lifestyle or lifestyle plus phentermine, the group receiving phentermine lost significantly more weight at 1, 3 and 6 months with no significant changes in blood pressure ( 121 ). A study in adults compared phentermine alone, canagliflozin alone, or phentermine plus canagliflozin against placebo in a double-blind RCT. Over 6 months, the placebo-treated group lost 1.1% vs 4.6% in the group receiving phentermine alone and 8.1% in the combined treatment group ( 122 ). Despite the significant weight loss, blood pressure was not different from placebo and heart rate was significantly increased in the group treated with phentermine supporting the concerns about the effect of phentermine on the cardiovascular system. As with other sympathomimetic drugs, concerns have been raised about an increase in blood pressure and abuse in those taking phentermine. Subsequent studies have demonstrated that when used appropriately (e.g., those without contraindications such as uncontrolled hypertension or hyperthyroidism,
