An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


about an increase in blood pressure and abuse in those taking phentermine. Subsequent studies have demonstrated that when used appropriately (e.g., those without contraindications such as uncontrolled hypertension or hyperthyroidism, active vascular disease, arrhythmias, or glaucoma), phentermine does not result in behaviors associated with substance abuse or withdrawal symptoms ( 123 , 124 ), or raise blood pressure on average. In fact, observational studies and a small number of prospective randomized, controlled studies have demonstrated either neutral effects or reductions in blood pressure during long-term phentermine use and no increased risk for adverse cardiac events ( 125 - 128 ). A recent summary of reported after market adverse events of the FDA approved combination tablet Qsymia, containing both phentermine and topiramate, has failed to link use of this drug with cardiac valvulopathy, myopathy, or pulmonary hypertension ( 129 ). Phentermine is the most widely prescribed anti-obesity drug used for management of obesity today because it is a generic drug and thus low in cost and appears to have a track record of safety ( 115 ). While it is a “survivor” in terms of continued use as an anti-obesity medication, its reputation often suffers amongst providers and the public from “guilt by association” with fenfluramine use as described below. Fenfluramine/Dexfenfluramine: 1973-1997 – Doomed by its Toxicity Fenfluramine has structural similarities to amphetamine. However, to the surprise of most workers in the field it had a very different mechanism of action. Fenfluramine was developed in France in the 1960s and marketed there in 1964 ( 130 ). Instead of being a sympathomimetic drug and mimicking the effects of norepinephrine, as other anorectic drugs do, fenfluramine acted to block the re-update of serotonin at its nerve endings. In addition, one of the metabolites of fenfluramine, norfenfluramine, acted as a serotonin agonist ( 131 , 132 ). Treatment of animals with most sympathomimetic drugs reduces brain norepinephrine; treatment with fenfluramine does not. Rather, fenfluramine reduces brain serotonin. The discovery that fenfluramine acted on the serotonergic system to reduce food intake led to a whole new area of research into drugs for the management of obesity. Following clinical trials, fenfluramine was approved by the US FDA in 1973 for management of obesity ( 130 ). It was given a Schedule IV designation by the Drug Enforcement Agency because of its chemical similarity to other sympathomimetic anorectic drugs with abuse potential. However, fenfluramine behaves differently
