An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


). It was given a Schedule IV designation by the Drug Enforcement Agency because of its chemical similarity to other sympathomimetic anorectic drugs with abuse potential. However, fenfluramine behaves differently and many who took the drug complained of a dysphoria, and it was not used to replace amphetamine-drug abuse in substitution trials. The anorectic effects of fenfluramine reside almost entirely in the dextro-isomer of this compound, named dexfenfluramine. When this was recognized, The International Dexfenfluramine (or INDEX) trial was designed to establish the safety and efficacy of dexfenfluramine ( 133 ). With this data in hand, dexfenfluramine was approved by the US FDA for management of obesity in the United Stated in 1994. The first set-back for fenfluramine occurred in 1981 when the first 2 cases of pulmonary hypertension were reported ( 134 ), similar to the earlier reports of pulmonary hypertension in patients treated with aminorex. Between 1980 and 1993 there had been a total of 12 cases of pulmonary hypertension associated with fenfluramine ( 135 ). This data was emerging as a series of publications showed dramatic weight loss efficacy by combining fenfluramine with phentermine (commonly referred to a “Fen-Phen”), two anti-obesity medications with differing mechanisms of actions ( 136 ). The weight loss of 8.4 kg with the combination was similar to the individual agents, but there were fewer side effects when they were used together. This was followed by a single center NIH-funded trial of fenfluramine and phentermine lasting 4 years ( 137 ). By the end of the first 32 weeks, those receiving the combination of fenfluramine and phentermine, had lost 15.9% of their weight compared to 4.9% in the placebo group. The results supported and amplified the pilot data from this group. Patients with obesity treated with the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine lost more weight and, in many cases, were able to maintain the lower weight for more than two years during this study. When the dramatic weight loss with Fen-Phen began to circulate widely in the 1990’s, fenfluramine and phentermine use exploded in popularity across the country. Patients and doctors alike were thrilled with the results and for the first time it appeared that Americans with obesity were winning the battle of expanding waistlines. Medical offices dispensing Fen-Phen opened up all over the country. In 1994 prescriptions for fenfluramine were mentioned less than 100,000 times among drug prescriptions. However, in 1995 when
