An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


expanding waistlines. Medical offices dispensing Fen-Phen opened up all over the country. In 1994 prescriptions for fenfluramine were mentioned less than 100,000 times among drug prescriptions. However, in 1995 when Fen-Phen hit the market, mentions of fenfluramine rose by 5-fold to over 500,000 prescriptions before peaking at nearly 4 million prescriptions ( 138 ). The second set-back for fenfluramine and, by association, for phentermine occurred in July 1997 when the first case-series of valvular heart disease in patients taking Fen-Phen appeared in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine ( 139 ) . Despite the fact that the total participants in that study numbered only 24, the report included only women, pre-existing valvular heart disease could not be ruled out, and no control group was included to account for the known associations between obesity and both valvopathy and pulmonary hypertension, urgent meetings by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration with academic groups around the country assembled enough information to convince the FDA that up to 30% of the patients treated with fenfluramine (alone and in combination with phentermine) might develop valvular heart disease ( 140 ). On September 15, 1997, fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine were removed from the market worldwide. The Fen-Phen success had been shattered by the off-target consequences foretold by aminorex decades earlier and added another sad ending to a therapy that offered such promise in the management of the patient with obesity. Sibutramine: 1988-2010 Sibutramine is a triple amine reuptake inhibitor affecting norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine. Its use as a weight loss medication was an outgrowth of a clinical program searching for effective drugs to treat depression conducted by Boots Pharmaceuticals in the United Kingdom ( 141 ). The effects of sibutramine on weight loss caught the attention of the company in 1988, which then commissioned a short clinical trial. During this eight-week study with two doses of sibutramine, Weintraub and his colleagues demonstrated a doubling of weight loss over that achieved with placebo with the low dose and a nearly four-fold increase with the high dose over the weight loss compared to the placebo group ( 142 ). With this promising background a full-scale clinical program was designed. There was a clear dose-response to the drug in a six-month clinical trial ( 143 ). In a two-year trial, sibutramine reduced body weight by nearly 12% at 6 months. In contrast, the weight loss in the placebo-group gradually
