An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


a six-month clinical trial ( 143 ). In a two-year trial, sibutramine reduced body weight by nearly 12% at 6 months. In contrast, the weight loss in the placebo-group gradually faded and at two years they were only 3% lighter than at baseline. These strong clinical results were marred by an increase in blood pressure. Following the phase 3 clinical trials, approval for marketing was requested from the US FDA and the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP) in Europe. Because of the increased blood pressure observed in some patients, the CPMP would only approve the drug if the company would conduct a long-term study to evaluate potential cardiovascular outcomes. This trial was begun, and the drug was approved for marketing by Knoll Pharmaceuticals, a Division of BASF in Germany who had purchased it from Boots Pharmaceutical and who subsequently sold it Abbott Laboratories in the US. The Sibutramine Outcomes (SCOUT) trial was the result of this requirement ( 144 ). It began enrolling participants in January 2003 with a completion date of November 2005. By this time a total of 10,742 individuals with obesity and either a high risk of cardiovascular disease or diabetes had been randomized to treatment for up to six years with either sibutramine or placebo to determine whether use of sibutramine along with a weight management program would impact the risk for cardiovascular complications in this selected population. Despite reductions in blood pressure from baseline in both the sibutramine and placebo groups, to the dismay of the investigators sibutramine produced a significantly greater increase in CVD events (HR: 1.16, 95% CI 1.03-1.31, P = 0.02) as estimated from a composite end-point of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), nonfatal cerebrovascular accidents (CVA), cardiac arrest, and CV death ( 144 ). In absolute terms, cardiovascular events occurred in 11.4% of those assigned to treatment with sibutramine versus 10.0% for those treated with placebo. Following this report, the U.S. FDA convened their Endocrine Advisory Panel to ask the question of whether this drug should continue to be marketed. The Panel recommended that sibutramine should be removed, although not everyone agreed with this conclusion. In a dissenting article, "Sibutramine: gone, but not forgotten", Dr. David Haslam (chairman of the National Obesity Forum) wrote that the SCOUT study was flawed as it only covered high-risk patients and did not consider patients with obesity who do not have cardiovascular complications or similar
