An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Obesity Forum) wrote that the SCOUT study was flawed as it only covered high-risk patients and did not consider patients with obesity who do not have cardiovascular complications or similar contraindications( 145 ). The trial also had two other issues. First, patients with CVD who did not lose weight when taking the drug nonetheless continued treatment for up to 6 years, something that no responsible physician would do. Second, the intent-to-treat analysis of the results included patients who lost weight as well as those who did not lose weight. If your hypothesis is that the benefits in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes result from weight loss, then including patients who do not lose weight unduly biases the conclusions. It is, so to speak, like shooting yourself in the foot. A re-analysis of the data using only those who lost weight while taking sibutramine showed a lower rate of CVD events in those treated with sibutramine ( 146 ). Despite this re-analysis, the European Medicines Agency recommended suspension of marketing authorization for sibutramine, and on January 21, 2010, based on the results of the SCOUT trial, it was removed from the market in Europe. Abbott Laboratories in the US followed suit and announced on October 8, 2010 that it was terminating marketing of sibutramine in the US market under pressure from the FDA. Lessons Learned: 1. The first lesson from the SCOUT trial is that using intent-to-treat statistical methods, which retains individuals who do not lose weight, the drug produced harm. 2. The second lesson is that when individuals who successfully lose weight while taking the drug are analyzed, instead of all comers, there is an overall statistical benefit – that is those who lose weight benefit from the weight loss 3. The third lesson is that since individuals with obesity are generally at increased risk for detrimental cardiovascular outcomes, requiring documentation that new anti-obesity drugs do not have detrimental CVD effects became the rule. 4. Despite its withdrawal from the market in 2010, sibutramine can still be found in products for sale on-line. The U.S. FDA found it in 69 of 72 products that were tested. These products appear to come from overseas, mainly China, and may pose health hazards ( https://www ​.fda.gov/drugs ​/questions-answers ​/questions-and-answers-about-fdas-initiative-against-contaminated-weight-loss-products . Content Current as of 02/28/2018. Accessed March 9, 2021) Tesofensine Tesofensine, like sibutramine, is a triple monoamine reuptake inhibitor, which means
