An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


pose health hazards ( https://www ​.fda.gov/drugs ​/questions-answers ​/questions-and-answers-about-fdas-initiative-against-contaminated-weight-loss-products . Content Current as of 02/28/2018. Accessed March 9, 2021) Tesofensine Tesofensine, like sibutramine, is a triple monoamine reuptake inhibitor, which means it blocks the reuptake of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. The initial clinical data on the potential effectiveness of this drug for weight loss came from studies in neurological diseases including Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease where treatment with tesofensine produced significant weight loss ( 147 ). This was followed by a randomized double-blind clinical trial in 203 patients who were randomly assigned to placebo or doses of 0.25, 0.5 or 1 mg/d of tesofensine ( 148 ). After 24 weeks the placebo-treated group lost 2.0% of their body weight compared with 6.5% in those given 0.25 mg/d of tesofensine, 11.2% in the 0.5 mg/d dose and 12.6% in the 1.0 mg/d dose. Although the clinical profile was relatively free of untoward side effects, there was, as with sibutramine, a small increase in heart rate and blood pressure. The cardiovascular risks identified in the SCOUT trial of sibutramine may also apply to tesofensine and provide a potential hurdle for approval of this drug. Although no further data has appeared regarding tesofensine as a single anti-obesity agent since 2013, the combination of tesofensine (up to 0.5 mg/d) and metoprolol (50 mg/d) (Tesomet) was granted FDA approval in 2021 as an orphan drug in the treatment of both Prader-Willi syndrome and hypothalamic obesity based on results of a recent phase 2A trial ( 149 ). The combined use with a beta-blocker mitigated changes to pulse rate and BP and may be standard in development of other anti-obesity medications from this class of drugs. Lorcaserin- Potential Cancer Risk Lorcaserin is the most recent casualty among drugs used in the management of patients with obesity. It is a selective serotonin (5-HT 2C ) receptor agonist (thereby avoiding potential for adverse effects on cardiac valves and pulmonary artery pressures induced by other serotonin receptors—see fenfluramine above), which reduced food intake in experimental animals and humans. Following completion of Phase 3 studies ( 150 ), an application for approval of Lorcaserin for marketing was submitted to the US FDA. An FDA Advisory Panel met on September 16, 2010, but rather than approving the drug, they voted 9-5 against approval based on two concerns, one about efficacy of the drug and the other about its safety. They were
