An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


2010, but rather than approving the drug, they voted 9-5 against approval based on two concerns, one about efficacy of the drug and the other about its safety. They were particularly concerned about the findings of tumors in experimental animals treated with lorcaserin. Following this Advisory Committee, the FDA decided, on 23 October 2010, not to approve lorcaserin for marketing. Arena, the manufacturer of lorcaserin conducted a new round of studies and on May 10, 2012, another FDA Advisory Panel was convened. This time they voted to recommend lorcaserin for marketing. A trial combining lorcaserin, a serotonergic drug, with phentermine, enhanced weight loss somewhat but did not mimic the dramatic results with Fen-Phen ( 151 ). Even though lorcaserin had been engineered to be selective for the 5-HT 2C receptor rather than the 5-HT 2B receptor, which is located on heart values and mediates the valvulopathy associated with fenfluramine and other serotonin medications, a post-marketing cardiovascular outcomes trial was commissioned. This trial, called CAMELLIA-TIMI, enrolled 12,000 patients who were at high risk for cardiovascular events. After a median of 3.3 years of treatment with Lorcaserin or placebo, the authors concluded that: “In a high-risk population of overweight or obese patients, lorcaserin facilitated sustained weight loss without a higher rate of major cardiovascular events than that in the placebo”, termed non-inferiority ( 152 ). In the original publication of this trial, the overall incidence of cancer was slightly greater but not statistically different between the lorcaserin (7.7%) and placebo (7.1%) groups over the 3.3 years of follow-up. However, during post marketing monitoring, the FDA found that the point estimates for cancer rate ratios were consistently greater than 1.0 in the lorcaserin group compared to placebo, and finally became significant 2.5 years after study completion ( 153 ). The main cancers were skin, prostate, GI, and respiratory. Based on this significant increase in cancer risk, the FDA requested Eisai, the manufacturer of Lorcaserin (Belviq), to withdraw the drug on Feb 13, 2020 and the company complied. Although there were signals in the initial submission that might have been a warning for this risk, it was not until well after completion of the trial and several years into general use that a potentially latent severe adverse event became apparent. Histamine and Histamine Antagonists Histamine is a naturally occurring monoamine produced by decarboxylation of the amino acid, histidine. Histamine is located in neurons in
