An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


latent severe adverse event became apparent. Histamine and Histamine Antagonists Histamine is a naturally occurring monoamine produced by decarboxylation of the amino acid, histidine. Histamine is located in neurons in the brain, in mast cells scattered around the body, and in the gastrointestinal track. There are four histamine receptors that mediate its effects, mainly located in the brain, the gut, and the immune system. The H-1 receptors in the brain are involved in wakefulness, appetite regulation, and endocrine function. In the periphery, H-1 receptors are in smooth muscles and endothelium where they are involved in bronchoconstriction, vasodilatation, and the sensation of itching. The H-2 receptors are in the stomach where they mediate gastric acid secretion, as well as in the brain, although their function in the brain is less clear. Injection of histamine into the brains of animals reduced food intake ( 154 ). Conversely, blocking histamine receptors with alpha-fluormethylhistidine, which irreversibly inhibits histidine decarboxylase, increases food intake. Similarly blocking histamine breakdown with metoprine, an inhibitor of histamine N-methyltransferase, also suppresses food intake in animals ( 155 ). Another piece of evidence suggesting a role for histamine receptors in food intake comes from data showing antipsychotic drugs that produce weight gain bind to histamine H-1 receptors with higher affinity than with any other monoamine receptor ( 156 ). Finally, the use of H-1 containing products to relive allergy is associated with weight gain ( 157 ). The H-3 histamine receptor differs from the other two by being an autoreceptor which inhibits the action of other histamine receptors. There have been several studies examining histamine-related drugs as potential candidates for management of obesity. Betahistine is a weak, orally active agonist of the histamine H-1 but a potent antagonist of the histamine H-3 auto-receptor, which raises the ambient levels of histamine and has been approved to treat vertigo. In a randomized, placebo-controlled 12-week clinical trial, 281 people with obesity were given 8, 16 or 24 mg/d of betahistine or placebo twice daily. The overall weight loss was not significantly different between treatment groups, but the subgroup of white women under age 50 lost -4.24±3.87 kg compared to -1.65±2.96 kg (P<0.005) ( 158 ). The histamine H-2 receptor antagonist, cimetidine was reported to reduce body weight in experimental animals ( 159 ) and in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 160 ), prompting one of the authors to conduct a trial in patients
