An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


reduce body weight in experimental animals ( 159 ) and in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 160 ), prompting one of the authors to conduct a trial in patients with obesity ( 161 ). In this small randomized clinical trial by a single author, a general practitioner from Norway, 60 participants (five females) received 200 mg of cimetidine or a matching placebo 3 times a day before meals along with a high fiber diet. The treatment group lost 9.5 kg, which was significantly more weight than the 2.2 kg lost by placebo-treated controls. The editors of the British Medical Journal who were reviewing this paper received another manuscript from Rasmussen and colleagues in Denmark attempting to replicate the Norwegian Study ( 162 ). These investigators also included 60 patients (nine female) in the same age range as in the Norwegian study. In the first eight weeks participants were randomized to either cimetidine or placebo. In this trial weight loss was almost identical with the cimetidine-treated group losing 5.7 kg compared to 5.9 kg in the placebo-group. When this second paper was received by the British Medical Journal, the editor was concerned by the contradictory results of the two group and possibility of scientific misconduct. Dr. Richard Smith, editor of BMJ, sent both papers to Dr. John Garrow, MD, PhD, one of the leading British scientists in obesity research ( 163 ). In his published response Garrow noted that a weight loss of 9.5 kg in 8 weeks is a remarkably good result in this period, so good in fact that it might not be a measured outcome, but rather a manufactured one. There was also no attrition in either group, which is again remarkable. The similarity of weight loss from week to week and the fact that both the heavier and lighter patients lost the same amount of weight was also surprising and unexpected. Garrow was “baffled” at why there should be such a large difference in weight loss between these two studies (7.4 kg in the Norwegian Study and 0.2 kg in the Danish Study) both having been conducted in nearby Nordic nations. The editor of BMJ, Dr. Richard Smith was also concerned as he noted in a paper about scientific misconduct that he published after he left his role as editor of the British Medical Journal ( 164 ). The case was referred to the University of
