An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


paper about scientific misconduct that he published after he left his role as editor of the British Medical Journal ( 164 ). The case was referred to the University of Oslo, and to the faculty in Tromsö where Dr. Stoa-Birketvedt was a general practitioner. No evidence of misconduct was identified after reviewing the records and she was exonerated. As Dr. Florholmen, one of Stoa-Birketvedt’s collaborators on several studies and Dr. Leeds note in a comment on the Scientific Misconduct, “…scientific journals have an equally strong moral obligation to make a clear statement when a suspect investigator has been found not guilty” ( 165 ). This was not done in this case, but Stoa-Berketvedt and her colleagues went on to report a 42-month follow-up of her initial study. Twenty-two of the original patients continued in a cimetidine intervention group and received cimetidine for eight weeks, twice a year along with behavioral strategies and a diet. The 33 subjects in the non-intervention group received neither the cimetidine nor the behavior/diet treatment. After 42 months, body weight was stable in those in the cimetidine group compared to a gain of 7.5 kg in the other group ( 166 ). Ranitidine, another histamine H-2 antagonist was tested for its potential to slow weight gain in patients receiving anti-psychotic drugs. In a meta-analysis, patients receiving ranitidine along with their anti-psychotic medication, gained less weight than their controls ( 167 ), suggesting a role for the H2 receptor in modulating energy balance under selected circumstances. Fluoxetine for Weight Loss Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) approved by the U.S. FDA to treat depression and several other conditions including obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD), bulimia nervosa, panic disorder, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder. Fluoxetine was discovered by Eli Lilly & Company in 1972 and it began widespread use in 1986 ( 168 ). The World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines includes fluoxetine, and in 2016 there were more than 23 million prescriptions for this drug, making it the 29th most prescribed medication in the United States. Fluoxetine at a dose of 60 mg per day (3 times the usual dose for treatment of depression) produced dose-related weight loss in overweight patients, which initiated studies into whether this drug, at this higher dose, could be developed as an anti-obesity medication. Initial studies up to 6 months in duration were promising, but with longer duration of treatment two unexpected
