An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


receptors and AMPA/kainite receptors. In the 1990s, Johnson & Johnson, the parent company of McNeil Pharmaceuticals, noted that topiramate use was associated with significant weight loss and initiated trials to evaluate its effectiveness as a stand-alone medication for overweight and obesity. The magnitude of the weight loss at the higher doses of 192 and 256 mg/d rivals that of the Fen/Phen combination discussed earlier ( 177 - 179 ). Reaching a weight-loss plateau at the two highest doses did not occur until nearly one year of treatment. After the initial studies, further clinical development was abandoned because of the negative effects of this drug on mental function, including memory loss and difficulties with concentration and attention. For patients with these side effects, the clinical efficacy for weight loss did not counterbalance the side effects and its development as a single agent was suspended. Zonisamide as a Single Agent for Weight Loss Zonisamide is chemically a sulfonamide that is approved by the US FDA for use in Parkinson’s Disease and as an antiepileptic drug. It has serotonergic and dopaminergic activity, as well as being an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase (like topiramate) and is an inhibitor of sodium and calcium channels. Weight loss was noted in the clinical trials for the treatment of epilepsy. To evaluate its potential use in management of obesity, Gadde et al conducted in a 16-week randomized controlled trial in 60 obese subjects ( 180 ) who were prescribed a calorie-restricted diet and a placebo or doses of zonisamide 100 mg/d and increasing to 400 mg/d. The zonisamide group lost 6.6% of initial body weight at 16 weeks compared to 1% in the placebo group. In a second randomized placebo-controlled trial, 225 patients with obesity received either placebo or zonisamide 200 mg/d or 400 mg/d. Neurological, psychiatric, and gastrointestinal adverse events occurred in the zonisamide-treated groups, but weight loss in the placebo-treated group was 4.0 kg after 1 year, 4.4 kg in the group receiving zonisamide 200 mg/d and 7.3 kg in the group receiving zonisamide 400 mg/d ( 181 ). Similar to topiramate, for patients with these side effects, the clinical efficacy does not outrank them enough to use as an anti-obesity medication. Naltrexone as a Single Agent for Weight Loss Both exogenous and endogenous opioids can stimulate food intake ( 182 ), effects that can be blocked by antagonists to opioid receptors. Naloxone, a short-term antagonist
