An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


Agent for Weight Loss Both exogenous and endogenous opioids can stimulate food intake ( 182 ), effects that can be blocked by antagonists to opioid receptors. Naloxone, a short-term antagonist to opioid receptors, reduces fat intake in experimental animals ( 183 ). This suggested that naloxone might be a potential treatment for obesity. To test this idea Atkinson et al, in1982, gave single doses of naloxone to both lean individuals and individuals with obesity and found a reduction of food intake only in those with obesity ( 184 ). The problem for naloxone as a treatment for obesity is its short duration of action. Naltrexone in contrast, is a longer-lasting derivative that has been tested in several clinical trials ( 185 - 190 ). These trials were disappointing, and naltrexone has not been tried at the higher doses that might be required to produce a reduction in weight because of its potential for hepatic toxicity. In 1992 de Zwaan and Mitchell concluded in a review of naloxone and naltrexone ( 191 ) that “studies do not justify the routine use of naloxone and naltrexone in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome, obesity, bulimia nervosa, or anorexia nervosa because of their unprofitable risk/benefit ratios, although further work, particularly focused on some of the newer antagonists, should be undertaken.” Limited duration of action, limited efficacy, and toxicity at higher doses ( 192 ) were the downfall of opioid receptor antagonists as single anti-obesity agents. Ecopipam and Dopamine D1/D5 Receptor Modulators for Weight Loss Dopamine in the dorsal striatum of the brain is involved with the behavioral restraint of eating and the emotional components regulating eating behavior in human beings ( 193 ). This suggests that blockade of dopamine receptors might be a strategy for management patients with obesity. At least five dopamine receptors have been identified ( 194 ). The D1 and D5 receptors are very similar to each other, as are D2, D3, and D4 receptors. Agonists to the D1/D5 receptors reduce the duration of feeding primarily by decreasing the frequency of eating. On the other hand, D2 agonists reduce the rate of eating. A role for D1-like receptors in modulation of food intake has been established in animal models ( 195 ), suggesting that such a drug might have clinical use. Ecopipam is a selective dopamine D1/D5 antagonist that was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, multicenter trials that compared ecopipam (n=1667) to
