An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


suggesting that such a drug might have clinical use. Ecopipam is a selective dopamine D1/D5 antagonist that was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, multicenter trials that compared ecopipam (n=1667) to placebo (n=1118) in individuals with obesity, with or without type 2 diabetes ( 196 ). In dose-ranging Phase 2 studies, subjects received 10, 30, or 100 mg daily for 12 weeks. In a 52-week Phase 3 study, individuals received a single 50 mg or 100 mg daily dose of ecopipam combined with a weight loss program. Primary efficacy variables were the proportion of subjects losing more than 5% of their weight from baseline at 12 weeks (Phase 2) or the distribution of percentage weight loss from baseline at 52 weeks (Phase 3). After 12 weeks in the Phase 2 study, 26% of subjects administered 100 mg/d of ecopipam lost more than 5% of their weight vs. 6% of placebo-treated subjects (P<0.01). In the Phase 3 studies, ecopipam 100 mg produced a 3.1% to 4.3% greater weight loss than placebo at 52 weeks. More subjects administered ecopipam vs. placebo achieved a 5% to 10% or >10% weight loss in two phase 3 studies in the patients without diabetes. These clinical trials were stopped prematurely because of unexpected psychiatric adverse events which occurred in 31% of those receiving ecopipam compared to 15% in those receiving placebo. These events included depression, anxiety, and suicidal ideation. Although ecopipam was effective for achieving and maintaining modest weight loss in subjects with obesity, the adverse effects on mood terminated its development as a drug for the management of weight loss ( 196 ). As is apparent in several non-selective centrally-acting medications, off target effects in the brain (in this case depression and suicidal ideation) can derail development or proceeding to approval. Dopamine D2 Agonists as Single Weight Loss Agents Prolactinomas are tumors of the pituitary gland that produce prolactin, and they are associated with weight gain. These tumors can be treated medically with dopamine D2 agonists such as cabergoline or bromocriptine. Bromocriptine, a specific D2 agonist, has been reported to decrease body weight in patients with obesity ( 197 ), but in a systematic analysis of this drug and cabergoline in the treatment of prolactinomas, there was no significant effect on body weight, although there was a significant reduction in hemoglobin A1c in patients with diabetes ( 198 ). A form of this drug (bromocriptine) is
