An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


was no significant effect on body weight, although there was a significant reduction in hemoglobin A1c in patients with diabetes ( 198 ). A form of this drug (bromocriptine) is available for the treatment of diabetes ( 199 ), but it does not affect body weight. Cannabinoid Receptor Antagonists The rimonabant story is one of a “near-miss” with promising beginnings but a sad, and possibly inappropriate, ending. Tetrahydrocannabinol is the active ingredient of Marihuana-Cannabis and was shown to stimulate food intake in 1984. There are two endogenous cannabinoid receptors CB-1 (470 amino acids in length) and CB-2 (360 amino acids in length) that were identified six years later. The CB-1 receptor has almost all the amino acids that comprise the CB-2 receptor with additional amino acids at both ends. CB-1 receptors are distributed throughout the brain in the areas related to feeding. They are also found on fat cells and in the gastrointestinal track. The CB-2 receptors are primarily on immune cells. There are two well-characterized endogenous endocannabinoids called anandamide and 2-arachidonyl glycerol. When injected into the brain, these endocannabinoids increase food intake. The rewarding properties of cannabinoid agonists are mediated through the mesolimbic dopaminergic system ( 200 - 203 ). Rimonabant was the first specific antagonist of the CB-1 receptor. It inhibits intake of sweet foods by marmosets and reduces intake of high-fat foods in rats. Whereas intake of standard rat chow is not affected by rimonabant. In addition to inhibiting the intake of highly palatable foods, pair-feeding experiments in diet-induced obese rats showed that the rimonabant-treated animals lost 21% of their body weight compared with 14% in the pair-fed controls ( 202 - 205 ). With this background and the safety of the drug, a clinical program testing rimonabant as a potential weight loss drug was initiated and four phase 3 trials of rimonabant for the treatment of patients with obesity have been published. The first trial, called Rimonabant in Obesity (RIO)-Europe ( 206 ), was intended to be conducted only in Europe, but slow recruitment led to inclusion of 276 subjects from the United States. In this 2-year trial, a total of 1507 patients with a BMI > 30 kg/m 2 without comorbidities or a BMI >27 kg/m 2 with hypertension or dyslipidemia were stratified on whether they lost more or less than 2 kg during a run-in period. They were then randomized in a ratio of
