An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


kg/m 2 with hypertension or dyslipidemia were stratified on whether they lost more or less than 2 kg during a run-in period. They were then randomized in a ratio of 1:2:2 to receive placebo, 5 mg/day or 20 mg/day of rimonabant. A diet with 600 kcal/day below energy requirements was prescribed. There was a 4-week run-in period followed by 52 weeks of drug treatment. Of those who started, 61% (920) completed the 1st year. From baseline at the end of the run-in period, those in the placebo group who completed the trial lost 2.3 kg, those on the low-dose of rimonabant lost 3.6 kg, and those receiving the high-dose group lost 8.6 kg. After this and other extensive trials, Rimonabant was approved in Europe, but was not approved by the FDA because of concerns about suicidality. As this concern grew, marketing of rimonabant was suspended in Europe on Oct 23, 2008 just over 2 years after its approval because of these psychiatric problems. Against the problem of depression and suicidal ideation, were benefits on blood pressure, lipid profile, and the cardiovascular risk profile. At the time of its removal from the market, several trials were on-going. In the SERENADE Trial ( 207 ), rimonabant significantly improved control and body weight in patients with diabetes. In the ARPEGGIO trial, also in patients with diabetes, rimonabant proved to be beneficial for control of diabetes and for the loss of weight ( 208 ). Progression of arterial thickening over 30 months was not slowed by rimonabant, compared to placebo ( 209 ). This and several other studies suggest that a 5% loss of body weight over a 30-month period with rimonabant is not sufficient to modify the progression of atherosclerosis in the carotid artery in obese patients with metabolic syndrome. In another cardiovascular outcome trial 18 months of treatment failed to show an effect for rimonabant on disease progression with the primary end point of percent atheroma volume (PAV) but, tantalizingly, there was a favorable effect on the secondary end point of total atheroma volume (TAV) ( 210 ). Ultimately, the CRESCENDO trial to examine cardiovascular outcomes in a total 18,695 patients randomized to rimonabant or placebo was stopped prematurely due to concerns about increased suicide rates in individuals receiving rimonabant ( 211 ). This led to termination of all the rimonabant studies along with studies of other cannabinoid antagonists. Whether the benefits
