An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


about increased suicide rates in individuals receiving rimonabant ( 211 ). This led to termination of all the rimonabant studies along with studies of other cannabinoid antagonists. Whether the benefits would have outweighed the risks is something we will never know. In a recurring theme for centrally acting agents, specificity for both receptor type and brain location are important in avoiding off-target behavioral effects that can doom an anti-obesity medication. The two cannabinoid receptors are also widely distributed and include the liver and fat cells, which raises the possibility that drugs acting only on the peripheral CB-1 receptors might be effective treatments for obesity. Experimental data in animals shows that this is indeed possible, and we will have to await further developments in this area ( 212 ). Yohimbine Yohimbine is an alpa-2 adrenergic antagonist that modulates lipolytic response to epinephrine. It is an indole alkaloid derived from the bark of the Pausinystalia johimbe tree in Africa as well as from an unrelated tree in South America ( Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco ) . Yohimbine is a plant extract sold as a dietary supplement that has had a number of claims for beneficial responses, including as an aphrodisiac, weight control, and erectile dysfunction, but data supporting any of these claims is scant or absent ( 213 ). Drugs That Increase Energy Expenditure As unwanted weight gain leading to overweight and obesity results from a prolonged positive imbalance between energy intake and energy expenditure, it would be ideal for an anti-obesity medicine (or combination of medicines) to impact both. Energy expenditure can be partitioned into several components ( 214 ). The first is basal or resting energy expenditure, which is the energy needed to maintain body temperature, brain activity, cellular gradients for sodium and potassium, cardiac function, respiration, and other “basal” functions. This so-called “basal” or “resting” energy expenditure accounts for about 2/3 of total daily energy expenditure in most people and can be modified with exposure to cold or heat. The second component is the energy needed to move the body (activity), which is also the most variable component since it depends on the amount and intensity of the activity performed. Some very active people can increase total energy expenditure by 50% or more above basal levels, whereas in others with low levels of physical activity, this will account for less than 25% of daily energy use. The final component of energy
