An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


or more above basal levels, whereas in others with low levels of physical activity, this will account for less than 25% of daily energy use. The final component of energy expenditure is that involved with the ingestion, digestion, and absorption of food. This is the so-called “thermic effect of food,” or in earlier times, “specific dynamic action.” The regulatory model of body weight would point to development of anti-obesity drugs that increase energy expenditure through promotion of negative energy balance. Thyroid hormone is the prototypical thermogenic agent and has already been discussed in detail. Other drugs in several categories are considered below based on their mechanisms of action ( 215 ). The first are agents that are sympathomimetic amines with ephedrine at the top of the list. Next are the drugs acting on the adrenergic receptors that affect thermogenesis. The third group are the catechins, which occur naturally in tea. Finally, we discuss capsaicin that produces the feelings of “heat” on the tongue when eating hot peppers. EPHEDRA AND EPHEDRINE The story of ephedra and ephedrine, one of its active components, is mixed with good science, commercial exploitation, and governmental inadequacies. There were several key players in this story. The first is Arne Astrup, MD a professor of Medicine in Copenhagen who was a key figure in demonstrating the efficacy of using the combination of ephedrine and caffeine in the management of obesity. The second are two US Senators, Senator Orin Hatch representing the State of Utah and Senator Tom Harkin representing the State of Iowa. Finally, there is Michael Ellis, CEO of Metabolife, the largest purveyor of ephedra compounds and who is also representative of the entrepreneurs who marked their products directly to the consumer. Ephedrine with and without caffeine Ephedrine has been used to treat asthma for more than 75 years. As a sympathomimetic amine, it also stimulates thermogenesis in animals and human beings ( 216 ). In 1971 Dr. Eriksen, a Danish general practitioner in the town of Elsinore, Denmark noted that his asthmatic patients receiving ephedrine, caffeine, and phenobarbital often lost weight. Word of his “discovery” spread and by 1977 over 70,000 people were taking this compound called, appropriately, the ‘Elsinore Pill’ ( 217 ). One side effect of the Elsinore Pill was skin rashes, which were thought to be related to the phenobarbital. To understand the Elsinore pill better, Malchow-Moller et al. conducted a trial
