An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


side effect of the Elsinore Pill was skin rashes, which were thought to be related to the phenobarbital. To understand the Elsinore pill better, Malchow-Moller et al. conducted a trial comparing ephedrine and caffeine without phenobarbital against diethylpropion, a known anorectic drug ( 217 ). Over the 12 weeks of treatment both active medications produced a similar weight loss of just over 8 kg, which was much more than placebo. Following-up on this lead, Astrup and his colleagues explored ephedrine alone and in combination with caffeine as a potential treatment for obesity ( 218 ). The duration of the thermogenic effect of ephedrine is amplified by theophylline or caffeine, which slows the degradation of cyclic-AMP. Caffeine and other xanthines appear to prevent the body from becoming resistant to the effects of ephedrine by inhibiting phosphodiesterase and the adenosine receptor ( 219 ). The response to ephedrine was dose-related and persisted during chronic treatment. The mechanism by which ephedrine affects body weight is, in part, due to its effect upon thermogenesis, but it also clearly reduces food intake. Several clinical trials with ephedrine and ephedrine plus caffeine have been reported ( 220 ). In a 6-month trial, Astrup et al. compared placebo, caffeine 600 mg/day, ephedrine 60 mg/day, and the combination of caffeine 600 mg/day with ephedrine 60 mg/day in 180 subjects with obesity ( 221 ). Withdrawals were equal in all groups with 141 subjects completing the trial. Weight loss was significantly greater in the group receiving the combination of caffeine and ephedrine (16.6 kg vs. 13.2 kg, P = 0.0015). Weight loss in the caffeine-only group and the ephedrine-only group was not different from that in the placebo group. Side effects of tremor, insomnia, and dizziness were transient and by eight weeks were no different than the placebo group. Blood pressure fell equally in all four groups. After six months the medication was stopped for two weeks to assess withdrawal symptoms. One hundred twenty-seven subjects then entered a 6-month open-label study of caffeine 600 mg/day with ephedrine 60 mg/day ( 221 ). The 99 subjects who completed the study lost an additional 1.1 kg, and no clinically significant withdrawal symptoms were observed. The combination of caffeine and ephedrine, like the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine produced 16% weight loss during the initial six months that was maintained over the ensuing six months. In a 15-wk trial, patients with obesity
