An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine produced 16% weight loss during the initial six months that was maintained over the ensuing six months. In a 15-wk trial, patients with obesity lost significantly more weight when receiving ephedrine 20 mg and caffeine 200 mg daily compared to patients receiving dexfenfluramine 30 mg a day ( 222 ). Based on these and other data, the Danish Health Authority approved the use of ephedrine and caffeine as a combination drug for the management of obesity. After problems with ephedra, the plant-based source of ephedrine surfaced in this United States in the 1990s, marketing authority was withdrawn in Denmark. Ephedra: An Herbal Medication Ephedra has its historical roots going back several thousand years in Chinese medicine. Ephedrine is one of the principal alkaloids in the ephedra plant and was originally isolated by Nagai in 1885 and then rediscovered by Chen and Schmidt in the 1920s ( 223 , 224 ). During the middle of the 20 th century, ephedrine was a major drug used to treat asthma, only falling out of favor when newer and better drugs, such as amphetamine, were developed. Ephedra sinica, also known by its Chinese name Ma huang, has been used medicinally to treat asthma, hay fever, and common colds. It is a source of six principal components, including ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which are sympathomimetic amines that provide the stimulant and decongestant properties of this plant. Dietary supplements containing ephedra alkaloids were widely marketed over the counter for treatment of obesity in the 1990s. This direct marketing to the public without having to go through the Food and Drug Administration to prove their safety and efficacy was made possible when the US Congress passed the Dietary Supplements and Health Education Act in 1994 (DSHEA) ( 225 ). This law effectively put dietary supplements out of the reach of regulation by the US Food and Drug Administration. The work described above on ephedrine by Astrup and his colleagues in the 1980s and 1990s provided the rationale for the mass marketing of ephedra to the public in the United States since there were no regulatory barriers in the way. Under the DSHEA act, products could be marketed if a health claim was not raised in the marketing materials. However, weight loss was an obvious market for these products. Metabolife became one of the leading distributors of ephedra products and amassed sales that
