An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


not raised in the marketing materials. However, weight loss was an obvious market for these products. Metabolife became one of the leading distributors of ephedra products and amassed sales that surpassed a billion dollars a year. Although they were not regulated by the FDA, they needed to protect themselves from US Federal Trade Commission, which could go after them for false advertising. Based on the work of Astrup et al ( 221 ), Metabolife commissioned a study of their product compared to placebo, hopeful that the outcome would support their claims. Indeed, a scientific paper by Boozer C, et. al. did just that ( 226 ). However, complaints that ephedra alkaloids, such as those marketed by Metabolife, were unsafe began to reach the US Food and Drug Administration, including serious side effects and deaths. Unknown to the FDA at the time, Metabolife had received over 14,000 complaints of adverse events associated with its product that were not initially made public. In response to accumulating evidence of adverse effects and deaths related to ephedra, in 1997 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reviewed the data and then finally banned the sale of supplements containing ephedra in 2004. This ban was challenged in court by the manufacturers of ephedra products, but it was ultimately upheld by the US Court of Appeals of the Tenth Circuit in 2006. Documentation of adverse events that could be attributed to unregulated ephedra supplements published in a report in JAMA ( 227 ). These effects include severe skin reactions, irritability, nervousness, dizziness, trembling, insomnia, headache, dehydration, profuse perspiration, itchy scalp and skin, vomiting, and hyperthermia. Cardiovascular effects including irregular heartbeat, heart attack, stroke and death were the most serious. Michael Ellis, co-founder of Metabolife, was sentenced to six months in federal prison in 2008 for his failure to report adverse effects from his company's products to the US FDA. In the midst of this, the Dietary Supplement Industry created a public relations group called the Ephedra Education Council, to oppose the changes to the marketing of products containing ephedra, and commissioned a scientific review by a private consulting firm, which, as might be expected, reported that ephedra was safe. The Ephedra Education Council also attempted to block publication of a study confirming wide discrepancies between the labeled potency of supplements and the actual amount of ephedra in the product. Both Senators Orrin Hatch (R. Utah) and
