An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


block publication of a study confirming wide discrepancies between the labeled potency of supplements and the actual amount of ephedra in the product. Both Senators Orrin Hatch (R. Utah) and Tom Harkin (D. Iowa), authors of the Dietary Supplements Health and Education Act, questioned the scientific basis for the US FDA's proposed labeling changes and suggested that the number of problems reported were insufficient to warrant regulatory action. At the time, Senator Hatch's son was working for a firm hired to lobby Congress and the US FDA on behalf of ephedra manufacturers—a potential conflict of interest. BETA-AGONISTS Broadly, adipose tissue is divided into “white” fat, “beige” fat and “brown” fat. Beige and brown adipocytes are progressively enriched with iron-containing mitochondria, resulting in progressively darker brownish hues. Animal studies reported that heat production by brown fat in mammals could be increased by diet. The thermogenic response to a meal was mediated, in part, by release of norepinephrine from the rich supply of sympathetic nerves that supply brown adipose tissue and could thus be blocked by severing the sympathetic nerves to this tissue. The adrenergic receptor mediating this response was different from the previously defined beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptors and was subsequently named the beta-3 receptor ( 228 ). Activation of the beta-3 receptor increased the activity of a mitochondrial uncoupling protein, allowing for free passage of proteins across the inner membrane, thereby short-circuiting the production of high energy phosphate bonds in ATP during metabolism and “wasting” the energy instead as heat. Stock and Rothwell ( 229 ) showed that brown adipose tissue plays a key role in dissipating additional calories rather than storing them as fat. In the animal that has overeaten a highly palatable diet, there is a thermogenic response to norepinephrine that is blocked by propranolol, a β-adrenergic blocking drug, confirming the importance of β-adrenergic receptors in this response. Cloning of the beta-3 adrenergic receptor by Strosberg ( 230 ) opened up the way to develop drugs that could increase energy expenditure ( 231 , 232 ). The first generation of beta-3 agonists were developed against the rodent receptor and highlight the problems associated with cross-species differences. A few of these compounds were tested in human beings, and the data are summarized in Table 4 . Four drugs demonstrated an increase in energy expenditure and an increase in heart rate (BRL 26830A; BRL35135; Ro16–8714; Ro40–2148). The only first
