An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


therapeutic response with the most specific drugs developed against the human beta-3 receptor have been disappointing too ( 242 , 243 ). TAK-677 is a novel beta-3 agonist that was tested over four weeks in 65 healthy younger men and women with obesity and a BMI of 33.9 ± 2.1 (mean ± SD). Subjects were randomized to 3 groups and after 28 days of treatment with placebo, 0.2 mg or 1 mg in two divided doses daily, the 24-hour energy expenditure in a whole room calorimeter fell by 39 kcal/d in the placebo group and rose by 13 kcal/d with the higher dose of TAK-677. Heart rate increased significantly by 8 beats/min in the higher dose group. This drug was not developed further because of the concerns for potential CV toxicity ( 242 ). The recent identification of brown adipose tissue by positron emission tomography in human beings may reawaken interest in the idea of enhancing thermogenesis. Studies on the beta-3 adrenergic receptor demonstrate several things: First, drugs developed based on biology of other species may not work in humans. Second, predicting the in vivo effects of agonist drugs from in vitro data can be hazardous. And third, the action on other (off target) receptors, the heart in this case, may vitiate the targeted biology, in this case energy expenditure ( 244 ). Despite these disappointing results, thermogenic drugs for the treatment of obesity are still under investigation, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-α and -γ agonists and retinoids. Although much of this research is still in the early stages, the β-3 adrenergic receptor agonist (ARA) mirabegron, approved for the treatment of overactive bladder, has been studied in humans. Preclinical results suggest that β -3 ARAs could also improve obesity-associated metabolic diseases by increasing thermogenesis in BAT, lipolysis in white adipose tissue, or insulin sensitivity. A small study of 14 women receiving 100 mg/d of mirabegron XR for 4 weeks demonstrated increased activity in BAT as well as improved insulin sensitivity ( 245 ). Table 4. Clinical Studies with B-3 Adrenergic Agonists View in own window Author (Ref No) Year Subjects Length Diet Energy Expend Heart Rate Weight Loss Comments Placebo Drug Placebo Drug Beecham Research Laboratories (BRL) 26836A Zed ( 246 ) 1985 Obese (14F/2M) 6 wk Restricted -- -- -6.56 kg -7.3% -9.34 kg -10.1% Abstract; RCT; Initial weight 92.7 kg drug grp; 89.8 kg placebo grp. Abraham (
