An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


of body weight and helped to unravel the genetic and molecular basis for the neurocircuitry implicated in the pathophysiologic changes that lead to unwanted weight gain and obesity. Following the discovery of leptin and advancement of the weight regulation model, obesity wasn’t “your fault” anymore. In this section we will discuss several peptide drugs, including cholecystokinin, human growth hormone, inhibitors of insulin release, human chorionic gonadotrophin, leptin, and ciliary neurotrophic factor. CHOLECYSTOKININ Cholecystokinin (CCK), also called pancreozymin, is a gastrointestinal peptide produced in and secreted from enteroendocrine “I” cells in the duodenum. CCK, along with gastrin, which is secreted from the “G” cells in the stomach, share five C-terminal amino acids. The cholecystokinin group of peptides are produced as a 150-amino acid precursor called pre-pro-cholecystokinin with several forms identified by the number of amino acids they contain, e.g., CCK58, CCK33, CCK22 and CCK8 with 58, 33, 22 or 8 amino acids respectively. Most CCK peptides have a sulfate group attached to a tyrosine located seven residues from the C-terminal end of the molecule. This modification is crucial for the ability of CCK to activate the cholecystokinin-1 receptor as the non-sulfated CCK peptides are inactive. When injected parenterally, CCK-8 produces a dose-related reduction in food intake in lean experimental animals and human beings with obesity ( 257 - 259 ). There are two CCK receptors: CCK1 (CCKA) and CCK2 (CCKB). The former is located primarily in the gastrointestinal track and the latter in the brain. Peptide analogs of CCK provide one avenue for developing drugs that could reduce food intake ( 260 , 261 ). Another approach to manipulating CCK is with benzodiazepines that act as CCK agonists ( 262 ). A third approach is to use antagonists to proteolytic degradation of CCK and CCK-releasing factors in the GI track. CCK releases digestive enzymes from the pancreas and stimulates the release of bile from the gall bladder. Fatty acids and certain amino acids are the major stimulators of CCK release. CCK suppresses hunger by decreasing the rate of gastric emptying. It also stimulates the vagus nerve, an effect which is blocked by capsaicin. Vagotomy prevents the reduction in food intake produced by the peripheral injection of CCK, suggesting that afferent messages generated in the gastroduodenal/hepatic circuit are relayed to the brain by the vagus nerve ( 220 ). These vagal messages initiated by CCK activate several neuronal complexes in the brain
