An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


generated in the gastroduodenal/hepatic circuit are relayed to the brain by the vagus nerve ( 220 ). These vagal messages initiated by CCK activate several neuronal complexes in the brain including the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS), the lateral parabrachial nucleus, and the central nucleus of the amygdala, as assessed by expression of the early gene product c- fos ( 263 ). The production of early satiety by CCK does not require an intact medial hypothalamus because it occurs in human beings with hypothalamic injury and obesity ( 264 ). In human studies CCK reduces food intake by 6–63% (average 27%) in lean subjects and 13–33% (average 21%) in individuals with obesity, with a small number of studies reporting GI side effects ( 220 ). However, animal studies suggest that suppressed food intake returns to baseline quickly (a true form of tolerance) and any initial weight loss is not sustained. Currently, no drugs appear to be in development using this pathway, suggesting limited effectiveness or potential side effects. HUMAN GROWTH HORMONE Individuals who are obese secrete less human growth hormone (hGH) ( 265 ). This is important in relation to unwanted weight gain because this hormone enhances lipolysis ( 266 ), increases metabolic rate ( 267 ), and leads to changes in fat patterning in children with hypopituitarism treated with growth hormone ( 268 ). Early studies with hGH showed that it would lead to reduced protein loss in people with obesity ( 269 ). In adults with growth hormone deficiency, treatment with hGH reduces body fat ( 270 ), whereas effective treatment of patients with acromegaly who secrete excessive amounts of growth hormone reduces circulating growth hormone levels and is associated with an increase in body fat ( 271 ). Most trials of human growth hormone in patients with obesity have been short term, lasting from 21 days to five weeks ( 272 ), but a few have lasted up to 39 weeks ( 273 ). Most of the subjects were women. Metabolic rate was increased in those patients when measured, and respiratory exchange rate was reduced, indicating that more fat was being burned (oxidized). Insulin-like growth factor I, the liver-derived hormone released by hGH, increased FFA levels, and the rate of fat loss relative to protein loss ( 272 ). However, a number of side effects were also noted ( 273 ) that reduce the enthusiasm for
