An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


and the rate of fat loss relative to protein loss ( 272 ). However, a number of side effects were also noted ( 273 ) that reduce the enthusiasm for long-term treatment with hGH. In a long-term, randomized placebo-controlled trial lasting nine months, 15 men were treated with hGH daily and 15 with placebo injection ( 274 ). In these men, GH enhanced fat loss with a larger percentage of this loss coming from visceral fat than from the subcutaneous fat. In a review in 200 8, Rixhon et al noted that treatment with growth hormone affects fat distribution, may or may not improve metabolic profile, but does not lead to much actual weight loss ( 275 ). Human growth hormone is thus important for growth and maintaining a healthy body composition (increased lean mass, less visceral fat), but its value is obesity is limited by the fact that it does not produce weight loss. MANIPULATION OF INSULIN SECRETION BY DIAZOXIDE OR OCTREOTIDE Treatment with peripheral insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes with the goal of near normalization of glucose control is well known to produce weight gain ( 276 ). One hypothesis for the development of obesity is that dietary carbohydrate (glucose) stimulates insulin release, which in turn promotes obesity ( 277 ), although this hypothesis is thought by many to be overly simplistic ( 278 ). Even though insulin has been clearly established to be an important mediator of normal weight regulation through its central actions and that insulin resistance or deficiency leads to hyperphagia and weight gain ( 279 , 280 ), a few studies with experimental animals and in small numbers of patients with obesity following hypothalamic injury have implicated hyperinsulinemia as a potential driver of weight gain, and that lowering insulin can reduce food intake and body fat ( 281 , 282 ). There are at least two ways of reducing insulin secretion pharmacologically: the administration of diazoxide or the use of octreotide. Diazoxide lowers insulin secretion from the pancreatic beta cell and increases glucose release from the liver. Octreotide is an octapeptide that mimics the naturally occurring somatostatin, also called growth hormone inhibiting hormone. Its effects are mediated by SSTR2 and SSTR5 receptors, which inhibit the release of several hormones, including growth hormone, insulin and glucagon, and thus is non-specific in its effect. The hypothesis that inhibiting insulin release could treat obesity was
