An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


which inhibit the release of several hormones, including growth hormone, insulin and glucagon, and thus is non-specific in its effect. The hypothesis that inhibiting insulin release could treat obesity was tested by Lustig et al. who treated patients with hypothalamic obesity using octreotide. In a randomized clinical trial of 18 patients, Lustig and colleagues demonstrated that octreotide could indeed suppress insulin levels, and at the same time resulted in stabilized body weight and BMI in this difficult to manage population with obesity ( 283 ). In a follow-up study, Lustig et al treated 172 (28M/144F) patients with evidence of insulin hypersecretion for six months with one of three doses of octreotide or placebo ( 284 ). The higher doses produced small but statistically significant weight loss, which appeared to be greater in those with higher insulin levels. The data were mixed, but those with the greatest decrease in insulin did show the largest reductions in weight ( 283 , 284 ). A third study tested octreotide in 20 women with polycystic ovary syndrome who received a low-calorie diet for one month followed by 6 months of diet and either octreotide or placebo. There was no difference in weight loss, but there were improvements in hyperandrogenism and the insulin-IGF-I system ( 285 ). Because of its non-specific inhibition of hormonal secretion, poor efficacy in weight loss, and intolerable side effects in many patients (nausea, vomiting, and induction of type 2 diabetes due to inhibition of insulin secretion), octreotide has not been pursued further as a clinical therapy for weight management and cannot truly be considered a test of the “insulin as obesogenic hormone” hypothesis. On the other hand, diazoxide has more specificity as an inhibitor of insulin secretion and has also been tested in patients with obesity. In a meta-analysis of seven studies, four with diazoxide and three with octreotide, Huang et al reported that suppression of insulin secretion in patients with obesity led to reduced body weight and fat mass and unchanged lean mass at the cost of slightly increased blood glucose ( 286 ). While this concept merits further development, like many complex physiological systems, insulin has several recognized roles in governing fat mass. In addition to its capacity to enhance peripheral fat storage, preclinical models have demonstrated that insulin acts as both a satiety factor and feed-back hormonal signal reflecting adipose tissue stores that inhibits appetite and enhances
