An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


to enhance peripheral fat storage, preclinical models have demonstrated that insulin acts as both a satiety factor and feed-back hormonal signal reflecting adipose tissue stores that inhibits appetite and enhances energy expenditure ( 279 , 280 ). These functions of insulin, which have strong support in animal studies, plus the increased risk for causing type 2 diabetes when insulin secretion is pharmacologically suppressed, has dampened enthusiasm for this line of investigation. HUMAN CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN: 1954-2011 The story of the use of human Chorionic Gonadotropin (HCG) in the treatment of obesity involves several groups of actors. The first was Dr. Simeons who described the HCG protocols in 1954 and 1956. The second were the clinics that have used this hormone as a treatment for obesity. The third were the investigators who conducted clinical trials to test the effectiveness of HCG treatment plan. And the final actors were the US Government and its regulatory apparatus. Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) is a peptide that comes from the placenta after implantation of a fetus. Its role is to maintain hormonal activity during part of pregnancy. Concentrations of HCG in the blood and urine provide the basis for pregnancy tests. The biological function of HCG and its chemical composition is similar to that of luteinizing hormone produced in the pituitary. HCG maintains hormonal secretion from the corpus luteum during pregnancy. Some early experimental studies with HCG suggested it may have metabolic effects on adipose tissue, but these remain to be confirmed ( 287 , 288 ). The clinical use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) in the treatment of obesity can be dated to a paper published in the prestigious medical journal The Lancet in 1954. A British Endocrinologist, A.T. Simeon’s ( 289 , 290 ) described studies in India on pregnant women and on “fat boys” with pituitary problems (Fröhlich’s Syndrome) who were eating a calorie-deficient diet. He noted that when treated with HCG, both groups lost weight and had a reduction in appetite. His clinical method subsequently appeared in a small booklet called Pounds and Inches that outlined his program in detail ( 291 ). This program involved a 500 total kcal per day diet along with daily injections of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) lasting between 20 and 40 days. There is little doubt that adhering to a 500 kcal/d diet will produce significant weight loss in a short period of time. The question
