An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


lasting between 20 and 40 days. There is little doubt that adhering to a 500 kcal/d diet will produce significant weight loss in a short period of time. The question was, however, whether the injections of HCG contributed pharmacologically to the effect or whether they were simply a placebo. In an early study, Carne compared 20 patients prescribed the 500 kcal/d diet half of whom received injections of saline and half HCG ( 292 ). They also compared a second group eating the same diet with half receiving shots of HCG and the other half receiving no injection. The authors concluded that patients receiving injections lost more weight than those not receiving injections, but that injections of HCG were not better than injections of saline. Other studies subsequently published came to the same conclusion: treatment with HCG was not significantly different from treatment with placebo. A young physician, Frank Greenway, MD working with me carried out one of these studies ( 293 ). We randomly assigned patients to receive “placebo injections” or injections of HCG. All patients were instructed in a 500 kcal/d diet. As expected on such a severe caloric restriction, all patients rapidly lost weight, but there was no difference in weight loss between those receiving HCG and those receiving placebo injections in this study. Based on this and other studies, the US FDA ordered the following disclaimer in advertisements for HCG clinics. “These weight reduction treatments include the injection of HCG, a drug which has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration as safe and effective in the treatment of obesity or weight control. There is no substantial evidence that HCG increases weight loss beyond that resulting from caloric restriction, that it causes a more attractive or "normal" distribution of fat, or that it decreases the hunger and discomfort associated with calorie-restrictive diets.” Despite this negative clinical trial data, the popularity of treatment with HCG was so great that it became the basis for a group of clinics dispensing it along with the 500 kcal/d diet. Ten years after the FDA made its pronouncement, there is still no evidence that HCG increases weight loss. To investigate the use of this treatment, a Los Angeles Times reporter, Robert Steinbrook, wrote a story titled “Doctors Use of Obesity Treatment Debunked by FDA” ( 294 ). For this story, Steinbrook “randomly telephoned 40 medical weight-loss programs that advertised
