An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


reporter, Robert Steinbrook, wrote a story titled “Doctors Use of Obesity Treatment Debunked by FDA” ( 294 ). For this story, Steinbrook “randomly telephoned 40 medical weight-loss programs that advertised in Los Angeles yellow pages [and] found 19 that offered HCG shots, including the Lindora Medical Clinic, one of Southern California’s largest chains of weight-loss clinics.” In his article he said: “At Lindora medical clinics, the patient information booklet states that HCG works by “mobilizing your abnormal fat into the blood stream as nutrients. This permits you to accept a very low caloric intake so that you can lose weight rapidly and feel well and not be overly hungry.” Steinbrook went on to say: “The FDA’s warning directly contradicts those assertions.” In a telephone interview with Dr. Marshall Stamper, Lindora’s founder and owner Stamper said that “Most of the patients that come through the clinic use [HCG].” However, as Steinbrook noted in his story, “HCG shots have been condemned by the American Medical Association, the California Medical Association, and the Federal Trade Commission on the basis of studies in the Journal of the American Medical Association and elsewhere in the mid-1970s that concluded the shots were no more effective than salt-water placebo injections or diet alone.” In his phone interview Dr. Stamper went on to say “They [patients] prefer it [HCG] to other methods,” “adding that he uses the shots himself on occasion for arthritis of his fingers, another condition for which the FDA has not approved HCG. We tell the patients point-blank that it doesn’t cause weight loss, but that they will do better on it. I feel the patients have definitely benefited. I feel it goes beyond the placebo effect,” Stamper said. In 1995, a full ten years after Steinbrook’s story, HCG was still in use. A meta-analysis of studies with HCG published in 1995 ( 295 ) found that studies of HCG were generally of poor quality and the authors of this review concluded that "there is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity; it does not bring about weight-loss or fat-redistribution, nor does it reduce hunger or induce a feeling of well-being.” ( 295 ) Nonetheless, interest in the "HCG diet" continues into the 21 st century as told in the story by Kevin Mark Trudeau published April 2007 and called The Weight Loss Cure "They" Don't Want You to Know
