An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


continues into the 21 st century as told in the story by Kevin Mark Trudeau published April 2007 and called The Weight Loss Cure "They" Don't Want You to Know About . The book describes a weight loss plan using HCG similar to the one published by Simeons in 1954 using human chorionic gonadotrophin ( 296 ). Wikipedia describes Kevin Mark Trudeau as: “….an American fraudster, author, salesman, and pool enthusiast, known for promotion of his books and resulting legal cases involving the Federal Trade commission (FTC). His ubiquitous late-night infomercials, which promoted unsubstantiated health, diet, and financial advice, earned him a fortune but eventually resulted in civil and criminal penalties for fraud, larceny, and contempt of court. In the early 1990s, Trudeau was convicted of larceny and credit card fraud. In 1998, he was accused of grossly misrepresenting the contents of his book, The Weight-Loss Cure “They” Don’t Want You to Know About. [The book uses the Simeon’s approach]. In a 2004 settlement, Trudeau agreed to pay a $500,000 fine and cease marketing of all products except his books, which are protected under the First Amendment. However, in 2011, he was fined $37.6 million for violating the 2004 settlement, and ordered to post a $2 million bond before engaging in any future infomercial advertising. In 2013, facing further prosecution for violations of the 2011 agreement and non-payment of the $37-million judgment, Trudeau filed for bankruptcy protection. His claims of insolvency were challenged by FTC lawyers, who maintained that he was hiding money in shell companies, and cited examples of continued lavish spending, such as $359 for a haircut. In November 2013, Trudeau was convicted of criminal contempt, and was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison. He will be eligible for release in 2022. Infomercials starring Trudeau and promoting his books — under the auspices of a private California corporation of undisclosed ownership — continue to air regularly on United States television stations.” ( 297 ) Finally, on December 6, 2011, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prohibited the sale of over-the-counter diet products like HCG and indicated that they were fraudulent. Even later, on November 15, 2016, the American Medical Association (AMA) passed a policy statement saying that "The use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) for weight loss is inappropriate." There is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity. The authors
