An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


saying that "The use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) for weight loss is inappropriate." There is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity. The authors stated “…the use of HCG should be regarded as an inappropriate therapy for weight reduction…” Yet, to this day, the internet still contains information about the HCG Diet, HCG Diet Cookbooks, and products claiming to contain HCG. LEPTIN The ‘obese’ mouse is a recessively inherited form of obesity that provided a major breakthrough in understanding the basic biology of food intake and regulation of body weight. This animal is obese because it lacks leptin, a hormone produced almost entirely in adipose tissue that was discovered in 1994 by positional cloning of the “ ob ” gene from the ‘obese’ mouse ( 6 ). This discovery revolutionized the field of obesity research by making it clear that obesity, in at least some cases, was a biochemical problem and not a problem of “will power.” The principal site of action for leptin is in the brain, where activation of leptin receptors reduces food intake and increases energy expenditure, in part by increasing activity of the sympathetic nervous system. Several variants of the leptin receptor have been identified and cloned. Leptin inhibits hunger by reducing the production and release of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AGRP), both potent stimulators of hunger, and by promoting satiety through synthesis of alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH), a hormone that suppresses food intake ( 298 - 300 ). Genetic deficiency in the leptin receptor, like the absence of leptin itself, is associated with a marked increase in food intake and massive obesity in both animals and humans ( 301 , 302 ). Since leptin secretion is proportional to adipocyte cell size and number, as one might anticipate, circulating levels of leptin are highly correlated with the amount of body fat. In the cases of leptin deficient human beings and animals, leptin replacement cures their obesity by restoring normal appetite regulation and food intake and increasing the activity of the sympathetic nervous system ( 303 ). Excitement following the discovery of leptin led to the hope that it might also cure “simple” (or polygenic) obesity once and for all. To test this, a randomized, double-blind clinical trial with leptin was performed. The results were a great disappointment when published in 1999 ( 304 ). There were 54
