An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


beings with obesity, but the weight loss was disappointingly small. This fact, along with the side effects and route of injection, as well as the probability that antibodies against native leptin would develop led to discontinuation of this drug for commercial uses in obesity. On the other hand, these findings opened the door to exploration of “downstream” neuronal pathways from the leptin receptor, where it is now thought that the basis for leptin resistance resides. Although leptin failed as an agent for treatment of the patient with obesity, it did find a role in ameliorating many of the symptoms of lipodystrophy ( 306 - 309 ). During 4 months of therapy with leptin in patients with lipodystrophy, triglyceride levels decreased by 60%, liver volume was reduced by an average of 28%, and resting metabolic rate decreased significantly ( 306 ). Leptin treatment has been shown to ameliorate many of the adaptive effects associated with calorie restriction, including attenuating the decreased 24-hour energy expenditure, and thyroid hormone levels ( 310 , 311 ). Leptin also reversed many of the changes in the brain as assessed by functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) associated with hunger in subjects stabilized at 10% below their usual weight ( 312 ). Leptin has been shown to help restore normal gonadal pulsatility and menses in women with leptin deficiency ( 313 ) and hypothalamic amenorrhea, typically due to extreme exercise or anorexia nervosa ( 314 ). While considered a failure as a single agent, the possibility that leptin may resurface in combination with some other peptide or oral agent remains open for the future. CILIARY NEUROTROPHIC FACTOR The receptor subunits for leptin share sequence similarities with the hypothalamic receptor for ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), a neurocytokine that promotes neurotransmitter synthesis and neurite outgrowth in selected populations of brain cells ( 315 ). Leptin and CNTF both produce similar patterns of activation in brain cells. Treatment with CNTF in either ob/ob mice, which lack circulating leptin protein, or in db/db mice, which lack the leptin receptor, reduced the adiposity, hyperphagia, and hyperinsulinemia. CNTF was similarly effective in mice with diet-induced obesity. These findings suggest that this system may be a valuable target for drugs to manage obesity. Further support for this idea came from a published trial showing that CNTF produced weight loss in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( 316 ). A modified version of CNTF with a
