An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


for this idea came from a published trial showing that CNTF produced weight loss in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( 316 ). A modified version of CNTF with a 15 amino-acid truncation of the C-terminal end and two amino acid substitutions was developed and tested in human beings with obesity ( 317 ). Phase 3 clinical trials for this modified ciliary neurotrophic factor were conducted in 2003 and demonstrated a small positive effect in some, but not all patients. A major problem was that nearly 70% of the participants developed antibodies against the recombinant CNTF after approximately three months of treatment. In the minority of subjects who did not develop the antibodies, weight loss averaged 12.5 pounds (5.7 kg) in one year, versus 4.5 pounds (2.0 kg) for the placebo-treated group. Development of neutralizing antibodies to peptide agents such as leptin and CNTF are pitfalls to this class of drugs (peptides) as they blunt the therapeutic responses. Neuropeptide Y Regulation of food intake in the brain involves a series of pathways located at the base of the brain in the arcuate and adjacent nuclei ( 298 ). This network involves secretion of peptides that increase food intake, including neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AGRP) as well as the release of peptides that inhibit food intake, including α-MSH (derived from cleavage of pro-opiomelanocortin or POMC) and cocaine-amphetamine related peptide (CART). The effects of NPY are transmitted through 5 widely distributed receptors, Y-1, Y-2, Y-4, Y-5 and Y-6. Activation of NPY receptors Y-1 or Y-5 dramatically increases food intake in animals, and continued stimulation of the NPY receptor produces obesity, making an antagonist to these NPY receptors an attractive target for an anti-obesity drug. Seeing this opportunity, Merck and Company developed MK-0557 which is a highly selective NPY-5 receptor antagonist with 98% receptor occupancy at 1.25 mg dose vs 3% for placebo using positron emission tomography. In the initial 12-week dose-ranging study weight losses were 0.7, 1.6, 2.2, 2.1 & 2.3 kg for placebo, 0.2, 1, 5 & 25 mg dose respectively (p=0.041) ( 318 ). Despite these small weight losses, a subsequent trial lasting 52-weeks was undertaken to evaluate it use in the prevention of weight regain. The placebo group had -1.1kg weight loss compared -2.2 kg in the group treated with 1 mg/d ( 319 ). This small, but statistically significant difference was not substantial enough for further
