An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


group had -1.1kg weight loss compared -2.2 kg in the group treated with 1 mg/d ( 319 ). This small, but statistically significant difference was not substantial enough for further drug development. While this study demonstrated that the NPY-5 receptor was involved in modulating food intake and body weight in human beings, the magnitude of weight loss was too small for further commercial development of this drug. Melanocortin-4 Receptor Agonists The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) plays a central role in the regulation of food intake ( 320 , 321 ). Individuals with genetic defects in this receptor are obese and disabling this receptor in experimental animals produces obesity ( 322 ). This receptor thus appeared to be a good target for pharmaceutical intervention prompting Merck and Company to pursue it ( 323 ). Their target drug, MK-0493, went into clinical trials as a selective and novel melanocortin-4 receptor agonist. However single doses of 200 mg and 500 mg were disappointing, producing only a marginally significant effect on 24-hr food intake compared to placebo. Nonetheless in two subsequent weight loss trials (one following stepped titration), MK-0493 produced a small, but not statistically significant weight loss relative to baseline. These clinical studies suggest that an MC4R agonist alone may not be an easy clinical target. While this limited clinical response to this agonist led to a termination of the clinical development program at Merck, recent reports led the FDA to approve another agonist to the MC4 receptor, setmelanotide, which was shown to be effective in the treatment for 3 rare genetic forms of obesity representing neuro signaling defects upstream from the MC4R: leptin deficiency, dysfunction in the PCSK1 (encoding for prohormone convertase 1/3), and deficiency of POMC ( 324 , 325 ). Testosterone and Anabolic Steroids Testosterone is the principal product of the male testis and is responsible for changes which occur in males during puberty, including masculinization, voice changes, and changes in distribution of fat and muscle. Testosterone can also be produced by the adrenal gland, the ovary, and by conversion of androstenedione in peripheral tissues with 25% of testosterone in women coming from the ovary, 25% from the adrenal gland, and 50% from peripheral conversion. Levels of testosterone are associated with masculine dominance and these levels decline slowly after their peak in mid-life. Reports of disordered reproductive function in men with obesity appeared in the mid-1970s as abstracts. In one study
