An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


masculine dominance and these levels decline slowly after their peak in mid-life. Reports of disordered reproductive function in men with obesity appeared in the mid-1970s as abstracts. In one study of 10 men with massive obesity, total serum testosterone and free testosterone correlated negatively with body weight but did not correlate significantly with sex-hormone-binding-globulin ( 326 ). The effects of obesity are probably due to reduced release of gonadotrophins from the pituitary since there was a normal response of testosterone to injections of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) acting directly on the testis ( 326 ). When clomiphene, a drug which enhances the release of the pituitary gonadotrophins was given, it also produced an increased release of testosterone by enhancing release of gonadotrophins from the pituitary ( 326 ). In a recent review, low total testosterone and low serum sex hormone-binding globulin were noted to be highly prevalent in men with obesity ( 327 ). However, it was only those with low levels of free testosterone along with signs and/or symptoms of hypogonadism that should be considered androgen deficient and thus merit treatment ( 327 ). These alterations are reversible upon weight loss as summarized in pooled data from 9 analyses in which Grossmann showed a linear relationship between weight loss and the increase in total testosterone ( 328 , 329 ). Whether low testosterone is a biomarker or a true risk factor for metabolic disturbances remains unclear ( 330 ). Testosterone levels are positively related to the amount of visceral fat in women and negatively correlated with visceral fat in men ( 331 , 332 ). This inverse relationship between testosterone and visceral fat suggested that visceral fat might be reduced by treatment with testosterone. This hypothesis was tested using men with low-normal levels of circulating testosterone (≤ 0.20 nmol/liter) and a BMI greater than 25 kg/m 2 ( 333 ). In the first study, testosterone was given orally twice daily for 8 months in doses of 80 mg. The 11 men who received testosterone had a significant decrease in the amount of visceral fat as measured by computed tomography compared to the 12 men who received placebo. There were no changes in body weight, subcutaneous fat, or lean body mass, but insulin sensitivity was improved. In a second study, 31 men were randomly allocated to three groups receiving either placebo, testosterone, or dihydrotestosterone ( 334 ). In this study,
