An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


mass, but insulin sensitivity was improved. In a second study, 31 men were randomly allocated to three groups receiving either placebo, testosterone, or dihydrotestosterone ( 334 ). In this study, testosterone and dihydrotestosterone were given as a gel applied to the arms daily for 9 months. The placebo group received only the gel. The testosterone-treated group had a significant decrease in waist circumference and visceral fat. On the other hand, the group treated with dihydrotestosterone had an increase in visceral fat compared to placebo. Insulin sensitivity was also improved by treatment with testosterone. These intriguing results with testosterone, led to two additional studies examining the effects of anabolic steroids in both men and women ( 335 , 336 ). The idea was to emphasize the effects on muscle and fat and reduce the masculinizing effects of testosterone. The first study lasted 9-months and included 30 healthy men who were overweight with mean BMI values between 33.8 –34.5 kg/m2 and testosterone values between 2 and 5 ng/ml ( 336 ). During the first 3 months when oxandrolone, an oral anabolic steroid was given, there was a significantly greater decrease in subcutaneous fat and a greater fall in visceral fat than in the groups treated with placebo or testosterone enanthate injected every 2 wk. There was also a significant drop in HDL cholesterol levels, which is a known side effect of orally administered anabolic steroids. The anabolic steroid group was thus changed from an oral to an injectable drug, nandrolone decanoate. Surprisingly, the group treated with bi-weekly injections of testosterone did not replicate the earlier data with testosterone published by the Swedish investigators ( 333 , 334 ). Moreover, the biweekly injections of nandrolone failed to maintain the difference seen during daily oral treatment with oxandrolone. This suggests that frequent, if not daily, administration of steroid may be needed to obtain the effects on visceral fat. In a second trial 30 post-menopausal women with obesity were treated for 9 months with the anabolic steroid nandrolone ( 335 ). During this time, they lost more fat and gained more lean mass than the comparison groups. Treatment with the anabolic steroid also produced a gain in visceral fat and a relatively greater loss of SC abdominal fat. The conclusion from the four studies is that visceral and total body fat can be manipulated separately, and that testosterone plays an important role in differential fat
