An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


SC abdominal fat. The conclusion from the four studies is that visceral and total body fat can be manipulated separately, and that testosterone plays an important role in differential fat distribution in both men and women. In older, obese hypogonadal men, adding testosterone for 6 months to lifestyle therapy does not further improve overall physical function. However, testosterone may attenuate the weight loss–induced reduction in muscle mass and hip bone mineral density (BMD) and may further improve aerobic capacity ( 337 ). In summary, testosterone in men is related to their level of body fat and exogenous testosterone can influence both fat and muscle mass. Oral administration of testosterone or other steroids may have significant effects on circulating levels of lipids. The effects of obesity on testosterone may be related to changes in the central mechanisms that modulate the feedback of testosterone and luteinizing hormone levels, in which case weight loss benefits testosterone levels rather than vice versa. Ongoing studies are being conducted to determine if testosterone supplementation and the benefits on body composition are outweighed by increased risk for adverse cardiovascular events. Dehydroepiandrosterone Dehydroepiandrosterone [DHEA (3β-Hydroxyandrost-5-en-17-one)] and its sulfated derivate, DHEA-S are the most abundant steroid products of the human adrenal gland. At high levels of BMI, in the range of 40–60 kg/m 2 , there is a significant negative correlation of DHEA with BMI. Interestingly, the levels of DHEA and testosterone decline with age in both men and in women. Despite the high circulating levels of this steroid, no major function has been identified for it, although it can act as a weak androgen, a weak estrogen, and has effects in the central nervous system. In contrast to human beings, most other animals have low levels of DHEA ( 338 ). When mice, rats, cats, and dogs are given DHEA in their diet they lost weight. This suggests that DHEA might be useful in treating patients with obesity ( 339 - 342 ). As a result, several clinical trials of DHEA have been completed in human beings. In a 28-day study with 10 volunteers of normal weight there was no effect on body weight or on insulin sensitivity as assessed by the euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp even when the volunteers were given 1,600 mg/d of DHEA, a dose that is near the limit where hepatic toxicity becomes a risk ( 343 ). Another clinical study showed that DHEA had no
