An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


were given 1,600 mg/d of DHEA, a dose that is near the limit where hepatic toxicity becomes a risk ( 343 ). Another clinical study showed that DHEA had no effect on energy expenditure, body composition, or protein turnover ( 344 ). A third 28-day study in men with obesity also showed no improvement in body fat or insulin sensitivity ( 342 ). In women with obesity, there was likewise no change in body fat, but there was a decrease in insulin sensitivity ( 345 ). In one provocative trial, etiocholanedione, a metabolite of DHEA was tested in a 20 week double-blind cross-over study ( 346 ). Weight loss during treatment with etiocholandione was 2.8 kg compared to a weight loss of 0.21 kg (P<0.05) in the placebo group. This study has not been followed up and these compounds appear not to be under further study. All in all, a review of the subject by Clore ( 339 ) concluded that “a significant role for DHEA in the pharmacologic treatment of human obesity is unlikely.” Conjugated Linoleic Acid Dietary supplements containing ‘conjugated’ linoleic acid (CLA) have been widely promoted as weight loss agents. In this context, the word “conjugated” refers to the position of the double-bond between carbons 9-11 or 10-12 in the fatty acid chain of linoleic acid. In a meta-analysis of 13 randomized, controlled trials lasting up to 6 months, Larsen et al reported that there was little evidence that conjugated linoleic acid produced weight loss in human beings ( 347 ). One report suggests it may lower body fat without having an effect on body weight ( 348 ). Liver toxicity is one concern with the use of CLA with the trans-10, cis-12 isomeric form. One review said that this CLA isomer may adversely affect health by producing lipodystrophy and insulin resistance and by decreasing milk fat production in lactating women ( 347 ). Ultimately, Dwyer et al concluded that there is little evidence of benefit and there is a potential for harm when using CLA for weight reduction ( 349 ). Hydroxycitrate Hydroxycitric acid is a derivative of citric acid and is a component of some tropical plants including Garcia cambogia. One form of hydroxycitrate is a potent inhibitor of a final step in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (Krebs Cycle) involving the conversion of citrate to acetyl CoA and oxaloacetate. Studies in animals suggested that hydroxycitrate
