An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


a potent inhibitor of a final step in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (Krebs Cycle) involving the conversion of citrate to acetyl CoA and oxaloacetate. Studies in animals suggested that hydroxycitrate modulated lipid metabolism and thus might be useful in treating obesity ( 350 ). Garcinia cambogia is a significant plant source of hydroxycitrate. Two clinical trials with Garcinia cambogia have been published, but the results are not promising. In one randomized clinical trial there was no significant effect on body weight or fat mass ( 351 ). A more recent report suggests that either alone or with Green Tea Garcinia cambogia may cause liver damage ( 352 ) Clinically trivial differences in weight loss and potential liver toxicity made this drug a bad bet for weight loss ( 353 ). Drugs Acting on the Gastrointestinal Track DRUGS THAT MODIFY DIGESTION OR ABSORPTION OF NUTRIENTS Reducing absorption of ingested nutrients is one potential strategy for lowering body weight. Drugs affecting metabolism and absorption of fat and carbohydrate have both been investigated to test this hypothesis. Orlistat is a drug approved around the world that uses this strategy by blocking intestinal lipases, thus leaving some “undigested” triglyceride in the GI tract. Because it is currently marketed, it will not be discussed further. Cetilostat is a second drug that blocks intestinal lipases. It has been tested in clinical trials and is approved for clinical use in Japan. Two other drugs, cholestyramine and neomycin have also been tested, but abandoned. Cetilstat A Blocker of Fat Digestion Cetilistat, (ATL-962), like orlistat, is a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor. A 5-day trial of cetilistat in 90 normal volunteers showed a three to seven-fold increase in fecal fat loss that was dose-dependent, but only 11% of subjects had more than one oily stool ( 354 ). This data suggested that cetilistat might have fewer gastrointestinal side-effects than orlistat. A subsequent 12-week study with 372 patients compared placebo with doses of 60, 120 or 240 mg of cetilistat given three times a day ( 355 ). Weight loss ranged between 3.5 and 4 kg compared with a 2 kg loss in the placebo-treated group. In a second phase II study, doses of 40, 80 and 120 mg three times a day were given to patients with type 2 diabetes ( 356 ) with a dose-related reduction in body weight and in hemoglobin A1c. Side-effects have reduced the enthusiasm for this
