An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


day were given to patients with type 2 diabetes ( 356 ) with a dose-related reduction in body weight and in hemoglobin A1c. Side-effects have reduced the enthusiasm for this drug. However, it proved effective in vitro against the SARS-COVID-19 virus in a drug screen, which may give it a new life ( 357 ). Cholestyramine a Binder of Sterols and Fatty Acids Cholestyramine is a sequestrant that binds bile acids in the gastrointestinal track to prevent their reabsorption. As a strong ion exchange resin it can exchange its chloride anions with anionic bile acids and bind them strongly in the resin matrix, subsequently excreting the cholestyramine and adherent fat in the stool ( 358 ). Although originally developed for lowering cholesterol (Questran, Questran Light, Cholybar, and Olestyr), the idea that this drug could be used to enhance fat loss in the stools of patients with obesity as a strategy for weight loss was tested in two clinical studies. In the first, two patients with marked obesity received 36 g/d of cholestyramine for 9 days along with a 1200 kcal/d diet with 80% of the calories coming from fat. Although there was a statistically significant increase in fecal fat loss, it was disappointingly ( 287 ). A second study was conducted by Campbell et al in six patients with obesity using 30 g/d of cholestyramine ( 359 ). These results were also disappointing. Finally, cholestyramine was tried in an out-patient obesity clinic, where patients with obesity failed to lose significant amounts of weight (Bray Unpublished data). Thus, increasing fecal loss of fatty acids by binding them to resins produced clinically insignificant weight loss. Neomycin as an Inhibitor of Fat Absorption Neomycin is an antibiotic found in many topical medications, including creams, ointments, and eye drops. It was discovered in 1949 and approved for medical use in 1952. Like cholestyramine, it increases the loss of fat in the stools ( 358 ). In doses of 6-12 g/d it consistently produces steatorrhea ( 360 ), and in doses of 3 g/d it impaired fat absorption in 5 of 10 patients ( 361 ). Its use in obesity was limited by the fact that it alters the intestinal mucosa and is not safe in a chronic disease such as obesity ( 362 ), making it unsuitable for long-term use. Olestra (Sucrose Polyester): An Indigestible Fat Replacement Sucrose polyester (Olestra) is formed from sucrose
