An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


in a chronic disease such as obesity ( 362 ), making it unsuitable for long-term use. Olestra (Sucrose Polyester): An Indigestible Fat Replacement Sucrose polyester (Olestra) is formed from sucrose by adding five or more fatty acids to a molecule of sucrose to produce a compound that has the physical characteristics of triglyceride, but which cannot be digested by pancreatic lipase. Short-term studies replacing dietary triglycerides with olestra showed two patterns of adaptation. Substitution of fat with sucrose polyester (olestra) in a single breakfast meal was followed by energy compensation over the next 24–36 hours in healthy young males ( 363 ). In contrast, substitution of dietary fat with sucrose polyester (olestra) in the noon or evening meal to lower digestible fat from 40% of intake to 30% of intake, was not followed by energy or nutrient compensation over the next 24 hours ( 364 ). Further lowering of digestible fat intake from 30% of intake to nearly 20% of energy intake over three meals in healthy subjects led them to feel less satiated at the end of the study and they compensated for nearly 75% of the energy deficit over the next day ( 365 ). In longer term studies lasting either 2 or 10 weeks, substitution of sucrose polyester (olestra) for one-third of the dietary fat in a diet with 40% fat reduced energy intake by about 15% ( 366 ). In each of the short-term experiments there was only partial compensation for the energy deficit, suggesting that when the energy density of the diet is changed surreptitiously, individuals continued to eat for the same mass of food, even though it provided less metabolizable energy. Weight loss in the two-week experiment was 1.5 kg and in the 10-week experiment it was more than 5 kg, a weight loss that was significantly greater than in the control group. In a third study lasting nine months, 45 healthy men who were overweight were randomly assigned to one of three diets: a control diet with 33% of energy from fat, a fat-reduced diet containing 25% of energy from fat, and a diet where one-third of the dietary fat was replaced by olestra to achieve a diet containing 25% metabolizable energy from fat ( 367 ). Among the 36 men who completed the 9-month study, the sub-group receiving the sucrose polyester (olestra) as a replacement for regular dietary fat lost 6.27 ±1.66kg
