An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


fat ( 367 ). Among the 36 men who completed the 9-month study, the sub-group receiving the sucrose polyester (olestra) as a replacement for regular dietary fat lost 6.27 ±1.66kg of body weight and 5.85 ±1.34 kg of body fat over the 9-month trial. This contrasted with the sub-group eating the control 33% fat diet who lost only half as much at 3.8 ± 1.34 kg of body weight and 3.45 ±1.0 kg of body fat. The sub-group eating the 25% low fat diet lost even less body weight (1.79 ± 0.81 kg) and body fat (1.68±0.75 kg). After 9 months it was clear that the men assigned to the fat-substituted diet had lost significantly more weight and fat than the men in the other two groups. In addition, the men eating the two regular fat diets (33% fat and 25% fat) asked for significantly more food than the men assigned to the olestra fat-substituted group, indicating higher levels of hunger ( P < 0.05). In contrast, the men eating the olestra substituted fat-reduced diet asked for almost no extra foods suggesting that they were more satiated. The authors concluded that replacement of dietary fat with olestra reduces body weight and total body fat when compared with a 25% fat diet or a control diet containing 33% fat ( 367 ). Subjects eating the olestra-containing diet had substantial decreases in serum carotene, lycopene, lutein and zeaxanthin, which occurred by 12 weeks. Replacement with a multi-vitamin was sufficient to overcome these changes ( 368 ). Weight loss and the loss of fat also impacted cardiovascular risk factors with a significant effect of diet mainly on total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, all of which decreased in the olestra-substituted group but not the other two groups by 9 months ( 369 ). After adjustment for the percentage of fat loss during the trial, only the changes in triglycerides remained statistically significant ( 369 ). Olestra was approved by the FDA as a food additive in 1996 and soon appeared in chips sold under the brand name “WOW.” Because of perceived or real side-effects, the use of olestra containing products declined and in 2002 Proctor-Gamble, the originator of olestra, sold its manufacturing facility in Cincinnati. Some products with olestra may still be available. In the end, while this food product produced beneficial effects, it never caught on with the public. Fat
