An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


manufacturing facility in Cincinnati. Some products with olestra may still be available. In the end, while this food product produced beneficial effects, it never caught on with the public. Fat emulsion: Olibra TM Food and its digested products act on the intestine at various levels to secrete hormones that modulate food intake. One of these signals is the entry of fats and fatty acids into the ileum which activates both neural and humoral factors that inhibit gastric emptying, prolong gastric transit time, and can produce satiety. This mechanism is referred to as the “ileal brake.” Longer chain fatty acids (> 12 carbons) and free fatty acids, rather than triglycerides, are the most effective stimuli for the ileal brake. Olibra TM is a fat emulsion composed of fractionated palm and oat oil in the proportion of 95:5. The palm oil is emulsified by hydrophilic galactolipids derived from oat oil (Lipid Technologies Provider AB, Karishamn, Sweden). This product increases satiety and reduces food intake in some studies ( 370 ), but not in others ( 371 ). To test the clinical effectiveness of this fat emulsion, a phase-2 randomized double-blind controlled trial of 12 weeks duration was conducted in 74 men and women with obesity ( 372 ). In this study, “Olibra” had no significant effect on food intake, appetite or ratings of satiety and did not differentially affect, body weight, or body composition. Amylase Blockers of Carbohydrate Digestion Amylase is an enzyme found in the saliva and intestine that hydrolyzes dietary starch into simple sugars. Salivary α-amylase is encoded by a gene called AMY1. In epidemiological studies, low AMY1 gene expression was associated with obesity ( 373 ). Moreover, low serum concentrations of amylase have been associated with elevated BMI ( 374 ). In a weight loss study, individuals who were overweight or obese and carried the AMY1-AMY2 (rs11185098) genotype, which is associated with higher amylase activity, had greater weight loss during the 2-year POUNDS Lost dietary intervention study ( 375 ), suggesting that medications modifying starch digestion might be of potential value in the management of obesity. To test the effect of blocking starch digestion on body weight, a clinical trial with 59 people was designed to give some participants an amylase-starch (glucosidase) inhibitor called BAY e 4609 (Acarbose) or a placebo ( 376 ). Although insulin and glucose tolerance improved, the drug did not produce weight loss. A somewhat
