An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


an amylase-starch (glucosidase) inhibitor called BAY e 4609 (Acarbose) or a placebo ( 376 ). Although insulin and glucose tolerance improved, the drug did not produce weight loss. A somewhat different conclusion was reached by William-Olsson et al ( 377 ) who treated 24 women with acarbose after they had already lost weight and found that it helped prevent weight regain. In a third study, Wolever et al. reported that after one-year, 354 individuals with type 2 diabetes who received acarbose lost 0.46 kg compared to a weight gain of 0.33 kg among those in the placebo group. Although statistically significant, this result was clinically small ( 378 ). In this case, despite the relation of the AMY-1 gene expression to weight change, α-amylase blockers produce either no effect or a clinically trivial effect on body weight. Enterostatin A Peptide That Affects Fat Intake Enterostatin is a penta-peptide produced by trypsin cleavage of pancreatic procolipase in the intestine. Procolipase is secreted from the pancreas in response to dietary fat. Enterostatin, is highly conserved across a number of species ( 379 , 380 ) and selectively reduces fat intake in the rat by nearly 50% ( 381 ). The dose-response curve for enterostatin is U-shaped with an optimal inhibitory effect on feeding at 1 nmol. Higher and lower doses are less effective, and at high doses enterostatin actually stimulates food intake. Chronic infusion of enterostatin reduced body weight in animals ( 382 ), but parenteral enterostatin did not reduce food intake in human beings ( 383 ). In the end, limited effectiveness terminated development of this product. SUMMARY AND PERSPECTIVE This chapter provides a historical perspective on earnest but often misguided approaches advocated by providers in the treatment of obesity, as well as the scientific challenges and adverse patient outcomes that have plagued development of effective weight loss drugs. Besides the typical toxicities associated with any drug development program, including rashes, gastrointestinal distress, hepatic metabolism, and the development of antibodies against some peptides, a number of other specific toxicities have been particularly vexing. One example is off-target effects. This can occur when receptor activation (or inhibition) impacts more than one intra-cellular signaling system, such as when changes in blood pressure occur in response to sibutramine and tesofensine. Off-target effects can also occur when receptor specificity is low and more than one receptor within a drug class are affected. For example, drugs
