An Historical Review of Steps and Missteps in the Discovery of Anti-Obesity Drugs
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, weight loss, treatment, patients, drug, use, placebo, group, drugs, effects, thyroid, food, study


in response to sibutramine and tesofensine. Off-target effects can also occur when receptor specificity is low and more than one receptor within a drug class are affected. For example, drugs that either raise systemic levels of serotonin, or lack specificity for the serotonin receptor such as fenfluramine, will activate both the 5HT2c and 5HT2b receptors. Activation of the 5HT2c receptors lowered food intake whereas simultaneous activation of the 5HT2b receptor produces cardiac valvulopathy. Or an endocannaboid receptor antagonist may inhibit food intake and cause weight loss but may also affect mood centers and increase risk for suicidality. Finally, drugs that modulate brain neurotransmitters can result in different behaviors depending on where the drug is acting. For example, modulators of GABA activity, like topiramate, can simultaneously impact appetite and alter mood. Or dual or triple amine uptake inhibitors that can, on the one hand, reduce schizophrenic symptoms while increasing hunger signals and food intake. Food intake can be a pleasurable experience through activation of hedonic/pleasure circuitry involving dopamine, which has similarities to many addictive substances, including amphetamine. Many anorectic drugs have had to thread a small therapeutic window between improved appetite control and similar adverse behavioral effects. The patient is equally as important in the management of obesity as the medication. Beside the biological effects alluded to above, patients often have unrealistic expectations about how much weight loss drugs can produce. When the treatment doesn’t meet their expectations, they can become frustrated and discontinue therapy even when health benefits from even modest weight loss occur. The second reality that often, and mistakenly, leads patients and providers to stop anti-obesity medication use is the weight plateau that usually occurs after 3-4 months (or up to one year in the case of GLP-1 receptor agonists) of continuous treatment. Ultimately a new weight plateau is to be expected since the body weight set point will still defend its fat stores. This does not indicate tolerance to the drug or that it stopped working, but more the limit of the therapeutic effectiveness expected for that drug. This is similar to the management of any chronic disease. An example would be initiating an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for hypertension. It is not expected that this one drug will result in normalization of BP in every patient or that, in taking the ACE inhibitor, the patient will be able to set and achieve a target blood
