Atrioventricular Block
KEYWORDS: block, second-degree, mobitz, type, mobitz type, second-degree block, qrs, heart, patients, atrioventricular, type second-degree, interval, escape, complexes, qrs complexes


Atrioventricular (AV) block is partial or complete interruption of impulse transmission from the atria to the ventricles. The most common cause is idiopathic fibrosis and sclerosis of the conduction system. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography; symptoms and treatment depend on degree of block, but treatment, when necessary, usually involves pacing. (See also Overview of Arrhythmias.) The most common causes of AV block are (1) Idiopathic fibrosis and sclerosis of the conduction system (about 40% of patients) Ischemic heart disease (20%) The remaining cases of AV block are caused by Medications (eg, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, digoxin, amiodarone) Increased vagal tone Cardiac sarcoidosis Valvulopathy Congenital heart, genetic, or other disorders Up to one-third of patients age 18 years to 60 years with new-onset Mobitz II second-degree or third- degree AV block without evident structural heart disease are diagnosed with cardiac sarcoidosis after targeted investigations (2). Transient or reversible causes of AV block can include Lyme carditis and neurologically mediated (vagal) heart blocks. Atrioventricular block may be partial or complete. First-degree and second-degree blocks are partial. Third-degree blocks are complete. First-degree AV block 1/7 All normal P waves are followed by QRS complexes, but the PR interval is longer than normal (> 0.20 second—see figure First-Degree Atrioventricular Block). First-Degree Atrioventricular Block For first-degree block, conduction is slowed without skipped beats. All normal P waves are followed by QRS complexes, but the PR interval is longer than normal (> 0.2 second). First-degree AV block may be physiologic in younger patients with high vagal tone and in well-trained athletes. First-degree AV block is rarely symptomatic, and usually no treatment is required. When the PR interval is very long (> 0.3 second), exercise intolerance due to dyspnea or fatigue may occur due to loss of AV synchrony. Further investigation may be indicated when first-degree AV block accompanies another heart disorder or appears to be caused by medication. Second-degree AV block Some normal P waves are followed by QRS complexes, but some are not. Two types exist: Mobitz type I Mobitz type II In classic Mobitz type I second-degree AV block, the PR interval progressively lengthens with each beat until the atrial impulse is not conducted and the QRS complex is dropped (Wenckebach phenomenon); AV nodal conduction resumes with the next beat, and that beat has the shortest PR interval; the sequence is repeated (see figure Classic Mobitz Type I Second-Degree AV block). Commonly, the PR interval
