Atrioventricular Block
KEYWORDS: block, second-degree, mobitz, type, mobitz type, second-degree block, qrs, heart, patients, atrioventricular, type second-degree, interval, escape, complexes, qrs complexes


bundle in 25% of patients and in the bundle branches in the rest (4). Patients may be asymptomatic or experience light- headedness, presyncope, and syncope, depending on the ratio of conducted to blocked beats. Progression of Mobitz type II second-degree AV block to complete heart block is typical and may be sudden, and the ventricular escape rhythm is both slower (20 to 40 beats/minute) than a junctional escape rhythm (35 to 50 beats/minute) and may be unreliable, giving way to asystole; therefore, in the absence of a transient or reversible cause, a pacemaker is indicated (3). In high-grade second-degree AV block, every second (or more) P wave is blocked (see figure Second- Degree AV Block (High Grade)). Second-Degree Atrioventricular Block (High Grade) Every second P wave is blocked in this example of high-grade second-degree AV block. In patients with high-grade second-degree AV block, the distinction between Mobitz type I AV block and Mobitz type II AV block is difficult to make because 2 P waves are never conducted in a row. Risk of complete AV block is difficult to predict, and a pacemaker is usually indicated (5). Patients with any form of second-degree AV block and a structural heart disorder should be considered candidates for permanent pacing unless there is a transient or reversible cause. Third-degree AV block In third-degree AV block, no P waves conduct to make QRS complexes. By definition, the P wave rate is greater than the QRS rate. Thus, heart block is complete in third-degree AV block (see figure Third- 4/7 Degree AV Block). Third-Degree Atrioventricular Block There is no relationship between P waves and QRS complexes (AV dissociation) in third-degree AV block. The P wave rate is greater than the QRS rate. The underlying rhythm here is a junctional escape rhythm with narrow QRS complexes and a rate of approximately 65 beats/minute. There is no electrical communication between the atria and ventricles and thus no relationship between P waves and QRS complexes (AV dissociation). Cardiac function is maintained by an escape junctional or ventricular pacemaker. Escape rhythms originating above the bifurcation of the His bundle produce narrow QRS complexes, relatively rapid (35 to 50 beats/minute) and reliable heart rates, and mild symptoms (eg, fatigue, postural light-headedness, effort intolerance). Escape rhythms originating below the bifurcation produce wider QRS complexes, slower (20 to 40 beats/minute) and unreliable heart rates, and more severe symptoms (eg, presyncope, syncope, heart
