Atrioventricular Block
KEYWORDS: block, second-degree, mobitz, type, mobitz type, second-degree block, qrs, heart, patients, atrioventricular, type second-degree, interval, escape, complexes, qrs complexes


light-headedness, effort intolerance). Escape rhythms originating below the bifurcation produce wider QRS complexes, slower (20 to 40 beats/minute) and unreliable heart rates, and more severe symptoms (eg, presyncope, syncope, heart failure). Signs include those of AV dissociation, such as cannon a waves, blood pressure fluctuations, and variation in loudness of the first heart sound (S1). Risk of asystole-related syncope and sudden death is greater if low escape rhythms are present. Overview of Atrioventricular B... VIDEO 5/7 Most patients require a pacemaker. If the block is caused by antiarrhythmic medications, stopping the medication may be effective, although temporary pacing may be needed. However, even if the block reverses after stopping a negative dromotropic medication, block may later recur in the absence of the medication. Thus, ongoing surveillance is necessary. AV block caused by acute inferior myocardial infarction usually reflects atrioventricular nodal dysfunction due to increased parasympathetic tone and/or local adenosine release. It may respond to atropine or aminophylline and in most cases resolves spontaneously over several days. AV block caused by anterior myocardial infarction usually reflects extensive myocardial necrosis involving the His-Purkinje system and requires immediate transvenous pacemaker insertion with interim external pacing as necessary (5) Spontaneous resolution may occur but warrants evaluation of AV nodal and infranodal conduction (eg, electrophysiologic study, exercise testing, 24-hour ECG). Most patients with isolated congenital third-degree AV block have a junctional escape rhythm that maintains a reasonable rate, but they require a permanent pacemaker before they reach middle age. Less commonly, patients with congenital AV block have a slow escape rhythm and require a permanent pacemaker at a young age, perhaps even during infancy. Key Points There are 3 degrees of atrioventricular (AV) block: first, second, and third. First-degree and second-degree blocks are partial and third-degree block is complete. First-degree AV block is rarely symptomatic, and no treatment is required. Second-degree AV block Mobitz type I may be physiologic and if heart rate slows, a reliable junctional escape rhythm typically develops and treatment is therefore unnecessary unless symptomatic bradycardia occurs. Second-degree AV block Mobitz type II and third-degree AV block are always pathologic, and a pacemaker is typically required unless the cause is transient or reversible.
