Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


ABSTRACT Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is an enigmatic medical condition that has growing prevalence across the globe, often diagnosed after exclusion of other medical or mental illnesses. As there is no clinical test to confirm the presence of this condition, the diagnosis is syndromic based on different clinical definitions. There was mixed evidence to support the use of a specific therapy that provides palliative effect. Pathophysiological hypotheses can be categorized into infection, immune, mitochondrial, neurobehavioral, or stress system (HPA axis and sympathetic nervous system) disorders. The prognosis of ME/CFS is mixed but recovery does occur in many cases, over time. All-cause mortality rate is not increased. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL DEFINITION Fatigue is a term used to describe unexplained subjective, chronic, pervasive tiredness or weakness physically, mentally, or a combination of both. The term “myalgic encephalomyelitis” was first described in the United Kingdom after an outbreak of serious infection at the Royal Free Hospital in 1955 ( 1 ). The US originated term Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) was introduced by Holmes et al in 1988 ( 2 ). Several definitions of CFS have been developed, primarily to standardize research ( 3 , 4 ). The key symptoms expected in this condition was later refined in 1994 and named after Dr Fukada ( 3 ). However, it was particularly challenging to reach a consensus on a name for this condition as its etiology and pathology are unexplained. An important milestone was achieved on October 1, 2022 with the update to International Coding Disease (ICD-10-CM) that include a specific diagnostic code for myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS), chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) ( 5 ). Prior to this, chronic fatigue syndrome was categorized in the “chronic fatigue, unspecified”, which could limit epidemiologic studies. The 1994 US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Fukuda criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome comprise the following ( 3 ): 1. Primary symptoms that are clinically evaluated, unexplained, persistent or relapsing fatigue, lasting at least 6 months. The fatigue is not the result of ongoing physical exertion, and resting, sleeping, or downgrading activity is non-restorative. The fatigue causes significant impairment in personal, social, and/or occupational domains and represents a substantial reduction in premorbid levels of activity and functional capacity. 2. The concurrent presence of at least 4 of the
