Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


impairment in personal, social, and/or occupational domains and represents a substantial reduction in premorbid levels of activity and functional capacity. 2. The concurrent presence of at least 4 of the 8 following symptoms over a 6-month period: Impaired short-term memory or concentration. sore throat. tender lymph nodes/glands. myalgia. multiple-joint pain without swelling or redness. headache of new type, pattern, or severity. unrefreshing sleep. post-exertional fatigue/malaise lasting longer than 24 hours. The 2003 Canadian ME/CFS Case Criteria (CCC) specifies ( 4 ): Post-exertional malaise must occur with rapid muscle or cognitive fatigability, taking 24 hours or longer to recover. Unrefreshing sleep, myalgia, and arthralgia must be reported. Two or more neurological/cognitive manifestations must be present. At least one of autonomic, neuroendocrine, immune manifestations must be present. This is a stricter criterion, compared to the Fukada Criteria and it is mainly used as case definition in research. Adults are diagnosed after 6 months of symptoms while pediatric cases were diagnosed after 3 months. Nearly two decades after Fukada Criteria was introduced, the US Institute of Medicine (IOM), now known as National Academy of Medicine (NAM) proposed new diagnostic criteria in 2015 for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)/myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) ( 5 ). These clinical diagnostic criteria followed a comprehensive analysis of the literature and expert consultation as below. 1. Substantial reduction/impairment in the ability to engage in pre-illness levels of occupational, educational, social, or personal activities that persists for more than 6 months, is accompanied by fatigue that is often profound, is of new or definite onset, is not the result of ongoing excessive exertion, and is not substantially alleviated by rest. 2. Post-exertional malaise (PEM). 3. Unrefreshing sleep. 4. In addition, patients are required to have at least one of the following two symptoms: Cognitive impairment. Orthostatic intolerance. Symptoms must be present at least half of the time and have moderate, substantial, or severe intensity. As a large group of patients remain stigmatized with the term ‘chronic fatigue syndrome’ (CFS), renaming the condition to 'systemic exertion intolerance disease' (SEID) was recommended to overcome the old stereotypes as CFS is more associated to a mental disorder rather than an organic illness ( 5 ). SEID highlights the somewhat unique feature of exertion intolerance, and consequent impaired functional capacity. SEID criteria may help with the treatment by increased diagnosis and awareness, calling attention to the major disabling symptoms, and by validating the major symptoms
