Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


and consequent impaired functional capacity. SEID criteria may help with the treatment by increased diagnosis and awareness, calling attention to the major disabling symptoms, and by validating the major symptoms as real and debilitating. However, the new IOM criteria could increase the prevalence rate of this condition compared to the use of previous Fukada criteria due to the lack of specifying exclusionary illnesses ( 5 ). DIAGNOSTIC APPROACH The clinical diagnosis of CFS/ME is based on a constellation of symptoms where post-exertional malaise and fatigue are prominent; these are described in some definitions (Table 1) with an algorithm provided in Figure 1 ( 6 ). A thorough clinical assessment is necessary to exclude alternative medical and psychiatric diagnoses requiring specific treatment. For example, it is important to differentiate fatigue from weakness, which suggests a neuromuscular disease, and anhedonia from major depression. Hypersomnolence and sleep disorder suggests a need to exclude obstructive sleep apnea, particularly in groups at risk such as the obese. Limited laboratory screening investigations are directed towards the discovery of subtle medical disorders. Unfortunately, there was no test with adequate sensitivity and specificity to verify the diagnosis of CFS/ME. The protean manifestations of CFS/ME suggest diverse causes, hence it is unlikely a single diagnostic test for CFS/ME will be developed. Routine laboratory investigations include a complete blood examination, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), calcium, phosphate, magnesium, blood glucose, serum electrolytes, thyroid stimulating hormone and free thyroxine levels, protein electrophoresis screen, C-reactive protein (CRP), ferritin, creatinine, rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibody, creatine kinase and liver function, and routine urinalysis. Any other investigations should be carefully chosen on an individual basis depending on the clinical assessment and risk factors for other conditions. For example, sleep study may be considered in patients who have features of obstructive sleep apnea, while a morning cortisol concentration or a more definitive ACTH stimulation test may be considered for patients who have clinical features suggestive of adrenal insufficiency. Although patients with CFS/ME tend to have more abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), the significance of these findings are unclear, hence routine neuroimaging is not recommended in the diagnostic process ( 7 , 8 ). Some recent studies have suggested reduced circulatory and myocardial function in CFS, although the utility of routine cardiac assessment is not established ( 9 , 10 ). Table 1. Clinical Working Case Definition of ME/CFS, published in
