Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


can be entertained if patients meet the criteria otherwise. Co-Morbid Entities: Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS), Myofascial Pain Syndrome (MPS), Temporo- mandibular Joint Syndrome (TMJ), Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), Interstitial Cystitis, Irritable Bladder Syndrome, Raynaud’s Phenomenon, Prolapsed Mitral Valve, Depression, Migraine, Allergies, Multiple Chemical Sensitivities (MCS), Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, Sicca Syndrome, etc. Such comorbid entities may occur in the setting of CFS. Others such as IBS may precede the development of CFS by many years, but then become associated with it. The same holds true for migraines and depression. Their association is thus looser than between the symptoms within the syndrome. CFS and FMS often closely connect and should be considered to be “overlap syndromes.” Overload phenomena affect sensory modalities where the patient may be hypersensitive to light, sound, vibration, speed, odors, and/or mixed sensory modalities. Figure 1. Diagnostic algorithm adapted from IOM ( 6 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY The frequency of CFS has been assessed in two large-scale US community-based studies and a prevalence of 0.23-0.42% has been suggested ( 11 , 12 ). Another study suggested the global prevalence of CFS ranges from 0.4% and 2.5% ( 13 ). CFS is at least twice as common in women as in men, occurs more frequently in minority groups, and in those with lower levels of education and occupational status ( 11 , 14 ). Geographic location has not been shown to influence the prevalence of CFS but more recent study showed the condition is more common in certain countries such as the UK, Australia, and the USA ( 12 , 14 ). Twin studies suggest that genetic factors play an important role ( 16 ). Population studies also associate elevated premorbid stress and childhood trauma, especially if complicated by psychopathology, with an increased risk of CFS ( 17 , 18 ). An Australian sociodemographic cross-sectional study of patients diagnosed with CFS by their primary care physician was conducted over 2 years (2013-2015) ( 19 ). Participants were classified according to Fukuda criteria and international consensus ME/ICC criteria. CFS was most prevalent between 45-55 years, with a peak onset between 25-35 years with a high proportion of females affected (78.6%). Patients were predominantly Caucasian and highly educated. Of a total of 535 patients, only 30% met the Fukuda criteria and 32% met both Fukuda and International consensus ME/ICC criteria. 15% did not meet the criteria and 23% had exclusionary conditions. There was higher proportion of
