Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


met the Fukuda criteria and 32% met both Fukuda and International consensus ME/ICC criteria. 15% did not meet the criteria and 23% had exclusionary conditions. There was higher proportion of participants who were obese or overweight, (41.3% and 43.3% respectively) and were unemployed or on a disability pension. The results of this study may not be representative of all CFS/ME patients in the general population due to sample recruitment bias. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME Viral/Immune Hypotheses For many years CFS was suspected to arise from a persistent response to an infection. Abrupt onset of symptoms and the presence of post-infectious fatigue after infections suggest this theory. There were also reports of a high frequency of antibody titers to specific, but varying, infectious agents ( 20 ). Epstein-Barr virus, human herpes virus 6, group B Coxsackie virus, human T-cell lymphotrophic virus II, hepatitis C, enteroviruses, and retroviruses, have all been proposed as etiological agents of CFS ( 21 ). However, to date, there has been no consistent evidence that CFS results from a specific infection ( 22 ). Moreover, there is data to indicate that global increases in humoral immune responses are seen in chronic stress states and that neurohormonal changes may account for these and other immune aberrations ( 20 , 23 ). Recent study has examined the characteristics of cell function and receptors in CFS patients ( 24 ). Participants between 20 and 65 years old were recruited, by using the Fukuda criteria. Patient were classified as moderate (mobile) or severely affected (housebound). Blood was collected from all participants between 8am and 11am, and sent for lytic protein analysis, cell activity analysis, respiratory burst analysis and natural killer cell receptors analysis. The study demonstrated that there was significant decrease in natural killer cell cytotoxic activity in CFS patients and there is correlation between low natural killer cells cytotoxic activity and severity of CFS illness. CFS patients have alterations in Natural Killer receptors, adhesion markers and receptors on CD4, and CD8. A prospective population-based cohort of 42,558 atopic patients and 170,232 controls without atopy were recruited between 2005-2007, with follow up until 2011. These 2 groups were similar in sex and age distributions, with a mean age of 47 years. The overall incidence rate for CFS in the atopy cohort (1.37 per 1000 person-year) was higher than in the non-atopy cohort (0.87 per 1000 person-year ( 25 ). This
