Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


years. The overall incidence rate for CFS in the atopy cohort (1.37 per 1000 person-year) was higher than in the non-atopy cohort (0.87 per 1000 person-year ( 25 ). This suggests that that atopy might increase the risk of CFS/SEID. Mitochondrial Hypotheses Since mitochondria provide cellular energy, hypotheses of impaired mitochondrial function have been suggested to underlie CFS. Early studies have shown some associations between mitochondrial proteins and CFS, but these require confirmation ( 26 ). Neuropsychiatric Hypotheses Chronic fatigue syndrome has been suspected to be a neuropsychiatric disorder, or a type of depression ( 28 ). Although depression is frequent in CFS, most patients do not exhibit the characteristic self-reproach or biological features of endogenous depression. The depression often seen in CFS appears to be reactive and associated with marked frustration. However, the symptoms of depression can overlap with those of CFS. Profound fatigue is more commonly reported amongst CFS patients, than those with depression ( 28 ). Cognitive-behavioral models of CFS emphasize the importance of the interactions between cognitive, behavioral and biological variables in attempting to explain the genesis and maintenance of CFS. It may be that while organic factors may precipitate CFS, cognitive-behavioral factors may perpetuate the illness ( 28 ). Specifically, when individuals resume normal activity levels following an acute illness, it is common to experience symptoms of physical deconditioning. If individuals attribute these symptoms to signs of ongoing disease rather than deconditioning, they may resort to rest and inactivity in an attempt to "cure" the symptoms. A cycle of avoidance and symptom experience develops, which can lead to loss of control, demoralization and possible depression and anxiety. These psychological states can further perpetuate the illness through generating more symptoms. The cognitive-behavioral model has been expanded to include personality as predisposing factors ( 29 ). This model proposes that predisposed people are highly achievement orientated perfectionists and base their self-esteem and the respect from others on their ability to live up to certain high standards ( 29 ). When such people are faced with factors that affect their ability to perform, such as a combination of excessive stress and an acute illness, their initial reaction is to persist and to attempt to maintain usual coping strategies. This behavior leads to exhaustion. In making sense of the situation a physical attribution for the exhaustion is made, which protects an individual's self-esteem by avoiding the suggestion that their
