Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


This behavior leads to exhaustion. In making sense of the situation a physical attribution for the exhaustion is made, which protects an individual's self-esteem by avoiding the suggestion that their inability to cope is a sign of personal weakness. The bias may lead to a focus on somatic rather than emotional aspects of the illness, and favors physical rather than psychological explanation. However, this model remains to be fully evaluated and it is poorly integrated with physiological aspects of CFS. There have been few systematic studies undertaken on the relationship between personality and CFS ( 28 ). However, a personality trait characterized by "perfectionism, high standards for work performance, responsibility and personal conduct and marked achievement orientation" was reported in interviews with individuals with CFS ( 30 ). Interviewees referred to a desire for accomplishment and success, aiming to achieve perfection. These desires were associated with the belief that “failure to meet these standards would indicate failure as a person, or unacceptability to others” ( 30 ). Neurological Hypothesis CFS as a primary brain disorder has been studied with neuroimaging including Magnetic resonance imaging MRI, Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) Electroencephalogram (EEG), quantitative electroencephalogram (qEEG), and positron emission tomography (PET) ( 32 - 36 , 40 - 41 ). A variety of abnormalities associated with CFS have been reported but the diagnostic or potential pathogenic implications of these findings are unknown. Neuroendocrine Hypotheses In recent years, there have been reports indicating neuroendocrine hypofunction, probably of hypothalamic origin, in chronic fatigue states. A tendency to hypocortisolism, has been identified, albeit inconsistently, in CFS patients. Relative hypocortisolism may reflect the primary abnormality in many CFS patients, such as a disorder of the brain regulation, or peripheral elements, of the stress system. Moreover, hypocortisolism may contribute to CFS symptomatology. However, neuroendocrine studies in CFS have often led to contradictory results. Smaller studies may be confounded by differences between subgroups of CFS patients, such as duration of fatigue, concomitant hypotension and/or orthostasis, depression, familial occurrence, and other factors. Although melancholic major depression is associated with mild hypercortisolism, the hypocortisolism of CFS seems to persist in at least some patients with co-morbid depression ( 28 ). Moreover, hypocortisolism is a trait shared with other chronic idiopathic disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder, fibromyalgia, and inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma ( 18 ). Wyller et al. studied 120 CFS patients and 68 healthy controls,
