Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


idiopathic disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder, fibromyalgia, and inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma ( 18 ). Wyller et al. studied 120 CFS patients and 68 healthy controls, aged 12-18 years. CFS patients had higher levels of plasma norepinephrine, plasma epinephrine and FT4, with lower urine cortisol/creatinine ratios, ( 42 ). This accords with previous studies of attenuation of cortisol secretion and enhancement of the sympathetic nervous system activity in CFS. THE STRESS SYSTEM AND CFS/SEID Stress is defined as threat to homeostasis. It is generally accepted that acute stress system responses are adaptive, designed to re-establish homeostasis. However excessive and/or prolonged activation of the stress system can disturb normal physiology. The stress system comprises the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis of which cortisol is the major mediator, and the sympathoadrenal system which produces the catecholamines epinephrine and the sympathoneural system producing norepinephrine. Both glucocorticoids and catecholamines act widely to mediate the stress response. Stress results in stimulation of parvicellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and the release of the neuropeptides corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) into the hypophyseal portal blood system ( Figure 2 ). The combined action of CRH and AVP on the anterior pituitary corticotropes stimulates secretion of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). Circulating ACTH acts on the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex to stimulate cortisol synthesis. Basal (unstressed) cortisol acts to prevent arterial hypotension by augmenting the effects of catecholamines, and maintain normoglycemia through insulin counter-regulation. ACTH secretion is influenced by stress, a light-entrained circadian rhythm, and negative feedback at the hypothalamus. During acute stress, the amplitude and synchronization of the CRH and AVP pulsations in the hypophyseal portal system markedly increases, resulting in increases of ACTH and cortisol secretory episodes ( 43 ). Stress-induced cortisol secretion activates the central nervous system, increases blood pressure, elevates blood glucose, and suppresses the inflammatory/immune response to prevent tissue damage ( 44 ). Cortisol action is mediated by ubiquitous cytosolic corticosteroid receptors and ( 45 ). Free cortisol, unbound to corticosteroid binding globulin (3-10%), diffuses through cell membranes and binds to the carboxy-terminal end of the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor. On cortisol binding, the ligand-receptor complex translocates into the nucleus, where it interacts with specific glucocorticoid responsive elements (GREs) within DNA to activate gene transcription ( 45 ). The activated receptors also inhibit other transcription factors, such as c-Jun/c-Fos and NF-kB, which are positive
