Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


specific glucocorticoid responsive elements (GREs) within DNA to activate gene transcription ( 45 ). The activated receptors also inhibit other transcription factors, such as c-Jun/c-Fos and NF-kB, which are positive regulators of the transcription of genes involved in the activation and growth of immune and other cells ( 46 ). Figure 2. The neurohormonal connections of the stress system. Several complementary sets of studies have examined basal and stimulated pituitary-adrenal gland function in CFS. Two different types of heritable disorders of this axis have been described, where fatigue is the principal symptom. These include glucocorticoid resistance due to glucocorticoid receptor abnormalities, and mutations of the corticosteroid-binding globulin gene, the chief cortisol transport protein. These disorders are rare, but reinforce the notion that primary pituitary-adrenal abnormalities may produce chronic fatigue. Studies in the broader CFS patient group have generally detected relative hypocortisolism and altered dynamic responses, providing indirect evidence of a central nervous system under-stimulation of pituitary-adrenal function. Familial glucocorticoid resistance is a rare syndrome characterized by diminished tissue effect of cortisol as a result of a glucocorticoid receptor defect. Glucocorticoid resistance is generally due to a loss of function mutation of the glucocorticoid receptor gene, although the genetic defect has not been identified in all cases. Decreased sensitivity to cortisol results in activation of the HPA axis, with increased ACTH and cortisol levels. In most cases, elevated cortisol levels sufficiently compensate to overcome the hormone resistance, thus these patients do not clinically manifest either cortisol excess or deficiency. Increased ACTH secretion also results in elevated mineralocorticoid and androgen levels resulting in hypertension and hirsutism ( 47 ). However, fatigue as an isolated symptom has been described in a 55-year-old woman with glucocorticoid resistance ( 48 ). Fatigue in this patient was intermittent, but blood pressure was constantly in the low-normal range, with no postural hypotension. Fatigue was sufficient to prohibit full-time work. Urinary cortisol was elevated (400-800nmol/24h; Range <300nmol/24h), as were plasma cortisol levels. A thermolabile glucocorticoid receptor was noted, specifically a temperature-induced reduction in dexamethasone binding, although a specific glucocorticoid receptor mutation was not reported. It has been proposed that fatigue in such cases is a result of insufficient overproduction of cortisol ( 49 ). Further to this, recent studies of glucocorticoid receptor polymorphisms have found an association between certain haplotypes and CFS ( 50 ). Although speculative, polymorphisms may result in altered receptor sensitivity to cortisol, and thus,
