Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


studies of glucocorticoid receptor polymorphisms have found an association between certain haplotypes and CFS ( 50 ). Although speculative, polymorphisms may result in altered receptor sensitivity to cortisol, and thus, impaired tissue-effect of cortisol, resulting in relative hypocortisolism. CORTICOSTERIOD BINDING GLOBULIN ABNORMALITIES AND CHRONIC FATIGUE Corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), also known as transcortin, is the high-affinity plasma transport glycoprotein for cortisol ( 51 ). It is secreted by hepatocytes as a 383-amino acid polypeptide, after cleavage of a 22-amino acid signal peptide. Each CBG molecule contains a single high-affinity steroid binding site ( 51 ). Under circadian conditions, 80% of circulating cortisol is bound to CBG, 10-15% is bound to low-affinity albumin and 5-8% of circulating cortisol is unbound or free ( 51 ). Currently, only the free fraction is thought to be biologically active. CBG levels are generally stable. CBG is traditionally thought to function primarily as a carrier molecule for cortisol, but it may also serve as a buffer and as a reservoir, during secretory surges, or during times of reduced cortisol secretion, respectively. CBG may also have a specific-tissue cortisol delivery role, in particular enabling cortisol to act in an immunomodulatory capacity ( 52 ). High-affinity cortisol binding is saturated beyond cortisol levels of 500nmol/L, hence free cortisol levels rise exponentially at high cortisol concentrations ( 53 ). Under conditions of stress, elevated cortisol levels saturate available CBG and increase the free cortisol to above 20% ( 53 ). CBG is involved in the stress response. Immune activation releases interleukin-6 (IL-6) which increases circulating free cortisol levels by two mechanisms. IL-6 stimulates cortisol secretion through activation of hypothalamic CRH neurons and it also inhibits CBG gene transcription thereby increasing the free cortisol fraction and thus, circulating glucocorticoid activity ( 54 , 55 ). In vivo, exogenous IL-6 results in a 50% reduction in CBG levels in humans. Severe illness, such as sepsis and burns, are associated with similar reductions in CBG levels, in conjunction with a similar rise in endogenous IL-6 ( 56 , 57 ). Similar falls in circulating CBG concentrations are seen in septic shock and low CBG concentrations have been shown to be an independent predictor of mortality in ICU patients ( 58 ). Stress-induced falls in circulating CBG concentrations may also relate to cortisol elevations, as low CBG levels are seen in Cushing’s syndrome or after anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid doses ( 57 ). This effect
