Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


falls in circulating CBG concentrations may also relate to cortisol elevations, as low CBG levels are seen in Cushing’s syndrome or after anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid doses ( 57 ). This effect is probably mediated through the glucocorticoid receptor as glucocorticoid receptor knockout mice exhibit increased hepatic CBG expression and 50% increased plasma CBG levels ( 59 ). CBG Lyon refers to a CBG gene mutation that was first described in a 43-year-old Moroccan woman presenting with chronic fatigue, depressed mood and low blood pressure, suggesting adrenal insufficiency ( 60 ). She had very low plasma cortisol levels, but normal ACTH levels. She was found to be homozygous for a point mutation in exon 5, leading to an Asp-Asn substitution, and a 4-fold reduction in CBG-cortisol binding affinity. Immunoreactive-CBG levels were 50% of the lower limit of normal, suggesting that the mutation affects CBG secretion or degradation. The proband’s four children were heterozygous for the mutation. A 10-member Brazilian kindred with the same genetic mutation and reduced CBG-binding affinity has also been described, having been discovered after low cortisol levels were detected in the proband, a homozygote, who presented with fatigue ( 61 ). One other kindred member was a homozygote, the rest were heterozygotes, all were normotensive and none experienced fatigue. In 2001, a 39-member Italian-Australian family was reported, including 21 heterozygotes and 3 homozygotes with a novel complete loss-of-function (null) CBG gene mutation involving exon 2 ( 62 ). The null mutation is a point mutation leading to a premature stop codon corresponding to residue -12 (tryptophan) of the pro-CBG molecule. It resulted in a 50% reduction of or undetectable CBG levels in heterozygotes or homozygotes, respectively. The proband was investigated because of unexplained fatigue and low blood pressure, suggesting glucocorticoid deficiency, and the finding of low plasma but normal urine cortisol levels, suggesting CBG deficiency. Amongst kindred members who were homozygous or heterozygous for the mutation, there was a high prevalence of chronic fatigue and low blood pressure. Surprisingly, five members had the previously reported CBG Lyon mutation. Hence, CBG gene mutations are associated, albeit, inconsistently, with fatigue. Amongst CFS patients, the Lyon and Null mutations have not been detected ( 63 - 65 ). To date several CBG mutations were identified following investigations of patients presenting with low plasma cortisol in variety of medical conditions such as chronic fatigue ( 66 ). PITUITARY-ADRENAL HORMONE ABNORMALITIES IN CHRONIC FATIGUE
