Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


mutations were identified following investigations of patients presenting with low plasma cortisol in variety of medical conditions such as chronic fatigue ( 66 ). PITUITARY-ADRENAL HORMONE ABNORMALITIES IN CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME Recent interest in the role of the HPA axis in CFS has arisen from the observation that conditions in which there is low circulating cortisol are characterized by debilitating fatigue. Addison’s disease, glucocorticoid withdrawal, and bilateral adrenalectomy are all associated with fatigue and with other symptoms also seen in CFS, including arthralgia, myalgia, disturbed sleep, and mood ( 67 ). Many studies provide inconsistent data on HPA axis function in patients with CFS, in part because of methodological differences, but also reflecting, perhaps, individual variation in HPA axis activity. Urinary free cortisol levels in CFS patients have been found to be significantly lower, or no different to, controls ( 68 - 71 ). Plasma morning and late evening cortisol has been shown to be reduced in CFS/ME, but this finding has not been consistently reproduced, particularly when frequent plasma cortisol sampling has been performed ( 69 , 71 ). Salivary cortisol has emerged as a useful test to detect hypercortisolism because of its non-invasiveness and correlation with free blood cortisol levels. In CFS, salivary cortisol day-curves are blunted compared with controls, evening salivary cortisol levels are lower, and there is a blunted salivary cortisol rise in response to waking ( 72 - 75 ). DHEA and its long half-life sulphated metabolite DHEA-S represent major adrenal gland products in terms of mass. They represent important contributors to circulating androgen activity, particularly in women. DHEA and DHEA-S levels were shown to be lower in 15 CFS patients relative to 11 controls; furthermore, CFS patients did not display the usual decrease in DHEA:cortisol ratio with ACTH stimulation ( 76 ). A preliminary study in eight selected CFS patients with a subnormal 1μg ACTH stimulation test showed a 50% reduction in adrenal gland volume on CT scan ( 77 ). This finding might indicate that the hypocortisolism of CFS is due to a lack of ACTH stimulation or a primary adrenal abnormality. In a recent study, however, DHEA levels were higher in CFS patients and were correlated with higher disability scores ( 78 ). To further examine the endocrine axes, stimulation testing is a classic endocrine paradigm, where subtle hypofunction may become more evident through the administration of stimulatory hormones or neuroactive agents.
