Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


). To further examine the endocrine axes, stimulation testing is a classic endocrine paradigm, where subtle hypofunction may become more evident through the administration of stimulatory hormones or neuroactive agents. Nevertheless, as central control of endocrine axes cannot be directly assessed due to the lack of accessibility of the hypothalamic-pituitary circulation, the interpretation of the findings tends to be indirect. Often it is necessary to implicate underlying receptor up or down-regulation or secondary adrenal atrophy. Moreover, neuroactive agents often have incomplete specificity and the central neurotransmitter systems under study may in fact not be exclusively tested. Dynamic endocrine testing with human CRH (pituitary stimulus) in CFS patients revealed a trend towards lower cortisol responses – which became statistically significant if ACTH responses were analyzed as a covariate ( 79 ). ACTH responses to CRH may also be blunted in CFS ( 80 ). Other studies have found a normal ACTH and cortisol rise to CRH in CFS patients, which contradict the hypothesis, and previous data, suggesting that CFS is associated with a blunting of the HPA axis ( 81 ). Insulin hypoglycemia is a profound stimulus of ACTH and cortisol release, as it is likely to induce release of many hypothalamic ACTH secretagogues. Studies in CFS have revealed increased ACTH but normal cortisol responses after insulin hypoglycemia ( 82 ). This could be interpreted as indicating low CRH tone, with chronic CRH hyposecretion despite an intact CRH neuron, and secondary adrenal atrophy. Naloxone is thought to stimulate ACTH and cortisol secretion by blocking tonic opioidergic inhibition of the CRH neuron. Naloxone mediated activation may be blunted in CFS suggesting it is the CRH neuron or pathways inhibitory to this neuron that lead to HPA axis hypofunction in CFS, rather than increased opioidergic tone ( 83 ). Other studies of CFS patients have a normal ACTH and cortisol response to naloxone ( 81 ). The waking cortisol response, where cortisol levels rise 30-50% by 30 mins after waking compared to levels immediately on waking, is attenuated in chronic fatigue syndrome as a result of both higher waking and lower 30 min salivary cortisol levels, as documented in 75 CFS patients versus controls ( 82 ). Another explanation for the hypocortisolism of CFS is increased glucocorticoid sensitivity, particularly in relation to the cerebral structures involved in glucocorticoid feedback such as the hypothalamic-paraventricular nucleus, the site of CRH neurons, and the anterior pituitary
