Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


CFS is increased glucocorticoid sensitivity, particularly in relation to the cerebral structures involved in glucocorticoid feedback such as the hypothalamic-paraventricular nucleus, the site of CRH neurons, and the anterior pituitary and hippocampus. Increased glucocorticoid sensitivity has been described in other stress-related hypocortisolemic disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, and has recently been reported in a small study of CFS patients ( 85 ). Finally, it is not known if the hypocortisolism of CFS is a response to chronic deconditioning since exercise is a potent stimulator of HPA axis function. Experimental acute exercise deprivation led to some symptoms relating to pain, fatigue and mood as well as lower cortisol in a subset of healthy individuals ( 86 ). CFS is associated with prominent features of autonomic dysregulation such as postural hypotension, disturbances in temperature regulation, and altered skin microcirculation. The other arm of the stress system, the sympathetic nervous system with its outflow components, the sympathoneural and sympathoadrenal limbs have been less studied than cortisol in CFS. However, studies of both norepinephrine levels and a variety of tests of autonomic function suggest hyperactivity of the SNS, perhaps as a response to inadequate HPA axis responsivity ( 87 , 88 ). The data suggesting relative hypocortisolism in CFS, along with the co-existence of fatigue, low blood pressure, and mood alterations in both Addison’s disease and CFS, have led to trials of hydrocortisone therapy in CFS. A randomized crossover trial in 32 CFS patients, of low-dose hydrocortisone (5mg or 10mg) treatment compared with placebo showed a reduction in self-reported fatigue scores after 1 month of treatment ( 89 ). In 28% of patients taking hydrocortisone, fatigue scores reached a predefined cut-off value similar to the normal population score. Only 9% of patients taking placebo achieved this reduction in fatigue score. However, another trial of hydrocortisone treatment in CFS, have subsequently shown no real benefit of treatment. The trial which included 70 patients, treated with hydrocortisone (16mg/m2 daily in 2 divided doses) for 3 months reported some improvement in symptom scales ( 90 ). It is of interest that those with the lowest cortisol levels and adrenal reserve were not the most symptomatic, nor were they more likely to respond to hydrocortisone treatment. Adverse effects including weight gain, increased appetite, and disturbed sleep, occurred in those taking hydrocortisone. Hydrocortisone treatment was also associated with significant adrenal suppression, on the basis of basal and ACTH-stimulated
