Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


effects including weight gain, increased appetite, and disturbed sleep, occurred in those taking hydrocortisone. Hydrocortisone treatment was also associated with significant adrenal suppression, on the basis of basal and ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels in 12 patients. The authors concluded that the risks of adrenal crisis outweighed any perceived benefit of treatment and therefore that systemic corticosteroids should not be used in the treatment of CFS ( 90 ). Blockmans et al., reported six month randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study of hydrocortisone (5mg/day) and fludrocortisone in 100 patients fulfilling the CDC criteria for CFS ( 91 ). There was no benefit of treatment on self-reported fatigue or well-being. Fludrocortisone (0.1-0.2mg) was tested in a placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover trial. No improvement in symptoms, treadmill exercise performance, or reaction time was observed in the 20 CFS patients who completed the trial ( 92 ). The available scientific data indicates that the symptomatic benefit achieved with hydrocortisone or fludrocortisone replacement is, at best, marginal, and importantly, may be associated with clinically significant adverse effects, including adrenal suppression or features of glucocorticoid excess. These adverse effects outweigh any perceived benefit of treatment. Overall, hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone treatment in CFS patients is not justified. In addition, ACTH stimulation testing has no practical relevance in the routine assessment of CFS patients, and should not be used to formulate management decisions, but may be used to rule out adrenal insufficiency. Although low cortisol may not be the chief source of disability in CFS, it may be a marker of therapeutic significance. For example, the response to cognitive behavioral therapy is reduced in those with lower urine free cortisol or an attenuated diurnal rhythm ( 93 ). The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a variety of symptoms after acute illness recovery. The recovery process from COVID-19 varies between individuals, depending on factors such as the illness severity, age, and underlying comorbidities. Despite not having a widely accepted definition, Centers for Disease and Prevention and the World Health Organization (WHO) has agreed the acute symptoms of COVID can last up to four weeks following the onset of the illness ( 94 , 95 ). Various terminologies such as “long COVID’, “post-acute sequalae of SARS-CoV-2 infection”, “post-acute COVID-19” have been used to describe the prolonged symptoms following COVID-19. In this article, we will use Long COVID to describe the condition. While Long COVID and chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgia encephalitis (CFS/ME) are distinct conditions,
