Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


describe the prolonged symptoms following COVID-19. In this article, we will use Long COVID to describe the condition. While Long COVID and chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgia encephalitis (CFS/ME) are distinct conditions, they do share some similarities in terms of symptoms and impact on individual’s lives. Both conditions are characterized by persistent and debilitating fatigue. It is worth noting that CFS/ME is diagnosed after fatigue present for at least six months, which is not relieved by rest while fatigue experienced in Long COVID can last for weeks, months or longer. The accompanying symptoms of Long COVID syndrome are broad and can affect multiple organ systems including respiratory and cardiac symptoms, which does not typically present in CFS/ME ( 94 - 97 ). While the triggering event of long COVID is attributed to COVID itself, the triggering event of CFS/ME is not fully understood. Patients with long COVID syndrome may have symptoms consistent with and meet diagnostic criteria of CFS/ME where similar assessment and management strategy can be employed. MANAGEMENT Generally, all treatment for CFS/ME must be individualized aiming to address the most debilitating symptom first. No specific treatment is known to be successful for CFS as the current evidence for pharmacological or non-pharmacological interventions was heterogenous and inconclusive ( 98 ). However, diagnosis may help patients by providing a basis for prognostic advice and validating their need for assistance in their personal lives and workplace. Symptomatic treatments, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or non-opiate analgesics for pain and counselling or antidepressants for major depression, are commonly used in ME/CFS although their efficacy has not been the subject of a long-term trial. Developing good sleep hygiene to provide sufficient rest is often part of the management strategy. The latest NICE guideline also suggested dietary strategies including adequate hydration, referral to dietician for patients at risk of weight gain or malnutrition, as well as vitamin D repletion for vitamin D deficiency. It is important to explain to patients with ME/CFS that there is insufficient evidence to support routine vitamin supplementations as treatment for the condition (NICE) ( 98 ). Patients with significant cognitive decline should be referred for further neurocognitive evaluation. Cognitive behavioral therapy involves the provision of information and counselling to reduce the psychological impediments to recovery, as well as encouraging the patient to participate at an appropriate level of social and occupational activity. It is important for clinicians to establish a rapport
