Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


psychological impediments to recovery, as well as encouraging the patient to participate at an appropriate level of social and occupational activity. It is important for clinicians to establish a rapport as patients may be mistrustful due to prior negative health care experiences ( 99 ). In randomized-controlled trials comparing CBT to control conditions, the intervention has been shown to have a positive overall effect ( 21 ). Graded-exercise therapy may also be of benefit ( 22 ). No pharmacological agent has been reproducibly shown to be effective in the treatment of chronic fatigue syndrome. Rintatolimod is an antiviral, restricted Toll-like Receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist lacking activation of other primary cellular inducers of innate immunity. It also activates interferon-induced protein. A systemic review suggested some evidence that Rinatotolimod may improve symptoms of ME/CFS ( 100 ). Another double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial showed statistically significant improvements in primary endpoints in phase II and phase III trials. About 30-40% of ME/CFS patients can be expected to respond beneficially to Rintatolimod ( 101 ). Previous double-blind, randomized clinical trial of Rintatolimod showed an improvement in exercise tolerance and improvement of medication usage for CFS/ME-related symptoms ( 102 ). However, the application to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was rejected in 2009 as the previous RCTs that failed to provide credible evidence of efficacy ( 103 ). At present, Rintatolimod is only approved for use in Argentina. Therefore, some authorities suggest Rintatolimod should be considered an experimental drug until confirmatory studies are available ( 32 ). Rituximab is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody. There may be some benefits shown in a small double-blind, placebo-controlled trials involving 30 patients, particularly in patients with self-reported fatigue, but a subsequent, larger study showed no difference in the treated group and the control group after 24 months of treatment ( 104 , 105 ). A small trial revealed significant improvement in ME/CFS patients who received CoQ10 plus NADH supplementation, but a larger study is warranted to verify its beneficial effect in ME/CFS patients ( 106 ). There is a list of therapies that have been trailed in the past, with no proven benefit over placebo. These therapies include acyclovir, antibiotics, cytokine inhibitors, galantamine, glucocorticoids, mofadanil, and methylphenidate ( 107 - 113 ). PROGNOSIS Overall, full recovery from untreated ME/CFS is rare but improvement of symptoms in long term is slightly more optimistic ( 114 - 116
