Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, cfs, syndrome, chronic fatigue, pubmed, fatigue syndrome, patients, cortisol, symptoms, free, study, levels, treatment, med


methylphenidate ( 107 - 113 ). PROGNOSIS Overall, full recovery from untreated ME/CFS is rare but improvement of symptoms in long term is slightly more optimistic ( 114 - 116 ). However, the prognosis of ME/CFS also varies widely among individuals. The reported improvement rates range from 0 to 8% ( 117 - 122 ). Broad range improvement rate is reported at 17-64% ( 117 , 120 , 122 , 123 ). A study suggested although most patients with this condition improve, a significant proportion remain functionally impaired over time ( 118 ). Another study that was conducted using a questionnaire, reported 73% of patients remain functionally impaired at six weeks to six months but this improved to 33% at two to four years ( 115 ). A systematic review showed the median full recovery only happened in 5% of patients ( 122 ). Another retrospective study that includes patients with unexplained debilitating fatigue lasting for more than six months but does not fulfil the criteria of ME/CFS showed complete resolution of symptoms only occurred in 2% of these patients ( 119 ). As there was lack of operationalized criteria for recovery and improvement, the studies yielded contradictory results in terms of factors that predict the likelihood of recovery. Some studies suggested that old age is associated with poorer outcome while others did not support this hypothesis ( 118 , 119 , 124 , 125 ). There has been mixed evidence that shorter duration of illness to be a predictor of better improvement ( 118 , 121 ). Mixed evidence was demonstrated across studies with regards to a worse prognosis in patients with comorbid fibromyalgia ( 125 - 127 ). There may be an increased risk of suicide ( 128 ). ME/CFS has not been associated with increased mortality rate. Treatment is supportive and a defined pathogenesis has not been identified, despite a syndromic definition that is quite frequent and stable across individuals and populations. CONCLUSION Many diagnostic criteria exist for MF/ CFS but the emphasis on exercise intolerance is thought to have significant specificity, although secondary features are also typical. The stress system has been shown to exhibit a reasonably consistent phenotypic pattern comprising relatively low cortisol and elevated sympathetic, particularly sympathoneural function. The etiology of ME/CFS is unknown and the mechanism of altered stress system function is uncertain. Several other pathogenetic mechanisms are proposed. Currently, some treatment trials
