Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482 © 2016 The Authors Reprints and permissions: sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: jhc.sagepub.com yrtsimehcotyC dna yrtsimehcotsiH fo lanruoJ research-article2016 JHCXXX10.1369/0022155416656154TLR Expression in Gastrointestinal OrgansHuhta et al. Article The Expression of Toll-like Receptors in Normal Human and Murine Gastrointestinal Organs and the Effect of Microbiome and Cancer Heikki Huhta, Olli Helminen, Joonas H. Kauppila, Tuula Salo, Katja Porvari, Juha Saarnio, Petri P. Lehenkari, and Tuomo J. Karttunen (HH, OH, JHK, TS, JS, PPL, TJK) Summary Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are innate immune receptors expressed in all parts of the alimentary tract. However, analyses comparing expression in different segments and data on germ-free animals are lacking. Alimentary tract cancers show increased TLR expression. According to the field effect concept, carcinogenetic factors induce subtle cancer predisposing alterations in the whole organ. We studied TLR1 to TLR9 expression in all segments of the alimentary tract from cancer patients’ tumor-adjacent normal mucosa, healthy organ donors, and conventional and germ-free mice by using immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR. All TLRs were expressed in all segments of the alimentary tract. Expression was most intensive in the small intestine in humans and conventional mice, but germ-free mice showed less expression in the small intestine. TLR expression levels were similar in cancer patients and organ donors. We provide systematic baseline data on the TLR expression in the alimentary tract. Normal epithelium adjacent to tumor seems to have similar TLR expression compared with healthy tissues suggesting absence of any field effect in TLR expression. Accordingly, specimens from cancer patients’ normal tumor-adjacent tissue can be used as control tissues in immunohistochemical TLR studies in gastrointestinal cancer. (J Histochem Cytochem 64:470–482, 2016) Keywords alimentary tract, cancer, expression, germ-free mouse, mouse, organ donor, Toll-like receptor, tumor-adjacent normal epithelium Introduction and C viruses to hepatocellular carcinoma.6 There are also reports from microbial shift in colorectal cancer Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are innate immune recep- and esophageal adenocarcinoma.7–10 tors. TLRs recognize microbial structures such as TLRs play a key role in the microbe-rich gastroin- bacterial cell membrane components and DNA and testinal environment. Normal TLR function in the RNA molecules. Recognition of these antigens leads to production of inflammatory cytokines1 and in sev- eral cases also in change of cell behavior, such as Received for publication April 22, 2016; accepted June 1, 2016. invasion.2,3 Chronic inflammation is associated with several cancers,4 especially gastrointestinal tract can- Corresponding Author: cers in relation to
