Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


comparative analyses of TLR expression in human and mouse alimentary Assessment of Immunostaining tracts exist. Also, there is a possibility to study the role of bacteria in mice by using germ-free animals. For immunohistochemical detection of the antibody The first aim of the present study was to systemati- reaction, we used the Dako EnVision kit (Dako, cally characterize the expression of TLR1 to TLR9 in Copenhagen, Denmark) with high-temperature antigen different gastrointestinal organs, including liver and retrieval in Tris–EDTA buffer for 15 min. Diaminobenzidine pancreas, in humans and mice. Our second aim was (Dako basic DAB-kit) was used as a chromogen. All to clarify whether alimentary tract cancer affects TLR stainings were done with a Dako Autostainer (Dako). expression of tumor-adjacent normal tissues. The third Validation of our immunohistochemical analysis was aim was to characterize the effects of commensal performed through two series of negative controls (by microbes of the alimentary tract on TLR expression in omitting the primary antibody and by replacing the pri- gastrointestinal organs by comparing germ-free and mary antibody with the mouse primary antibody iso- conventional animals. type control). Lymphocytes of the lymph nodes in the sample material were used as an internal positive con- trol for TLR staining. For optimization of the dilution of Materials and Methods each primary antibody, a series of dilutions involving the concentration recommended by the manufacturer Study Material was used, and dilutions providing expression patterns Patient samples representing tumor-adjacent normal corresponding to those reported were used for the tissues were collected from patients operated in the whole series. The test dilution series was made from between the years 2008 and 2014. The primary diag- optimized for distribution of TLRs expression. Strongest nosis of all patients was adenocarcinoma of the intensity was scored as intensity 3 and weakest posi- esophagus, stomach, colon, liver, or pancreas. tive to intensity 1 within species (humans and normal Samples for TANE were collected approximately at the or germ-free mice). The commercial antibodies and distance of 5 to 10 cm from the primary tumor. Samples dilutions used in the study are summarized in Table 1. 472 Huhta et al. Table 1. Used TLR Antibodies With Dilutions, Catalog Numbers, and Manufacturer. Antibody Dilution Catalog Number Company TLR1 1:50 (human) ab189337 Abcam Corporation (Cambridge, MA) 1:75 (mouse) IMG-5012 Imgenex (San Diego, CA) TLR2 1:75 (human) MAB0066 Abnova Corporation (Walnut, CA) 1:75 (mouse) IMG-662 Imgenex TLR3 1:25 IMG-315A Imgenex
