Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


liver tissue samples were homog- Germany) using an automated QIAcube sample prepa- enized, and the solution was added to cell lysis buffer ration instrument (Qiagen) according to the manufac- (Cell Signaling Technology, Danvers, MA) with protease turer’s protocols. A High Capacity cDNA RT kit (Applied inhibitors (REF 05892970001; Roche, Mannheim, Biosystems, Foster City, CA) was used for reverse tran- Germany). Solutions were centrifuged at 12,000 RPM scription of the RNAs with random primers according to for 15 min at 4C to clarify the supernatants. The sam- the manufacturer’s protocol. The complementary DNAs ples were boiled for 4 min in reducing sodium dodecyl were amplified in duplicates with a Rotor-Gene Q sulfate (SDS) buffer and loaded equally as 25 µg on (Qiagen) using gene-specific primers (Sigma, Haverhill, the SDS polyacrylamide gel (Bio-Rad Laboratories, UK) and SYBR Green qPCR mix (Thermo Fisher Hercules, CA). The electrophoresed proteins were Scientific). The mean fold change in relative expression stained with Coomassie blue to confirm equal loading of the target gene at each group was calculated using and transferred onto an Immobilon P (polyvinylidene the 2−ΔΔCt method and rbs13 (mice) and beta-actin difluoride, size: 0.45 µm) membrane (Merck Millipore, (humans) as the reference genes. Primers were the Temecula, CA). After removing the stain with methanol, same as used by Sanchez-Quintero et al.32 and the membrane was incubated with TLR antibodies and Zheng et al.,33 except in the case of human TLR3: diluted in RT overnight using the same dilution as in 5′-AGTGCCGTCTATTTGCCACA-3′ and 5′-GCATCCCA immunohistochemistry (Table 1) in Tris-buffered saline AAGGGCAAAAGG-3′. TLR Expression in Gastrointestinal Organs 473 Statistical Analysis were similar between the groups (humans, normal mice, and germ-free mice), except for TLR2, which We used IBM SPSS Statistics 22.0 (IBM Corp., was seen only occasionally in the normal mice Armonk, NY) for statistical analyses. To compare esophagus and was absent in the germ-free mice TLRs expression between different anatomic seg- esophagus. ments of the alimentary tract within a species and to In the gastric mucosa, the expression of all TLRs compare tissues between the species, we used an was seen in the cell cytoplasm on the upper part of the independent-sample t-test. We used Spearman’s rho epithelium similarly in all groups. Neck region of the to test the correlations between stomach, small intes- gastric antral glands, including G cells, showed signifi- tine, and large intestine mRNA levels and protein cantly higher expression compared with
