Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


the to test the correlations between stomach, small intes- gastric antral glands, including G cells, showed signifi- tine, and large intestine mRNA levels and protein cantly higher expression compared with overall stain- levels. ing in the gastric mucosa, difference being significant in humans for TLR3 (p=0.049); in normal mice for Results TLR5 (p<0.001), TLR8 (p=0.022), and TLR9 (p=0.034); and in germ-free mice for TLR7 (p=0.022), TLR8 General (p=0.007), and TLR9 (p=0.003). Contrasting with cyto- plasmic expression in mice, in the human samples Characteristics of immunohistochemical expression TLR9 was present in both cytoplasm and cell of each TLR type were evaluated from the liver and membranes. pancreas, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Segments of the small intestine were evaluated separately including the duodenum, jeju- TLR Expression in the Intestine num, and ileum and large intestine including the In the intestinal epithelium, the TLR expression was cecum and colon (ascending, transverse, descend- cytoplasmic in epithelial cells of the intestine through- ing, sigmoid colon, and rectum), but analyzed as out the epithelium in all groups. small and large intestines because identical staining All TLRs were strongly expressed in the small intes- in the epithelial cells without significant differences tine, and the expression was stronger in the villi, with was observed between the segments. Expressions the crypt zone showing only a weak expression. The of all TLRs were detectable in all the segments of the intensity of TLRs varied from moderate to strong in gastrointestinal tract in both humans and mice. All humans and in normal mice (2.0–2.8; Table 2). TLRs showed cytoplasmic expression. In addition, However, in germ-free mice, TLRs mean intensity was TLR2, TLR3, and TLR5 showed occasional nuclear only 1.0 to 1.8 in the small intestine (Table 2). Figure 3 expression throughout the alimentary tract in demonstrates difference between conventional and humans, and in mouse samples, nuclear expression germ-free mice small intestine TLRs expression levels. was seen with TLR3 to TLR6 and TLR9 in the ali- In humans, the small intestine showed significantly mentary tract. (p<0.05) higher TLR expression compared with the Epithelial expression levels of TLRs in human sam- large intestine for TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, TLR7, and TLR8, ples close to tumors and those from the two healthy and in normal mice, similar difference was seen for organ donors were always similar and therefore were TLR1 to TLR9 (Table 2). In contrast, in germ-free mice, analyzed as a
