Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


the human pancreas, the expression of all TLRs TLR5 also in normal mice. was similar to that in the liver and diffuse and cytoplas- mic throughout the whole pancreas, and mean inten- sity was weak. In the mice pancreas, TLR expression Comparison of TLR Expression Levels Between was not convincingly seen in the exocrine pancreas. Normal and Germ-Free Mice However, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9 were expressed throughout exocrine pancreas in normal mice and The small intestine showed higher TLRs expression intensity for them was moderate, and the germ-free in conventional mice than in germ-free mice with all mice pancreas showed strong diffuse expression for TLRs, p<0.001, except TLR4 and TLR9, p<0.05 TLR5 and TLR9. (Fig. 3, Table 2). The normal mouse large intestine Interestingly, in the human pancreas, TLR2 and had higher TLR expression for TLR2, TLR3, and TLR7 showed significantly higher (p<0.05) expression TLR9. Liver expression was significantly higher in in the endocrine pancreas compared with that in the normal mice than in germ-free mice for TLR1 to 476 Huhta et al. Figure 1. Histograms of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 1 to 9 histoscores from different anatomic segments of the alimentary tract in humans and in conventional and germ-free mouse. TLR3 and TLR7 (p<0.001) and TLR6 (p=0.039). significantly stronger in normal mice compared with The stomach showed significantly higher (p<0.05) those in germ-free mice. TLR2 and TLR5 expressions in normal mice and TLR2, TLR3, and TLR9 in the large intestine. In the Western Blot Analyses From Human and Mouse liver, TLR1 to TLR3, TLR6, and TLR7 expressions Liver Samples were significantly higher in conventional mice. Expressions of TLR6 and TLR9 in the exocrine pan- We performed Western blot analyses from human and creas and TLR3 in the endocrine pancreas were conventional mouse livers to confirm specificity of TLR Expression in Gastrointestinal Organs 477 Figure 2. Typical Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression patterns from the human ascending colon. TLRs are expressed throughout the epithelium with a diffuse manner. Paired figures from ascending colon organ donor (left) and tumor-adjacent normal epithelium (right) are presented: (A) TLR1, (B) TLR2, (C) TLR3, (D) TLR4, (E) TLR5, (F) TLR6, (G) TLR7, (H) TLR8, and (I) TLR9. 20× magnification was used and 50-µm scale bar is in panel I. 478 Huhta et al. Figure 3. Typical Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression patterns from the conventional and germ-free mouse small intestines. TLRs are expressed throughout the epithelium with a
