Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


panel I. 478 Huhta et al. Figure 3. Typical Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression patterns from the conventional and germ-free mouse small intestines. TLRs are expressed throughout the epithelium with a diffuse manner. Paired figures from small intestine conventional (left) and germ-free mice (right) are presented: (A) TLR1, (B) TLR2, (C) TLR3, (D) TLR4, (E) TLR5, (F) TLR6, (G) TLR7, (H) TLR8, and (I) TLR9. 10× magnification was used and 50-µm scale bar is in panel I. TLR Expression in Gastrointestinal Organs 479 commercial antibodies for each TLR protein. Liver tis- to an important question. However, as regulation of sue was selected due to homogeneous structure and TLR expression is complex and depends on several low amount of connective tissue. Western blot detec- factors including age, gender, and nutrition, a compre- tion of TLR1 to TLR9 revealed similar expressions of hensive analysis would need much more extensive TLRs as reported by the manufacturers and is pre- case series of both tumor-adjacent and healthy sented in Supplementary Fig. 1. tissues. All TLRs were expressed in all parts of the alimen- tary tract. Interestingly, all studied TLRs showed higher Relative mRNA Levels in Human and Mouse expression in the small intestine compared with that in Alimentary Tracts the large intestine. This was evident in both humans We measured the mRNA expression of TLR1 to TLR9 and in normal mice. Surprisingly, all studied TLRs from the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine were detected in the germ-free mouse gastrointestinal using qPCR. In agreement with immunohistochemical tract. However, in conventional mice, all TLRs showed observations, all TLR types were expressed in all stud- significantly higher expression in the small intestine ied tissues. Based on low TLR expression levels in the compared with that in germ-free mice (Fig. 3, Table 2), immunohistochemical evaluation, the stomach was but only for TLR2, TLR3, and TLR9, such difference set to a baseline for comparisons. There was no statis- was evident in the colon (Table 2). Our study showing tical correlation between protein and mRNA levels. TLR expression in the microbe-free alimentary tract Statistical tests comparing mRNA levels within a spe- indicates that some constant TLR expression is main- cies and between the species were not done due to tained by epithelial cells without any need for interac- small sample size. Relative mRNA expression mean tion with the TLR ligands. The large intestine is subject with 95% confidence interval is
