Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


by epithelial cells without any need for interac- small sample size. Relative mRNA expression mean tion with the TLR ligands. The large intestine is subject with 95% confidence interval is presented in to a major bacterial exposure9 but, according to our Supplementary Table 1. observations, shows less TLR expression than the small intestine. The large intestine may even be less dependent on the overall microbial load as shown by Discussion our observation with germ-free animals with expres- TLRs have been previously shown to be expressed sion levels mostly comparable with conventional mice. through whole alimentary tract.16,19–22,34 For the first It has been shown that TLRs are important in the regu- time, we describe systematically the differential lation of homeostatic interaction with the intestinal expression levels of TLR1 to TLR9 in each anatomic microbiome. TLRs participate in immunomodulation segment of the human and mouse alimentary tracts. and mediate protective effects of probiotics.36 TLRs We have also evaluated the TLR expression in the also have effects on epithelial cell proliferation and microbe-free gastrointestinal tract with germ-free immunomodulation.37 mice. In addition, we investigated the effect of alimen- Our observations disclosed evidence for some novel tary tract cancer on the expression of TLRs in the specific locations and functional roles of some TLRs. In adjacent normal epithelial cells. the human, base of the gastric glands had groups of We determined the expression of TLR1 to TLR9 strongly positive cells expressing TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, throughout the human alimentary tract by using two and TLR9. However, statistically significant difference sets of normal mucosa samples. The first set came was seen only with TLR3. With normal mice samples, from patients suffering from adenocarcinoma of the similar finding was seen with TLR5 and TLR7 to TLR9. alimentary tract and was taken 5 to 10 cm from the We have previously reported that TLR4 is expressed in tumor. The second set was taken from healthy organ antral G and D cells and suggested TLR4 is involved in donors. There were no differences in the TLR expres- the regulation of gastrin secretion.38 Cell-specific local- sion between tissues obtained from cancer patients ization of TLR2, TLR3, and TLR9 in the human gastric and organ donors. Cancers are systemic diseases,34 glands needs additional studies. However, as gastrin with subtle predisposing alterations in the whole organ response with induction of acid secretion would be a according to the field effect concept,35 and thus
