Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


additional studies. However, as gastrin with subtle predisposing alterations in the whole organ response with induction of acid secretion would be a according to the field effect concept,35 and thus could reasonable antimicrobial response by the innate immu- affect the TLR expression in the closely located nity system, their colocalization within the G and D mucosa. Our results indicate that the expression of cells in a way similar to TLR4 would be biologically TLRs in the tumor-adjacent normal mucosa is similar plausible. In the human pancreas, the expression of to that in healthy subjects. There are no previous stud- TLR2, TLR7, and TLR9 was significantly different ies systematically comparing the cancer-adjacent tis- between the endocrine and exocrine compartments. sue with completely healthy tissues. Although our Especially, TLR7 spotted Langerhans’ islets in human material is small with only two organ donors, it answers samples. TLR7-positive dendritic cells have been 480 Huhta et al. observed in Langerhans’ islets in newly onset type 1 levels is known to be rare,44 related with posttranscrip- diabetes patients, in insulitis lesions, and in nonobese tional and posttranslational regulation, variable half- diabetic mice, supporting importance of TLR7-mediated life of the proteins, and error and noise in both protein T-lymphocyte-mediated insulitis.39 Our current obser- and mRNA experiments.45,46 Accordingly, no quantita- vations of endocrine cells of the pancreas and stomach tive conclusions can be made from the TLR mRNA suggest that TLRs have a role in the neuroendocrinol- expression data. ogy of the alimentary tract. Our study has several limitations. The study mate- Nuclear expression was seen in human and mouse rial was heterogeneous. Studied groups were stan- alimentary tract epithelial cells and especially for TLR3 dardized only by group size in humans, and the to TLR5 and occasional with other TLR types. We have number of subjects was low. Similarly, the mice previously reported nuclear expression of TLR1, TLR3, group size was small. However, the immunohisto- TLR4, TLR5, and TLR8 in Barrett’s esophagus and chemical staining results were very consistent, and esophageal adenocarcinoma.19–22 Others have shown interobserver agreement was excellent. Normal and nuclear expression of TLR2 and TLR4 in oral squa- germ-free mice in our study were from different mous cell carcinoma,18 TLR4 in laryngeal squamous strains. However, there are no known differences cell carcinoma,40 and TLR5 in adenoid cystic carci- between these strains relating with expression or noma of the salivary glands.41 Using the freely avail- function
