Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry 2016, Vol. 64(8) 470 –482
KEYWORDS: expression, mice, tlr, tlrs, intestine, germ-free, tlr expression, small, normal, human, tract, mouse, gastrointestinal, alimentary, pancreas


Kiljander for their excellent technical assistance and TLR9 in the colon mucosa,43 and recently, they are Pasi Ohtonen for advice in statistical analyses. reported also in cell nuclei.21,22,40,41 Taken together, these results suggest that, in addition to endosomes, Author Contributions TLRs might have alternative localization in cells. We could confirm synthesis of all TLR types in the HH had full access to all of the data in the study and took gastrointestinal tract by using qPCR. TLR expression responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. Study concept and design: HH, OH, on the protein level was highest in the small intestine JHK, PPL, JS, TJK. Acquisition of data: HH, OH, JHK, PPL, (Fig. 1, Table 2), but in mice, mRNA levels for nearly JS, TJK. Analysis and interpretation of data: HH, OH, JHK, all TLRs were higher in the large intestine than in the KP, TS, TJK. Drafting of the manuscript: HH, OH, JHK, KP, small intestine (Supplementary Table 1). In human TS, PPL, JS, TJK. Critical revision of the manuscript for samples, gene expression levels did not differ between important intellectual content: HH, OH, JHK, KP, PPL, JS, the small and large intestines. We found no correla- TJK. Statistical analysis: HH, OH, TJK. Administrative, tion between mRNA and protein expression levels. technical, or material support: HH, OH, JHK, KP, PPL, JS, Significant correlation between mRNA and protein TJK. Study supervision: PPL, JS, TJK. TLR Expression in Gastrointestinal Organs 481 Competing Interests Hardt WD, Bercik P, Verdu EF, McCoy KD, Macpherson AJ. Innate and adaptive immunity cooperate flex- The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with ibly to maintain host-microbiota mutualism. Science. respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 2009;325:617–20. article. 12. Grimm M, Kim M, Rosenwald A, Heemann U, Germer CT, Waaga-Gasser AM, Gasser M. Toll-like recep- Funding tor (TLR) 7 and TLR8 expression on CD133+ cells in The authors disclosed receipt of the following financial sup- colorectal cancer points to a specific role for inflamma- port for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this tion-induced TLRs in tumourigenesis and tumour pro- article: This work was supported by the following grants. gression. Eur J Cancer. 2010;46:2849–57. Päivikki and Sakari Sohlberg Foundation, the Emil Aaltonen 13. Ronkainen H, Hirvikoski P, Kauppila S, Vuopala KS, Foundation, Thelma Mäkikyrö Foundation, Georg C. and Paavonen TK, Selander KS, Vaarala MH. Absent Mary Ehrnrooth
