Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


ABSTRACT The converging epidemics of non-communicable disease like DM (DM) and an infectious disease like tuberculosis (TB) is a double burden. DM is increasing in the same population that is at high risk for developing TB. There is a two-to-four-fold higher risk of active TB in individuals with DM and up to 30% of individuals with TB are likely to have DM. Immune deficiency either in absolute or relative quantities are sufficient for re-activation of latent TB. From a 10% risk of reactivation over the whole lifetime of an immunocompetent individual, the risk of reactivation increases to 10% every year in immune-deficient individuals. DM impairs cell mediated immunity and poor glycemic control affects cytokine response and alters the defenses in the alveolar macrophages. Fever, hemoptysis, extensive parenchymal lesions, and lung cavities are more common in those with DM particularly heavier and older males. DM increases the risk of treatment failure, death, and relapse. Evidence collected from meta-analysis conclude that DM can increase the odds of developing Multi Drug resistant TB (MDR-TB). The synergism between DM and TB necessitates bi-directional screening. Sputum examination for Ziehl-Neelsen staining is both a sensitive and specific screening test. Rapid molecular diagnostic tests like cartridge based nucleic acid amplification tests (CB-NAAT) are useful in cases where there is a high-index of suspicion and difficulty in arriving at a definitive diagnosis exists. Random plasma glucose and HbA1c (glycosylated Hemoglobin) measurements are convenient tests for DM screening that can be done in non-fasting individuals. Screening for DM more than once during the course of illness is sensible so that transient DM and new-onset DM can be identified. Anti-TB drugs affect glycemic control as they interact with anti-diabetic drugs by either stimulating or inhibiting the metabolizing enzymes. They may also aggravate metabolic, ocular, and neuropathic complications of DM. Insulin is the preferred drug in most instances. The presence of renal and hepatic dysfunction affects TB and hyperglycemic management. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Tuberculosis (TB) and diabetes mellitus (DM) are two diverse conditions of immense public health importance existing for centuries. TB was traditionally identified with poverty while DM was considered as an entity associated with prosperity. TB is today one of the commonest and widespread communicable infectious diseases largely but not necessarily confined to low-economic groups. DM on the other hand spearheads the group of
