Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


prosperity. TB is today one of the commonest and widespread communicable infectious diseases largely but not necessarily confined to low-economic groups. DM on the other hand spearheads the group of chronic non-communicable diseases affecting people across all socio-economic strata. Contrary to previous beliefs, a larger number of people with DM are living in middle- and low-income countries. Unfortunately, these are the countries where DM is expected to increase in the near future ( 1 ). Both DM and TB have been associated with significant morbidity and mortality from time immemorial. Advancements in modern medical science over the years has definitely improved the outcome in both these conditions. But the magnitude of these two diseases has not waned and both are collaborative in worsening each other. In fact, the increase in the population affected with DM is sustaining the TB epidemic. TB is associated with the endocrine system in different ways. The effects of TB on the endocrine system are discussed in detail in another Endotext chapter ( 2 ). The interaction of TB and DM is discussed in this chapter. TUBERCULOSIS TB is a global health threat, particularly to the poor and the susceptible. It is estimated that on average approximately 9 to 10 million people are affected by TB and around 1 to 2 million succumb to it annually ( 3 ). In 2019, 1.3 million people died due to TB. In developed countries, TB has slipped down in ranking among the global list of top 10 diseases causing mortality. However, in the underdeveloped regions it still remains among the top 10 diseases with high mortality (up to 30%). When in concurrence with retroviral infections, the risk of active TB is 12 to 20 times higher and the mortality is higher even in developed countries ( 4 ). Multi drug resistant TB is another rising problem which requires expensive second line drugs and a longer duration of treatment. A large proportion of the global population is at risk and the true prevalence and the annual incidence also depends on access to health care facilities and the laboratory-based testing capacity of the regions. Individuals who are in close contact with affected individuals, people living in crowded places, immigration to a country or area with a high prevalence of TB, and children less than 5 years of age are considered vulnerable to getting infected by the TB bacilli ( Table 1
