Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


country or area with a high prevalence of TB, and children less than 5 years of age are considered vulnerable to getting infected by the TB bacilli ( Table 1 ). Bacillary load in the sputum of the infectious individual and close proximity to the infectious persons are two important external determinants for infection in any individual after exposure. Table 1. Risk Factors for TB Infection, Disease, and Outcome View in own window Stage of TB Intrinsic Factors Extrinsic factors Exposure to infection Closeness of contact Duration of contact Load of Bacilli Overcrowding and lack of ventilation Indoor pollution Community prevalence of TB Tobacco Use, Drug abuse Alcohol Migration Infection to disease progression Altered Immune status (disease or drug induced) Lack of BCG vaccination Nourishment DM Malignancy Respiratory diseases like Silicosis Age Male Disease Outcome Female sex, Social Stigma, Immune status, Malnourishment, DM, Malignancy, Age, MDR-TB, Barriers to health care access: Cultural, Geographical, Economical, Weak social support, Weak health care support Latent Tuberculosis In most of the exposed individuals the infection is quelled by the immune system and the bacilli are fenced inside a granuloma or tubercle, immunologically aborting an active disease. This is a subclinical disease ( LTBI – Latent TB infection ) which doesn’t have symptoms and can last for weeks or decades. This latent infection is seen in nearly one third of the world population. Even though non-infectious, they carry the risk (about 10%) of re-activation into active TB later (primary progressive TB) ( 5 ). Such re-activation occurs in immunocompromised as in HIV infection, those on immunosuppressive agents (such as post organ transplant, autoimmune diseases, and allergic diseases), conditions like DM, alcoholism, substance abuse, silicosis, malnutrition, steroid therapy, renal failure, malignancies, indoor air pollution, and smoking. The World Health Organization (WHO) has guidelines on the approach to latent TB especially in countries where the burden of TB is low (an incidence of < 100 / 1, 00,000 per year). It strongly recommends screening and treatment of latent TB in high-risk individuals in these countries ( 6 ). TB is an airborne infectious disease which spreads by droplets. TB affects the lungs primarily (Pulmonary TB) and when it affects the pleura, bones/joints, abdominal organs, lymph nodes, and meninges it is called extra-pulmonary TB. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent has a thick mycolic acid cell wall that enables its survival in the environment and in its host. External
