Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


meninges it is called extra-pulmonary TB. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent has a thick mycolic acid cell wall that enables its survival in the environment and in its host. External to its cell membrane it has a peptidoglycan polymer which makes it impermeable. Its cell wall also contains lipoarabinomannan which enables its phagocytosis by macrophages and facilitates its survival inside macrophages in airways especially alveoli ( 7 ). The ability of the host’s defense system then determines whether the outcome is a progressive primary pulmonary disease or a latent state. DIABETES MELLITUS The prevalence of DM is rapidly increasing to justify it to be termed as an epidemic disease. According to WHO, the global prevalence of DM has doubled from 4.7% in 1980 to 8.5% in 2014 ( 8 ). From an estimated prevalence of 463 million in 2019, it is estimated to increase to 578 million in 2030, and 700 million in 2045. For every diagnosed individual with DM there is another undiagnosed person with DM ( 9 ). The differences in the prevalence of DM between high and middle-income countries and similarly between rural and urban population are decreasing. According to WHO, non-communicable diseases constitute 7 out of the top 10 leading causes of death and DM is prominent among them. In 2019 the estimated number of deaths to have occurred due to DM globally is approximately 4 million ( 10 ). DM is associated with significant morbidity due to its microvascular and macrovascular complications and high cardiovascular mortality. DM is a major cause of cardiac ischemia, stroke, renal failure, blindness, and amputations. THE DIABETES-TUBERCULOSIS EPIDEMIOLOGY: THE BIDIRECTIONAL LINK The high prevalence of DM and TB being in epidemic proportions has rightly earned them the names ‘the converging epidemics’ and ‘double burden’ ( 11 , 12 ). Due to rapid changes in lifestyle, urbanization, and epidemiological changes, DM is increasingly seen in low- and medium-income groups, and in younger individuals more frequently than before. The prevalence of DM is increasing faster where TB is endemic already. Unfortunately, these are the regions in the world where health care facilities are less common. According to International Diabetes Federation, the 50-55% increase in the prevalence of DM over the next 2 decades will occur predominantly in the continent of Africa ( 10 ). A longitudinal, multi-national study involving low-income countries concluded that an odds ratio of 4.7 for prevalence and 8.1
