Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


decades will occur predominantly in the continent of Africa ( 10 ). A longitudinal, multi-national study involving low-income countries concluded that an odds ratio of 4.7 for prevalence and 8.1 for incidence of TB is highly likely in those counties where DM has increased over the last decade ( 13 ). The WHO states that younger age group individuals are three times more likely to get infected with TB ( 14 ). There is a two-to four-fold higher risk of active TB in individuals with DM compared to non-diabetic individuals ( 15 ). According to a meta-analysis by Wilkinson et al, around 4% of people with type 2 DM develop TB ( 16 ). Since the number of individuals with undiagnosed DM in the world is expected to be more than 50%, the proportion of TB in DM also should be much higher. Analytical models that try to project the future burden of TB in DM predict that the increase in DM counteracts the decreasing incidence of TB by at least 3% over the next 15 years ( 17 ). Increased chances of finding undetected and uncontrolled hyperglycemia in close household contacts of subjects with TB have been mentioned in studies from Asian counties. In fact, a systemic analysis of a group of heterogenous studies on bi-directional screening i.e., screening for TB in DM affected individuals and vice versa has shown some evidence to support active screening for both DM and TB in the affected individuals and family members ( 18 ). Up to 35% of TB patients may have DM and the quoted figures are variable in literature ( 19 ). Jean Jacques Noubiap et al in their systematic review and meta-analysis of data from 2.3 million people with TB world-wide estimated that the prevalence of DM in patients with TB is around 15% and was twice that of the general population ( 20 ). These data clearly give epidemiological evidence for the co-existence of DM and TB as a syndemic. A potentially lethal combination of a communicable disease and a non-communicable disease having a synergistic effect is a challenge on the public health system. Epidemiology of Diabetes Among Patients with Active Tuberculosis The WHO collaborative framework recommends for a joint plan for DM and TB related activities which have to be reflected in the national plans on non-communicable diseases and TB respectively ( 21 ). As per the
