Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


a joint plan for DM and TB related activities which have to be reflected in the national plans on non-communicable diseases and TB respectively ( 21 ). As per the WHO approximately15% of TB cases in the world are associated with DM. Of these 15%, India accounts for more than 40% of the cases ( 19 ). Estimates of the burden of DM and TB co-existence has primarily come from studies looking at prevalence of DM and glucose intolerance among newly diagnosed patients with TB diagnosed in TB clinics. The community prevalence of these two disorders co-existing are not clear. Many of these studies have been done in hospitals where sicker patients with TB are treated which would probably account for a higher percentage of patients having glucose intolerance and DM. In a study from five randomly selected TB care clinics in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, around 25% of patients with TB had coexisting DM. Around 10% of these patients had newly diagnosed DM. Risk factors for having DM in this group of patients included older age, higher basal metabolic index (BMI), family history of DM among first degree relatives, and following a sedentary lifestyle ( 22 ). Close to Tamil Nadu in the southern state of Kerala, the prevalence of DM in patients with TB was nearly double that observed in the previous study. Among the patients with TB in Kerala, 44% had DM. Among them about half (21%) had newly diagnosed DM ( 23 ). The risk of DM was higher among those with sputum positive TB in both of these studies. In a study from Odisha on the Eastern part of India, 13.9% of tribal patients with TB had DM suggestive of a significant burden of disease even among poorer regions of the country ( 24 ). In a retrospective study, among 1000 patients with TB from the northern state of Punjab, 11.6% had DM and TB coexistence ( 25 ). In the same state the authors found 30% of patients with TB diagnosed in a tertiary referral hospital had DM ( 26 ). To better understand the prevalence of DM among newly diagnosed patients with TB a large multicentric study involving five centers is in progress (GIANT Study - Glucose Intolerance Among New patients with TB - Clinical Trial Registry India - CTRI/2019/05/019396). This study incorporates simultaneous OGTT and HbA1c determinations at three different
