Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


in progress (GIANT Study - Glucose Intolerance Among New patients with TB - Clinical Trial Registry India - CTRI/2019/05/019396). This study incorporates simultaneous OGTT and HbA1c determinations at three different time points to ascertain if HbA1c can replace the standard oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in this population and avoid the inconvenience of performing an OGTT. A recent systemic review and meta-analysis ascertained the worldwide prevalence of DM among active cases of TB. This meta-analysis involved over 200 studies that included a little under 2.3 million patients with active TB. The overall pooled prevalence was similar to the WHO estimate of 15% prevalence of DM in patients with active TB. However, this varied from 0.1% in Latvia to 45% in the Marshall Islands. The high prevalence areas as per the International Diabetes Federation included North America, Western Pacific (which includes Australia and China), South East Asia, North Africa, and Middle East Asia ( 27 ). Figure 1 summarizes the information on the prevalence of DM and active TB in 7 regions of the world. Figure 1. Prevalence of DM among patients with active TB in the seven International Diabetes Federation (IDF) regions of the world. The areas in red have the high burden of DM co-existing with active TB. The low burden areas are marked in blue. (adapted from ref 27 ) DIABETES PREDISPOSING TO TUBERCULOSIS Absolute or relative immune deficiency is sufficient for re-activation of latent TB. The association of increased prevalence of TB in immune deficient diseases like HIV is well established. The wider prevalence of DM makes DM a more important risk factor for developing TB than retroviral diseases. The higher incidence of multi-drug resistant TB reported to be significant in some studies (Odds Ratio of 2.1) reiterates the role of immune dysregulation in DM ( 28 ). The immune response in DM to TB is supposed to be hyper-reactive but ineffective and even deleterious as it may produce pulmonary tissue damage. Chronic hyperglycemia impairs immunity (both innate and adaptive). DM impairs cell mediated immunity and poor glycemic control affects cytokine response and alters the defenses in the alveolar macrophages. Hyperglycemia disrupts the recruitment of neutrophils, chemotactic movement of monocytes, and phagocytic action of alveolar macrophages. Also, the antigen-specific interferon-gamma release is affected as the T-helper cell activation is ineffective. In addition, altered pulmonary microvasculature and micronutrient deficiency facilitate the invasion and establishment of TB as surveillance
