Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


the antigen-specific interferon-gamma release is affected as the T-helper cell activation is ineffective. In addition, altered pulmonary microvasculature and micronutrient deficiency facilitate the invasion and establishment of TB as surveillance and nutrition is compromised. The chronic immunosuppression or ineffective immune response predisposes the individual for TB infection and with a higher bacilli load. This is summarized in Figure 2 . Figure 2. DM is associated with increase in active TB and relapse in TB which both may be a result of the direct effect of diabetes. There is increased death in DM and TB which may be secondary to TB or due to the inherent excess mortality of DM due to cardiovascular disease CLINICAL PRESENTATION The manifestations of tuberculous infection in patients with DM have been documented to be different from those without diabetes. Fever and hemoptysis in diabetic population is more common compared to the general population. Radiographic differences include higher than usual parenchymal lesions and lung cavities ( 30 ). There are reports of a higher incidence of lower lobe involvement in individuals with DM in contrast to the classical upper lobe involvement in the general population. Also, a higher rate of other atypical presentations like a reduced rate of sputum conversion (low quality evidence), higher probability of treatment failure and death (moderate quality evidences) is known to occur when DM occurs with TB. A higher rate of recurrence and reactivation of latent TB infection (OR=1.83) has been documented ( 31 ). Subjects affected with TB and DM are found to be heavier and older males compared to those without diabetes. More pulmonary than extra-pulmonary involvement is seen in TB with DM ( 32 ). Outcome Negative smear or culture on two separate occasions while on treatment and on completion of treatment defines a cured TB ( Table 2 ). Apart from being a risk factor for increased incidence of active TB, co-existence of DM worsens the outcome even in treated patients. In the pre-insulin era, the commonest cause of death in DM apart from diabetic coma was the co-affection with TB ( 33 ). DM increases the risk of treatment failure, death and relapse. The risks are likely to be an underestimation as loss of follow-up or unreported death has been a major problem in data collection on outcome in TB management. In a systematic review and meta-analysis by Baker et al, the risk ratio for combined
