Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


unreported death has been a major problem in data collection on outcome in TB management. In a systematic review and meta-analysis by Baker et al, the risk ratio for combined treatment failure and death was 1.69. The risk ratio for death was 1.89 when unadjusted and went up to 4.95 when adjusted for age and other confounding factors. Table 2. Terminology and Definitions View in own window Terminology Definitions Treatment completed Bacteriologically confirmed TB patient who has completed treatment without evidence of failure, but not yet completed sputum test to prove negative result in the last month of treatment and on at least one previous occasion Cured Bacteriologically confirmed TB in whom smear- or culture-was negative in the last month of treatment and on at least one previous occasion Treatment Success The sum of cured and treatment completed Treatment Failed Sputum smear or culture positive at or beyond 5th month of treatment Died A proven patient who dies for any reason before or during the course of treatment Lost to follow-up A proven patient who did not start treatment or who has interrupted treatment for 2 or more consecutive months Not Evaluated A proven patient for whom no treatment outcome is assigned. Includes cases “transferred out” to another treatment unit as well as cases for which the treatment outcome is unknown to the reporting unit Terminology and Definitions adopted from RNTCP, Revised National TB Control Programme, Training Course for Programme Manager (Modules 1-4), 2011.Training modules. Central TB Division. https://tbcindia ​.gov.in . The risk ratio for relapse was 3.89 but no additional risk of TB relapse in those with multidrug resistant TB was demonstrated. In their analysis, Baker et al found that the effect of co-existing DM on sputum conversion 2 to 3 months after treatment was variable (0.79 to 3.25) and wide ( 34 ). Persistence of sputum positivity i.e., delay in sputum conversion has been shown in a few studies. The authors conclude that advancing age and underlying co-morbidity contribute to death and is not due to drug resistant TB or severity of hyperglycemia ( 35 ). BI-DIRECTIONAL SCREENING FOR DIABETES AND TUBERCULOSIS The synergism between DM and TB in terms of epidemiology and outcome necessitates bi-directional screening for the presence of either TB or DM in the presence of the other disorder. The Collaborative Framework for Care and Control of TB and DM proposed by the World Health
