Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


the presence of either TB or DM in the presence of the other disorder. The Collaborative Framework for Care and Control of TB and DM proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) along with the International Union against TB and Lung is an effort towards bi-directional screening and management of both these conditions ( 36 ). Studies implementing bi-directional screening point towards its feasibility and effectiveness ( 18 ). Screening for Active TB Among Patients with Diabetes The diagnosis and treatment of TB is affected by substantial delay which occurs at multiple levels a) between the onset of symptoms and clinical presentation b) clinical presentation and suspicion of TB c) Clinical suspicion of TB and its confirmation. This is due to variability in symptoms, host immunity, lack of knowledge, paucity of access to medical care, and lack of rapid and reliable diagnostic tools. The average delay even in resource- rich countries after presentation to heath care system is 3 weeks ( 37 ). According to WHO, patients with suspected TB should be promptly sent to TB diagnostic and treatment centers and evaluated accordingly. The higher risk of TB in diabetic population compels intensive screening for detection of TB at the earliest time so as to reduce transmission, morbidity, and mortality. WHO recommends for TB surveillance among patients with DM in settings with medium to high TB burdens. The practical difficulties are the non-availability of TB screening tools in all DM clinics. Also, in areas of low TB burden, the cost-effectiveness is low. The number needed to screen to detect one case of active TB depends on the prevalence in that area. Screening of all patients with clinical history during their visit to diabetic clinic and additional testing in symptomatic and high-risk patients should be undertaken. Also screening for TB whenever there is unexplained worsening of metabolic control would help detect occult cases. Different modalities (clinical, radiological, sputum microbiology) alone or in combination are used for screening individuals with DM for the presence of active TB. Clinical Assessment It is inexpensive and requires minimum time. Fever, cough of more than 2 weeks duration, hemoptysis, weight loss, night sweats, and exposure to a case of active TB are the clinical clues to suspect pulmonary TB. Lymphadenopathy, fever with altered sensorium, neck stiffness, abdominal symptoms like ascites, intestinal obstruction etc. all favor the possibilities of extra-pulmonary TB. But clinical symptoms lack both sensitivity
