Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


suspect pulmonary TB. Lymphadenopathy, fever with altered sensorium, neck stiffness, abdominal symptoms like ascites, intestinal obstruction etc. all favor the possibilities of extra-pulmonary TB. But clinical symptoms lack both sensitivity and specificity as it excludes asymptomatic patients and relies on the presence of symptoms. Radiography of the Chest It has good sensitivity to pick up asymptomatic pulmonary cases, but there can be false positive results. Inconsistent evidence exists on the presence of atypical findings of TB in the chest x-rays of individuals with diabetes. The presence of clinical symptoms of fever, cough, hemoptysis, and weight loss with an abnormal chest-x-ray helps in the presumptive diagnosis of TB. Figure 3 , 4 , and 5 show different radiological presentations of pulmonary TB. Figure 3. Chest Radiographs suggesting fibrocavitatory lesions. Post primary infections and reactivation of pulmonary TB are more likely to cavitate. They are most common in the posterior segments of the upper lobes (85%) as seen in Picture A.Red arrow pointing to the cavity. The other common site is the superior segment of the lower lobe (Picture B) Yellow arrow pointing to the cavity (Picture courtesy- Prof Mary John, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana) Figure 4. Chest Radiographs suggesting lobar consolidation.(Picture courtesy- Prof Mary John& Dr Neeru Mittal, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana) Figure 5. Chest Radiographs suggesting miliary TB. It represents hematogenous dissemination of an uncontrolled tuberculous infection. Although implants are seen throughout the body, the lungs are usually the easiest location to image. Miliary deposits appear as 1-3 mm diameter nodules uniformly distributed in the lung parenchyma. (Picture courtesy- Prof Mary John & Dr Neeru Mittal, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana) Microscopic Examination Sputum collected for Ziehl-Neelsen staining and examination for acid -fast bacilli is both sensitive and specific. Even-though they are the commonly used confirmatory tests, most diabetes-oriented clinics are unlikely to have standard laboratory facilities for sputum tests even though having a radiography unit for screening TB appears feasible ( 32 ). Sputum tests have limitations in cases of scanty sputum or salivary contamination especially in children. If sputum availability is scanty then sputum is induced by saline nebulization, which if not helpful, can be followed by bronchoscopy assisted lavage or trans-bronchial pulmonary biopsy. Sputum Culture The gold standard test is sputum culture for TB bacilli but is both time consuming (turnaround time 8 weeks) and expensive. It cannot be used for all
