Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


biopsy. Sputum Culture The gold standard test is sputum culture for TB bacilli but is both time consuming (turnaround time 8 weeks) and expensive. It cannot be used for all individuals attending the DM clinic and is reserved for those patients where the index of suspicion is high and in difficult cases when other available tests are not contributory for diagnosis. Sputum culture is also useful for assessing response in multi-drug resistant TB. Rapid Molecular Diagnostic Tests Tests like cartridge based nucleic acid amplification test (CB-NAAT) ( Figure 6 ) or rapid automated molecular test Expert MTB/ RIF assay using polymerase chain reaction have a quick turnaround time of two hours and additional advantage of using a single sputum sample. They also detect the presence of rifampicin resistance. Being expensive it cannot be used for screening all patients with DM even though it has high sensitivity and specificity. But they are useful in cases with high-index of suspicion and difficulty in arriving at a definitive diagnosis. Figure 6. All district hospitals in India have been provided with Cartridge Based-Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing equipment under the RNTPC program. Picture of the equipment at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana (Picture courtesy- Dr Ashish Chawla, Civil Hospital, Ludhiana ) Screening for Latent TB Among Patients with Diabetes As mentioned earlier, Identification and treatment of latent TB infection to prevent its progression to active disease is necessary to prevent morbidity, mortality, and spread of TB. The WHO AND USPSTF (US preventive services task force) have issued strong guidelines for the screening and treatment of latent TB infection in high risk adults aged more than 18 years in countries with low incidence of TB ( 38 , 39 ).The high risk groups include persons hailing from countries with high TB prevalence, persons residing in homeless shelters and correctional facilities, immunocompromised individuals (HIV, those on immunosuppressants including post-organ transplant), silicosis, those receiving dialysis, those receiving anti-TNF-alfa inhibitor treatment, previously treated TB, and persons who come in contact with those active TB (household contacts and health care workers). The Mantoux tuberculin skin test (TST) and interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) are the two screening tests used and they are moderately sensitive and highly specific ( 40 , 41 ). In the tuberculin test, purified protein derivative (PPD) is injected intradermally and assessed within 48 to 72 hours for the presence of induration which is a palpable hard swelling (a diameter
