Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


the tuberculin test, purified protein derivative (PPD) is injected intradermally and assessed within 48 to 72 hours for the presence of induration which is a palpable hard swelling (a diameter of more than 10 mm is considered positive) over the injected area ( 42 , 43 ). In the IGRA a single venous blood sample is taken for the assay and the reports are available within a day. They are particularly useful in those who are unlikely to return for TST test reading and BCG vaccinees. There is no consensus on the issue of screening for latent TB infection in DM as a high-risk group. The results of studies done previously have been inconsistent. Studies have shown a variable prevalence of latent TB infection and there are no randomized controlled trials demonstrating the benefits of screening. Similarly, there are no recommendations for chemoprophylaxis of latent TB infection in individuals with DM due to the lack of randomized controlled trials that show benefit. The small added risk of hepatotoxicity with chemoprophylactic drugs given for TB in latent TB infection has been the only concern arguing against such measures. Screening for Diabetes in Tuberculosis In geographical regions with a high prevalence of diabetes, screening for hyperglycemia in TB affected individuals is highly recommended ( 14 ). Detection and monitoring of hyperglycemia is an essential part of infection management in any patient with an infectious disease. Chronic infectious diseases like TB thrive in hyperglycemic individuals and the outcome is unfavorable in a hyperglycemic milieu. Recognition of hyperglycemia during the entire course of the illness in TB affected individuals implies either monitoring of pre-existing hyperglycemia or new onset of transient or permanent hyperglycemia. Transient hyperglycemia is a manifestation secondary to the insulin resistance induced by the inflammation of TB infection. There is evidence that hyperglycemic status improves during the course of anti-TB treatment. The optimal time to screen for DM in TB patients on anti-TB treatment is thus unresolved particularly when it is well known that transient hyperglycemia exists during the course of TB. Many groups have advocated for screening more than once during the course of illness i.e., once at the initiation of treatment and at least once again either during and at the time of completion of TB treatment. In regions with high prevalence of diabetes, younger age of onset of DM is on the rise and this is an emerging problem.
