Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


the time of completion of TB treatment. In regions with high prevalence of diabetes, younger age of onset of DM is on the rise and this is an emerging problem. There is a three times higher risk for younger individuals to get TB and a two-to four-fold higher risk in diabetic individuals compared to non-diabetic individuals. Hence screening for DM in all individuals 18 years of age or older appears logical. The type of tests for screening patients with TB for DM depends on the availability of the local health care facilities, cost of the tests, and the ability of patients to come back for additional or repeat tests. Symptom based screening for DM has a low sensitivity. Risk score-based screening also is marred by low sensitivity and specificity. Random plasma glucose test and HbA1c (glycosylated Hb) are convenient tests that can be done in non-fasting individuals as screening tests. Glycosylated Hb test which doesn’t require a fasting blood sample helps to differentiate stress induced hyperglycemia from spontaneous onset pre-existing diabetes. Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) with 75 gm helps in identifying impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and frank DM. A FBG ≥126 mg/dL or random plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dl on two tests is diagnostic of diabetes; FBG 110to 125 mg/dL is considered as impaired fasting glucose and post glucose values between 141- to 199 mg/dl is taken as impaired glucose tolerance ( 43 , 44 ). In one study, the number of TB patients needed to screen (NNS) for detecting DM was on average 40. But in the same population it was lower among smear positive subjects (NNS = 23), in age less than 40 years (< 40 years vs. > 40 years NNS = 35 Vs 47), in males (male vs. female NNS = 31 vs. 116), smokers (smoker vs. non-smoker NNS = 27 vs. 68) and HIV positive (Positive vs. Negative 22 Vs 43) indicating that there are high risk individuals ( 46 ). Currently, screening for DM in individuals with TB and screening for TB in patients with DM where the prevalence is > 100/1,00,000 population appears feasible. Once diagnosed as having diabetes, diet and drug therapy is initiated and the patients are followed up closely for assessing the glycemic response. Transient hyperglycemic situations improve either spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention. After completion of TB medications, regular follow-up with glycemic monitoring is recommended for all patients
