Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


assessing the glycemic response. Transient hyperglycemic situations improve either spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention. After completion of TB medications, regular follow-up with glycemic monitoring is recommended for all patients who had diabetes. MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES AND TUBERCULOSIS Anti-Tuberculosis Therapy in Diabetes Management of DM should be according to the existing global guidelines with adaptations according to the regional needs. The treatment of TB in DM is not different from the general population. DOTs (Directly Observed Treatment, short-course) is a patient-centered WHO strategy adopted to treat individuals with active TB. A trained health worker provides drugs and observes in-person the patient taking the drug. It guarantees compliance, completion of the treatment course and prevents transmission, treatment failure and development of drug resistance. For newly detected TB, 2 months of intensive phase with 4 drugs (INH, Rifampicin, Pyrazinamide and Ethambutol) and 4 months of continuation phase with 3 drugs (except pyrazinamide) is the standard regimen. For those with a relapse 3 months of intensive therapy with 5 drugs (streptomycin in addition) followed by 4 months of continuation phase with 3 drugs (except pyrazinamide and streptomycin) is administrated. In Chronic Kidney Disease All four first line drugs (RIF, INH, PZA and EMB) can be used in patients with CKD. Up to 50% dose reduction for EMB and PZA may be needed in patients with creatinine clearance <10 ml/min. Regular monitoring is advised to ensure optimal therapy. Adverse Effects of Anti-TB Drugs INH induced peripheral neuropathy may worsen the underlying diabetic neuropathy. Pyridoxine is supplemented to prevent this. INH is also associated with hepatitis. Ethambutol is known to produce optic nerve toxicity which may confound diabetic retinopathy. Also, ethambutol and rifampicin are known to affect the kidneys. Rifampicin can induce immune-allergic reactions. Pyrazinamide is rarely associated with liver injury but its more common side effect is hyperuricemia induced joint pain. Streptomycin is potentially associated with renal and cochleo-vestibular toxicity Multi-Drug Resistant TB (MDR-TB) Multi-drug resistant TB (MDR-TB) is an added medical and economical burden as it is much more difficult to treat, involves therapy with atypical anti-TB drugs for a longer duration of time, and requires referral to specialty centers. Infections caused by mycobacterial strains which are resistant to INH and rifampicin are called multi-drug resistant TB infections. If there is additional resistance to one fluroquinolone and one of the additional inject able drugs (Kanamycin, Capreomycin or Amikacin) then it is called extensive
