Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


called multi-drug resistant TB infections. If there is additional resistance to one fluroquinolone and one of the additional inject able drugs (Kanamycin, Capreomycin or Amikacin) then it is called extensive drug resistant TB (XDR-TB). It is associated with poor outcomes and risk of continued transmission ( 47 ). Treatment outcome always has been poor due to the complex drug regimen, non-availability of all the drugs, and the possible occurrence of XDR-TB. The reason for resistance is multi-factorial including patient’s non-compliance to therapy, incomplete or inadequate treatment of susceptible TB, decision error by the treating community, etc. Resistance to drugs arises from mutations which are spontaneous and restricted to specific gene loci making it detectable without much difficulty. There is inconsistent data on the incidence of TB-drug resistance in diabetes. Tegegne et al in their meta-analysis concluded that DM can increase the odds of developing MDR-TB. ( 47 , 48 ). Observational studies have shown delayed clearance of mycobacterium, failure of treatment, relapse and death in the presence of DM ( 49 ). The possible theoretical explanations pertaining to the influence of DM in developing resistance include lower drug concentrations, hyperglycemia induced acute and chronic effects of immune regulation, and the presence of more extensive disease in DM affected individuals ( 50 ). Altered plasma concentrations of the anti-TB drug rifampicin has been demonstrated in the continuation phase (but not in the induction phase) of TB treatment in individuals with DM ( 51 ). The heavier body weight of insulin resistant individuals with DM is supposed to be one of the reasons because of the use of fixed-dose combination drugs. Giving an exact weight-based dose for a longer duration of time is suggested to overcome this hurdle ( 52 ). In addition, DM can influence the plasma concentrations of anti-TB drugs. The absorption, distribution, and metabolism of anti-TB drugs may be altered either due to local gastrointestinal causes (gastropathy, polypharmacy mediated interactions) or dysautonomia of DM predisposing to treatment failure. After initiation of treatment all patients should be closely followed for evidence of resistance. Persistent sputum positivity at the end of 2-3 months of ATT therapy should prompt a look for evidence of drug resistance. CT chest features have been demonstrated to be different from non-DM subjects. Pulmonary segment consolidation and lobe consolidation seen as moth-eaten cavities without a wall and filled with fluid are the features mentioned in published data.
