Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


to be different from non-DM subjects. Pulmonary segment consolidation and lobe consolidation seen as moth-eaten cavities without a wall and filled with fluid are the features mentioned in published data. They are accompanied by bronchial damage ( 53 ). Multiple moth-eaten cavities in chest CT while on ATT should prompt the suspicion of MDR-TB. Rapid molecular techniques like CB-NAAT or sputum culture for sensitivity should be used to look for drug resistance. All MDR-TB should be referred to specialized centers dealing with MDR-TB. Drug Therapy in Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis The second line drugs are generally less efficacious and more toxic. In the presence of drug resistance second line agents are used in multiple combinations to address different pharmacological targets in the mycobacterium. In addition to one of the first line drugs to which there is retained susceptibility, an injectable agent, a fluroquinolone and class 4 and class 5 drugs are used in combination to combat MDR-TB ( 53 ). Bedaquiline and Delamanidare are new anti-TB drugs used in MDR-TB Bedaquiline belongs to the diarylquinoline group. It inhibits mycobacterial ATP-synthase activity. A shorter time to sputum conversion compared to placebo has been demonstrated. The adverse effects include enzyme induction, electrolyte imbalance, QTc prolongation, and gastrointestinal toxicity ( 54 ). Delamanid a dihydro-imidazooxazole that inhibits mycolic acid synthesis also has shown a shorter time period taken for sputum conversion while used in the regimen for MDR-TB. A dose dependent association with QT prolongation occurs ( 55 ). Linezolid an oxazolidinone has demonstrated 87% sputum conversion but more than 80% of patients had adverse effects. Peripheral neuropathy, myelosuppression, optic neuropathy, and rhabdomyolysis have been documented in study subjects. ANTI-DIABETES THERAPY IN TUBERCULOSIS The outcome of TB in DM is also dependent on good glycemic control. The management of hyperglycemia in TB depends on many factors like age, duration of diabetes, presence of complications of DM and co-morbidities, existing drugs, patient support and preferences, economic background and access to medical facilities. Changes in the lifestyle pattern is once again reiterated when starting ATT. Adequate nutrition with high quality protein without affecting glycemic control is the corner stone of managing nutrition associated glycemic status in TB. In the presence of nephropathy or liver disease, the protein intake has to be modified appropriately and spurious use of protein is avoided. Vitamins particularly pyridoxine (B6), methylcobalamine (B12), vitamin A and Vitamin D should be adequately replaced. Tobacco
