Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


protein intake has to be modified appropriately and spurious use of protein is avoided. Vitamins particularly pyridoxine (B6), methylcobalamine (B12), vitamin A and Vitamin D should be adequately replaced. Tobacco use and alcohol consumptions have to be stopped. Moderate intensity exercise can help weight lose and improve glycemic control in overweight individuals. Drug regimen, monitoring and follow-up should be individualized to maximize benefit with minimal discomfort and side effects like hypoglycemia, arrhythmias etc. Monitoring of capillary blood glucose at home, dose adjustment, monitoring of renal and liver functions are required during follow-up. Anti-TB drugs can influence the metabolism of anti-diabetic medications ( Table 3 ). Rifampicin, by cytochrome p450 enzyme induction, increases the metabolism of most oral anti-diabetic drugs, which may worsen the hyperglycemia. INH on the other hand inhibits cytochrome P450 enzymes and prolongs the effect of anti-diabetic drugs. Table 3. Anti TB Drugs and Drug Metabolism (Ref 57 - 59 ) View in own window Anti TB drug Effect on Cytochrome P 450 Effect on anti- diabetic drugs Rifampicin Induces the cytochrome enzymes thereby accelerating the elimination of drugs like sulphonylureas, thiazolidinediones, and meglitinides Reduced effect of sulphonylureas by one-third due to CYP2C-mediated accelerated metabolism leading to hyperglycemia Reduced effect of thiazolidinedione by half due to CYP2C8-mediated accelerated metabolism leading to hyperglycemia INH Inhibits Reduced elimination through action on CYP2C9; persistent effect and risk of hypoglycemia Bedaquiline Enzyme inducer Can reduce the effect of anti- diabetic drugs Aggressive therapy of DM is necessary for optimal response to TB therapy ( Table 4 ). Insulin is the drug of choice in most illnesses including TB; insulin has the advantage of producing an anabolic effect, positive influence on appetite, and faster relief of hyperglycemic symptoms. It is the most suitable anti-hyperglycemic agent in cachexic and low BMI individuals. It is a mandatory therapeutic agent in Type 1 diabetes, pancreatic diabetes, severe DM and TB, coexisting renal or hepatic diseases, situations complicated by drug interactions and oral drug intolerance. Insulin is neutral in drug-to-drug interactions and achieves glycemic control faster than oral drugs. In the presence of fasting hyperglycemia of > 200 with ketonuria, Insulin is used to treat the hyperglycemia. It is also the preferred drug in renal impairment. The main disadvantage with insulin is that it has to be injected and more than twice a day in presence of infection/ stress. The indications for insulin use in patients with
