Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


main disadvantage with insulin is that it has to be injected and more than twice a day in presence of infection/ stress. The indications for insulin use in patients with active TB and DM is summarized in Figure 7 . Figure 7. Indications of Insulin Use in patients with Type 2 DM and Active TB Metformin has the advantage of not producing hypoglycemia when used alone. It can however reduce appetite and needs caution while being used in renal or hepatic dysfunction. It doesn’t interact much with ATT and doesn’t influence cytochrome enzyme induced metabolism. It can help to shorten the course of TB therapy. It modifies the immune response and inflammation. It acts on the mitochondrial respiratory chain and can reduce the intracellular growth by acting through AMPK pathway which has a negative impact on the inflammatory process. Table 4. Anti-Diabetic Drug Use in Patients with Tuberculosis View in own window Drug Advantages Disadvantages Comment Insulin Increases appetite, weight; anabolic effect; No drug interactions with ATT Injectable Needs supervision for change in requirement Preferred in lean diabetes, secondary diabetes, severe DM with ketosis or hyperosmolar state Metformin Oral; Cost-effective and easily available Not influenced by ATT; positive anti-TB adjuvant action Gastrointestinal disturbances; Needs renal and hepatic function monitoring; Change in eGFR (< 35 ml/ min/l) or > 3 times raised liver enzymes necessitates stopping metformin; Not suitable in hypoperfusion states (risk of lactic acidosis) Not potent in severe hyperglycemic situations. Can be used in mild forms of hyperglycemia. Sulphonylureas Quick restoration of euglycemia Long-acting drugs can induce hypoglycemia in anorexic people Shorter acting sulphonylureas such as gliclazide and glipizide DPP4- inhibitors Less hypoglycemic potential ? Risk of immune dysregulation – respiratory Infection Selective use Alpha glucosidase inhibitors No hypoglycemia GI intolerance In mild post meal elevation Thiazolidinediones Against insulin resistance Hepatic Selective use SGLT2 inhibitors No hypoglycemia Dehydration, DKA Selective use Metformin increases the host cell production of reactive oxygen species and acidification of mycobacterial phagosome ( 60 ). It has been found to downregulate oxidative phosphorylation, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling, and type I interferon response pathways ( 61 ). Sulphonylureas can be used for quick glycemic control. The long acting sulphonylureas like glibenclamide and glimepride have a risk of prolonged hypoglycemia particularly seen in anorexic individuals. Their plasma concentration and their duration of action are modified by drugs acting on cytochrome P450 system and hence monitoring
