Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


a risk of prolonged hypoglycemia particularly seen in anorexic individuals. Their plasma concentration and their duration of action are modified by drugs acting on cytochrome P450 system and hence monitoring of glycemic status is essential while on these drugs. Thiazolidinediones (pioglitazone) do not produce GI symptoms and are non-hypoglycemic when used as monotherapy. Monitoring of hepatic enzymes is required particularly when TB drugs are co-administered. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors may be helpful in mild postprandial hyperglycemias. SGLT-2 inhibitors have the risk of further weight loss, euglycemic ketoacidosis, worsening of dehydration in sick patients, and urinary tract infections. They should not be used for glycemic control in patients who are sick and cachexic. In individuals who have no contra-indications they can be continued selectively under close follow-up ( 62 , 63 ). CO-MORBIDITIES OF DIABETES Cardiovascular Disease in Diabetes and Tuberculosis The commonest cause of mortality in DM is cardiovascular disease due to atherosclerosis manifesting as coronary heart disease (myocardial infarction /cardiac failure), stroke and peripheral vascular disease. TB also has a possible role in chronic vascular inflammation, autoimmunity and inhabitation of TB bacilli atheromatous plaque ( 64 ). It also affects the myocardium ( 65 ). After successful initiation of TB treatment which is done on a priority basis, DM and cardiovascular status should be assessed. In addition to hyperglycemia management, lifestyle modification, antihypertensive treatment, lipid-lowering therapy, and anti-platelet therapy are the corner stones of management of cardiovascular disease in DM irrespective of the presence or absence of TB. In the presence of hemoptysis anti-platelet drugs are withdrawn or held back. Cessation of smoking and moderation of alcohol has to be counselled about. Anti-hypertensive therapy is initiated during review visits and titrated. Anti-lipid therapy using statins are added gradually and the liver enzymes should be monitored during the course of therapy while on ATT. Renal Dysfunction in Diabetes and Tuberculosis More than a third of individuals with DM develop renal complications due to diabetes. This complicates TB in many ways including increased susceptibility to TB and difficulty in the management of TB ( 66 ). In patients with chronic renal failure and on dialysis there is a 6.9‐ to 52.5‐fold risk of developing TB ( 67 ). Peritoneal TB is another risk for CKD patients on peritoneal dialysis. The altered immune function in chronic renal impairment increases susceptibility to TB ( 68 ). CKD adversely affects TB and its treatment. The anti-TB
