Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


for CKD patients on peritoneal dialysis. The altered immune function in chronic renal impairment increases susceptibility to TB ( 68 ). CKD adversely affects TB and its treatment. The anti-TB drugs (ethambutol and pyrazinamide) require dose reduction by up to 50%. Insulin is preferred in most instances for glycemic control. Short acting sulphonylureas or repaglinide can be used as an alternative. Hepatic Dysfunction in Diabetes and Tuberculosis DM liver pathology includes fatty liver disease, NASH, and cirrhosis. In TB, drug induced hepatitis is a concern. In such cases the drugs are withdrawn until resolution of hepatotoxicity. Pyrazinamide is withdrawn completely. Quinolones, ethambutol, and ofloxacin can be used instead of the first line agents. Anti-TB drugs are restarted when the liver enzymes are normalized. Insulin is the drug of choice in severe chronic liver disease with diabetes. Metformin is preferred in fatty liver but withdrawn in cirrhosis. Tuberculosis and Diabetes in HIV – The Triangular Overlap DM and HIV are two independent risk factors for developing TB. The wider prevalence of DM makes DM a more important risk factor for developing TB than retroviral diseases. A significantly higher preponderance of DM over HIV has been reported in cases of pulmonary TB while extra-pulmonary TB was predominant in HIV-TB patients ( 69 ). DM is increasing in areas where TB and HIV are rampant. Literature reports on the influence of HIV-co infection on DM with TB have been contradictory. Studies have reported reduced odds of developing DM in HIV infected TB patients ( 70 ). A paradoxical protective effect of HIV on the development of TB was reported ( 71 ). However, they were cross-sectional single center studies of limited sample size and had used single random blood glucose tests for screening. But in a case-control study the association between DM and TB in HIV was found to be strong except when HbA1c was used for screening. This may be because of anemia of HIV compromising the true HbA1c value ( 72 ). HIV testing is mandatory in all presumptive TB and confirmatory assessment using Gene Xpert MTB/RIF assay for drug resistance. PREVENTIVE METHODS Aggressive DM screening among the population with TB and effective management of both TB and DM can improve outcome on an individual basis. The more effective approach to have an impact at the community level is to have a preventive strategy like vaccination against TB and aggressive prevention
