Diabetes Mellitus and Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: diabetes, tuberculosis, patients, pubmed, treatment, crossref, pubmed crossref, risk, screening, drugs, prevalence, individuals, disease, free, pmc


outcome on an individual basis. The more effective approach to have an impact at the community level is to have a preventive strategy like vaccination against TB and aggressive prevention and management of DM ( 29 ). SUMMARY Epidemiological evidence for an uncharacteristic alliance between non-communicable disease like DM and a communicable disease like TB as a syndemic are overwhelming. A two-to four-fold higher risk of active TB in individuals with DM and twice the prevalence of DM in patients with TB explains the double burden. Ranked among the top ten mortal diseases, the geographical spread of both these diseases is unfortunately overlapping and the co-existence is progressive. They are increasing alarmingly in those regions where health care facilities are limited. DM impacts TB both from infection to disease stage and disease stage to progression stage. Chronic hyperglycemia compromises the alveolar defenses. Latent TB infection is a dormant subclinical disease which lasts for weeks or decades. Immune deficiency either in absolute or relative quantities are sufficient for its re-activation. The clinical and radiological presentations of active TB have been reported to be pulmonary predominantly and atypical when DM co-exists with TB. DM increases the risk of treatment failure, death and relapse. The risk ratio for combined treatment failure and death was 1.69, unadjusted and adjusted risk ratios for death were 1.89 and 4.95 respectively and risk ratio for relapse was 3.89. Bidirectional screening is recommended to improve the outcome in both diseases. Sputum microscopic examination, rapid molecular tests, random plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin are the available among the screening tests with their own merits and limitations. Anti-TB treatment has adverse impact on glycemic control and the complications of diabetes. The metabolism of some DM drugs is modified by ATT which affects glycemic control. Modifications of medications are required in co-morbid illnesses of DM like cardio-vascular diseases, renal, and hepatic dysfunction. Insulin is the drug of choice in lean diabetes, severe hyperglycemia, ketotic states, anorexic patients, and in drug intolerance. Metformin if tolerated has an advantage as a non-hypoglycemic agent with some favorable anti-TB activity. Lifestyle modification, antihypertensive treatment, lipid-lowering therapy, and anti-platelet therapy are the cornerstones in the management of cardiovascular disease in DM and TB. Anti-platelet drugs are withdrawn in patients with hemoptysis. Chronic kidney diseases can predispose to TB and its management is complicated by drug toxicity and dose adjustment of ATT is required along with careful
