HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2022 January 01; 117(1): 27–56. doi:. ACG Clinical Guideline: Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Endoscopy], Center, Cleveland, OH at Dallas, Dallas, TX Abstract Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) continues to be among the most common diseases seen by gastroenterologists, surgeons, and primary care physicians. Our understanding of the varied presentations of GERD, enhancements in diagnostic testing, and approach to patient management have evolved. During this time, scrutiny of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) has increased considerably. While PPIs remain the medical treatment of choice for GERD, multiple publications have raised questions about adverse events, raising doubts about the safety of Specific author contributions: All authors contributed to the planning, data analysis, writing, and the final version of the manuscript. Potential competing Interests: Katz PO: Has served as Consultant for Phathom Pharma and Medtronic Research support: Diversatek Royalties: Up to Date Dunbar K: None currently. Previous research funding from Ironwood. Schnoll-Sussman FH: Consultant for Ethicon, Interpace Biosciences and Medtronic Greer KB: None Yadlapati, R: Consultant thru institutional agreement: Medtronic, Ironwood, Diversatek. Research support: Ironwood. Advisory Board: Phathom Pharma: Stock Options: RJS Mediagnostics Spechler SJ: Has served as a consultant for Interpace Diagnostics, Cernostics, Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Takeda and Ironwood Pharmaceuticals. Royalties: Up To Date. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript long-term use and increasing concern about over-prescribing of PPIs. New data regarding the potential for surgical and endoscopic interventions have emerged. In this new document, we provide updated, evidence-based recommendations and practical guidance for the evaluation and management of GERD, including pharmacologic, lifestyle, surgical, and endoscopic management. The GRADE system was used to evaluate the evidence and the strength of recommendations. Key concepts and suggestions that as of this writing do not have sufficient evidence to grade are also provided. Introduction A lot has changed, much remains the same. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) continues to be among the most common diseases seen by gastroenterologists, surgeons, and primary care physicians. Since publication of the last American College of Gastroenterology guideline on reflux management , clinically important advances in surgical and endoscopic therapy of GERD have emerged. Our understanding of the varied presentations of GERD, enhancements in diagnostic testing, and approach to patient management have evolved. During this time, scrutiny of proton pump inhibitors
