HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


GERD have emerged. Our understanding of the varied presentations of GERD, enhancements in diagnostic testing, and approach to patient management have evolved. During this time, scrutiny of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) has increased considerably. While PPIs remain the medical treatment of choice for GERD, multiple publications have raised questions about adverse events, raising doubts about the safety of long-term use and increasing concern about over-prescribing of PPIs. In this new document, we provide updated, evidence-based recommendations and practical guidance for the evaluation and management of GERD, including pharmacologic, lifestyle, surgical, and endoscopic management. The management of functional heartburn and other functional upper GI symptoms is beyond the scope of this guideline. Additional detail regarding esophageal physiologic testing is covered in other guidelines. Summary and strength of the recommendations can be found in Table 1 with Key Concepts summarized in Table 2. Methods The guideline is structured in the format of statements that are considered to be clinically important by the content authors for evaluation and treatment of GERD. The authors developed PICO questions and performed a literature search for each question with assistance from a research librarian. The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) process was used to assess the quality of evidence for each statement . The quality of evidence is expressed as high (we are confident in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation), moderate, low, or very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation) based on the risk of bias of the studies, evidence of publication bias, heterogeneity among studies, directness of the evidence and precision of the estimate of effect . A strength of recommendation is given as either strong (recommendations) or conditional (suggestions) based on the quality of evidence, risks versus benefits, feasibility, and costs taking into account perceived patient and population-based factors . Furthermore, a narrative Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript evidence summary for each section provides important details for the data supporting the statements. Our goal is to showcase a document that offers best practice recommendations for clinicians caring for patients with GERD. Diagnosis of GERD Recommendations 1. For patients with classic GERD symptoms of heartburn and regurgitation who have no alarm symptoms, we recommend an 8-week trial of empiric proton pump inhibitor (PPI) once daily before a
