HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


For patients with classic GERD symptoms of heartburn and regurgitation who have no alarm symptoms, we recommend an 8-week trial of empiric proton pump inhibitor (PPI) once daily before a meal. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. We recommend attempting to discontinue the PPIs in patients whose classic GERD symptoms respond to an 8-week empiric trial of PPIs. (conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 3. We recommend diagnostic endoscopy, ideally after PPIs are stopped for 2 to 4 to an 8-week empiric trial of PPIs, or whose symptoms return when PPIs are discontinued. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) 4. In patients who have chest pain without heartburn and who have had adequate evaluation to exclude heart disease, objective testing for GERD (endoscopy and/or reflux monitoring) is recommended. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 5. We do not recommend the use of a barium swallow solely as a diagnostic test for GERD. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 6. We recommend endoscopy as the first test for evaluation of patients presenting with dysphagia or other alarm symptoms (weight loss, GI bleeding), and for patients with multiple risk factors for Barrett’s esophagus. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) 7. In patients for whom the diagnosis of GERD is suspected but not clear, and endoscopy shows no objective evidence of GERD, we recommend reflux monitoring be performed off therapy to establish the diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) 8. We recommend against performing reflux monitoring off therapy solely as a diagnostic test for GERD in patients known to have endoscopic evidence of Los Angeles grade C or D reflux esophagitis, or in patients with long-segment Barrett’s esophagus. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) Key Concept 1. We do not recommend high resolution manometry (HRM) solely as a diagnostic test for GERD. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Defining GERD—A single unifying definition of GERD is difficult. In preparing this guideline, we have blended the multiple definitions in the literature to create the following: GERD is the condition in which the reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus results in symptoms and/or complications. GERD is objectively defined by the presence of characteristic mucosal injury seen at endoscopy and/or abnormal esophageal acid exposure demonstrated on a reflux monitoring study. Pathophysiology of GERD—The pathophysiology of GERD includes a poorly functioning
