HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


the presence of characteristic mucosal injury seen at endoscopy and/or abnormal esophageal acid exposure demonstrated on a reflux monitoring study. Pathophysiology of GERD—The pathophysiology of GERD includes a poorly functioning esophagogastric junction; the antireflux barrier composed of the lower esophageal sphincter and crural diaphragm, coupled with impaired esophageal clearance and alterations in esophageal mucosal integrity. Reflux esophagitis develops when refluxed gastric juice triggers the release of cytokines and chemokines that attract inflammatory cells, and that also might contribute to symptoms. Other contributors to GERD symptoms may include decreased salivary production, delayed gastric emptying, and esophageal hypersensitivity. As such, GERD can no longer be approached as a single disease, but one with multiple phenotypic presentations and different diagnostic considerations. Symptoms—Typical symptoms of GERD include heartburn and regurgitation. Heartburn is the most common GERD symptom, and is described as substernal burning sensation rising from the epigastrium up toward the neck. Regurgitation is the effortless return of gastric contents upward toward the mouth, often accompanied by an acid or bitter taste. While both heartburn and regurgitation are major symptoms of GERD, the genesis of these symptoms are not the same, and the diagnostic and management approaches vary depending on which symptom predominates. Chest pain, indistinguishable from cardiac pain, may present in conjunction with heartburn and regurgitation, or as the only GERD symptom. The symptoms of GERD are nonspecific and may overlap or be confused with those of other disorders such as rumination, achalasia, eosinophilic esophagitis, reflux hypersensitivity, functional disease, cardiac or pulmonary disease, and paraesophageal hernia. Extraesophageal manifestations of GERD can include laryngeal and pulmonary symptoms such as hoarseness, throat clearing, and chronic cough, and conditions such as laryngitis, pharyngitis, and pulmonary fibrosis. It also has been proposed that GERD might exacerbate asthma. These extraesophageal manifestations are challenging for patients and physicians because, while they may result from GERD, they may also be due to a host of other causes. Even in patients with established GERD, it can be difficult to establish that GERD is the cause of these extraesophageal problems. There is no gold standard for the diagnosis of GERD. Thus, the diagnosis is based on a combination of symptom presentation, endoscopic evaluation of esophageal mucosa, reflux monitoring, and response to therapeutic intervention. Heartburn and regurgitation remain the most sensitive and specific symptoms for GERD, although not as reliable as one might believe. A well-done but older systematic review found a variable
