HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


intervention. Heartburn and regurgitation remain the most sensitive and specific symptoms for GERD, although not as reliable as one might believe. A well-done but older systematic review found a variable sensitivity of heartburn and regurgitation for erosive esophagitis (30-76%), with the specificity ranging from 62-96% . Most consensus statements and guidelines advocate a trial of therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) as a diagnostic “test” in patients with the typical symptoms of heartburn and regurgitation, with the underlying assumption that a PPI response establishes Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the diagnosis of GERD. While this a practical and efficient approach it is limited by a pooled sensitivity of 78% and specificity of only 54% (using endoscopy and pH monitoring as the reference standard) based on a meta-analysis and prospective study . Chest pain is commonly listed as a symptom of GERD. Similar to heartburn, a PPI trial has often been used for diagnosis of suspected GERD-related chest pain . However, a systematic review of PPI treatment of non-cardiac chest pain found that symptom improvement with a PPI trial was effective only in patients with erosive esophagitis or abnormal pH monitoring . There was no significant response to PPIs compared with placebo when endoscopy and pH monitoring were normal, and the symptoms of chest pain and heartburn did not reliably predict a PPI response . Atypical and extraesophageal symptoms and conditions such as chronic cough, dysphonia, asthma, sinusitis, laryngitis, and dental erosions have been associated with GERD. However, these symptoms and conditions have poor sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of GERD. Diagnoses of GERD by extraesophageal symptoms alone or by their response to PPIs are unreliable due to poor sensitivity and specificity for GERD and not recommended (see additional discussion in the Extraesophageal GERD section below). Barium radiography—Barium radiographs should not be used solely as a diagnostic test for GERD. The presence of reflux on a barium esophagram or upper GI series has poor sensitivity and specificity for GERD when compared to pH testing. In a recent prospective study, only about one-half of patients with abnormal reflux on a barium study were found to have abnormal pH monitoring . The finding of barium reflux above the thoracic inlet with or without provocative maneuvers (including the water siphon test) somewhat increases the sensitivity for reflux, but
