HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


abnormal pH monitoring . The finding of barium reflux above the thoracic inlet with or without provocative maneuvers (including the water siphon test) somewhat increases the sensitivity for reflux, but not sufficiently for barium esophagram to be recommended as a diagnostic test for GERD . Endoscopy—Upper endoscopy is the most widely used objective test for evaluating the esophageal mucosa. For patients with GERD symptoms who also have alarm symptoms such as dysphagia, weight loss, bleeding, vomiting, and/or anemia, endoscopy should be performed as soon as feasible. The endoscopic findings of erosive esophagitis (EE) and Barrett’s esophagus are specific for the diagnosis of GERD. The Los Angeles (LA) classification of EE is the most widely used and validated scoring system . Recent expert consensus statements concluded that LA grade A EE is not sufficient for a definitive diagnosis of GERD, as it is not reliably differentiated from normal . LA B EE can be diagnostic of GERD in the presence of typical GERD symptoms and PPI response, while LA grade C is virtually always diagnostic of GERD. In outpatients, LA grade D EE is a manifestation of severe GERD, but LA grade D EE might not be a reliable index of GERD severity in hospitalized patients. The finding of any Barrett’s esophagus segment >3 cm with intestinal metaplasia on biopsy is diagnostic of GERD and obviates the need for pH testing merely to confirm that diagnosis. In patients with LA grade C and D EE, endoscopy is recommended after PPI treatment to ensure healing and to evaluate for Barrett’s esophagus, which can be difficult to detect when severe EE is present. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript For patients having endoscopy for typical GERD symptoms, normal mucosa is the most common finding. There are limited data on the frequency of finding EE in patients undergoing endoscopy while taking PPIs but, since PPIs are highly effective for healing EE, underlying EE clearly can be missed in this setting. Consequently, a diagnosis of non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) should only be made if endoscopy is performed off PPIs. In order to maximize the yield of GERD diagnosis and assess for EE, diagnostic endoscopy should ideally be performed after PPIs have been stopped for 2 weeks, and perhaps as long as 4 weeks if possible. In a small prospective study assessing relapse
