HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


diagnostic endoscopy should ideally be performed after PPIs have been stopped for 2 weeks, and perhaps as long as 4 weeks if possible. In a small prospective study assessing relapse of EE in patients with LA C EE that was healed with PPIs, discontinuation of PPI therapy led to return of EE in as little as one week . Stopping PPIs for 2 to 4 weeks also will facilitate a diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), which is a diagnostic consideration when endoscopy is performed for patients with symptoms that are thought to be due to GERD but are not eliminated by PPIs . While esophageal biopsies have little value as a diagnostic test for GERD, they are required to establish a diagnosis of EoE. Since PPIs can eliminate the endoscopic and histologic features of EoE, the diagnosis of EoE cannot be excluded if endoscopy is performed while the patient is taking PPIs . Patients should be advised that they can take antacids for symptom relief during this period of 2 to 4 weeks off PPIs. Some patients will not be able to tolerate discontinuing their PPI therapy, but the diagnostic advantages discussed above warrant an attempt at stopping PPIs before performing diagnostic endoscopy for GERD. Esophageal Manometry—High resolution manometry (HRM) can be used to assess motility abnormalities associated with GERD, but HRM is not alone a diagnostic test for GERD. Weak LES pressure and ineffective esophageal motility often accompany severe GERD, but no manometric abnormality is specific for GERD. For esophageal impedance-pH monitoring, HRM is used to locate the LES for positioning of transnasal pH-impedance catheters. HRM also has a role in the evaluation of patients considering surgical or endoscopic antireflux procedures, primarily to evaluate for achalasia. Patients with achalasia can have heartburn and regurgitation that are mistaken for GERD symptoms, and antireflux procedures performed for such a mistaken diagnosis of GERD can result in devastating dysphagia. Thus, HRM should ideally be performed in all patients prior to any antireflux procedure. Although esophageal manometry has been proposed as a means to “tailor” antireflux operations, with Nissen (complete) fundoplication reserved for patients with normal peristalsis and partial fundoplication used for those with ineffective esophageal motility, studies on this issue have not supported the efficacy of this approach. Nevertheless, absent contractility is for most a contraindication to fundoplication. Newer developments in HRM include physiologic assessment of esophagogastric junction morphology and provocative testing
