HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


supported the efficacy of this approach. Nevertheless, absent contractility is for most a contraindication to fundoplication. Newer developments in HRM include physiologic assessment of esophagogastric junction morphology and provocative testing with multiple rapid swallows or the rapid drink challenge. In patients undergoing surgical treatment of GERD, reduced contractile reserve documented by multiple rapid swallows on HRM is associated with post-operative dysphagia . More data are needed to clarify the role of altered motility on outcomes after magnetic sphincter augmentation and transoral incisionless fundoplication. Until those are forthcoming, a preoperative HRM is recommended. HRM is part of the diagnostic work up for patients unresponsive to PPIs when an etiology for symptoms cannot be demonstrated by impedance Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript pH monitoring and in patients with non-cardiac chest pain especially those not responsive to a PPI trial to assess for motility abnormalities Reflux monitoring—Ambulatory reflux monitoring (pH or impedance-pH) allows for assessment of esophageal acid exposure to establish or refute a diagnosis of GERD, and for correlating symptoms with reflux episodes using the symptom index or symptom association probability. The main methods of reflux testing include a wireless telemetry capsule (Bravo Reflux Capsule, Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) attached to the esophageal mucosa during endoscopy and transnasal catheter-based testing, and there are strengths and weaknesses to each approach. With transnasally-positioned pH and pH/impedance catheters, the monitoring period generally is limited to 24 hours, while wireless pH telemetry capsule monitoring can last from 48 to 96 hours. In addition, the capsule avoids the physical discomfort and embarrassment of a transnasal catheter, and so patients are more likely to carry on normal daily activities during capsule pH monitoring . There is no capsule system available for impedance monitoring, which requires a transnasal catheter. Dual-pH sensor transnasal catheters and a hypopharyngeal pH probe are also available to document acid reflux into the proximal esophagus and oropharynx, but the utility of these techniques is highly questionable with studies reporting widely disparate results (see extraesophageal section). Several factors are assessed during reflux testing, including acid exposure time, number of reflux events, and symptom correlation. Impedance pH testing also allows for measurement of weakly acidic and nonacid reflux, assessment of bolus clearance, and extent of proximal reflux. Reflux symptom association on impedance pH testing may help predict symptom response to therapy and may help
