HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


acidic and nonacid reflux, assessment of bolus clearance, and extent of proximal reflux. Reflux symptom association on impedance pH testing may help predict symptom response to therapy and may help in diagnosing reflux hypersensitivity . With both wireless capsule and catheter-based reflux tests, the most consistently reliable variables include the total acid exposure time and the composite DeMeester score. The relationship between symptoms and reflux events can be assessed using the symptom index (SI) or symptom association probability (SAP). To calculate SI, the total number of reflux episodes associated with symptom episodes is divided by the total number of symptom episodes during the entire monitoring period; an SI ≥50% is considered positive. To determine the SAP, the 24-hour monitoring period is divided into 720 two-minute increments, and each increment is evaluated for the occurrence of reflux and symptom episodes. A Fisher’s exact test is performed to determine a p-value for the probability that reflux and symptom events are randomly distributed, and the SAP is determined by subtracting the calculated p value from 1, and multiplying the remainder by 100%; an SAP >95% is considered positive. The validity of both of these indices has been questioned, and neither has been demonstrated superior to the other for clinical purposes. The sensitivity and specificity of reflux monitoring is high in GERD patients with erosive esophagitis, though perhaps not as accurate in those with a normal endoscopy. Impedance monitoring that enables detection of weakly acidic and non-acidic reflux has been shown to be useful in identifying patients with reflux hypersensitivity who might respond to antireflux surgery . An issue that frequently arises is whether esophageal pH monitoring should be performed on or off PPI therapy. It is generally recommended to monitor after PPIs are stopped for 7 days if the diagnosis of GERD is not clear, and prior to antireflux surgery or endoscopic Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript therapy for GERD to document abnormal acid reflux . This recommendation includes testing with either the telemetry capsule (48-96 hours) or impedance-pH catheter. Reflux monitoring while on PPI therapy is suggested in patients who have had the diagnosis of GERD established by previous objective evidence (i.e. erosive esophagitis, Barrett’s esophagus, prior pH testing off PPI) but who have symptoms potentially reflux-related that have not responded to PPIs. In these patients, impedance/pH testing
