HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


previous objective evidence (i.e. erosive esophagitis, Barrett’s esophagus, prior pH testing off PPI) but who have symptoms potentially reflux-related that have not responded to PPIs. In these patients, impedance/pH testing is recommended to document reflux hypersensitivity for weakly acidic or non-acidic reflux as well as for acid reflux. Figure 1 outlines an overall approach to the diagnosis of GERD. Diagnosis of GERD in Pregnancy—Approximately two-thirds of pregnant women previous diagnosis of GERD , though a history of GERD may increase the likelihood of GERD occurring during pregnancy. Despite its frequent occurrence during pregnancy, heartburn usually resolves after delivery . Pregnancy and the amount of weight gain during pregnancy are risk factors for frequent GERD symptoms one-year post delivery . Heartburn is the only GERD symptom that has been studied in pregnancy, and the diagnosis of GERD is almost always symptom based. Endoscopy and pH monitoring are rarely needed. New developments—A recently approved device for evaluation of GERD uses a catheter-based balloon lined by sensors that measure mucosal impedance during endoscopy. This technique has shown promise for differentiating GERD from EoE and may develop to be a useful adjunct to endoscopy in the diagnosis of GERD . GERD Medical Management Recommendations 1. We recommend weight loss in overweight and obese patients for improvement of GERD symptoms. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. We suggest avoiding meals within 2-3 hours of bedtime. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 3. We suggest avoidance of tobacco products/smoking in patients with GERD symptoms. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 4. We suggest avoidance of "trigger foods" for GERD symptom control. Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 5. We suggest elevating head of bed for nighttime GERD symptoms. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 6. We recommend treatment with PPI over treatment with H2RA for healing erosive esophagitis. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 7. We recommend treatment with PPI over H2RA for maintenance of healing from erosive esophagitis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 8. We recommend PPI administration 30 to 60 minutes prior to a meal rather than at bedtime for GERD symptom control. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) and whose symptoms have resolved with PPI therapy, an attempt should be made to discontinue PPIs or to switch to on-demand therapy in which
