HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


(Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) and whose symptoms have resolved with PPI therapy, an attempt should be made to discontinue PPIs or to switch to on-demand therapy in which PPIs are taken only when symptoms occur and discontinued when they are relieved. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 10. For GERD patients who require maintenance therapy with PPIs, the PPIs should be administered in the lowest dose that effectively controls GERD symptoms and maintains healing of reflux esophagitis. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 11. We recommend against routine addition of medical therapies in PPI non- responders. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 12. We recommend maintenance PPI therapy indefinitely or antireflux surgery for patients with Los Angeles grade C or D esophagitis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 13. We do not recommend Baclofen in the absence of objective evidence of GERD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 14. We recommend against treatment with a prokinetic agent of any kind for GERD therapy unless there is objective evidence of gastroparesis. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) 15. We do not recommend sucralfate for GERD therapy except during pregnancy. (Strong recommendation, low level of evidence) 16. We suggest on-demand or intermittent PPI therapy for heartburn symptom control in patients with non-erosive reflux disease. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Key Concepts 1. There is conceptual rationale for a trial of switching PPIs for patients who have not responded to one PPI. For patients who have not responded to one PPI, more than one switch to another PPI cannot be supported. 2. Use of the lowest effective PPI dose is recommended and logical but must be individualized. One area of controversy relates to abrupt PPI discontinuation and potential rebound acid hypersecretion resulting in increased reflux symptoms. Although this has been demonstrated to occur in healthy controls, strong evidence for an increase in symptoms after abrupt PPI withdrawal is lacking. Management of GERD requires a multifaceted approach, taking into account the symptom presentation, endoscopic findings, and likely physiological abnormalities. Management decisions may differ depending on hiatal hernia type and size, on the presence of erosive esophagitis and/or Barrett’s esophagus, body mass index and on accompanying physiologic Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript abnormalities such as gastroparesis or ineffective motility with absence of contractile reserve. Medical management includes lifestyle
