HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript abnormalities such as gastroparesis or ineffective motility with absence of contractile reserve. Medical management includes lifestyle modifications as well as pharmacologic therapy, principally with medications that reduce gastric acid secretion. Surgical and endoscopic options are discussed in other sections. Non-pharmacologic lifestyle modifications include recommendations for diet modification (content and timing), body positioning with meals and while sleeping, and weight management (Table 3). Diet and Lifestyle Changes—Common recommendations include weight loss for overweight patients, elevating the head of the bed, tobacco and alcohol cessation, avoidance of late night meals and bedtime snacks, staying upright during and after meals, and cessation of foods that potentially aggravate reflux symptoms such as coffee, chocolate, carbonated beverages, spicy foods, acidic foods such as citrus and tomatoes, and foods with high fat content . Supporting data for these recommendations are limited and variable, often involving only small and uncontrolled studies, and rarely as the only intervention, making interpretation and definitive recommendations difficult. However, multiple studies, including several randomized controlled trials, have demonstrated improvement in nocturnal GERD symptoms and nocturnal esophageal acid exposure with head of bed elevation or sleeping on a wedge. Also, compared to lying left-side down, lying right-side down increases nocturnal reflux and reflux after meals, presumably because right-sided recumbency places the EGJ in a dependent position relative to the pool of gastric contents that favors reflux .Thus, patients might be advised to avoid sleeping right side down [31-34]. Several studies have evaluated the effects of various foods on LES pressure to try to determine which items might lead to GERD. In laboratory studies, coffee, caffeine, citrus, and spicy food had little to no effect on LES pressure . However, some of these items might have irritant effects that could evoke GERD symptoms without influencing reflux. Alcohol consumption, tobacco smoking, chocolate, peppermint, and high-fat foods these foods and practices. Smoking cessation was shown to improve GERD symptoms in a large cohort study . Patients in a smoking cessation study had GERD symptoms measured by validated questionnaire, and those who successfully quit smoking for a year had 44% improvement in GERD symptoms, compared to 18% in those who continued to smoke . women without a known history of GERD for the impact of coffee, tea, soda, milk, water and juice on reflux symptoms. Six servings of coffee, tea, and soda were
