HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


. women without a known history of GERD for the impact of coffee, tea, soda, milk, water and juice on reflux symptoms. Six servings of coffee, tea, and soda were associated with increased reflux symptoms compared to zero servings per day. In contrast, milk and juice were not associated with increased reflux symptoms, despite the acidic nature of some of these beverages . Substituting water for two servings of coffee, tea and soda was associated with a decrease in GERD symptoms, suggesting that substitution of water for these beverages might be helpful in the management of GERD. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The timing of food intake can also affect GERD symptoms. A short interval (<3 hours) between eating and bedtime or lying supine is associated with increased GERD symptoms and need for medication . Weight gain has been associated with new onset of GERD symptoms , even in those with a normal BMI at baseline. Obesity increases the risk of GERD, possibly due to a combination of eating a diet high in fat and other foods that promote reflux, increased intra-abdominal pressure that promotes reflux due to increased intra-abdominal fat, and physiologic changes induced by products of visceral fat . Several studies have examined the role of weight and weight loss on GERD. A population- based study in Norway assessed weight and GERD symptoms at baseline and 10 years later, and identified a dose-dependent improvement in GERD symptoms with weight loss . Prospective and cohort studies also have shown improvement in GERD with weight loss. One study documented a 40% reduction in frequent GERD symptoms in women who reduced their BMI by 3.5 or more compared with controls . A meta-analysis suggests that weight loss in overweight patients, avoidance of eating prior to going to sleep, and smoking cessation are effective in relief of GERD symptoms . Medications—The backbone of pharmacologic therapy for GERD are medications that are directed at neutralization or reduction of gastric acid. Agents in this class include antacids, histamine H -receptor antagonists (H RA), and proton pump inhibitors. Antacids 2 2 are used exclusively for on-demand symptom relief with little evidence to favor one type over another. Studies with an alginic acid preparation manufactured in the United Kingdom suggest potential efficacy in symptom relief compared to other products, but alginate content
