HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


to favor one type over another. Studies with an alginic acid preparation manufactured in the United Kingdom suggest potential efficacy in symptom relief compared to other products, but alginate content of preparations sold in other countries is variable . Proton Pump Inhibitors—PPIs are the most commonly prescribed medication based on ample data demonstrating consistently superior heartburn and regurgitation relief, as well as improved healing compared to H RAs. A meta-analysis (published when only two PPIs were available) provides important insight into PPI efficacy. PPIs showed a significantly faster healing rate (12%/week) vs. H RAs (6%/week), and faster, more complete heartburn 2 relief (11.5%/week) vs. H RAs (6.4%/week) . Studies on GERD treatment typically last only 8-12 weeks, in part because symptom relief and healing appear to peak in that time frame. The healing rates of erosive esophagitis are not linear; thus, clinicians and patients need to understand that symptom relief and healing may not be rapid. PPIs are associated with a greater rate of “complete” symptom relief (usually assessed at 4 weeks) in patients with erosive esophagitis (~70-80%) compared to patients with so called non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) in which symptom relief approximates 50-60% . Trials in NERD patients are based on symptoms of frequent heartburn and the absence of erosions on an index endoscopy without objective documentation of GERD by reflux monitoring. There are likely many patients included in NERD who have functional heartburn and thus unlikely to respond to PPI. Meta-analyses suggest that overall GERD symptom relief and healing rates differ little among the seven available PPIs, despite studies demonstrating differences in pH control. A meta-analysis examining efficacy of different PPIs for healing of erosive esophagitis included 10 studies (15,316 patients) . At 8 weeks, there was a 5% (RR, 1.05; 95% Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript CI, 1.02-1.08) relative increase in the probability of healing of erosive esophagitis with esomeprazole, yielding an absolute risk reduction of 4% and number needed to treat (NNT) of 25, a number unlikely to be clinically meaningful. Although all the PPIs are effective for healing reflux esophagitis when given in their standard dosages, there are wide variations in the acid-suppression potency of the different PPI preparations. If relative acid-suppression potencies of individual PPIs (based on their effects on mean 24-hour intragastric pH) are standardized to omeprazole to yield
