HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


the acid-suppression potency of the different PPI preparations. If relative acid-suppression potencies of individual PPIs (based on their effects on mean 24-hour intragastric pH) are standardized to omeprazole to yield ‘omeprazole equivalents’ (OEs, with omeprazole having an OE of 1.00), the relative potencies of standard-dose pantoprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole, esomeprazole and rabeprazole have been estimated at 0.23, 0.90, 1.00, 1.60 and 1.82 OEs, respectively . PPIs can bind only to proton pumps that are actively secreting acid. Since meals stimulate proton pump activity, enteric-coated PPIs control intra-gastric pH best when given before a meal (30-60 minutes before breakfast for once-daily dosing, 30-60 minutes before breakfast and dinner for twice-daily dosing . Bedtime dosing is discouraged as this is less effective than a pre-dinner dose in acid control . Dexlansoprazole , a dual delayed release PPI, in which first absorption is in the duodenum, then partially further down the small bowel appears to have similar efficacy in pH control regardless of meal timing. An omeprazole-sodium bicarbonate combination that is not enteric coated provides good control of intragastric pH in the first four hours of sleep when dosed at bedtime . There appears to be a wide variation in individual intragastric pH control between PPIs, a rationale for considering switching PPIs in patients with incomplete response . In a study of 282 patients with persistent heartburn on lansoprazole 30 mg once daily who were randomized either to double the dose of lansoprazole or to switch to esomeprazole 40 mg once daily, the two strategies were equally effective, with approximately 55% of patients in both groups experiencing a decrease in the percentage of heartburn-free days . Studies suggest that genetic differences in CYP2C19 metabolism affect PPI response, however genetic testing in this regard has no established role in practice. If one is considering a PPI switch, changing to a PPI that does not rely on CYP2C19 for primary metabolism (rabeprazole) might be considered. Maintenance PPI therapy should be administered for patients with GERD complications including severe erosive esophagitis (LA C or D) and Barrett’s esophagus. For patients without erosive esophagitis or Barrett’s esophagus who continue to have symptoms when PPI therapy is discontinued, consideration can be given to on-demand therapy in which PPIs are taken only when symptoms occur and discontinued when they are relieved [60, 61]. Two-thirds of patients with nonerosive disease responsive to PPIs will demonstrate symptomatic relapse when PPIs are stopped.
