HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


taken only when symptoms occur and discontinued when they are relieved [60, 61]. Two-thirds of patients with nonerosive disease responsive to PPIs will demonstrate symptomatic relapse when PPIs are stopped. With LA grade C esophagitis, nearly 100% will relapse within 6 months . Recurrence of erosive esophagitis after discontinuation can occur in as little as 1-2 weeks, particularly in patients with prior LA C erosive esophagitis . Patients with LA grade C or D erosive esophagitis should remain on long-term PPI therapy to maintain healing. In some cases, patients with NERD and otherwise non-complicated GERD can be managed successfully with on-demand or intermittent PPI therapy. In one randomized controlled trial, 83% of NERD patients randomized to 20 mg of omeprazole on demand were in remission Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript at 6 months compared with 56% of patient on placebo . In a systematic review of randomized controlled trials comparing on-demand PPI vs placebo, symptom-free days for NERD patients in the on-demand arm were equivalent to rates for patients on continuous PPI therapy, and both on-demand and continuous PPI were superior to placebo. On-demand PPI therapy was not better than continuous PPI therapy for patients with erosive esophagitis. Step-down therapy to H RAs is another acceptable option for management, particularly in NERD patients . Use of the lowest effective dose is recommended and logical but must be individualized. One area of controversy relates to abrupt PPI discontinuation and potential rebound acid hypersecretion resulting in increased reflux symptoms. Although rebound acid hypersecretion has been demonstrated to occur in healthy controls, strong evidence for an increase in symptoms after abrupt PPI withdrawal is lacking [66-68]. Histamine-2-Receptor Antagonists Taken at Bedtime—Medical options for GERD patients with incomplete symptom response on PPI therapy are limited. The addition of bedtime H RA has been suggested for patients on PPI with persistent nocturnal symptoms. 2 This approach gained popularity after several studies demonstrated improved overnight intragastric pH control with the addition of an H RA , although a well-done study demonstrated loss of pH control (tachyphylaxis) after a month of bedtime H RA therapy . Based on these data, use of a bedtime H RA may be beneficial if dosed on an as- needed basis for patients with nocturnal symptoms and for patients with objective evidence of nocturnal acid reflux on pH
