HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


bedtime H RA may be beneficial if dosed on an as- needed basis for patients with nocturnal symptoms and for patients with objective evidence of nocturnal acid reflux on pH monitoring despite PPI treatment. Prokinetics—There are limited data on the use of prokinetic agents for patients with GERD. Metoclopramide has been shown to increase lower esophageal sphincter pressure, enhance esophageal peristalsis, and augment gastric emptying. However, data on its efficacy in GERD are scant, and significant adverse events have been reported with long-term and high-dose metoclopramide use, including central nervous system side effects such as drowsiness, agitation, irritability, depression, dystonic reactions, and tardive dyskinesia [71, Prucalopride, a 5 HT agonist FDA-approved for treatment of constipation, was shown in one off-label use study to improve gastric emptying and reduce esophageal acid exposure in patients with GERD. In the future, this may be a potential add-on therapy for patients with GERD on PPIs found to have delayed gastric emptying . Baclofen—Baclofen, a GABA agonist, reduces the transient LES relaxations that enable B reflux episodes. Baclofen decreases the number of post-prandial acid and non-acid reflux events, nocturnal reflux activity, and belching episodes [74-76]. A trial of baclofen at a dosage of 5-20 mg three times a day can be considered in patients with objective documentation of continued symptomatic reflux despite optimal PPI therapy. Short-term randomized controlled trials have demonstrated symptomatic improvement with baclofen [74-76]. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of medical therapy (including baclofen) vs antireflux surgery for PPI-refractory heartburn found no significant benefit for baclofen compared to placebo at one year, but the study was not sufficiently powered to detect a Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript small but potentially important effect for baclofen . Usage is limited by side effects of dizziness, somnolence, and constipation. Sucralfate—Sucralfate is a mucosal protective agent, but few data document its efficacy in GERD. Limited studies have suggested similar efficacy to H RAs, but there are no comparative data to PPIs, nor any combination studies with these agents. Sucralfate is largely unabsorbed and has no systemic toxicity. There is little to recommend for this agent in GERD outside of pregnancy. Treatment of GERD during Pregnancy—A small randomized controlled trial found that sucralfate was superior to dietary and lifestyle modifications for relieving heartburn and regurgitation in pregnant women . Approximately two-thirds of pregnant women experience
