HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


Pregnancy—A small randomized controlled trial found that sucralfate was superior to dietary and lifestyle modifications for relieving heartburn and regurgitation in pregnant women . Approximately two-thirds of pregnant women experience heartburn. It has been recommended that treatment of GERD during pregnancy should start with lifestyle modifications. When lifestyle modifications fail, antacids (aluminum-, calcium-, or magnesium-containing), alginates, and sucralfate are the first-line therapeutic agents. All histamine H2-blockers are FDA Category B, and all PPIs are FDA Category B except omeprazole, which is FDA Category C. Extraesophageal GERD Symptoms Recommendations 1. We recommend evaluation for non-GERD causes in patients with possible extra-esophageal manifestations before ascribing symptoms to GERD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. We recommend that patients who have extra-esophageal manifestations of GERD without typical GERD symptoms (e.g. heartburn, regurgitation) undergo reflux testing for evaluation prior to PPI therapy. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. For patients who have both extraesophageal and typical GERD symptoms we suggest considering a trial of twice-daily PPI therapy for 8 to 12 weeks prior to additional testing. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 4. We suggest that upper endoscopy should not be used as the method to establish a diagnosis of GERD-related asthma, chronic cough, or laryngopharyngeal reflux. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 5. We suggest against a diagnosis of laryngopharyngeal reflux based on laryngoscopy findings alone and recommend additional testing should be considered. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 6. In patients treated for extraesophageal reflux disease, surgical or endoscopic anti-reflux procedures are only recommended in patients with objective evidence of reflux. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Key Concepts 1. While GERD may be a contributor to extraesophageal symptoms in some patients, careful evaluation for other causes should be considered for patients with laryngeal symptoms, chronic cough, and asthma. 2. Diagnosis, evaluation, and management of potential extraesophageal symptoms of GERD is limited by lack of a gold standard test, variable symptoms, and other disorders which may cause similar symptoms 3. Due to difficulty distinguishing between patient with laryngeal symptoms and normal controls, salivary pepsin testing is not recommended for evaluation of patients with extraesophageal reflux symptoms 4. For patients whose extraesophageal symptoms have not responded to a trial of twice-daily PPIs, we recommend upper endoscopy, ideally off PPIs for 2 to
