HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


patients with extraesophageal reflux symptoms 4. For patients whose extraesophageal symptoms have not responded to a trial of twice-daily PPIs, we recommend upper endoscopy, ideally off PPIs for 2 to 4 weeks. If endoscopy is normal, consider reflux monitoring. Demonstration of erosive esophagitis by endoscopy establishes a diagnosis of GERD, but does not confirm that GERD is the cause of the extraesophageal symptoms. Confirmation may require pH/impedance testing. oropharyngeal or pharyngeal pH monitoring. Numerous extraesophageal symptoms and conditions have been attributed to GERD, including chronic cough, throat-clearing, hoarseness, globus, asthma, and laryngitis. These are vexing for patients as well as physicians, as the symptoms ascribed to extra- esophageal GERD are often non-specific and overlap with other disorders. Evaluation by otorhinolaryngology, allergy, and pulmonary specialists should be considered in these patients, depending on the constellation of symptoms. Currently available diagnostic tools to establish GERD as the cause of extraesophageal symptoms have substantial limitations. PPI treatment is relied upon as both a diagnostic tool and treatment for extraesophageal GERD symptoms, but is often ineffective and prolonged treatment trials with PPI may delay diagnosis and care for patients with non-reflux laryngeal and pulmonary disorders. Symptoms—The association between GERD and extraesophageal symptoms has been examined in multiple studies. In a case-control study of veterans, patients with esophagitis or esophageal strictures were more likely to have a diagnosis of laryngitis (OR 2.01), aphonia (OR 1.81), asthma (OR 1.51), and pharyngitis (OR 1.48) compared to control patients . In a U.S. survey study, 26% of patients reported both GERD and laryngeal symptoms . Of this group with both GERD and laryngeal complaints, 38% reported voice disorders and 44% had occasional breathing difficulties. Some studies have suggested that chronic cough may be due to GERD in 21-41% of cases . However, due to the wide evaluation of chronic cough suggests looking for other sources before attributing chronic cough to GERD . GERD may also have a role in asthma, with one systematic review of 28 studies identifying GERD symptoms in 59% of asthma patients and abnormal pH testing in 51% . However, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript data from several randomized controlled trials suggest that PPI treatment is ineffective for many patients with asthma, which brings in to question the role of acid reflux in asthma symptoms . Endoscopy—Endoscopy is frequently used for
