HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


suggest that PPI treatment is ineffective for many patients with asthma, which brings in to question the role of acid reflux in asthma symptoms . Endoscopy—Endoscopy is frequently used for assessing classic symptoms of GERD, such as heartburn and regurgitation, but its role in assessment of extraesophageal GERD symptoms is less clear. In patients with extraesophageal GERD symptoms, the reported frequency of erosive esophagitis ranges from 18% to 52% . However, the presence of erosive esophagitis does not confirm GERD as a cause of extraesophageal symptoms, as erosive esophagitis has been found in 16% of patients with no typical or extraesophageal GERD symptoms in a general population who were undergoing periodic health checkup . Nevertheless, if LA grade C or D erosive esophagitis is present, this establishes a diagnosis of severe GERD and justifies a trial of PPI therapy. Laryngoscopy—Laryngoscopy performed by an otorhinolaryngologist (ENT) is commonly used to assess for signs of extraesophageal GERD, in particular, laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR). Findings on laryngoscopy that are associated with reflux include posterior commissure hypertrophy, laryngeal and arytenoid inflammation, vocal cord edema, and endolaryngeal mucus. Several scoring systems have been developed for grading the laryngoscopic findings, the most common of which is the reflux finding score (RFS) . However, correlation between symptoms, laryngoscopic findings, and other objective testing such as pH and pH-impedance monitoring, is low. In a systematic review evaluating and multiple scoring systems were evaluated. LPR signs on laryngoscopy were found to have low specificity, with validation hampered by the lack of a gold standard for diagnosis . Inter-rater reliability for laryngeal findings was also found to be low for multiple laryngoscopic features attributed to LPR . In one study of patients originally thought to have LPR, a careful review of laryngoscopic findings by study investigators identified other causes of the laryngeal complaints including cancer, muscle tension dysphonia, vocal cord paresis, and benign mucosal lesions . In one recent pediatric study, the laryngoscopic RFS did not correlate with pH-impedance findings, the presence of erosive esophagitis, or quality of life . This lack of correlation between laryngoscopic findings and symptoms also been documented in adults. In one study of 105 normal, asymptomatic volunteers, 86% had findings associated with reflux on laryngoscopy, with some signs of LPR seen in 70% of participants . A second study of normal, asymptomatic volunteers found at least one sign of inflammation in 93% of participants who underwent
