HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


some signs of LPR seen in 70% of participants . A second study of normal, asymptomatic volunteers found at least one sign of inflammation in 93% of participants who underwent flexible laryngoscopy . The use of laryngoscopy for diagnosis of LPR has substantial limitations, with inflammation seen in asymptomatic volunteers, low reproducibility, and lack of correlation between laryngoscopic findings and symptoms. While ENT physicians often treat LPR based on laryngoscopy findings, a poor response to medical therapy should not be surprising. Reflux testing—Multichannel pH-impedance testing, traditional catheter-based pH testing, and wireless pH testing have been used to evaluate patients with extraesophageal GERD symptoms. Reflux testing using pH-impedance can detect acidic (pH <4), weakly acidic (pH 4-7), and nonacidic reflux (pH >7), and determine the extent of proximal Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript reflux, which may be important in the evaluation of extra-esophageal GERD symptoms. pH-impedance testing in patients with LPR symptoms is abnormal in 40% of cases . pH-Impedance monitoring has been used in several studies of patients with LPR symptoms, and those with abnormal pH impedance results were found to be more likely to respond to PPI treatment than patients with normal testing . Studies in which pH-impedance monitoring was used to identify the relationship between reflux events and cough episodes have shown that chronic cough can be associated with weakly acidic and nonacidic reflux events . In a study of 21 patients with globus and 12 with heartburn alone who were evaluated by pH-impedance testing performed on PPI therapy, proximal reflux was noted to be more common in the globus patients . Use of pH-impedance in this study increased the yield of standard pH testing by 28%, and identified proximal esophageal reflux as a significant predictor of globus. their criteria for defining this entity . One study found that extraesophageal symptoms were not more frequently associated with proximal esophageal reflux than typical GERD symptoms and that, irrespective of symptoms, half of all reflux events extended to the proximal esophagus . In a study of 237 patients with extraesophageal symptoms refractory to medical therapy, traditional reflux parameters were better predictors of fundoplication outcome than impedance testing, with the presence of heartburn and acid exposure times >12% increasing the probability of surgical success . In a retrospective study of 33 patients with refractory reflux symptoms (typical
