HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


testing, with the presence of heartburn and acid exposure times >12% increasing the probability of surgical success . In a retrospective study of 33 patients with refractory reflux symptoms (typical and atypical) evaluated by pH-impedance monitoring on PPIs, only a positive SAP for heartburn or regurgitation was associated with improvement after surgery . In the absence of a clear definition of ‘normal’ proximal esophageal reflux, interpretation of impedance results for extraesophageal GERD is problematic, and surgical outcomes appear to be predicted better by traditional reflux parameters. The choice to test on or off PPI in patients with extraesophageal symptoms has no clear answer. Testing off PPI can be used to determine whether pathologic esophageal acid exposure is present and should be considered when the pre-test probability for GERD is low. Testing on PPI can be considered in patients already known to have pathologic acid exposure, such as those with Barrett’s esophagus or with LA C or D erosive esophagitis . One proposed model for determining which patients should undergo pH testing on or off a PPI was developed using a population of 471 patients with refractory heartburn or extraesophageal GERD . Risk factors for abnormal esophageal acid exposure in patients with suspected extraesophageal reflux included BMI >25, hiatal hernia, and presence of heartburn. In patients with extraesophageal symptoms persistent after 2 months of BID PPI, the investigators suggest calculation of the Heartburn, Asthma, and BMI Extraesophageal Reflux (HAs-BEER) score – 1 point each for BMI >25, asthma, and heartburn, but no points for cough or hoarseness. pH impedance testing on PPI was recommended for patients with a HAs-BEER score of 3, whereas testing off PPI was recommended for those with scores ≤2. Other studies attempting to address the question of testing on or off PPI have found that the total number of reflux episodes detected by impedance is similar between testing on and off PPI , while one study found that patients were more likely to have a positive SAP off PPI . Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Wireless pH testing also has been used for evaluation of patients with extraesophageal symptoms. In one series of patients with extraesophageal GERD who had wireless pH testing, 81% had abnormal acid exposure, typically mild to moderate reflux, and more often in the upright position . However, as wireless
