HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


patients with extraesophageal GERD who had wireless pH testing, 81% had abnormal acid exposure, typically mild to moderate reflux, and more often in the upright position . However, as wireless pH testing focuses on distal acid reflux only, it is not a reliable index for laryngeal acid exposure. However, if normal over 96 hours of testing, it provides evidence against acid reflux as a cause of symptoms. Pharyngeal and Oropharyngeal Reflux Monitoring—Catheter-based pharyngeal pH monitoring with dual sensor probes, and oropharyngeal pH monitoring have been proposed as methods to better detect LPR compared to traditional pH monitoring and pH-impedance. However, the reliability of pharyngeal pH measurement has been questioned, and proximal sensor data may be unreliable due to placement issues [110-113]. Similar to pH-impedance testing, the amount of proximal reflux considered abnormal varies by study [114-117].A systematic review found no significant differences in dual-channel pH testing results between normal controls and patients with laryngeal symptoms . Early studies of oropharyngeal pH testing were promising, and appeared to predict success of antireflux surgery . However, subsequent studies have failed to identify a significant correlation between oropharyngeal reflux events and pH-impedance reflux events, suggesting that decreases in oropharyngeal pH may be due to factors other than gastroesophageal reflux [121-125]. One study of adults with laryngeal symptoms evaluated patients using the reflux symptom index, video laryngoscopy, and oropharyngeal pH monitoring, followed by a PPI trial . There were no significant differences in oropharyngeal acid exposure between PPI responders, partial responders, and nonresponders. Lack of correlation between oropharyngeal pH events and pH impedance events was seen in another study of adults with suspected LPR - oropharyngeal pH test results were unable in distinguishing asymptomatic volunteers from patients with laryngeal irritation . Salivary pepsin testing—Salivary pepsin testing has been proposed as a non-invasive method of detecting LPR. A recent meta-analysis of 11 observational studies examined the role of salivary pepsin testing in diagnosing LPR . Significant heterogeneity was found, with varying reference standards for LPR diagnosis (pH monitoring, symptoms, laryngoscopic signs), different pepsin assays, variable definitions of abnormal tests, and number of pepsin tests performed. Another study found pooled sensitivity of pepsin testing for LPR was 64% and specificity was 68%, with an AUC of 0.71 . Another meta- analysis of pepsin as a marker of LPR reached similar conclusions, and noted that control patients often had elevated salivary pepsin levels . Salivary pepsin levels
