HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


0.71 . Another meta- analysis of pepsin as a marker of LPR reached similar conclusions, and noted that control patients often had elevated salivary pepsin levels . Salivary pepsin levels also may vary by time of day, with higher levels in the morning, which limits interpretation . A study of children with GERD found no correlation between multichannel pH-impedance and salivary pepsin testing results . In a study of adults with laryngeal complaints, pepsin was found in the saliva of 78% of those with laryngoscopic signs of laryngeal inflammation, but in 47% of patients with normal laryngoscopy . In another study, pepsin testing was unable to distinguish between healthy adult volunteers and patients with extra-esophageal reflux symptoms . Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PPIs and Extraesophageal Symptoms—A clinical response to PPI therapy has been proposed as a method to both diagnose and treat extra-esophageal GERD [133-135], and has been evaluated in numerous observational studies and randomized controlled trials, with 4 meta-analyses and 1 systematic review compiling the results. The efficacy of PPIs in LPR remains unclear, as two meta-analyses found no significant benefit of PPIs , while two found some benefit . In one recent meta-analysis of 10 RCTs of PPI treatment for LPR, the pooled relative risk of improvement with any PPI treatment was 1.31, with a stronger PPI effect seen in studies that excluded dietary management of LPR (RR 1.42) . Another meta-analysis found improved symptoms in LPR patients treated with PPI compared to placebo, with improvements in symptom index, but not in the laryngoscopy reflux finding score . These analyses showed that the diagnostic criteria for LPR varied duration, making recommendations for use of PPI in LPR challenging . While PPI treatment is often the first step in the management of LPR, this approach may need to be reconsidered. One study comparing up-front reflux testing for LPR patients rather than starting them on empiric PPI therapy found that overall evaluation and treatment costs were lower with initial pH-impedance and esophageal manometry testing . Also, a comparison of several algorithms for managing LPR revealed that total costs of therapy were lower in LPR patients treated with initial twice-daily PPI dosing rather than once-daily PPI . Recent studies have questioned the role of PPI therapy for patients with asthma. Two randomized controlled trials, one in
