HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


treated with initial twice-daily PPI dosing rather than once-daily PPI . Recent studies have questioned the role of PPI therapy for patients with asthma. Two randomized controlled trials, one in adults and one in children, showed no benefit in controlling asthma symptoms in patients on twice-daily PPIs . One systematic review on the role of PPIs in asthma found a small improvement in morning peak expiratory flow that was unlikely to be clinically meaningful . One RCT did show improved asthma symptoms in patients on twice-daily PPIs, but only in GERD patients with nocturnal respiratory symptoms . Chronic cough has also been attributed to GERD, but recent studies and systematic reviews suggest that PPIs are not effective in treating chronic cough in the majority of patients [145-147]. Surgery—Antireflux surgery has been used to treat patients with extraesophageal GERD symptoms, but outcomes are inferior to those of antireflux surgery for patients with traditional GERD symptoms. Two systematic reviews (involving primarily studies that were small, retrospective, and uncontrolled) have examined the relationship among extraesophageal GERD symptoms, esophageal acid exposure, and surgical outcomes, [148, 149]. The range of reported improvement in extraesophageal symptoms was wide, ranging from 15% to 95%, with extraesophageal symptoms having poorer response to surgical treatment than typical GERD symptoms. In one study, patients for whom PPIs provided only incomplete relief of laryngeal symptoms despite normalizing esophageal acid exposure were offered antireflux surgery. At one year, only 10% of patients who underwent surgery and 7% of patients who continued medical therapy for GERD had improvement in laryngeal symptoms. However, two-thirds of patients who pursued non-surgical, non-GERD treatments for laryngeal symptoms had improved Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript symptoms at 1 year . This study illustrates the importance of pursuing non-GERD treatments for unexplained laryngeal symptoms. Several observational studies and one randomized controlled trial have suggested that antireflux surgery can improve asthma symptoms. In the one RCT, 74% of surgically-treated patients (n=16) had improvement in asthma symptoms compared to 9% on H RAs and 4.2% in the control group . Observational studies of antireflux surgery for asthma patients suggest that asthma symptoms can improve, but improvement in pulmonary function tests and objective parameters is inconsistent [151-153]. Furthermore, heterogeneity in inclusion criteria and surgical techniques among studies make it difficult to draw meaningful conclusions about the efficacy of
