HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


pulmonary function tests and objective parameters is inconsistent [151-153]. Furthermore, heterogeneity in inclusion criteria and surgical techniques among studies make it difficult to draw meaningful conclusions about the efficacy of antireflux surgery for treating asthma. Predicting which patients with extraesophageal symptoms will improve with antireflux surgery is challenging. In one study of patients with extraesophageal symptoms, predictors of symptomatic improvement after surgery included the presence of heartburn with or without regurgitation, and abnormal acid exposure time on pH testing . Recurrence of extraesophageal symptoms after surgical therapy is also a concern. One retrospective cohort study compared adults with extraesophageal GERD (n=36) and typical reflux symptoms (n=79), all of whom had abnormal distal esophageal acid exposure. Recurrence of symptoms after surgery was more likely in patients with extraesophageal symptoms and in those who had a poor response to preoperative PPI therapy . Patients with extraesophageal symptoms that do not respond to PPI and patients without objective evidence of reflux should avoid surgical or endoscopic treatment of GERD. Refractory GERD Recommendations 1. We recommend optimization of PPI therapy as the first step in management of refractory GERD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. We suggest esophageal pH monitoring (Bravo, catheter-based, or combined impedance-pH monitoring) performed OFF PPIs if the diagnosis of GERD has not been established by a prior pH monitoring study or an endoscopy showing long-segment Barrett’s esophagus or severe reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles grade C or D). (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 3. We suggest esophageal impedance pH monitoring performed ON PPIs for patients with an established diagnosis of GERD whose symptoms have not responded adequately to twice-daily PPI therapy. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 4. For patients who have regurgitation as their primary PPI-refractory symptom and who have had abnormal gastroesophageal reflux documented by objective testing, we suggest consideration of anti-reflux surgery or TIF. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Key Concepts 1. It is important to stop PPI therapy in patients whose off-therapy reflux testing is negative, unless another indication for continuing PPI is present. 2. Esophageal manometry should be considered as part of the evaluation for refractory GERD in patients with a normal endoscopy and pH monitoring study, and for patients being considered for surgical or endoscopic treatment. 3. If not already performed off PPIs,
