HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


for refractory GERD in patients with a normal endoscopy and pH monitoring study, and for patients being considered for surgical or endoscopic treatment. 3. If not already performed off PPIs, we recommend diagnostic upper endoscopy after discontinuing PPI therapy, ideally for two to four weeks. Esophageal biopsies should be performed even if endoscopy reveals normal mucosa. 4. We recommend performing high-resolution esophageal manometry in patients with refractory GERD if reflux monitoring and endoscopy are unrevealing. It has been suggested that up to 40% of patients treated with PPI will report persistent symptoms of heartburn and regurgitation, with negative effects on quality of life [155-157]. One systematic review of GERD studies found that persistent GERD symptoms were present in 32% of patients participating in primary care-based randomized trials of GERD therapy, with 45% of patients in observational studies having persistent symptoms . Although there is limited data evaluating the benefit of twice-daily PPIs for patients with GERD symptoms refractory to once-daily PPIs , GERD generally has not been considered “PPI-refractory” unless the patient has been on PPIs BID. The most commonly accepted definition of refractory GERD is persistent heartburn and/or regurgitation despite 8 weeks of double-dose PPI therapy . Other authorities consider persistent symptoms after 12 weeks on double-dose PPI to be refractory GERD . These patient-driven definitions, while pragmatic, are broad. Similarly, the terms “complete relief/response”, “partial relief/response”, and “no response” have been arbitrarily and poorly defined, and duration of symptoms and PPI dosing vary across studies . GERD is a disease with multiple symptom presentations that respond variably to PPIs. Heartburn is more likely to respond to PPIs than regurgitation or extraesophageal symptoms. As such, it is clinically useful to separate refractory heartburn, regurgitation, and extraesophageal symptoms when thinking about these patients. Table 4 lists four potential mechanisms of refractory GERD. There are two broad groups of patients with symptoms despite PPI therapy. One group is patients with symptoms suspected to be GERD-related who have been empirically treated with a PPI (typically once- then increased to twice-daily) yet remain symptomatic. The second group of patients have objective evidence of GERD, with endoscopic findings of erosive esophagitis or Barrett’s esophagus and/or reflux testing showing abnormal esophageal acid exposure, who have incomplete or no response to PPI. When discussing the overall approach to patients with GERD symptoms not relieved by PPIs, it is prudent to discuss management of these two groups
