HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


incomplete or no response to PPI. When discussing the overall approach to patients with GERD symptoms not relieved by PPIs, it is prudent to discuss management of these two groups separately. History and Physical Exam—The evaluation of refractory GERD should begin with a careful history and physical examination. This will enable the clinician to make a meaningful assessment of the likelihood that GERD is causing the bothersome symptoms and may provide clues to the presence of non-esophageal disorders. If no obvious non- Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript esophageal disorders are present, then optimization of PPI therapy is recommended. This is critical for managing patients with persistent GERD symptoms, regardless of whether the patient has been empirically treated or carries an objective diagnosis of GERD. Optimization of PPI Therapy—Optimization of PPI therapy includes verifying compliance, confirming that the PPI is taken 30 to 60 minutes before the first meal of the day for daily dosing and before the first and dinner meal for twice daily dosing . A study analyzing data from randomized trials in which gastric pH monitoring was performed in patients receiving various PPI formulations concluded that twice-daily PPI therapy is superior to once-daily double-dose PPI therapy in maintaining gastric pH above 4 during a 24-hour monitoring period . We analyzed data from randomized clinical trials that performed pH testing in patients receiving solid-dose PPI formulations. In one study, patients with good symptom control took daily PPI on 84% of days, compared to patients with poor symptom control, who took PPI on only 55% of days , with similar findings seen in other studies . In a recent randomized, multicenter trial of Veterans with heartburn refractory to PPI treatment, 42 of 366 (11.4%) participants had ≥50% improvement in GERD symptoms when omeprazole use was optimized, with dosing 30 minutes before breakfast and dinner. Another study of nonerosive reflux disease patients with typical GERD symptoms despite PPI use found that 35% responded to daily esomeprazole when dosed correctly . A smaller trial examined the effects of optimizing daily omeprazole compared to ad lib dosing, and found improvement in symptoms and GERD quality of life scores in those receiving education on proper dosing of daily PPI . Some studies have found that doubling the PPI dose or dosing twice daily can help with persistent typical symptoms of
