HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


those receiving education on proper dosing of daily PPI . Some studies have found that doubling the PPI dose or dosing twice daily can help with persistent typical symptoms of GERD, as can switching to a different PPI . Regardless of dose, a small, but clinically significant number of patients will have symptom improvement with the simple, low-cost intervention of optimizing PPI therapy. Endoscopy—Endoscopy is the next step to investigate persistent GERD symptoms and evaluate alternative diagnoses. Performing endoscopy after a PPI holiday might increase the yield for identifying erosive esophagitis or determine if an alternative diagnosis, such as eosinophilic esophagitis, is responsible for symptoms. A recent study found that erosive esophagitis can relapse within two weeks after stopping PPI, with some patients even developing Los Angeles grade C erosive esophagitis . Eosinophilic esophagitis has been seen in 1-8% of patients with refractory GERD [23, 167-170]. Temporarily discontinuing PPIs prior to endoscopy in these patients may unmask the eosinophilic esophagitis histology, which could be obscured if endoscopy is performed on PPI, missing an opportunity to identify the cause of ongoing GERD symptoms. In patients with persistent GERD symptoms on PPIs, there is a low likelihood of finding reflux esophagitis if PPIs are not stopped prior to endoscopy . Reflux monitoring—Regardless of symptom presentation, it is imperative to document the presence of abnormal or ongoing reflux in order to plan treatment options for patients with persistent GERD symptoms. Reflux monitoring can identify patients with ongoing acid reflux, weakly acidic, non-acidic reflux, adequate acid control but ongoing symptoms, and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PPI for seven days or testing for acid, weakly acidic, and nonacid reflux while on PPI, can be considered. The choice of test and whether to test on or off PPI is dependent on the question being asked. If the patient has been empirically treated (never had an objective diagnosis of GERD), or the clinician believes the likelihood that reflux is the cause of symptoms is low, or for patients considering surgery, an off-therapy study should be considered . A recent study investigated the utility of 96 hour capsule based pH monitoring off PPI therapy in patients with persistent typical symptoms despite PPI treatment to determine if PPIs could be stopped. Patients with two or more days with esophageal acid exposure time >4 percent
