HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


therapy in patients with persistent typical symptoms despite PPI treatment to determine if PPIs could be stopped. Patients with two or more days with esophageal acid exposure time >4 percent were unlikely to be able to stop PPIs. Those with a normal study on all four days were the group with the highest likelihood of being able to discontinue PPIs . On-therapy monitoring is suggested prior to surgery or endoscopic intervention in patients with previous objective findings of GERD (such as Barrett’s esophagus or Los Angeles grade C/D erosive esophagitis) who have continued symptoms despite PPI treatment . Although retrospective studies suggest that patients with GERD symptoms unresponsive to PPIs who are proven to have GERD by off-therapy pH monitoring can respond to surgery , and some interventionalists endorse antireflux procedures based on off-therapy pH monitoring for such patients , the documentation of persistent abnormal acid reflux on PPIs or of a positive association between symptoms and reflux episodes offers “reassurance” that surgery or endoscopic therapy can be successful in the PPI-refractory patient. Several studies have attempted to address the question of testing on or off PPI in patients with persistent GERD. The total number of reflux episodes detected by impedance is similar between testing on and off PPI . Other studies have used reflux testing to guide therapy for patients with refractory GERD symptoms. Reflux testing combined with other testing, such as esophageal manometry, gastric emptying studies, and endoscopy, identified a diagnosis of GERD in only 34.5% of cases in one study . In a multicenter study, only 21% of patients with persistent heartburn on PPIs were found to have truly refractory GERD . Overall, the balance of data suggests that few patients with refractory GERD symptoms on PPIs have continued reflux as the cause for symptoms, suggesting value for a tailored approach using impedance-pH monitoring prior to intervention . For on-therapy reflux monitoring, we recommend that PPIs be taken twice-daily, the approach used in the randomized trial of medical vs surgical therapy for PPI-refractory reflux disease . Furthermore, impedance-pH monitoring rather than pH monitoring alone is recommended for on-therapy reflux monitoring, both because the yield of pH monitoring in this setting is so low (fewer than 10% of patients on twice-daily PPIs have persistently abnormal acid reflux ) and because impedance monitoring enables correlation between symptoms and non-acid reflux episodes. It is important to stop PPI therapy in
