HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


patients on twice-daily PPIs have persistently abnormal acid reflux ) and because impedance monitoring enables correlation between symptoms and non-acid reflux episodes. It is important to stop PPI therapy in patients whose off-therapy reflux testing is negative, unless a previous diagnosis of GERD had been made or another indication for continuing PPI is present. In one study, 42% of patients reported continuing PPI treatment after a negative evaluation for refractory GERD, which included negative endoscopy and pH impedance monitoring . Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Esophageal Manometry—Some patients with motility disorders such as achalasia or esophageal spasm will report heartburn symptoms. In studies of patients with refractory GERD, 1-3% of patients are found to have achalasia when manometry is performed [23, 178]. Patients with esophageal aperistalsis are identified in roughly 3% of manometry tests performed for evaluation of GERD . These patients often report heartburn symptoms and have a poor response to antireflux surgery. Other disorders, such as rumination and supragastric belching, may also detected by esophageal manometry. Surgery—Recent publications have changed the thought process on surgical intervention for some patients with refractory GERD. Randomized trials compared magnetic sphincter augmentation to continued medical therapy in patients with regurgitation refractory to PPIs. MSA improved symptoms more than continued medical therapy in patients with objective documentation of abnormal reflux . Two randomized trials with transoral incisionless fundoplication (TIF) also demonstrate better improvement in regurgitation with TIF compared to high dose PPI, though the magnitude of improvement was not as great as with MSA . A recent study illustrates the challenge of managing refractory GERD. In this study of medical versus surgical treatment for 366 patients with heartburn that failed to respond to PPIs, extensive evaluation revealed that heartburn symptoms were truly PPI-refractory and reflux-related in only 78 patients (21%) . Identifying patients with true refractory GERD is crucial as surgery (or endoscopic treatment) may truly be best in this group. For patients with regurgitation refractory to PPI therapy, care should be taken to distinguish regurgitation from rumination, a functional disorder characterized by effortless food regurgitation during or soon after eating, typically with rechewing, reswallowing, or spitting out of the regurgitated material. Surgical treatment is not recommended for patients with rumination . A detailed discussion of the management of functional heartburn and other functional upper gastrointestinal symptoms exceeds the
