HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


the regurgitated material. Surgical treatment is not recommended for patients with rumination . A detailed discussion of the management of functional heartburn and other functional upper gastrointestinal symptoms exceeds the scope of this guideline. Surgical and Endoscopic Options for GERD Recommendations 1. We recommend antireflux surgery performed by an experienced surgeon as an option for long-term treatment of patients with objective evidence of GERD, especially those who have severe reflux esophagitis (LA grades C or D), large hiatal hernias, and/or persistent, troublesome GERD symptoms. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. We recommend consideration of magnetic sphincter augmentation (MSA) as an alternative to laparoscopic fundoplication for patients with regurgitation who fail medical management. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. We suggest consideration of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) as an option to treat GERD in obese patients who are candidates for this procedure and who are willing to accept its risks and requirements for lifestyle alterations. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Since data on the efficacy of radiofrequency energy (Stretta) as an antireflux procedure is inconsistent and highly variable, we cannot recommend its use as an alternative to medical or surgical antireflux therapies. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 5. We suggest consideration of transoral incisionless fundoplication (TIF) for patients with troublesome regurgitation or heartburn who do not wish to undergo antireflux surgery and who do not have severe reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles grades C or D) or hiatal hernias >2 cm. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Key Concepts 1. We recommend high resolution manometry prior to antireflux surgery or endoscopic therapy to rule out achalasia and absent contractility. For patients with ineffective esophageal motility, high resolution manometry should include provocative testing to identify contractile reserve (e.g. multiple rapid swallows). 2. Prior to performing invasive therapy for GERD, a careful evaluation is required to ensure that GERD is present and as best as possible determine is the cause of the symptoms to be addressed by the therapy, to exclude achalasia (which can be associated with symptoms such as heartburn and regurgitation that can be confused with GERD), and to exclude conditions that might be contraindications to invasive treatment such as absent contractility. In the majority of patients, the symptoms and endoscopic signs of GERD resolve readily with medical
