HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


to exclude conditions that might be contraindications to invasive treatment such as absent contractility. In the majority of patients, the symptoms and endoscopic signs of GERD resolve readily with medical treatment, and invasive antireflux therapies are neither required nor desired by patients. However, GERD is a chronic disease, and patients often require protracted medical treatment, which is inconvenient and carries some risk. Severe reflux esophagitis (LA grades C and D) does not heal reliably with any medical therapy other than PPIs, and studies have demonstrated that severe erosive esophagitis returns quickly in the large majority of patients when PPIs are stopped . It might be possible to reduce or even eliminate medical therapy for patients with mild forms of GERD (e.g. no reflux esophagitis worse than Los Angeles grade B), but patients with severe reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles grades C or D) will require PPI therapy indefinitely to maintain healing. In light of recent concerns regarding the safety of long-term PPI usage, many patients are uncomfortable with the prospect of lifelong PPI treatment. Although antireflux procedures have their own well-established risks, some of which are serious, there are a number of patients who prefer to opt for those over the putative risks and inconvenience of lifelong PPI therapy. GERD that fails to respond to medical therapy is another valid indication for antireflux procedures, but one that requires meticulous pre-procedure evaluation to achieve good surgical outcomes. Prior to the advent of PPIs, failure to respond to medical therapy was the major indication for antireflux surgery. Today, however, PPI therapy is so effective for treating typical GERD symptoms like heartburn and regurgitation that failure to respond to PPIs should be regarded as a red flag that GERD may not be the underlying cause. Indeed, patients who have the best response to antireflux surgery are those with typical GERD symptoms who respond well to PPIs , presumably because these patients Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript clearly have abnormal gastroesophageal reflux, and antireflux surgery is highly effective at controlling that problem. Although it is claimed that 30% to 40% of patients treated with PPIs for GERD have persistent “GERD symptoms” , in many cases those PPI-resistant symptoms are mistakenly assumed to be caused by reflux. Symptoms that are not reflux-related will not respond to antireflux procedures, yet these procedures often
