HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


, in many cases those PPI-resistant symptoms are mistakenly assumed to be caused by reflux. Symptoms that are not reflux-related will not respond to antireflux procedures, yet these procedures often have been used (and failed) in patients who had little or no objective evidence of underlying GERD. It is critical to establish that “refractory GERD symptoms” are indeed reflux-related before recommending invasive antireflux treatment. In a recent study of medical versus surgical treatment for PPI-refractory heartburn that included 366 patients referred to GI clinics because of heartburn that failed to respond to PPIs, extensive work-up revealed that the heartburn was truly PPI-refractory and reflux- related in only 78 patients (21%) . Among the other 288 patients, heartburn was relieved in 42 (12%) when they were given a trial of twice-daily omeprazole with explicit instructions on how to take the medication properly, 70 (19%) were unwilling or unable to complete the rigorous preoperative work-up required for trial entry, 54 (15%) were excluded for miscellaneous reasons, 23 (6%) had non-GERD esophageal disorders such as eosinophilic esophagitis and achalasia, and 99 (27%) had functional heartburn. For the 78 patients in whom rigorous work-up established that the PPI-refractory heartburn was indeed Life symptom scores at one year) for laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (18/27, 66.7%) was significantly superior to active medical (7/25, 28.0%, p=.007) and placebo medical (3/26, 11.5%, p<0.001) treatments. Even though heartburn is the cardinal symptom of GERD, the aforementioned study shows that PPI-refractory heartburn is uncommonly due to GERD. As discussed above establishing a clear causal relationship with GERD can be even more difficult for so-called “extraesophageal GERD symptoms” such as throat clearing, hoarseness, and chronic cough. Surgical treatment of extraesophageal GERD is reviewed in detail in the ‘extraesophageal GERD section’. Few high-quality data have established the benefit of invasive treatments for patients with these extraesophageal GERD symptoms, and physicians should be extra cautious in recommending such treatments for patients with laryngopharyngeal reflux and other “extraesophageal GERD symptoms. Only persistent abnormal acid reflux and reflux hypersensitivity are likely to benefit from antireflux procedures. Fundoplication—Fundoplication, especially Nissen fundoplication, is widely regarded as the “gold-standard” among the antireflux procedures for its efficacy in improving the physiologic parameters of GERD such as LES pressure and esophageal acid exposure time . Fundoplication creates a barrier to the reflux of all gastric material (acidic and non-acidic), and therefore should be an effective treatment for any GERD symptom that
