HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


acid exposure time . Fundoplication creates a barrier to the reflux of all gastric material (acidic and non-acidic), and therefore should be an effective treatment for any GERD symptom that is reflux related. Interest in surgical antireflux therapy intensified in the 1980s when observational studies described >90% efficacy for fundoplication in controlling GERD symptoms over a 10- year period . Interest in fundoplication was further fueled by a randomized trial conducted by the VA in the late 1980s (when antireflux surgery was performed as an open Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript procedure and before PPIs were available) which found that open Nissen fundoplication was significantly more effective than ranitidine-based medical therapy in healing the symptoms and endoscopic signs of complicated GERD for the two-year duration of the study . However, a long-term follow-up investigation published in 2001 showed that after 10 to 13 years, 23 (62%) of 37 surgical patients for whom follow-up was available reported that they were once again taking antireflux medications on a regular basis to treat their GERD symptoms, and surgically-treated patients had decreased long-term survival due largely to excess deaths from heart disease . This report and other developments resulted in a long decline in the use of operative treatment for GERD. Laparoscopic antireflux surgery (LARS) was introduced in 1991, and this has since become the standard operative approach to fundoplication, essentially replacing open antireflux surgery. Studies focusing on the durability of modern surgical technique have found a wide range of GERD recurrence rates. Cohort studies often found high rates of postoperative antireflux medication usage (up to 43%) [193-197], while several randomized trials of LARS vs. medical therapy conducted at specialized centers described lower GERD recurrence rates (10%-27% during follow-up periods of 3 to 5 years) [198-200]. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis focusing on patient-relevant outcomes of fundoplication versus PPI-based medical management of GERD found that heartburn and regurgitation were less frequent with surgical than with medical therapy and, although a considerable proportion of patients still needed antireflux medications after fundoplication, surgical patients were significantly more satisfied with their treatment in the short and medium term . However, a more recent Cochrane review concluded that there is considerable uncertainty in the balance of benefits versus harms of laparoscopic fundoplication compared to long term PPI therapy, and called for further randomized,
