HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


recent Cochrane review concluded that there is considerable uncertainty in the balance of benefits versus harms of laparoscopic fundoplication compared to long term PPI therapy, and called for further randomized, controlled trials . Compared to Nissen (complete) fundoplication, partial fundoplications (e.g. Toupet, Dor) appear to have similar efficacy in relieving GERD symptoms, but result in less postoperative dysphagia, gas-bloat, and inability to belch and vomit [203-206]. However, partial fundoplication also might have a higher rate of recurrent GERD . A recent report of a retrospective, population-based cohort study has shed considerable light on the outcome of LARS performed in a “real-world” setting . The study involved 2,655 patients identified in the Swedish Patient Registry as having had primary LARS performed between 2005 and 2014. During a mean follow-up period of 5.1 years, 470 patients (17.7%) had a reflux recurrence (i.e., 393 used PPIs/H RAs for >6 months, 77 had repeat antireflux surgery). Within 30 days of surgery, 109 patients (4.1%) had complications such as infection, bleeding, and esophageal perforation, and there were only 2 deaths (0.1%), neither of which was directly related to the operation. Postoperative dysphagia was documented in 21 patients (0.8%), including 14 (0.5%) who required endoscopic dilatation. This report suggests that LARS can be performed with a relatively low rate of morbidity, and with a very low mortality rate, considerably lower than that of the old open antireflux surgery. The study did not assess patient reported outcomes or the use of over-the-counter medications, and it is well known that LARS occasionally can have catastrophic short- and long-term complications. Nevertheless, it appears to be well tolerated in the large majority Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of cases, and the observation that >80% of patients did not resume the use of antireflux medications suggests that the operation provides long-lasting relief of GERD symptoms for most patients. How patients and physicians view the 17.7% recurrence rate is a matter of personal perspective. In summary, modern medical antireflux therapy and laparoscopic fundoplication appear to have similar efficacy in healing the symptoms and endoscopic signs of GERD. Recent concerns about the safety of long-term PPI therapy and refinements in surgical technique that have substantially decreased its morbidity and mortality have rekindled interest in fundoplication. Clearly, antireflux surgery is not a permanent cure for GERD in all patients as
