HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


in surgical technique that have substantially decreased its morbidity and mortality have rekindled interest in fundoplication. Clearly, antireflux surgery is not a permanent cure for GERD in all patients as it was once touted to be, and the operation occasionally can have severe adverse effects. Nevertheless, most patients obtain long-term benefit from fundoplication, and patient satisfaction with successful surgery appears to be greater than that for chronic medical therapy. The major question for patients considering antireflux surgery is this: Does the >80% possibility of long-term freedom from PPIs and their attendant risks warrant the 4% risk of acute complications of fundoplication and its 17.7% risk of GERD recurrence? Magnetic sphincter augmentation—Magnetic sphincter augmentation (MSA) with the LINX® Reflux Management System, a necklace of titanium beads with magnetic cores that encircles the distal esophagus to bolster the LES and prevent reflux, was developed as a less invasive and more readily reversible GERD treatment than fundoplication. The initial target population for MSA was GERD patients with abnormal acid reflux documented by esophageal pH monitoring (off PPIs) who experienced only partial relief with PPIs, and who did not have large hiatal hernias or severe reflux esophagitis . For 100 such patients in an early pilot study with no control group, 92% achieved ≥50% improvement in quality-of-life scores, 93% reduced their PPI usage by ≥50%, and 64% had ≥50% reduction in esophageal acid exposure at one year . Dysphagia was the most frequent adverse event, experienced by 68% of patients in the postoperative period, by 11% at one year, and by 4% at three years. Six patients had serious adverse events, and six eventually had the device removed. In a 5-year follow-up of patients in this study, there were no device erosions or migrations, 85% of patients had discontinued their use of PPIs, and all patients reported the ability to belch and vomit . Although large hiatal hernias and severe reflux esophagitis were contraindications to MSA outcomes of MSA for patients with those conditions are similar to those described for patients with less severe forms of GERD [211-213]. Unlike the minimal surgical dissection required for implantation of the device in patients with small hiatal hernias, however, patients with large hiatal hernias require a more extensive dissection and repair of the crural diaphragm. One problem with implantation of the metallic MSA device is that patients cannot have MRI with scanning systems >1.5 Tesla. An early
