HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


extensive dissection and repair of the crural diaphragm. One problem with implantation of the metallic MSA device is that patients cannot have MRI with scanning systems >1.5 Tesla. An early concern regarding MSA was that the device would erode into the esophagus. A recent study of data provided by the manufacturer (Torax Medical, Inc.) and the MAUDE database on 9,453 devices placed between 2007 and 2017 found that the risk of erosion was 0.3% at 4 years . The median time to erosion Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript was 26 months, and most occurred between 1 to 4 years after device implantation. Most of the eroded devices were removed by a combination of endoscopy and laparoscopy, and there were no serious complications of device removal. Thus, device erosion appears to be infrequent and safely managed. To date, there has been no publication of a randomized trial directly comparing MSA with the gold-standard surgical treatment of laparoscopic fundoplication. However, observational cohort studies have compared the techniques, and systematic reviews and meta-analyses of those reports have arrived at generally similar conclusions [215-218]. Compared to There appear to be no significant differences between MSA and fundoplication in rates of GERD symptom control, postoperative PPI usage, major complications including dysphagia, and rates of reoperation. Most, but not all reports suggest that MSA results in less gas-bloat and greater ability to belch and vomit than fundoplication. A recent randomized trial has established the unequivocal superiority of MSA over twice- daily PPIs for the control of regurgitation . In this study, 152 patients with moderate to severe regurgitation despite once-daily PPI therapy were randomly assigned to receive twice-daily PPIs (n = 102) or MSA (n = 50), and MSA was offered to patients in the twice-daily PPI group who had persistent regurgitation after 6 months of treatment. At one year, control of regurgitation was achieved in 72 of 75 patients (96%) in the MSA group, but in only 8 of 43 patients treated with PPIs (19%). MSA was not associated with any peri-operative events, device explants, erosions, or migrations. MSA also appears to have a role in the treatment of GERD that worsens or develops after bariatric operations such as sleeve gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass . These operations alter gastric anatomy in a way that can preclude performance of a standard
