HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


worsens or develops after bariatric operations such as sleeve gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass . These operations alter gastric anatomy in a way that can preclude performance of a standard fundoplication. Limited data suggest that MSA is safe and effective for treating GERD in this setting. In summary, MSA appears to be a safe and effective alternative to laparoscopic advantages and disadvantages. The minimal surgical dissection required for MSA results in for fundoplication. MSA is also easier to reverse, and MSA may result in less gas-bloat and greater ability to belch and vomit than fundoplication. The MRI restriction after MSA is a disadvantage and, compared to fundoplication, there is a paucity of long-term data on MSA outcomes. With no randomized trials comparing the two procedures, it is difficult to recommend one over the other at this time. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass—GERD is strongly associated with obesity. Compared to individuals with a normal body mass index (BMI), the prevalence of GERD in those whose BMI exceeds 35 is increased up to six-fold . Obesity poses technical challenges to the performance of fundoplication surgery. In addition, the elevated intra-abdominal pressure associated with obesity might put strain on the diaphragmatic hiatus, resulting in fundoplication disruption and herniation, increased surgical complications, and poor Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript outcomes. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) can control GERD in obese patients, presumably because the small gastric pouch fashioned during RYGB produces far less acid than an intact stomach, and because the accompanying long alimentary loop prevents the reflux of bile. Due to the widespread perception among surgeons that fundoplication has poor outcomes in obese patients, and the fact that RYGB has been shown both to control reflux and induce weight loss, RYGB has come to be considered the antireflux surgery of choice for obese patients, in whom it is used both as a primary antireflux procedure and as a means for correction of a failed fundoplication . However, there is now considerable controversy regarding the role of RYGB as an antireflux procedure. One reason for the controversy is the substantial variability in results of studies on outcomes and rates of complications for fundoplication in obese patients. Some studies have documented poorer results of fundoplication in the obese , while others have found no differences in complications and outcomes between obese and non-obese patients
