HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


in obese patients. Some studies have documented poorer results of fundoplication in the obese , while others have found no differences in complications and outcomes between obese and non-obese patients . A recent systematic review and meta-analysis on this issue found no significant differences between obese and non-obese patients in the rates of perioperative complications, redo surgery, and conversion from laparoscopic to open surgery, but the recurrence of reflux after fundoplication was significantly lower in the non-obese patients (OR 0.28, 95% CI 0.13-0.61, p=0.001) . Other reasons for controversy on the role of RYGB include the lack of randomized trials comparing it directly with fundoplication, and the fact that, although RYGB can have numerous beneficial effects, it is a technically difficult operation that produces major alterations in anatomy, which can result in serious early and late complications . In addition, a recent, nationwide cohort study of all adults with preoperative reflux who underwent gastric bypass in Sweden between 2006 and 2015 found that, in 2,454 participants followed for median 4.6 years, reflux recurred in 48.8% (95% CI 46.8-51.0) within 2 years of the operation . The authors concluded that the efficacy of gastric bypass for GERD symptoms might have been overestimated. Finally, reports have documented the occasional new development of GERD after RYGB . With all the above-noted uncertainty, an argument can be made to regard RYGB primarily as a highly effective weight loss operation that has the added potential benefit of controlling acid reflux, rather than as an antireflux operation primarily. Obese patients with GERD should be adequately counseled and willing to accept the risks and lifestyle demands of bariatric surgery before undergoing RYGB for control of GERD. Endoscopic antireflux therapies—A number of endoscopic devices for treating GERD have been introduced over the past two decades, and most have been withdrawn from the marketplace because of concerns regarding safety and efficacy. Presently, the only endoscopic GERD treatments still widely available are radiofrequency antireflux treatment (Stretta, Restech corporation, Houston Texas) and transoral incisionless fundoplication (TIF, endogastric solutions). Studies of the endoscopic procedures generally have excluded patients with hiatal hernias >2 cm, grade C and D erosive esophagitis, esophageal strictures, and long-segment Barrett’s esophagus. Consequently, if these devices are to be used at all, based on data their use should be limited to patients with milder forms of GERD. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author
