HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


used at all, based on data their use should be limited to patients with milder forms of GERD. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The Stretta procedure is difficult to evaluate, in part because it is not totally clear how it functions as an antireflux therapy. Initially, it was thought to control reflux by inducing swelling and mechanical alteration at the esophagogastric junction. However, an early, sham-controlled trial found that, 6 months after treatment, Stretta had significantly improved gastroesophageal reflux disease symptoms and quality of life, but it did not decrease esophageal acid exposure . This raised the possibility that the procedure might alleviate GERD symptoms by altering sensation in the distal esophagus. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have arrived at contradictory conclusions regarding Stretta’s efficacy. One meta-analysis that evaluated only randomized controlled trials found that Stretta did not produce significant changes in esophageal acid exposure, quality of life, or the ability to stop PPIs , while another meta-analysis that included both controlled and cohort studies concluded that Stretta significantly reduced esophageal acid exposure, improved quality of life, and decreased PPI usage . Nevertheless, in 2013, the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) gave Stretta a strong recommendation for use in patients who refuse laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication . TIF attempts to create a flap valve involving 180° to 270° of the circumference of the esophagogastric junction by plicating a portion of the proximal stomach using a series of T-fasteners. Randomized trials have shown that TIF is effective for treating troublesome regurgitation , but the long-term benefit of TIF is not established and questionable . One recent systematic review and meta-analysis on the use of TIF for refractory GERD found that TIF resulted in significant improvements in GERD health-related quality of life and DeMeester scores, enabling 89% of patients to discontinue PPIs . However, another systematic review and meta-analysis on the use of TIF for the treatment of GERD found that although symptoms responded to TIF significantly more often that to PPIs/sham, TIF did not result in significant improvement in esophageal acid exposure and most patients resumed PPIs at reduced dosages during long-term follow-up. The incidence of serious adverse events (perforation and bleeding) was 2.4%, and the rate of total satisfaction with TIF was 69% by 6 months . Long-Term PPI Issues 1. Regarding the safety of
