HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


serious adverse events (perforation and bleeding) was 2.4%, and the rate of total satisfaction with TIF was 69% by 6 months . Long-Term PPI Issues 1. Regarding the safety of long-term PPI usage for GERD, we suggest that patients should be advised as follows: “Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are the most effective medical treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Some medical studies have identified an association between the long-term use of PPIs and the development of numerous adverse conditions including intestinal infections, pneumonia, stomach cancer, osteoporosis related bone fractures, chronic kidney disease, deficiencies of certain vitamins and minerals, heart attacks, strokes, dementia and early death. Those studies have flaws, are between PPIs and the adverse conditions. High-quality studies have found that PPIs do not significantly increase the risk for any of these conditions except intestinal infections. Nevertheless, we cannot exclude the possibility that PPIs might confer a small increase in the risk of developing these adverse conditions. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript For the treatment of GERD, gastroenterologists generally agree that the well- established benefits of PPIs far outweigh their theoretical risks.” 2. Switching PPIs can be considered for patients who experience minor side PPI effects including headache, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation and flatulence. 3. For GERD patients on PPIs who have no other risk factors for bone disease, we they have routine monitoring of bone mineral density. 4. For GERD patients on PPIs who have no other risk factors for vitamin B12 that they have routine monitoring of serum B12 levels. 5. For GERD patients on PPIs who have no other risk factors for kidney disease, we do not recommend that they have routine monitoring of serum creatinine levels. 6. For GERD patients on clopidogrel who have Los Angeles grade C or D esophagitis or whose GERD symptoms are not adequately controlled with alternative medical therapies, the highest quality data available suggest that the established benefits of PPI treatment outweigh their proposed but highly questionable cardiovascular risks. 7. PPIs can be used to treat GERD in patients with renal insufficiency with close monitoring of renal function or consultation with a nephrologist. PPIs are widely considered the mainstay of medical treatment for GERD. Side effects of PPIs that have been identified in clinical trials and listed on FDA labels as the “most common adverse
