HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


widely considered the mainstay of medical treatment for GERD. Side effects of PPIs that have been identified in clinical trials and listed on FDA labels as the “most common adverse reactions” include headache, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, and flatulence. These relatively minor side effects occur infrequently and abate when the medications are stopped. Limited data also suggest that these side effects sometimes can be PPI preparation-specific and, for patients who experience them, a trial of switching from one PPI to another is a reasonable management strategy . Of far more concern to patients and physicians alike are the growing number of serious putative adverse effects of chronic PPI therapy that have been identified predominantly through weak associations found in observational studies . Table 5 lists the major putative adverse effects of chronic PPI therapy and the proposed underlying mechanisms. Some of these effects are assumed to be a consequence of PPI- induced suppression of gastric acid secretion. For example, gastric acid suppression can enable ingested pathogens that ordinarily would have been destroyed by gastric acid to survive and cause enteric infections, or to be aspirated and cause pneumonia . Reduced gastric acidity can impair the uptake of certain vitamins (e.g. B12) and minerals (e.g. calcium) and can elevate serum levels of gastrin, a growth factor with pro-proliferative effects that might predispose to carcinogenesis . Mechanisms other than gastric acid inhibition have been proposed to underlie a number of other adverse effects that have been associated with PPI usage such as kidney disease and cardiovascular events (Table 5). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript One area of considerable persistent controversy relates to the association between chronic PPI use and hypomagnesemia. Two meta-analyses on this issue concluded that long-term PPI use is significantly associated with hypomagnesemia , while another two concluded that the risk of PPI-induced hypomagnesemia was unclear because of significant heterogeneity among studies . A recent AGA Best Practice Recommendation concluded that long-term PPI users should not routinely screen or monitor serum consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and then periodically ( We feel that presently there is insufficient data to make a meaningful recommendation regarding the need for monitoring of magnesium levels in patients on chronic PPI therapy. It is important to appreciate that the mere identification of an association
