HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


make a meaningful recommendation regarding the need for monitoring of magnesium levels in patients on chronic PPI therapy. It is important to appreciate that the mere identification of an association between PPIs and adverse conditions in observational studies cannot establish a cause-and-effect relationship, and that such studies are highly susceptible to biases that can prejudice results. Observational studies on potential PPI side effects are especially susceptible to the biases of confounding by indication (in which the medical indication for a PPI, not the PPI itself, is responsible for the adverse effect) and protopathic bias (in which the PPI does not cause an adverse condition, but is prescribed to treat symptoms of that already-present yet unrecognized condition) . The epidemiologist/statistician Sir Austin Bradford Hill, in his Presidential Address to the Section of Occupational Medicine of the Royal Society of Medicine in 1965, proposed 9 criteria that can strengthen the case for a cause-and-effect relationship in associations between exposures and diseases identified through observational studies . These so- called Bradford-Hill criteria include 1) Strength of the association, 2) Consistency of the observation, 3) Specificity of the exposure for the disease, 4) Temporality (i.e. exposure preceded disease), 5) Biological gradient (dose response), 6) Plausibility of the proposed mechanism for how the exposure might cause disease, 7) Coherence among epidemiologic and other types of data, 8) Experimental data support a cause-and-effect relationship, and 9) Analogy with the effects of similar types of exposures. In 2017, Vaezi and colleagues reported that no proposed PPI adverse effect fulfilled all 9 of the Bradford-Hill criteria, and most fulfilled fewer than 4 . It has been noted that most reported associations in observational clinical research are spurious, and the minority that are real are often exaggerated . Experts caution that weak associations found in such studies are more likely to result from bias than from cause-and-effect relationships and, unless relative risks (RRs) in cohort studies exceed 2-3 or odds ratios (ORs) in case-control studies exceed 3-4, the findings generally should not be considered credible . Reports of observational studies that have identified potential PPI side effects typically have described weak associations with RRs or ORs <2 . relationships. For example, some observational studies have found a strong association (ORs >4) between PPI usage and esophageal adenocarcinoma, an association that is likely due to confounding by indication (i.e., PPIs were prescribed to treat GERD, which was the real risk
