HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


(ORs >4) between PPI usage and esophageal adenocarcinoma, an association that is likely due to confounding by indication (i.e., PPIs were prescribed to treat GERD, which was the real risk factor for the cancer that subsequently developed) . Observational studies also Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript have found a strong association between PPI usage and development of community-acquired pneumonia, an association that may well have been the result of protopathic bias (i.e., PPIs were prescribed for symptoms of cough and chest discomfort that were mistakenly attributed to GERD but in fact were caused by an unrecognized, early pneumonia) . A recent, large, placebo-controlled randomized trial reported by Moayyedi et al. has shed considerable light on the issue of PPI safety . In this exceptionally high-quality study, 17,598 patients aged 65 years or older with stable cardiovascular or peripheral artery disease treated with rivaroxaban and/or aspirin were randomly assigned to receive the PPI pantoprazole (40 mg daily, n-8,791) or placebo (n=8,807). Following randomization, data were collected at 6-month intervals over a period of 3 years specifically with the intent of identifying potential PPI side effects including pneumonia, C. difficile infection, other enteric infections, fractures, gastric atrophy, chronic kidney disease, dementia, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and all-cause mortality. The investigators found no significant differences between the PPI and placebo groups in rates of occurrence for any of those potential side effects except for enteric infections (1.4% vs 1.0% in the PPI and placebo groups, respectively; OR 1.33; 95% confidence interval 1.01-1.75). Table 5 lists the hazard ratios (HRs) and ORs for all the putative adverse events evaluated in this study. The authors concluded that the use of pantoprazole for 3 years was not associated with any adverse event other than a modestly increased risk of developing enteric infections. Moayyedi’s report provides high-quality evidence to suggest that most of the associations between PPI usage and adverse events that have been identified in observational studies were the result of residual confounding and other biases, and unlikely to represent cause- and-effect relationships. Reassuring as this study is, it is important to consider several caveats. First, the trial had a maximum follow-up of five years, which might not be sufficient time for some adverse events to develop (e.g., gastric cancer) . Next, despite the large size of the study, some adverse events (e.g.
