HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, patients, symptoms, ppi, reflux, author, manuscript, author manuscript, ppis, manuscript author, therapy, testing, studies, study, gerd symptoms


five years, which might not be sufficient time for some adverse events to develop (e.g., gastric cancer) . Next, despite the large size of the study, some adverse events (e.g. gastric atrophy, C. difficile-associated diarrhea) occurred so infrequently that conclusions regarding possible PPI involvement are limited. Finally, and perhaps most important, the 95% confidence intervals around some of the HRs and ORs observed in this prospective trial, large as it is, still are relatively wide. It is reassuring that the HRs and ORs for some events (pneumonia, fracture, cardiovascular disease, dementia, and all-cause mortality) are even lower than the lower limits of the 95% confidence intervals reported in earlier observational studies. Nevertheless, this study cannot exclude the possibility that PPIs confer a modest risk for any of these adverse events (i.e., the upper limit of the 95% confidence intervals all are >1), and even a modest risk for such serious events is cause for concern. As the authors themselves acknowledge, the possibility that PPIs confer a modest risk for these putative adverse events can never be excluded no matter how large the study sample size . Summary We have made every effort to review and grade all available evidence to develop this guideline. Much is new and different compared to the 2013 guideline, particularly as it relates to approaching extraesophageal symptoms, refractory GERD, and surgical and endoscopic therapies. Each section provides a separate review of the evidence supporting Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Our algorithms offer an overall approach to diagnosis and management of the major presentations of the disease, and reflect our discussion in the body of the manuscript. We have attempted to address all the key issues in PPI management and adverse events so clinicians will have a comprehensive, go-to source in the guideline. . We have done our best to present a thorough review of the evidence for our recommendations and key concepts, and to provide an evidence-based approach to GERD that can be used effectively in everyday practice. We expect that new diagnostic tools and treatments will be developed and those that we have will be further refined. Mucosal integrity testing, for example, is available commercially but is not developed sufficiently to warrant discussion in this guideline. Esophageal function testing is addressed in detail in another guideline, while other extensive reviews focus
