Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


Strengthening Health Systems Anne Mills, Fawzia Rasheed, and Stephen Tollman Interventions are not generally provided as freestanding activi- Such inefficiencies have two main causes. First, they may ties but are delivered in a variety ofpackages and through dif- occur because decision makers lack incentives to behave effi- chapters—addresses not only the cost-effectiveness oflevels of decision makers may be constrained in their ability to make care,packages of care,and services but also the strengthening efficient choices; for instance, they may lack knowledge or ofthe management ofhealth systems as a whole. experience ofwhat to do or political factors may affect whether Cost-effectivenessdatareflectlargelywhatcanbeachieved they can dismiss underperforming staffmembers or determine in a reasonably well-functioning health system. In that which company they must buy drugs from. Evidence on the effectivenessandneedtobesupplementedwithevidenceand may not merely be inefficient in failing to minimize costs but guidance on how health systems can be strengthened to pro- may also fail to deliver effective care. vide interventions effectively, efficiently, and equitably. This The extent of inequities is also a major concern. Recent argumentisgivenaddedweightbyevidenceoninadequacies analyses show that even when interventions are provided,the intheperformanceofhealthinstitutionsincountriesatalllev- poorest members of society usually have the least access to elsofdevelopment(Hensher2001;PrekerandHarding2003). them (Gwatkin and others 2000).In many countries,gaps in Hensher(2001)documentstheextensiveinefficienciesinlow- child mortality between the poor and the better off widened need to have the capacity not only to deliver interventions effi- • failure to minimize the physical inputs used—for example, ciently but also to sustain high levels of coverage,especially of prescribing excessive quantities ofdrugs the poorest and most vulnerable. • failure to use the mix of inputs that costs the least—for Awareness has grown that international targets,such as the instance, allocating a high proportion of expenditure to Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the provision of staff salaries and only a small share to operating costs and antiretroviral treatment for HIV/AIDS patients cannot be maintenance achieved without the key elements of a functioning health • failure to operate at the appropriate scale—for example, system. The example of the reduction of maternal mortality running extremely large hospitals that suffer from scale in Sri Lanka (chapter 8) demonstrates the improvements in inefficiencies health outcomes that are possible once a basic platform of • failure to pay staffenough to encourage good performance. functioning health services is available on which targeted ini- tiatives can build . account for up to 10 percent oftotal health spending. can be strengthened in differing country contexts to deliver interventions
