Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


services is available on which targeted ini- tiatives can build . account for up to 10 percent oftotal health spending. can be strengthened in differing country contexts to deliver interventions effectively,efficiently,and equitably.The chapter services in a number of postindependence Sub-Saharan is mainly concerned with strengthening health services:issues African countries and the health successes ofcountries such as in managing core public health functions are reviewed else- China and Cuba influenced a new international emphasis on a ter seeks to draw valuable lessons from all parts ofthe world,it ever, the advocates of more focused disease-specific efforts poorer countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. (Walsh and Warren 1980),focused on a limited number ofpre- sumed cost-effective interventions. HISTORY AND CURRENT THEMES persisted,with four main strands,namely: Efforts to improve health in low- and middle-income countries with pendulum swings between focused,disease-specific sup- has continued into the new millennium in a somewhat 1950s,1960s,and 1970s witnessed a number ofsuccessful dis- ingandorganizationalchanges,largelyneglectingtheques- smallpox eradication,but also,for example,malaria and yaws achieved. control . These mass campaigns built on earlier 2. The definition and development of cost-effective packages efforts,including those ofthe Rockefeller Foundation from the ofcare has progressed,as reviewed in chapter 64,with some 1920s in controlling hookworm, yellow fever, and malaria. attention given to their implications for services and Despite regional differences in the degree of progress—for systems. example, malaria control was not attempted in most of Sub- 3. The emphasis on specific disease-focused international Saharan Africa—successes in regional and global control of programs, as reflected in the Global Fund for AIDS, diseases such as Chagas disease and measles in Latin America Tuberculosis, and Malaria, has been increasing, and and the Caribbean and, more recently, polio worldwide have resources for such programs have been expanding. continued since the 1960s. 4. The effort to encourage investment in integrated health From early in the history ofmass campaigns,the terminol- services has continued. ogy used was of vertical and horizontal approaches (Gonzalez 1965),referring essentially to two key dimensions in program Recent events indicate that these tensions remain unre- organization :the extent to which program man- solved. For example, Molyneux and Nantulya (2004) call for ment, especially at lower management levels, as opposed to (including drug distribution for schistosomiasis,filariasis,and had one function as opposed to many functions.Vertical pro- malaria control; and immunization), with little mention of grams (also known as categorical programs) had their own how community-based efforts might link with the general service delivery level,instead ofrelying
