Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


legislation banning the sale ofnoniodized salt in China. Strengthening Health Systems | 91 Box 3.1 Bringing de Jure and de Facto Regulations in Line In Tanzania, local drug shops are important sources of were more reliable than those in government facilities. drugs.They are required to obtain a permit each year and Revising the regulations to permit drug shops to stock a to meet certain conditions related to premises, qualifica- small set oforal antibiotics,for example,would allow more tions of the seller, and products (nonprescription medi- constructive engagement between sales staffmembers and cines only).A study in three districts found that, despite regulators, including the provision of information on regular inspections ofdrug shops,infringement ofthe reg- essential drugs,registered brands,appropriate dosing,and ulations was widespread—including the sale ofprohibited consumer advice. The Strategies for Enhancing Access to or inappropriately packaged drugs,which inspectors must Medicines Project is experimenting with allowing a wider have known about.Illegal drug sales may have contributed range ofdrugs to be provided in one region using accred- to poor-quality treatment and encouraged the develop- ited outlets for dispensing drugs (drug shops that meet ment ofdrug resistance,but they had important benefits in specified quality criteria and whose staff members have terms ofaccessibility,because drug supplies in drug shops been trained by the project). Source:Goodman 2004. Box 3.2 Improving the Quality of Drug Dispensing by Private Sector Shops In Kilifi district,Kenya,an education program piloted by Between 1998 and 1999, the proportion of antimalarial the Kenya Medical Research Institute–Wellcome Trust drug users obtaining an adequate dose rose from 8 to 33 Collaborative Research Programme worked with district percent,and by 2001,with a national change to sulfadox- and communities. Its effect was evaluated by means of with malarial fevers who received an adequate dose of a annual household surveys ofdrug use and shop surveys in recommended antimalarial drug within 24 hours rose an early and a late implementation area. The program from 1 to 28 percent by2001. showed major improvements in drug-selling practices. Source:Marsh and others 2004. GiventhatenforcementistheAchillesheelof regulation,a In recent years,the approach known as new public manage- noteworthypointisthatthesecountriesareallmiddle-income ment, explained further in chapter 73, has encouraged a countries with a reasonable level of enforcement capacity. In rejection of traditional, hierarchical forms of public sector other countries, approaches such as that outlined in box 3.2, management,whereby a single organization both finances and than seeking to control it, may have a better chance of has introduced a clear separation between the entities
