Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


government officials underesti- a better information system and a decentralized manage- mated the extent of potential competition for contracts ment system that led to greater contacts between man- and therefore overestimated their dependence on the one agers and general practitioners and an apparently greater contractor. degree ofunderstanding between the parties. Sources:Broomberg, Masobe, and Mills 1997; Mills and others 2004; Palmer and Mills 2003. Strengthening Health Systems | 93 2004), and the example of Cambodia is one of the most fre- Human Resources quently quoted (chapter 13). Nevertheless, most evidence comes from programs with substantial external financial and recruit,and retain a staffwith the necessary bundles ofskills.In technicalresources,andlong-termexperienceofsustainability planning for human resource needs, countries must relate islacking. the numbers and levels of each category of staff members to Managementdecentralizationhasbeenanothercontinuing themeinrecentyears.Onevariantisitsapplicationtohospi- overall availability of resources and local labor market tal management,which involves giving hospitals autonomous constraints. or corporate status along with much greater responsibilities Inrecentyears,concernsabouttheinternationalbraindrain for raising income and managing their own affairs.A second haveincreasedgreatly,withevidenceindicatingthatmigration variant is the creation of autonomous government agencies, bydoctorsandnursesisseverelyaffectinghealthservicesinsome and a third is decentralization to general management Sub-SaharanAfrican countries (Physicians for Human Rights 2004).Actionsbydevelopingcountriestoimproverecruitment government. andretentionshouldeitherraisetherewards,bothfinancialand Some pushing down of the locus of control over decision nonfinancial,oflocalemploymentorreducetheattractiveness making is a prerequisite for effective management at the local ofalternativeemployment—forexample,bymakingqualifica- and facility levels. However, without the necessary resources tions less portable across countries (chapter 71). Raising the and management expertise at these levels and the right incen- remuneration of health workers may be difficult because it is tives, adverse consequences may arise for both efficiency and likelytoleadtodemandsforincreasedpayfromotherpublicsec- tor employees.There is a long history of making use of local low-capacitysettingssuggeststhatmakingthehospitalpartially cadres,whichcanalsoallowtrainingthatismorespecifictothe dependent on fees for its income will restrict access by the poor needsofthelocalhealthsystemanditspriorities. to the hospital and also worsen the care they receive when Examples include nurses with extended training and roles admitted (Castaño, Bitrán, and Giedion 2004). However, for and people working at subnurse levels with training of a few nonpatient care services,whose functions are easier to specify weeks to three years.For example,Bangladesh employs family and monitor,autonomous agencies may have some advantages. For example,the Tamil Nadu Medical Supply Corporation has greatly improved the efficiency and effectiveness of drug pur- function as subdoctors,and three months of training to nurs- chasing and distribution (Mills and others 2001). For decentralization of general health service management surgical procedures and administer anesthetics in addition to to succeed,attention must be paid to the entire management
