Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


patients. However, performance-related pay requires a good the availability of facilities and materials;of opportunities for regulatory framework,skilled managerial resources,and care- learning and career progression; of subsidized housing and ful monitoring to counter adverse effects—all features that are education for dependents;and ofa culture that values the con- unlikely to be available in countries with limited capacity.Even tribution of health workers to the achievement of organiza- in China, other experiences are much less positive because tional and system goals.In addition,the methods and levels of quences into account (box 3.4).Similar comments apply to the support and supervisory systems,the role of the organization public and the private sectors to increase their incomes. accountability structures all influence how organizations and Doctors may exploit their private practice rights by encourag- individuals function.Thailand provides an example in which ing patients to attend privately if they want better quality the provision ofboth monetary and nonmonetary rewards has care—or even by diverting government resources, such as improved the recruitment,retention,and status of rural doc- drugs,to private patients.Thus,the effects of private practice tors (box 3.5). on incentives in public practice tend to be negative unless care- The introduction of well-funded disease control programs fully monitored and controlled. runs the risk of attracting the most able staff members away Nonmonetary rewards to encourage staff retention can be from other positions. Past programs have successfully used useful in such settings,as well as easier to manage.They include combinations of financial and other incentives to encourage Box 3.4 Incentive Payments in China China has made wide use of incentive payments in quality of care,the bonus system was clearly designed to hospitals—and even in public health programs.Research achieve financial goals rather than quality goals. suggests that such payments have deleterious effects when Furthermore,during the 1980s and 1990s,the government their ability to skew behavior is not controlled. In provided a decreasing share ofthe income ofpublic health Shandong province, studies found that a change in the institutions, and the share of service charges greatly to the quantity ofservices provided to one that was tied to heavily dependent on generating their own income. revenue generated was associated with a significant Negative effects included duplicate inspections of factory revenue was generated by the provision of unnecessary quent inspections,and neglect of less profitable factories care.Although data did not permit linking bonus type to that were less able to pay inspection charges. Source:Liu and Mills 2002, 2003. Box 3.5 The Role of
