Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


less profitable factories care.Although data did not permit linking bonus type to that were less able to pay inspection charges. Source:Liu and Mills 2002, 2003. Box 3.5 The Role of Financial and Nonfinancial Incentives in Thailand Thailand has experienced periods ofsevere medical brain self-esteem has been increased by providing career oppor- great difficulties in staffing hospitals in rural areas.Since annual award for rural doctors, and membership in the the late 1970s,policies have been directed at making serv- rural doctor society.Substantial experience as a rural doc- stantial salary increases, good working conditions in who themselves have spent substantial periods working as district hospitals, and provision of housing. Professional rural doctors. Source:Wibulpolprasert and Pengpaiboon 2003. Strengthening Health Systems | 95 Box 3.6 Improving Staff Performance in Cambodia An NGO contracted to manage a district in Cambodia more. Subcontracts were made competitive: if a health facility staff members involving a monthly incentive pay- workers or managers were asked to apply to take over the ment,a punctuality incentive,and a performance bonus. contract. During 2001, four contracts were replaced. The contracts were initially introduced in three facilities, Monitoring activities, especially spot checks at the which subsequently experienced significantly higher use household level to verify that recorded visits had taken levels than those that did not have the incentive payments. place,were considered vital to ensuring quality and trans- Because individual contracts were too demanding to man- parency. Soeters and Griffiths (2003) argue that out- age and excluded health center and hospital directors from siders—in this case the NGO—are better able to introduce contracting with facility managers.Output improved even which tends to be risk averse. Source:Soeters and Griffiths 2003. good worker productivity and program performance (chap- in staffperformance by establishing clear agreements with staff ter71).Incentiveshaveincludedbettersalaries;fieldandtrans- members concerning issues such as the working hours that portation allowances; and nonfinancial incentives such as would be expected and the informal charges that staffmembers streamlined management, specialized training, availability of were not to demand from patients. In return, staff members facilitiesandmaterialresources,andresults-orientedmanage- received substantial incentive payments (box 3.6). mentthatprovideseffectiveadministrativeandtechnicalsup- port.Governmentsneedtofindwaysofbenefitingandlearning Quality Assessment and Assurance fromtheseexperiences.Forexample,governmentsmightallow periods of secondment to externally funded programs, after The quality ofhealth services has a number ofimportant impli- whichstaffmembersreturntothegovernmentwithenhanced cations. It affects the outcomes that a health system can skills.Thesuccessofsuchanapproachwilldependonremuner- achieve—both directly, through patient treatment, and indi- ationnotdifferingtoogreatlyandongovernmentbureaucracies rectly,by encouraging or discouraging use ofthe services.It also providingthescopeforstaffmemberstousetheirnewskills. affects staffmorale,because working in an environment where However,the history ofcivil service
