Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


public sector’s capabilities,and be highly cost- terms of staff, buildings, equipment, and drugs and to leave effective—even cost saving. rationing decisions within the envelope to clinical discretion . However, clinicians may implicitly ration services in inequitable ways—for example,on the basis of age TARGETING RESOURCES or social status—and supplementary measures are likely to be needed to ensure that health workers do not discriminate An important dimension ofhealth system capacity that has not against poorer and marginalized members ofsociety. been considered explicitly so far, is the ability to ensure that Resource allocation formulas have an important role to play resources are used in ways that meet health system objectives. in the public sector in directing resources to underserved geo- graphic areas and population groups and to underfunded pro- they might on effectiveness,efficiency,and equity criteria.This grams .Given the typical shortages of health section addresses what policy instruments might be available to workers in more remote areas, such formulas should include ensure that additional resources are used to the greatest effect, remote area allowances or allow for the higher costs ofdeliver- first at the systems level and then at the level ofservice delivery. ing services in such areas.A formula in Zambia,for example, used distance from the railway line as a proxy for remoteness. Systems-Level Mechanisms A similar approach to ensuring that resources go where they At the systems level,tools available to decision makers include are most needed is the “marginal budgeting for bottlenecks” regulation and legislation, resource allocation formulas, and approach of the World Bank (see chapter 9). This country- financial incentives. based planning and budgeting approach assesses health sector Decision makers can use regulation and legislation to set impediments to faster progress toward the MDGs, identifies minimum standards of care that insurance packages must ways to remove them, and estimates both the costs and the cover,for instance.They can influence the availability ofdrugs likely effects oftheir removal on MDG outcomes. by, for example, liberalizing prescribing and introducing In targeting resources to specific programs, expansion of accompanying measures to educate providers and users so as to one area ofhealth provision should not occur at the expense of increase the use ofcertain drugs that are safe to distribute on a another priority area. For example, where staff capacity and large scale. One approach that has worked in Uganda is a facilities are limited, targeting additional funding to TB case social-marketing program making subsidized and clearly pack-
