Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


staff capacity and large scale. One approach that has worked in Uganda is a facilities are limited, targeting additional funding to TB case social-marketing program making subsidized and clearly pack- detection and treatment may simply take stafftime away from aged drugs for sexually transmitted diseases available through child health.This problem ofthe systemwide effects ofdisease- the retail sector (Mills and others 2002). specific programs was discussed earlier.Addressing this prob- In some settings,explicit rationing of the provision of care lem requires empowering a central body,such as a ministry of most cost-effective interventions and limit the provision ofless all view ofpriorities so that resource conflicts can be resolved. cost-effective ones.However,regulatory controls are unlikely to Eventhoughfinancialincentivesneedtobeusedcautiously, be effective in low-capacity settings and will simply encourage theycanbepowerfultoolsforinfluencingproviders’behavior,as illicit activities. Moreover, explicit rationing requires a high indicated earlier. They can also be an important influence on degree ofpublic acceptance and public involvement in the pri- users’behavior.ExperienceinSouthAfricaandUganda(box3.7) Box 3.7 Removal of Fees at the Primary Care Level in Uganda In February 2001, the government of Uganda abolished ofdrugs worsened during the first year ofimplementation cost sharing in public facilities at the community level. but gradually improved during the second year. A study This move was followed by a marked increase in the use of concluded that before the policy change user fees were health services by all population groups.For villages near probably a major deterrent to the use of public health poorest groups.The frequency with which centers ran out the poor. Source:Nabyonga and others 2005. Strengthening Health Systems | 97 suggeststhat,insomesettings,removingorreducinguserfeesat shows key indicators for the most constrained and other theprimarycarelevelmaybeanimportantelementinencour- countries. aging greater take-up of primary care. Further studies of the The most constrained group has significantly worse health effectsoffeeremovalareneeded. indicators and much worse access to health resources. For example,countries in this group have almost twice the infant Service-Level Mechanisms mortality rate and more than twice the maternal mortality rate of other countries but only one-sixth as many nurses. In At the service level,evidence suggests the value of providing a absolute terms,the most constrained group represents a rela- framework of resources and guidance within which managers tively small share ofthe total population ofcountries analyzed and health workers can prioritize their efforts.The experience and consists,for the most part,of small countries (more than ofthe Tanzania Essential Health Interventions Program (chap- half have populations of less than 10 million) in Sub-Saharan ter 54) highlights the health gains that a
