Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, public, care, services, management, systems, quality, service, capacity, example, evidence, control, resources, mills


to the absence of full-time IMCI coordina- Africa. However, maintaining this achievement requires that tors,operational plans,and specific budget lines.They suggest low-capacity environments, campaigns can divert attention financing and delivery strategies can become less vertical and and resources from routine primary health care services. more horizontal and less selective and more integrated. Schreuder and Kostermans (2001) indicate that this problem occurred in southern Africa,particularly with respect to divert- ing scarce management capacity,implying that reducing deaths RESEARCH PRIORITIES from one cause may risk worsening services for other diseases and conditions. A notable paucity of evidence is apparent in relation to most Victora and others (2004) suggest that the most appropriate key areas discussed in this chapter.This lack ofevidence is illus- mix of vertical and horizontal approaches depends on the trated by a recent review of the evidence on the equity of uti- human and financial resources available, the urgency with lization and financing strategies (box 3.8). This and other which results need to be achieved,the existing organization of reviews ofthe available evidence have led the Lancetto call for Strengthening Health Systems | 99 Box 3.8 Gaps in the Evidence on Equity of Health Financing and Utilization in Low-Income Settings A recent review evaluated evidence on the effect ofvarious range ofsettings,including nonrandomized designs when financing strategies on use of health care. It found that randomization is impossible or inappropriate and multi- most research was small scale and had findings oflimited center case studies that examine why arrangements do or effect of alternative financing interventions were lacking, developing and applying quality criteria for quantitative and a multitude of case studies described specific experi- and case study research along the lines of guidelines ences but with little methodological rigor. The review recently developed for randomized group trials. recommended larger-scale, more systematic studies in a Source:Palmer and others 2004. Areas where evidence is especially limited that are identified doctorallevel,andresearcherswithdoctoraldegreesmadeup in this chapter—where research is a high priority—include the onlyaquarteroftheresearchworkforce.Ananalysisofstudies following: citedinMedlineshowedthatonly5percentofthehealthsys- temsresearchliteratureconcerneddevelopingcountries. hospital autonomy reforms and decentralization—is inade- approach to research needs to encompass solving operational quate to draw conclusions about the circumstances under problemsinreal-lifesettings.Ethicalissuesariseinusinglimited which reforms are likely to improve the efficiency and supplies oftalent to study problems unrelated to the local con- equity ofservice delivery. text when the human resources and systems required to evidence on intermediate outcome measures,such as costs ity and effect of investigations are much improved when they and quality ofservice
