InternationalOrthopaedics(SICOT)(2009)33:801–805
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, pcr, samples, diagnosis, patients, positive, osteoarticular tuberculosis, negative, osteoarticular, false, examination, histopathology, bone, agreement, results


or osteoarticular tuberculosis and the patients who were on specific, as there are many differential diagnoses for the antituberculartreatmentwereexcluded. radiological findings . Conventional microbiological methods like Ziehl-Neelson staining (Z-N smear) for acid Sample size fastbacilli(AFB)andcultureofMycobacteriumtuberculosis on Lowenstein Jensen media (L-J) have much lower During this time period, 74 patients suspected of osteo- sensitivity and specificity because of the paucibacillary articulartuberculosisinvolvingboneorjointswereincluded nature of extrapulmonary tuberculosis . Also, for a inthestudy. positiveAFBsmear,5,000–10,000bacillipermLareneeded . Most extrapulmonary specimens do not have a large Collection of samples concentration of bacilli. In addition, the culture of M. tuberculosis is time consuming, taking 6–8 weeks for the The samples were collected under strict aseptic precautions growth to appear . So, mostly, the diagnosis of tubercu- in the operation theatre. They included synovial fluid, pus losis depends on histological evidence, which may also from the diseased part and tissues, such as synovium or sometimes be inconclusive, in addition to the need for high vertebral bone (closed or open biopsy). All of the samples levels of expertise. were subjected to PCR and histopathological examination. Nucleic acid amplification (NAA) tests represent a Tissue samples for PCR were sent in normal saline and for majoradvanceinthediagnosisoftuberculosis.Withthe histopathology in 10% formalin. All of the samples were useofamplificationsystems,nucleicacidsequencesunique kept at 4°C before proceeding for PCR. All of the samples toM.tuberculosiscanbedetecteddirectlyinclinicalspeci- for PCR processing were handled by the same senior speed than cultures . Advanced molecular methods such theguidanceoftheseniormicrobiologist(KC).Allstepsof as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), a type of nucleic acid thePCRwerecarriedoutinseparateroomstominimisethe amplification system, have shown very promising results chanceofthecarry-overoftemplates. for the early and rapid diagnosis of the disease, due to its All histopathology slides were reviewed by two senior detection limit of 1–10 bacilli in various clinical samples pathologists after processing. . It has increased the diagnostic predictability in extra- pulmonary tuberculosis with paucibacillary samples . Processing of samples for PCR This study was done to investigate the utility of PCR for the early diagnosis of bone and joint tuberculosis and its Pussamplesweredecontaminatedwith4%NaOHfor10min comparativeevaluationwithhistopathologicalexamination. andthencentrifugedat6,000rpmfor20min.Thesupernatant Wealsotriedtocompareitsutilityinthediagnosisofspinal was discarded and an equal amount of phosphate buffer and extraspinal tuberculosis (hip, knee etc.). was added to the sediment. All of the biopsies (tissue or bone) were homogenisedinpestleandmortar,centrifuged at6,000rpmfor10minand,tothepellet,3mlofTrisbuffer Materials and methods wasadded.Synovialfluidwascentrifugedat6,000rpmfor 10minand,tothepellet,3mlofTrisbufferwasadded. Study design and setting DNA extraction This was a prospective study carried out from November Manipal, India. lysisbufferIand20 μlofproteinaseKwasadded(providedin thekitfromBangaloreGenei,Bangalore,India).Aftermixing Selection of patients byvortexing,allofthesampleswerekeptinadrybathat90°C for20–25minandthencentrifugedat10,000rpmfor10min. radiologicalsuspicionoftubercularinvolvementofboneor internal controlat a concentrationof 10μl/ml) was addedin joints. 1.5-mleppendorftube(AxygenScientific,MahalasaAgency,
