InternationalOrthopaedics(SICOT)(2009)33:801–805
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, pcr, samples, diagnosis, patients, positive, osteoarticular tuberculosis, negative, osteoarticular, false, examination, histopathology, bone, agreement, results


(H&E) and Gabbet’sstainbeforemicroscopicexamination.Thepresence out of 36). The positive predictive value was 76.92% (10 oftypicalcaseatinggranulomasand/orLanghans’giantcells out of 13) and the negative predictive value was 84.61% (33 out of 39). The false positivity rate was 23.07% (3 out onH&Estainingandtheidentificationofacidfastbacillion Gabbet’sstainingwereconsideredasproofoftuberculosis. of13)andthefalsenegativityratewas37.5%(6outof16). Positive agreement between histopathology and PCR was 0.571 (p<0.05), indicating fair agreement. Results PCRandhistopathologicalexaminationwereperformedona Discussion total of 74 patients. Of these 74 samples, 22 were from the spinal region for patients suspected for Pott’s spine and 52 Osteoarticular tuberculosis is a major problem in the were from various bones and joints, mostly from the knee developing world and it is one of the major causes of Table 1 Comparison of the results obtained by polymerase chain Table 3 Comparison of the results obtained by PCR and histopatho- reaction (PCR) and histopathological examination for all of the logical examination for the samples of various synovial tissues and samplestakentogether(n=74) synovialfluid(n=52) Histopathologypositive Histopathologynegative Histopathologypositive Histopathologynegative PCRpositive 19 3 PCRpositive 10 3 PCRnegative 7 45 PCRnegative 6 33 804 InternationalOrthopaedics(SICOT)(2009)33:801–805 osteomyelitis.IntheeventofHIV,itisnowre-emerging[2, negative biopsy should be given a trial of treatment for 11]. The spine is the site most commonly affected with tuberculosis. As the specificity of PCR is high (93.75%), a tuberculosis,followedbythehipandtheknee.The negative PCR would rule out tuberculosis if biopsy is also diagnosis of osteoarticular tuberculosis is often delayed, negative. A positive biopsy would call for antitubercular on average, by 16 to 19 months . Routine blood and treatment, irrespective of PCR status. If PCR is negative, radiological investigations may not be very helpful in the further decisions would be based on the histopathological diagnosis of early osteoarticular tuberculosis . examination. Z-N smearexaminationandtraditional culture(Lowenstein Establishing the diagnosis of tuberculosis beyond doubt Jenson Media) methods are also not very sensitive and isveryimportantwhenconsideringthecostanddurationof often show low positive or negative results . Even treatment and the effects of delayed treatment . More- the recently developed radiometric Bactec culture method over, it has its economic and psychosocial implications in takes an average time of 23.2 to 32.6 days and its sen- the developing world . False positivity in PCR can sitivityislow .However, itshigh cost andtheneedfor be minimised by the adequate training of personnel in thesafedisposaloftheradioactivewasteprecludeitsusein molecular methods and preventing laboratory-introduced peripheral laboratories. The diagnosis of tuberculosis is contamination. perforce based on histopathological examination, which calls for professional expertise. It also takes about 2– 3 weeks for the report to come back, depending upon the Conclusions typeofsample.Thepresenceofclassicalcaseatingtubercle granulomas is a
