Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


ABSTRACT The major cause of hypoglycemia is iatrogenic. Treatment with an insulin secretagogue, including sulfonylureas or glinides, or insulin, particularly when coupled with compromised defenses against the resulting falling plasma glucose concentrations, is the limiting factor in the glycemic management of diabetes. It causes recurrent morbidity in most people with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and many with advanced type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and is sometimes fatal. Low blood glucose also impairs physiological and behavioral defenses against subsequent hypoglycemia, further increasing the risk of hypoglycemia and its complications including adverse cardiovascular effects. Strategies to reduce hypoglycemia are based on the individual’s age, regimen, and comorbidities. A patient-centered approach, newer insulin analogues, novel insulin delivery devices, and continuous glucose monitoring help reduce the risk of hypoglycemia and optimize glycemia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . THE CLINICAL PROBLEM OF HYPOGLYCEMIA IN DIABETES The problem of iatrogenic hypoglycemia in diabetes has been reviewed in detail ( 1 – 6 ). Glycemic Control In the context of comprehensive treatment, including weight, blood pressure, and blood lipid control among other measures, normoglycemia makes a difference for people with diabetes. Improved glycemic control reduces microvascular complications (retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy) in both type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) ( 7 ) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) ( 8 , 9 ). Follow-up of patients with T1DM ( 10 ) and T2DM ( 11 ) suggests that an improved earlier period of glycemic control may also reduce subsequent macrovascular complications. Thus, safe and long-term maintenance of physiologic normoglycemia is in the best interest of people with diabetes. The Limiting Factor Iatrogenic hypoglycemia, fundamentally but not exclusively usually results from treatment with an insulin secretagogue or insulin either alone or in combination with other glucose lowering medications, and is the major limiting factor in the goal of near normoglycemia in the management of diabetes ( 1 ). Iatrogenic hypoglycemia causes recurrent morbidity in most people with T1DM and many with advanced T2DM and is sometimes fatal ( 4 ). It impairs defenses against subsequent falling plasma glucose concentrations and results in a vicious cycle of recurrent hypoglycemia. It generally precludes maintenance of euglycemia over a lifetime of diabetes and, thus, full realization of the benefits of glycemic control. Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Iatrogenic hypoglycemia commonly occurs in the overwhelming majority of people with
