Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


lifetime of diabetes and, thus, full realization of the benefits of glycemic control. Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Iatrogenic hypoglycemia commonly occurs in the overwhelming majority of people with T1DM who must, of course, be treated with insulin. Most have untold numbers of episodes of asymptomatic hypoglycemia. These are not benign since they impair defenses against subsequent hypoglycemia ( 1 ). Individuals with T1DM suffer an average of two episodes of symptomatic hypoglycemia per week – thousands of such episodes over a lifetime of diabetes – and about one episode of disabling severe (i.e., requiring assistance) hypoglycemia per year. Hypoglycemia causes brain fuel deprivation that, if unchecked, results in functional brain failure that is typically corrected after the plasma glucose concentration is raised ( 12 ). Rarely, if low blood glucose is profound and prolonged, it can result in brain death ( 12 ). Hypoglycemia may lead to cardiac arrhythmias, especially in patients with preexisting cardiac abnormalities ( 13 , 14 ). Additionally, hypoglycemia has been demonstrated to be pro-coagulant and pro-atherothrombotic ( 15 , 16 ). Furthermore, severe hypoglycemia has been associated with increased risk of death extending many months and up to one year after the sentinel episode ( 17 ). Of concern, roughly from 2 to 10 percent of deaths of people with diabetes were the result of hypoglycemia ( 4 , 5 , 14 , 18 , 19 ). Regardless of the actual rate, the fact that there is an iatrogenic hypoglycemia mortality rate is alarming. Overall, for a given individual, iatrogenic hypoglycemia is less frequent in T2DM ( 1 , 20 , 21 ). However, due to the greatly increased numbers of individuals with T2DM, the prevalence of hypoglycemic episodes is actually greater than in T1DM. Drugs that can cause endogenous or exogenous (insulin) hyperinsulinemia unregulated by glucose can cause hypoglycemia. On the other hand, insulin sensitizers (metformin or a thiazolidinedione), α-glucosidase inhibitors, sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors, and drugs such as dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) that cause glucose-dependent hyperinsulinemia should not, and probably do not, cause hypoglycemia. They do, however, increase the risk of hypoglycemia if used with an insulin secretagogue or with insulin. Even during treatment of T2DM with insulin, hypoglycemia event rates are about one-third of those in T1DM overall ( 20 ). However, for reasons discussed shortly (see Glucose Counterregulatory Physiology and its Pathophysiology
