Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


of T2DM with insulin, hypoglycemia event rates are about one-third of those in T1DM overall ( 20 ). However, for reasons discussed shortly (see Glucose Counterregulatory Physiology and its Pathophysiology in Diabetes), the incidence of iatrogenic hypoglycemia increases over time, approaching that in T1DM, as people approach the insulin deficient end of the spectrum of T2DM ( 21 ). Because T2DM is roughly 20-fold more prevalent than T1DM and many, perhaps most, people with T2DM ultimately require treatment with insulin, most episodes of hypoglycemia, including those of severe hypoglycemia, occur in individuals with T2DM. Insulin secretagogue and insulin induced hypoglycemia can be fatal in T2DM although precise hypoglycemic mortality rates are as yet known. As many as 10% of patients with severe sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycemia die ( 22 ). DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION OF HYPOGLYCEMIA The American Diabetes Association and the International Hypoglycemia Study Group ( Table 1 ) define clinically significant hypoglycemia as a blood glucose <54 mg/dl (3.0 mmol/L) which is detected by the individual’s self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) as well as by continuous glucose monitoring ((CGM), glucose values of <54 mg/dl (3.0 mmol/L) for at least 20 min), or laboratory measurement of plasma glucose which is sufficiently low to indicate clinically significant hypoglycemia ( 23 , 24 ). Blood glucose ≤70 mg/dl (3.9 mmol/L) is considered a hypoglycemia alert value, which represents an important lower glucose cutoff value for treatment with fast-acting carbohydrates and dose adjustments of antidiabetic medications. Severe hypoglycemia is defined as a low glucose value with severe cognitive impairment that requires assistance from another person in order to achieve recovery ( 25 ). Relative hypoglycemia or pseudohypoglycemia represents an event during which the person with diabetes reports any of the typical symptoms of hypoglycemia and interprets those as indicative of hypoglycemia with a measured plasma glucose concentration >70 mg/dL (>3.9 mmol/L). Table 1. Classification of Hypoglycemia in Diabetes ( 23 , 24 ) View in own window Level Glycemic criteria Hypoglycemia alert value ≤70 mg/dl (3.9 mmol/L) Sufficiently low for treatment with fast (level 1) acting carbohydrate and dose adjustment of glucose lowering therapy Clinically significant hypoglycemia (level 2) <54 mg/dl (3.0 mmol/L) Sufficiently low to indicate serious, clinically important hypoglycemia Severe hypoglycemia (level 3) No specific glucose threshold Hypoglycemia associated with severe cognitive impairment requiring external assistance for recovery COMPLICATIONS OF HYPOGLYCEMIA Increased mortality has been observed in randomized controlled trials during more aggressive compared
