Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


specific glucose threshold Hypoglycemia associated with severe cognitive impairment requiring external assistance for recovery COMPLICATIONS OF HYPOGLYCEMIA Increased mortality has been observed in randomized controlled trials during more aggressive compared with less aggressive glucose-lowering therapy in patients with T2DM ( 26 ) and in patients with hypoglycemia in intensive care units ( 27 ). In addition, intensive glycemic control has not been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes in patients with T2DM ( 28 ). The associations between increased hypoglycemia and increased morbidity and mortality during aggressive glycemic therapy in these and other ( 18 , 29 , 30 ) trials have been thought to be multifactorial ( 31 ). A possible explanation is that aggressive reduction of blood glucose increases the risk of hypoglycemia. The latter can trigger sympathoadrenal activation with the release of catecholamines, cause abnormal cardiac repolarization, and lead to myocardial ischemia. Hypoglycemia-induced ECG changes include ST-segment depression, atrial and ventricular ectopic beats, P- and T-wave abnormalities, and QT-interval prolongation ( 32 ). Low blood glucose creates procoagulant and prothrombotic states and induces inflammation and oxidative stress ( 33 , 34 ). The association of hypoglycemia with cognitive function appears to be more complicated. Among older individuals with type 2 diabetes, a history of severe hypoglycemia was associated with a greater risk of dementia ( 37 ). The ACCORD study reported that cognitive impairment at baseline and a continuing decline in cognitive function among individuals were associated with a greater risk for dementia following hypoglycemia ( 35 ). It should be noted however that in DCCT/EDIC, which involved much younger participants, no association of severe hypoglycemia and cognitive decline was found ( 25 , 39 ). Hypoglycemic episodes can create fear of subsequent hypoglycemia and negatively affect the quality of life in T1DM as well as T2DM ( 36 ). Some of the consequences may include anxiety, shortness of breath, palpitations, tremors, symptoms of depression, and reduced ability to function. GLUCOSE COUNTERREGULATORY PHYSIOLOGY AND ITS PATHOPHYSIOLOGY IN DIABETES Physiology In nondiabetic individuals, there are a number of physiological defenses against falling plasma glucose concentrations. These include reductions in insulin secretion, which occur as glucose levels decline within the physiological range. This allows for increased hepatic (and renal) glucose production, and increments in glucagon and epinephrine secretion, which occur as glucose levels fall just below the physiological range and stimulate hepatic glucose production ( 1 , 2 , 37
