Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


production, and increments in glucagon and epinephrine secretion, which occur as glucose levels fall just below the physiological range and stimulate hepatic glucose production ( 1 , 2 , 37 ) ( Figure 1 ). Increased epinephrine levels also normally mobilize gluconeogenic precursors from muscle and fat, stimulate renal glucose production, limit glucose utilization by muscle and fat, and limit insulin secretion ( 2 ). The behavioral defense against falling plasma glucose concentrations is carbohydrate ingestion prompted largely by the perception of neurogenic (autonomic) symptoms (e.g., palpitations, tremor, and anxiety/arousal which are catecholamine-mediated or adrenergic and sweating, hunger, and paresthesias which are sympatho-adrenal mediated or cholinergic) ( 38 , 39 ) ( Figure 1 ). These are largely sympathetic neural, rather than adrenomedullary, in origin ( 39 ). The extent to which mild neuroglycopenic symptoms such as altered mentation or psychomotor changes contribute to the patient’s recognition of hypoglycemia is unclear; awareness of hypoglycemia is largely prevented by pharmacological antagonism of neurogenic symptoms ( 38 ). Severe neuroglycopenic symptoms include frank confusion, acute focal or central neurologic deficits, seizure and/or loss of consciousness. All of these defenses can be compromised in T1DM and advanced T2DM ( 1 , 40 , 41 ). Pathophysiology Episodes of therapeutic hyperinsulinemia, the result of glucose unregulated delivery of endogenous (insulin secretagogue therapy) or exogenous (insulin therapy) insulin into the circulation, initiate the sequence that may, or may not, culminate in an episode of hypoglycemia ( 1 ). Absolute therapeutic insulin excess of sufficient magnitude can cause isolated episodes of hypoglycemia despite intact glucose counterregulatory defenses against hypoglycemia ( Figure 2 ). But that is an uncommon event. Iatrogenic hypoglycemia is typically the result of the interplay of mild-moderate absolute therapeutic insulin excess, reduced glucose intake, exercise, increased insulin sensitivity, sleep, and existing or induced compromised physiological and behavioral defenses against falling plasma glucose concentrations in T1DM ( 1 , 40 ) and T2DM ( 1 , 41 ). In T1DM, because of β-cell failure, insulin levels do not decrease as glucose levels fall; the first physiological defense is lost. Furthermore, glucagon levels do not increase as glucose levels fall ( 42 ); the second physiological defense is lost. That, too, is possibly attributable to a β-cell signaling failure since a decrease in β-cell secretion, coupled with a low α-cell glucose concentration, normally signals α-cell glucagon secretion ( 3 , 43 , 44 ). Finally,
