Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


a β-cell signaling failure since a decrease in β-cell secretion, coupled with a low α-cell glucose concentration, normally signals α-cell glucagon secretion ( 3 , 43 , 44 ). Finally, the increase in epinephrine levels as glucose levels fall is also attenuated (( 1 , 41 ); and thus, the three major physiological defenses are compromised. Figure 1. Physiological and Behavioral Defenses Against Hypoglycemia in Humans. ACH, acetylcholine; NE, norepinephrine; PNS, parasympathetic nervous system; SNS, sympathetic nervous system. From reference ( 45 ). Although it is often caused by recent antecedent hypoglycemia ( 40 , 46 ) or by prior exercise ( 47 ) or sleep ( 48 – 50 ), the mechanism of the attenuated sympathoadrenal response to falling glucose levels is unknown ( 3 ). Nonetheless, the attenuated epinephrine response is a marker of an attenuated sympathetic neural response ( 39 ) and the latter largely results in the reduction of the symptoms of hypoglycemia causing hypoglycemia unawareness (or impaired awareness of hypoglycemia) and thus loss of the behavioral defense, i.e., carbohydrate ingestion. In the setting of therapeutic hyperinsulinemia, falling plasma glucose concentrations, absent decrements in insulin, absent increments in glucagon, and attenuated increases in epinephrine cause the clinical syndrome of defective glucose counter-regulation ( 1 , 40 ), which is associated with a 25-fold ( 51 ) or greater ( 52 ) increased risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia. The attenuated sympathoadrenal, particularly the attenuated sympathetic neural response, causes the clinical syndrome of hypoglycemia unawareness ( 1 ) which is associated with a 6-fold increased risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia ( 53 ). The pathophysiology of glucose counter-regulation is the same in T1DM and T2DM albeit with different time courses. β-cell failure, and therefore loss of the insulin and glucagon responses to falling plasma glucose concentrations, develops early in T1DM but more gradually in T2DM. Thus, iatrogenic hypoglycemia, becomes a common problem early in T1DM and later in T2DM. The concept of hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure (HAAF) in diabetes ( 1 , 3 , 5 , 40 , 41 ) ( Figure 2 ) posits that recent antecedent hypoglycemia, as well as prior moderate exercise or sleep, causes both defective glucose counter-regulation (by reducing increments in epinephrine in the setting of absent decrements in insulin and absent increments in glucagon during subsequent hypoglycemia) and hypoglycemia unawareness (by reducing sympathoadrenal and resulting neurogenic symptom responses during subsequent hypoglycemia) and, therefore, a vicious
