Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


absent decrements in insulin and absent increments in glucagon during subsequent hypoglycemia) and hypoglycemia unawareness (by reducing sympathoadrenal and resulting neurogenic symptom responses during subsequent hypoglycemia) and, therefore, a vicious cycle of recurrent hypoglycemia. Supporting this concept is the finding, that as little as 2-3 weeks of scrupulous avoidance of hypoglycemia reverses hypoglycemia unawareness and improves the attenuated epinephrine component of defective glucose counter-regulation in most affected patients. ( 54 – 57 ). The mechanism(s) of the attenuated sympathoadrenal response to falling glucose levels, the key feature of HAAF, is not known ( 3 ). It must involve the central nervous system or the afferent or efferent components of the sympathoadrenal system. Theories include increased blood-to-brain transport of a metabolic fuel, effects of a systemic mediator such as cortisol on the brain, altered hypothalamic mechanisms, and activation of an inhibitory cerebral network mediated through the thalamus ( 3 ). Figure 2. Schematic Diagram of HAAF in Diabetes. From reference ( 45 ). RISK FACTORS FOR HYPOGLYCEMIA IN DIABETES Conventional Risk Factors The conventional risk factors are based on the premise that relative to low rates of glucose delivery into the circulation, high rates of glucose efflux out of the circulation, or both, or absolute therapeutic hyperinsulinemia is the sole determinant of risk ( 1 ). They include (but are not limited to): 1. Insulin (or insulin secretagogue) doses are excessive, ill-timed, or of the wrong type. 2. Exogenous glucose delivery is decreased (as following missed meals and during the overnight fast, with gastroparesis or celiac disease). 3. Glucose utilization and sensitivity to insulin are increased (as during and shortly after exercise, in the middle of the night, following weight loss, or improved glycemic control). 4. Endogenous glucose production is decreased (as following alcohol ingestion or in liver failure). 5. Insulin clearance is decreased (as in renal failure). 6. Classical diabetic autonomic neuropathy. Patients with diabetes and their caregivers must consider each of these risk factors carefully whenever hypoglycemia is a problem ( 58 ). Risk Factors Indicative of Hypoglycemia-Associated Autonomic Failure (HAAF) These risk factors stem directly from the pathophysiology of glucose counter-regulation and the concept of HAAF in diabetes ( 1 , 40 , 41 ). They include: 1. The degree of absolute endogenous insulin deficiency. This determines the extent to which insulin levels will not decrease and glucagon levels will not increase as plasma glucose concentrations fall in
