Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


The degree of absolute endogenous insulin deficiency. This determines the extent to which insulin levels will not decrease and glucagon levels will not increase as plasma glucose concentrations fall in response to therapeutic hyperinsulinemia. It is in part a function of the duration of diabetes. 2. A history of severe hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia unawareness, or both as well as recent antecedent hypoglycemia, prior exercise or sleep. 3. Aggressive glycemic therapy per se (lower A1C levels, lower glycemic goals). Studies with a control group treated to higher mean glycemia consistently document higher rates of hypoglycemia in individuals treated to lower mean glycemia (e.g. ( 4 )). Mean glycemia is a risk factor for hypoglycemia. However, severe hypoglycemia can occur in individuals with any A1C level, and the fact that mean glycemia is a risk factor does not mean that one cannot both lower mean glycemia and reduce the risk of hypoglycemia in individual patients ( 6 ). PREVENTION OF HYPOGLYCEMIA IN DIABETES The prevention of hypoglycemia can be viewed as a process with four steps ( 1 , 6 ). The first step is acknowledging the problem; the second - considering the conventional risk factors in diabetes; the third – considering the risk factors indicative of HAAF in diabetes; and the fourth - application of the relevant principles of intensive glycemic therapy of diabetes. Acknowledge the Problem The issue of hypoglycemia should be addressed at every contact with a patient treated with an insulin secretagogue or with insulin ( 6 ). In addition to the patient’s comments and review of the individual’s SMBG data (as well as any CGM data) we find it especially helpful to inquire what is the glucose level when each patient can detect hypoglycemia and what are the symptoms and signs at various hypoglycemic levels. It is also often helpful to question close associates of the patient since they may have observed clues to episodes of hypoglycemia. Patient concerns about the reality, or even the possibility, of hypoglycemia can be a barrier to glycemic control ( 59 , 60 ). Their concerns need to be discussed and addressed if hypoglycemia is a real or perceived problem. Consider the Conventional Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia in Diabetes Each of the risk factors that result in relative or absolute therapeutic hyperinsulinemia, as just discussed, should be considered carefully in any patient with iatrogenic hypoglycemia. Those include the dose, timing, and type
