Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


risk factors that result in relative or absolute therapeutic hyperinsulinemia, as just discussed, should be considered carefully in any patient with iatrogenic hypoglycemia. Those include the dose, timing, and type of the insulin secretagogue or insulin preparations(s) used, and conditions in which exogenous glucose delivery or endogenous glucose production is decreased, glucose utilization or insulin sensitivity is increased or insulin clearance is decreased. Consider the Risk Factors Indicative of HAAF in Diabetes As detailed earlier, the risk factors indicative of HAAF include the degree of absolute endogenous insulin deficiency, a history of severe hypoglycemia, impaired awareness of hypoglycemia, or both as well as any relationship between iatrogenic hypoglycemia and recent antecedent hypoglycemia, prior exercise or sleep, and lower glycemic goals. A history of severe hypoglycemia is a clinical red flag. Without a fundamental adjustment of the treatment regimen, the likelihood of another episode is high ( 7 , 61 ). Apply the Relevant Principles of Intensive Glycemic Therapy The principles of intensive glycemic therapy relevant to minimizing the risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia in diabetes include drug selection, selective application of diabetes treatment technologies, individualized glycemic goals, structured patient education, and short-term scrupulous avoidance of hypoglycemia ( 6 ). Based on the premise that the risk of hypoglycemia is modifiable, the International Hypoglycemia Study Group recommended that people with diabetes treated with a sulfonylurea, a glinide, or insulin should be educated about hypoglycemia, should treat self- monitored plasma glucose (SMPG) <70 mg/dL (<3.9 mmol/L) to avoid progression to clinical iatrogenic hypoglycemia, and should regularly be queried about hypoglycemia, including the glucose level at which symptoms develop ( 6 ). Drug selection relevant to minimizing the risk of hypoglycemia includes avoidance, if possible, of sulfonylureas or glinides, the use of more physiological insulin regimens ( 62 ), and the use of long-acting or even ultra-long-acting daily basal insulin analogues and rapid-acting prandial insulin analogues in lieu of human insulins ( 63 – 66 ). Insulin analogues reduce the frequency of at least nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 63 – 65 ) including severe nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 65 ) compared to human insulins. In insulin-requiring T2DM, basal insulins are associated with less hypoglycemia than prandial insulin regimens. Furthermore, the combination of a long-acting basal insulin with a glucose-lowering drug with low hypoglycemic potential (e.g., a GLP-1 receptor agonist) may result in less hypoglycemia than with the use of basal-bolus insulin therapy ( 67 ). Relevant
