Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


with a glucose-lowering drug with low hypoglycemic potential (e.g., a GLP-1 receptor agonist) may result in less hypoglycemia than with the use of basal-bolus insulin therapy ( 67 ). Relevant diabetes treatment technologies include continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII), continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), and combinations of CSII and CGM. Although earlier meta-analyses disclosed little ( 68 ) or no ( 69 ) advantage of CSII, recent evidence suggest that CSII treatment is superior in achieving glucose control compared to multiple daily injections ( 70 , 71 ). CGM devices alone have been shown to improve glycemic control and decrease duration of hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes mellitus ( 72 , 73 ). As their accuracy is continuously improving, several CGM systems have been approved by the FDA, and other regulatory authorities to even replace point of care blood glucose testing ( 74 , 75 ). Real-time CGM systems have also been found to improve hypoglycemia awareness, without a change in A1C, in a small group of patients with T1DM ( 76 ). A favorable experience with CSII has also been reported ( 77 , 78 ). The combination of CSII and real-time CGM – sensor augmented pump therapy, particularly that including an insulin pump programmed to stop insulin infusion for up to two hours when CGM values fall to a selected glucose level (“low glucose suspend”) – has been reported to reduce the frequency of severe hypoglycemia in T1DM ( 79 – 81 ). Recent innovations have included cessation of insulin delivery during hypoglycemia. Several promising studies have investigated approaches for leading closed-loop insulin (or insulin and glucagon) replacement. The development of automated closed-loop insulin pumps represents an area of ongoing research and fully closed-loop insulin ( 82 ) or insulin and glucagon replacement ( 83 ) and pancreatic islet transplantation ( 84 ) will undoubtedly eliminate hypoglycemia and improve overall glycemic control. A hybrid-not fully automated -system (as only basal insulin is automatically adjusted) has received approval by the FDA ( 85 ). Special circumstances relevant to drug selection and treatment technologies in the prevention of hypoglycemia in diabetes include exercise, the overnight period, the elderly, drivers, and pregnancy. Especially in insulin-treated patients’ hypoglycemia can occur during or shortly after exercise ( 86 ) or late after exercise ( 87 , 88 ). Measures to avoid early-onset exercise hypoglycemia include interspersing episodes of intense exercise (which tends to raise
