Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


after exercise ( 86 ) or late after exercise ( 87 , 88 ). Measures to avoid early-onset exercise hypoglycemia include interspersing episodes of intense exercise (which tends to raise plasma glucose concentrations), adding carbohydrate ingestion, and reducing insulin doses ( 89 ). A consistent observation since the DCCT ( 7 ) is that more than half of episodes of hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, occur during the night. That is typically the longest interval between meals and between SMPG and includes the time of maximal sensitivity to insulin. In addition to the use of insulin analogues, sensor augmented pump therapy or closed-loop insulin or insulin and glucagon replacement, all discussed earlier, approaches to the prevention of nocturnal hypoglycemia include attempts to produce sustained delivery of exogenous carbohydrate or sustained endogenous glucose production ( 90 ). With respect to the former approach, a conventional bedtime snack or bedtime administration of uncooked cornstarch have not been found to be consistently effective ( 90 ). With respect to the latter approach an experimental treatment is bedtime administration of a β2-adrenergic agonist such as terbutaline ( 90 – 92 ). In addition to HAAF, comorbidities including renal insufficiency, polypharmacy, and impaired cognition are more relevant to the development of hypoglycemia in older individuals ( 93 ). Drivers with diabetes and a history of recurrent hypoglycemia-related driving mishaps have been found to have greater driving simulator impairments ( 94 ). Finally, up to 45% of pregnant women with type 1 diabetes experience severe hypoglycemia especially in the first trimester ( 95 ). Individualized Glycemic Goal Glycemic goals should be individualized in patients with diabetes ( 4 , 96 ). The selection of a glycemic goal in a person with diabetes is a trade-off between the benefits of glycemic control – partial prevention or delay of microvascular complications – and the risk of recurrent morbidity, and potential mortality, of hypoglycemia ( 4 ). A reasonable individualized glycemic goal is the lowest A1C that does not cause severe hypoglycemia and preserves awareness of hypoglycemia, preferably with little or no symptomatic or even asymptomatic hypoglycemia, at a given stage in the evolution of the individual’s diabetes ( 4 ). Thus, the glycemic goal should be linked not only to the level of glycemic control (i.e., the A1C) but also to the risk of hypoglycemia, specifically the drugs used (a sulfonylurea, a glinide, or insulin), the degree of endogenous
