Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


to the level of glycemic control (i.e., the A1C) but also to the risk of hypoglycemia, specifically the drugs used (a sulfonylurea, a glinide, or insulin), the degree of endogenous insulin deficiency, and the anticipated benefit of the targeted level of glycemic control. A nondiabetic A1C would be reasonable in a patient with early T2DM treated effectively with lifestyle changes and/or drugs that do not cause hypoglycemia. For the majority of non-pregnant adults, a reasonable goal for an A1C is <7% (53 mmol/mol). For selected individuals with long life expectancy, without significant comorbidities (especially cardiovascular disease), stringent A1c goals (<6.5% (48 mmol/mol)) should be targeted, if this can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia ( 23 ). For children and adolescents, an A1C of <7.5% (58 mmol/mol) should be the goal, although a lower target (<7% (53 mmol/mol)) should be reasonable if it can be achieved without excessive hypoglycemia ( 97 ). However much higher levels of A1C (7.5%-8.0% (58-64 mmol/mol)) may be appropriate in elderly patients where hypoglycemia may be harmful. Even higher targets (A1C<8.5% (69 mmol/mol)) may be appropriate in individuals with very limited life expectancy ( 93 ). Of note, it needs to be underscored that severe hypoglycemia can and does occur at A1C levels between 8-10% (64-86 mmol/mol) or higher in either T1DM or T2DM. Thus, severe hypoglycemia is not just a consequence of “low or near normal” A1C values. Of concern are recent data that severe hypoglycemia occurring in T2DM individuals >60 years with elevated A1C may have greater serious adverse events and increased mortality compared to individuals with improved glycemic control and lower A1C values. Thus, attempts to improve glycemic control with insulin in T2DM individuals that have been resistant or proven challenging to strategies to lower glucose levels may be at greater risk for severe hypoglycemia and associated serious adverse events ( 18 , 26 , 29 , 30 ). Structured Patient Education The core approach, applicable to virtually all patients with diabetes treated with a sulfonylurea, a glinide, or insulin in whom hypoglycemia becomes a problem, is thorough, structured patient education (often re- education) that teaches the patient how and when their drugs can cause hypoglycemia, how to adjust their medications, meal plans, and exercise to optimize glycemic control and minimize hypoglycemia, and how to recognize and treat hypoglycemia ( 6 ). Based conceptually on earlier inpatient education programs ( 98 ), there
