Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


and exercise to optimize glycemic control and minimize hypoglycemia, and how to recognize and treat hypoglycemia ( 6 ). Based conceptually on earlier inpatient education programs ( 98 ), there is increasing evidence that outpatient structured education programs decrease hypoglycemia, often with a decrease in A1C ( 99 – 103 ). For example, a structured patient education program in flexible insulin therapy led to a reduction of impaired awareness of hypoglycemia (45% of those with impaired awareness initially were aware at one year) and a reduction in severe hypoglycemia (from 1.9 to 0.6 episodes per patient-year and a small but significant decrease in A1C in patients with type 1 diabetes ( 101 ). Patient education needs to cover a broad range of information and skill training and often include a motivational element ( 6 ). Short-Term Scrupulous Avoidance of Hypoglycemia In patients with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia structured patient education should be combined with 2- to 3-weeks of scrupulous avoidance of hypoglycemia – which may require acceptance of somewhat higher glycemic goals in the short-term – since that can be expected to restore awareness of hypoglycemia in most affected patients ( 54 – 57 ). In summary, people with diabetes treated with a sulfonylurea, a glinide, or insulin should be educated about hypoglycemia, should treat SMPG (or CGM) glucose levels <70 mg/dL (<3.9 mmol/L) to avoid progression to clinical iatrogenic hypoglycemia, and should regularly be queried about hypoglycemia, including the SMPG (or CGM) level at which symptoms develop ( 6 ). TREATMENT OF HYPOGLYCEMIA IN DIABETES Most episodes of asymptomatic hypoglycemia, detected by routine SMBG or CGM, or of mild- moderate symptomatic hypoglycemia are effectively self-treated by ingestion of glucose tablets or carbohydrate containing juice, soft drinks, candy, other snacks, or a meal ( 1 , 104 ). A reasonable dose is 20 g of carbohydrate ( 104 ). The dose can be repeated in 15 to 20 minutes, if necessary. Since the glycemic response to oral glucose is transient – roughly two hours in the setting of ongoing hyperinsulinemia ( 104 ) – the ingestion of a more substantial snack or meal shortly after the plasma glucose level is raised is generally advisable. When a hypoglycemic patient is unwilling (because of neuroglycopenia) or unable to take carbohydrate orally, parenteral therapy is required. That is often glucagon injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly by an associate of the patient who has been
