Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, glucose, type, type diabetes, glycemic, risk, severe, patients, care, control, free, free article


(because of neuroglycopenia) or unable to take carbohydrate orally, parenteral therapy is required. That is often glucagon injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly by an associate of the patient who has been trained to recognize and treat severe hypoglycemia. The usual glucagon dose is 1.0 mg; that can be life-saving although it causes substantial, albeit transient, hyperglycemia ( 104 ) and can cause nausea, and even vomiting. Smaller doses (e.g., 150 mcg), repeated, if necessary, have been found to be effective without side effects in adolescents ( 105 ). Recent advances include 1) approval of nasal glucagon and of a device to deliver glucagon intranasally ( 106 ), that would obviate the need for parenteral injection and 2) a glucagon that is stable in solution ( 107 ), that would obviate the need to reconstitute the drug prior to administration. Because it also stimulates insulin secretion, glucagon might be less effective in patients with early T2DM. In a medical setting intravenous glucose, 25 g initially, is the standard parenteral therapy ( 1 ). The glycemic response to intravenous glucose is, of course, transient. A subsequent glucose infusion is generally needed, and food should be provided as soon as the patient is able to ingest it safely. The duration of a hypoglycemic episode is a function of its cause. While that caused by a short-acting insulin secretagogue or a rapid-acting insulin can be measured in hours, that caused by a long-acting insulin secretagogue or insulin can last for days requiring hospitalization for prolonged therapy. The duration of secretagogue-induced hypoglycemia can be shortened by administration of octreotide ( 108 , 109 ). In the UK, the Joint British Diabetes Societies for Inpatient Care have produced guidance on the management of hypoglycemia for hospital inpatients, although these can be used in the community setting as necessary ( 110 ). ACKNOWLEDGMENTS AND DISCLOSURES Hugh A. Davis has no disclosures to report. Elias K. Spanakis has received research support (CGM supplies) from DEXCOM (San Diego, CA) for the conduction of inpatient CGM clinical studies. Maka Siamashvili has no disclosures to report. Stephen N. Davis- This work has received support from the NIH, NHLBI, NIDDK, JDRF and VA. REFERENCES 1. Cryer PE. The barrier of hypoglycemia in diabetes. Vol. 57, Diabetes. 2008. [ PMC free article : PMC2584119 ] [ PubMed : 19033403 ] 2. Cryer PE. The Prevention and Correction of Hypoglycemia. In: Comprehensive Physiology. 2001. 3.
