Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection during Pregnancy Sarahn M. Wheeler, Sarah Dotters-Katz, R. Phillip Heine, Chad A. Grotegut, Geeta K. Swamy Given the illness and deaths caused by respiratory syncy- (4). Consequently, the Centers for Disease Control and Pre- tial virus (RSV) infection during the first year of life, pre- vention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practice venting infant RSV infections through maternal vaccination recommends vaccination with inactivated influenza virus is intriguing. However, little is known about the extent and for all women who will be pregnant or postpartum during maternal effects of RSV infection during pregnancy. We de- influenza season. However, little has been documented on scribe 3 cases of maternal RSV infection diagnosed at a the incidence and effects of maternal RSV infection on US center during winter 2014. Case-patient 1 (26 years old, mother or infant. Only recently was RSV recognized as a week 33 of gestation) received a diagnosis of RSV infec- key pathogen in respiratory infections afflicting elderly and tion and required mechanical ventilation. Case-patient 2 (27 immunocompromised adults; the estimated disease inci- years old, week 34 of gestation) received a diagnosis of in- fection with influenza A(H1N1) virus and RSV and required dence was similar to that of nonpandemic influenza (1). It mechanical ventilation. Case-patient 3 (21 years old, week is likely that RSV is an important, yet unrecognized, patho- 32 of gestation) received a diagnosis of group A streptococ- gen in pregnancy. We describe 3 cases of antepartum RSV cus pharyngitis and RSV infection and was monitored as an infection treated at a single tertiary care facility from Janu- outpatient. Clarifying the effects of maternal RSV infection ary to March of 2014. These cases highlight the variability tal benefits of an effective RSV vaccination program. rent lack of effective therapy for maternal RSV infection. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of Case-Patients serious, potentially fatal, respiratory infection in in- fants, but no preventive vaccine is available. In addition to Case-Patient 1 ongoing research and development of an RSV vaccine for The first case occurred in a 26-year-old primagravida at infants and children, the strategy of maternal vaccination, week 33 of gestation who initially sought care at an ur- leading to passive transplancental transfer of anti-RSV an- gent care facility for a 5-day history of malaise, cough, and tibodies, has been proposed. A recent animal study demon- wheezing. She reported recent exposure to a
