Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


of anti-RSV an- gent care facility for a 5-day history of malaise, cough, and tibodies, has been proposed. A recent animal study demon- wheezing. She reported recent exposure to a young child strated passive transfer of RSV antibodies that controlled with an upper respiratory infection. Her medical history was RSV pulmonary virus load in the offspring after maternal notable for asthma, hypothyroidism, and gastresophageal vaccination with a formalin-inactivated RSV vaccine (1). reflux. Her social history was remarkable for smoking half Although active research that examines an RSV vaccine of a pack of cigarettes per day and using marijuana daily. in pregnancy is underway (2,3), the potential for maternal She had declined influenza vaccination during pregnancy. benefit that may be derived from such a vaccination pro- The patient received a diagnosis of bronchitis and was gram is unexplored. treated with a β-agonist inhaler and amoxicillin. The next Because of physiologic changes in cardiorespiratory day she went to her local hospital when her symptoms wors- function and obligatory immunologic alterations to allow ened with new-onset fever. A chest radiograph showed no for fetal tolerance, pregnant women are vulnerable to vi- notable findings, and oxygen saturation was 94% on room ral infections, such as influenza. In addition to maternal air. With a diagnosis of worsening acute bronchitis, she complications, and death, maternal influenza infection is Over the next few days, an oxygen requirement developed, associated with increased incidence of spontaneous abor- and bilateral opacities were shown on chest x-ray, which tion, fetal death, preterm birth, and low-birthweight infants evoked concern for possible acute respiratory distress syn- drome. Azithromycin, vancomycin, and oseltamivir were empirically added to her treatment regimen, and imaging North Carolina, USA demonstrated no evidence of pulmonary embolism. Al- DOI: though she received broad-spectrum antibiotic drugs, her Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 21, No. 11, November 2015 1951 SYNOPSIS condition continued to deteriorate, and she required 100% Case-Patient 2 fraction of inspired oxygen on a nonrebreather mask. She The second case-patient was a 27-year-old gravida 2, para was therefore intubated and transferred to a tertiary care 0, at week 34 and day 4 of gestation who sought treatment On arrival at our institution, the patient was taken to pregnancy was complicated by fetal hydrocephalus consis- the medical intensive care unit (ICU) where she remained tent with aqueductal stenosis, which was diagnosed dur- intubated on assist control with 100% fraction of
