Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


complicated by fetal hydrocephalus consis- the medical intensive care unit (ICU) where she remained tent with aqueductal stenosis, which was diagnosed dur- intubated on assist control with 100% fraction of inspired ing the second trimester and was therefore unrelated to her oxygen, positive end–expiratory pressure of 16 cm HO, pulmonary complications. Her fetus was noted to be in the and inspiratory pressure of 16 cm HO. She continued to breech presentation. Her prior obstetric history was notable receive the previously prescribed antibiotic regimen, and a for a spontaneous abortion at 8 weeks, and her medical his- bronchoscopy was performed with collection of bronchial tory was notable for childhood asthma and smoking one washings. The washings were analyzed by using the eSen- half to 1 pack of cigarettes per day before pregnancy. She sor Respiratory Panel (GenMarkDx, Carlsbad, CA, USA), received an influenza vaccine during pregnancy. a multiplex, reverse transcription nucleic acid amplification Five days before seeking treatment at our institution, test designed to detect influenza viruses A and B, RSV, and she was seen in a local emergency room for worsening rhinovirus. PCR of respiratory specimens showed positive cough and dyspnea; a rapid influenza test was negative, and results for RSV. Additional tests for acid-fast bacilli, Le- she was treated with a 5-day course of prednisone and al- gionella spp., Streptococcus pneumoniae, Pneumocystis buterol for exacerbation of asthma. Three days later, fever spp., and parainfluenza virus were all negative. All anti- developed, and her cough was productive for green spu- biotic drugs were discontinued at this time. Ribavarin was tum; at that time she was given azithromycin. When she considered but was not administered because it is likely to was admitted to our institution after no improvement in be most effective when started early in the disease course, her illness, leukocyte count was 21 × 109 cells/L (normal and its potential benefit in adults with RSV infection ap- range 5.9–16.3 × 109 cells/L) and chest radiograph showed pears to be limited to immunocompromised adults (5–8). a nonspecific opacity in the right middle lobe, which The patient’s respiratory status improved with sup- evoked concern for pneumonia. A nasopharyngeal aspirate portive therapy, and she was extubated on HD5. However, was sent to be tested by viral respiratory PCR panel (eS- stridor and oxygen desaturation later developed, which re- ensor; GenMarkDx). The panel was positive for influenza quired re-intubation. On HD6, a fever
