Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


be tested by viral respiratory PCR panel (eS- stridor and oxygen desaturation later developed, which re- ensor; GenMarkDx). The panel was positive for influenza quired re-intubation. On HD6, a fever developed, and she A(H1N1) virus and RSV. The patient was given ceftriax- was started on a course of vancomycin and piperacillin- one, vancomycin, azithromycin, and oseltamavir because tazobactam for presumed hospital-acquired pneumonia. of concern for secondary bacterial infection. Her oxygen Blood cultures were negative, and her respiratory status re- saturation was stable (91%–94% on room air). On the after- mained stable while she was intubated. Because her respi- noon of HD2, her membranes ruptured. Because of her pul- ratory status did not improve enough to permit extubation, monary status, the decision was made to defer delivery be- the decision was made to proceed with cesarean delivery cause there were no signs of active labor. On HD3 at week to potentially accelerate her recovery by decreasing over- 34 and day 5 of gestation, she reported contractions, and all cardiorespiratory demand. On HD8, at 34 weeks and 1 cervical dilation was noted. Given the fetal hydrocephalus day of gestation, the patient remained intubated and was (biparietal diameter 11.6 cm) and breech presentation, she transferred to the operating room, where she underwent an underwent a classical cesarean delivery of a female infant uncomplicated cesarean delivery of a male infant weigh- weighing 3,640 g and with 1- and 5-minute Apgar scores of ing 2,007 g and with 1- and 5-minute Apgar scores of 5 3 and 7, respectively. and 7, respectively. The infant required blow-by oxygen at During the cesarean closure, the patient required in- birth and was admitted to the neonatal ICU. He was quickly tubation and conversion to general anesthesia owing to the infant was infected with RSV, and therefore no virus mained intubated and was transported to the surgical ICU testing was done. The infant was discharged to his home on after delivery. She was extubated without difficulty within day of life 8 without complication. an hour of ICU admission and transferred to the postpartum Two days after delivery, the patient’s respiratory sta- unit 12 hours after delivery. While recovering in the post- tus improved and she was extubated. She received oxygen partum unit, she had an episode of pulmonary edema that by nasal cannula and was transferred to the medicine floor. was successfully treated with furosemide. The remainder Antibiotic drugs
