Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


oxygen partum unit, she had an episode of pulmonary edema that by nasal cannula and was transferred to the medicine floor. was successfully treated with furosemide. The remainder Antibiotic drugs were discontinued, and she was given of her postpartum course was uncomplicated, and she com- daily beclomethasone and albuterol, which substantially pleted a regimen of 10 days of azithromycin and 5 days of improved wheezing. She was discharged on HD14 with oseltamivir. She was discharged to her home on HD10 with normal oxygen saturation levels on room air. percentages of oxygen saturation in the mid-90s on room 1952 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 21, No. 11, November 2015 RSV Infection during Pregnancy air. The infant did well from a respiratory standpoint and most compelling evidence to suggest that RSV might be was discharged on day of life 20 after an uncomplicated more virulent during pregnancy is that infections with many shunt placement due to hydrocephalus; to date, the infant viruses (e.g., varicella-zoster, hepatitis, and most notably, in- is doing well. fluenza) are known to have a more severe course in pregnant women (10–12). The prevalence of influenza in pregnancy is Case-Patient 3 similar to that in the general population, yet influenza carries The third case-patient was a 21-year-old primagravida who a 5-fold increased risk of death in pregnant women (13). The sought treatment at our outpatient clinic at week 32 of ges- pathophysiology underlying the increased risk for illness and tation with a 3-day history of sore throat, congestion, and death caused by influenza during pregnancy remains poorly fever. Her medical history was complicated by mild aortic understood. The immunologic changes that allow a geneti- coarctation and a cognitive delay. She had no history of cally distinct fetus to inhabit a mother with a functioning asthma or smoking and had been vaccinated against influ- immune system likely contribute greatly to the increased ill- enza during pregnancy. At her initial visit, she was afebrile ness and death caused by influenza in pregnancy. Cytotoxic with stable vital signs and was therefore discharged to her adaptive immunity, which is involved in defense against vi- home with empiric oseltamivir. A throat culture specimen rus infection, is diminished during pregnancy, whereas the was positive for group A streptococcus, and a nasopharyn- regulatory adaptive immune system, the basis for immune geal aspirate (eSensor; GenMarkDx) was positive for RSV memory and vaccine immunology, is heightened
