Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


positive for group A streptococcus, and a nasopharyn- regulatory adaptive immune system, the basis for immune geal aspirate (eSensor; GenMarkDx) was positive for RSV memory and vaccine immunology, is heightened (14–17). by viral PCR. The patient was treated with penicillin (500 Despite the potential for devastating consequences, mg, twice a day, for 10 days) for the group A streptococcus RSV infection in pregnant women has likely been unrecog- infection without any further complications. At 39 weeks nized, as this infection once was in the elderly population. of gestation, she underwent an uncomplicated primary Falsey et al. (1) reported RSV infection in 4% to 10% of cesarean delivery of a 2,855-g female infant with Apgar high risk adults annually, among whom >85% were symp- scores of 9 at 1 and 5 minutes. The infant was admitted to tomatic, 16%% required hospitalization, and 4% died. They the newborn nursery and discharged home with the mother also estimated that the disease prevalence of RSV infection on postoperative day 4. in immunocompromised and elderly adults is similar to that of nonpandemic influenza (1). Discussion A major barrier to the effective diagnosis of RSV is The 3 case-patients described highlight the underrecog- the inability to make the diagnosis solely on the basis of neonatal outcomes. It is well documented that despite near- caused by adenovirus, rhinovirus, parainfluenza virus, or ly universal exposure to the virus by age 2, previous RSV influenza virus. The reference standard for diagnosis (i.e., infection does not confer long-term immunity; reinfection isolation of the virus in cell culture and identification of has even been documented within the same season (9). For plaque morphologic features with syncytium formation) is most immunocompetent adults these reinfections are mild- time consuming and expensive. More recently, PCR-based er than the original infection and produce a cold-like illness testing has become more available and allows for a more that is self-limited. However, RSV infection–related com- rapid and specific diagnosis. Laboratory testing has only plications and sequelae may be more serious in the setting recently been adopted in academic hospital centers and is of pregnancy. The patients in our study with the first and still underused in the community setting. Although RSV second cases required ICU level care and intubation, which subtype A typically causes more severe disease than RSV suggests that maternal RSV infection can lead to clinically subtype B (18), the PCR-based test used in our
