Maternal Effects of
KEYWORDS: rsv, infection, pregnancy, virus, respiratory, influenza, maternal, rsv infection, vaccine, day, infant, disease, syncytial, oxygen, case-patient


and intubation, which subtype A typically causes more severe disease than RSV suggests that maternal RSV infection can lead to clinically subtype B (18), the PCR-based test used in our institution severe maternal disease. Although the infection in the third does not allow for RSV subtyping. As was evident from the case-patient was self-limited, and she was treated as an out- cases presented, co-infection with other viruses or bacteria patient, it indicates that maternal RSV may be a critical fac- can also add to diagnostic challenges and severity of clini- lost work time, and possible inappropriate administration Although the cases presented occurred at a single in- of antibiotic drugs. stitution during a single RSV season, no overall increase Notably, all 3 cases were complicated by preexisting in RSV incidence or severity occurred among the general lung conditions, such as asthma in case-patient 1, or a co- population of children and adults that would explain an in- existing infection, such as influenza A(H1N1) in case-patient crease in incidence among the pregnant population. With 2 and group A streptococcus in case-patient 3. Although the the increased availability of viral PCR panels that detect severity of these cases may have been influenced by these RSV, we suspect that we are now recognizing an infection concomitant conditions, many virus infections are known to that has long been present. Once RSV infection is sus- have a more severe course during pregnancy. Perhaps the pected and diagnosed in pregnancy, treatment is also more Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 21, No. 11, November 2015 1953 SYNOPSIS complicated. Although the cornerstone of RSV treatment 2. Munoz FM. Respiratory syncytial virus in infants: is maternal is supportive therapy, disease management can include vaccination a realistic strategy. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2015;28: 221–4. administration of ribavirin, a nucleoside analog that has 3. Munoz FM, Piedra PA, Glezen WP. Safety and immunogenicity of been shown to improve outcomes in severely immunocom- respiratory syncytial virus purified fusion protein-2 vaccine in promised RSV-infected adults (19). However, ribavirin pregnant women. Vaccine. 2003;21:3465–7. is contraindicated in pregnancy because of its teratogenic 4. Beigi RH. Prevention and management of influenza in pregnancy. effects, which have been documented in multiple animal Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2014;41:535–46. studies up to 7 months after cessation of treatment (20), but rin Pregnancy Registry reported 6 cases of birth defects in syncytial virus infection in adult BMT recipients:
