Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


hormones, alpha polypeptide) is common to TSH, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and chorionic gonadotropin (CG). The beta subunit confers specificity to the molecule since it interacts with the TSH receptor (TSH-R) expressed on the basolateral membrane of thyroid follicular cells, and is rate-limiting in the formation of the mature heterodimeric protein. However, the free beta subunit is inactive and requires noncovalent combination with the alpha subunit to express hormonal bioactivity. The linear sequence of the human alpha subunit consists of 92 amino acids including 10 cystine residues that form a total 5 bonds through disulfide linkage. The human TSH beta (hTSH beta) subunit contains 118 amino-acids, as predicted by complementary DNA sequences, but hTSH beta isolated from the pituitary gland has an apoprotein core of 112 amino-acids, due to carboxyl-terminal truncation during purification. The production rate (PR) of human TSH is normally between 50 and 200 mU/day and increases markedly (up to >4000 mU/day) in primary hypothyroidism; the metabolic clearance rate (MCR) of the hormone is about 25 ml/min/m 2 in euthyroidism, while significantly higher in hyperthyroidism and lower in hypothyroidism ( 3 ). The PR of free alpha subunit is about 100 µg/day, increases increase approximately two-fold in primary hypothyroidism and in post-menopausal women, and decreases (about to one half) in hyperthyroidism ( 4 ). The PR of free TSH beta subunit is too low to be calculated in all hyperthyroid and in most euthyroid subjects, while is 25-30 ug/day in primary hypothyroidism ( 4 ). The MCR of the free subunits is 2-3 times faster than that of TSH, being about 68 ml/min/m 2 for alpha and 48 ml/min/m 2 for the beta subunit ( 4 ). The half-life of circulating TSH ranges from 50 to 80 minutes ( 4 ). The gene coding for the alpha subunit ( CGA ) is located on chromosome 6 and the thyroid stimulating hormone subunit beta ( TSHB) gene on chromosome 1 ( 5 ). The structure of CGA gene has been determined in several animal species ( 6 , 7 ). The genes of each species are approximately of the same size and similarly organized in four exons and three introns. The human gene is 9.4 kilobases (kb) in length, with three introns measuring 6.4 kb, 1.7 kb and 0.4 kb, respectively. The TSHB gene has been isolated in mouse ( 7 ), rat ( 8 ), and
