Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


in length, with three introns measuring 6.4 kb, 1.7 kb and 0.4 kb, respectively. The TSHB gene has been isolated in mouse ( 7 ), rat ( 8 ), and humans ( 9 , 10 ), among other species. In contrast to the CGA gene, the organization of the TSHB gene is somewhat variable between the different species. The rat and the human genes are organized in three exons, while the mouse gene contains two additional 5'-untranslated exons. The first exon is untranslated, the leader peptide and the first 34 amino-acids are encoded by the second exon, while the third exon represents the remaining coding region and 3'-untranslated sequences. A single transcription start has been identified in the hTSHB gene, while the rat and the mouse genes contain two starting sites separated by approximately 40 base pairs (bp); transcription begins predominantly from the downstream site, which corresponds to the location of the human transcriptional start. A schematic representation of the TSHB gene is shown in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Thyrotropin β (TSHB) gene structure. Some mutations of the gene found in patients with congenital central hypothyroidism are also depicted (modified from McDermott et al. ( 11 ) and Baquedano et al. ( 12 )). The pre-translational regulation of TSH synthesis and secretion is a complex process, detailed in the next paragraphs. The formation of mature TSH involves several post-translational steps including the excision of signal peptides from both subunits and co-translational glycosylation with high mannose oligosaccharides ( 13 , 14 ). As the glycoproteins are successively transferred from the rough endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus, the trimming of mannose and further addition of fucose, galactose and sialic acid occurs ( 15 ). The alpha subunit has two and the beta subunit has one asparagine (N)-linked oligosaccharide(s) showing a typical biantennary structure fully sulfated in bovine and half-sulfated in human TSH ( 2 ). The primary intracellular role of these glycosylation events may be to allow proper folding of the alpha and beta subunits permitting their heterodimerization and also preventing intracellular degradation ( 16 , 15 ). On the basis of crystallographic studies on hCG and other glycoprotein hormones, a homology model of the tridimensional structure of TSH has been proposed ( 17 ). This model ( Fig. 2 ) predicts for both the alpha and the beta subunit the presence of two beta-hairpin loops (L1 and L3) on
