Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


been proposed ( 17 ). This model ( Fig. 2 ) predicts for both the alpha and the beta subunit the presence of two beta-hairpin loops (L1 and L3) on one side of a central "cystine knot" (pair of cysteine molecules) formed by three disulfide bonds, and a long loop (L2) on the other side. Both alpha and beta chains have functionally important domains involved in TSH-R binding and activation ( Fig. 2 ) ( 18 ). Of particular relevance is the so-called “seat belt” region of the beta chain comprised between the 10th (C86) and the 12th (C105) cysteine residue ( Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 ). The name “seat belt” derives from the conformational structure of the beta chain determined by the disulfide bridge (C39/C125) toward the C-terminal tail of the beta subunit that wraps the alpha subunit like a “seat belt” ( Fig. 3 ), and stabilizes the heterodimerization of TSH ( 2 , 18 ). Figure 2. Schematic drawing of human TSH, based on a molecular homology model built on the template of a hCG model ( 17 ). The α-subunit is shown as checkered, and the β-subunit as a solid line. The two hairpin loops in each subunit are marked L1, L3; each subunit has also a long loop (L2), which extends from the opposite site of the central cystine knot. The functionally important α-subunit domains are boxed. Important domains of the β-subunit are marked directly within the line drawing (crossed line, beaded line and dashed line). Reproduced from Grossmann et al. ( 2 ) with permission, where further details can be found. Figure 3. Structural model of TSH based on the FSH x-ray structure, which is the best available structural template for TSH. The boxed residue numbers represent cysteines residues, which form stabilizing disulfide bridges (yellow): 5 in α-subunit (red orange), and 6 in the β-subunit (magenta). The disulfide bridge (C39/C125) toward the C-terminal tail of the α-subunit of TSH that wraps around the β-subunit like a “seat belt” stabilizes the heterodimerization of TSH as well as that of FSH, LH, and HCG. (Reproduced from Kleinau et al. ( 18 ) with permission) Proper TSH glycosylation is also necessary to attain normal bioactivity ( 19 ), a process which requires the interaction of the neuropeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) ( Fig. 4 ) , with its receptor on thyrotroph cells ( 20 - 22 ).
