Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


19 ), a process which requires the interaction of the neuropeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) ( Fig. 4 ) , with its receptor on thyrotroph cells ( 20 - 22 ). The requirement for TRH in this process is illustrated by the fact that in patients with central hypothyroidism due to hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction, normal or even slightly elevated levels of TSH are detected by radioimmunoassay, but biologically subpotent forms are found in the circulation together with reduced levels of free T4 ( 23 - 25 ). Chronic TRH administration to such patients normalizes the glycosylation process enhancing both its TSH-R binding affinity as well as its capacity to activate adenyl cyclase. This, in turn, can normalize thyroid function in such patients ( 26 ). On the other hand, enhanced TSH bioactivity is invariably found in sera from patients with thyroid hormone resistance ( 27 ). Moreover, variations of TSH bioactivity (mostly related to different TSH glycosylation) have been observed in normal subjects during the nocturnal TSH surge, in normal fetuses during the last trimester of pregnancy, in primary hypothyroidism, in patients with TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas, and in non-thyroidal illnesses ( 27 , 28 ). Glycosylation of the molecule can also influence the rapidity of clearance of TSH from the circulation. Taken together, these findings have led to a new concept of a qualitative regulation of TSH secretion, mainly achieved through both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms involving not only TSH glycosylation ( 29 ), but also thyrocyte physiology and thyroid disorders ( 30 ). Figure 4. Structure of TRH Specific amino-acid sequences in the common alpha and beta subunits are critical for the heterodimerization, secretion and bioactivity of mature TSH. These sequences include highly conserved segments which are essential for TSH-R binding and biological activity (see Refs ( 2 , 18 ) for an extensive review). The peptide sequence 27 CAGYC 31 (cysteine-alanine-glycine-tyrosine-cysteine) is highly conserved in the beta subunit of TSH, LH, hCG, as well as FSH, and is thought to be important in heterodimerization with the alpha subunit ( 31 , 32 ). Several inherited TSHB gene mutations are responsible for isolated familial central hypothyroidism and are listed in Table 1 and depicted in Fig. 1 . The most frequent mutation is a homozygous single-base deletion in codon 105 that results in a substitution of cysteine 105 by valine and an additional 8 amino acid nonhomologous peptide extension on
