Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


46 ). These drugs may possess agonist or antagonist properties. Indeed, a non peptidic antagonist, therefore devoid of intrinsic immunogenicity, might be very useful in the treatment of Graves’ disease and other forms of hyperthyroidism, such as TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas, Graves’ orbitopathy, and activating mutations of the TSH receptor ( 47 , 48 ). Other Thyrotropic Hormones A second thyrotropic hormone formed by a heterodimer of two distinct glycoprotein subunits (glycoprotein hormone alpha 2-subunit - GPA2 and glycoprotein hormone beta 5-subunit - GPB5) has been identified in the human pituitary and called thyrostimulin ( 49 - 53 ). Thyrostimulin has a sequence similarity of 29% with the alpha and 43% with the beta subunit and is able to activate the TSH-R ( 54 , 18 ). Although it has been hypothesized that it could account for the residual stimulation of thyroid gland observed in patients with central hypothyroidism ( 55 ), its physiological role is still unknown. The GPA2/GPB5 heterodimer is localized in extrapituitary tissues such as the eye, testis, bone, and ovary ( 54 , 56 , 57 ), while the anterior pituitary expresses almost exclusively GPA2 ( 54 ). In the rat ovary, thyrostimulin activates the TSH-R expressed in granulosa cells suggesting a potential paracrine activity ( 56 ). Regulation of TSH Synthesis and Secretion The major regulators of TSH production are represented by the inhibitory effects of thyroid hormone ( 58 ) and by the stimulatory action of TRH. As shown in Fig. 5 , T3 acts via binding to the nuclear thyroid hormone receptor β2 isoform present in thyrotrophs, and T4 mainly acts via its intra-pituitary or intra-hypothalamic conversion to T3, although a direct negative effect of T4 independent from local T3 generation on TSHB gene expression has been documented ( 59 ). Both thyroid hormones directly regulate the synthesis and release of TSH at the pituitary level and indirectly affect TSH synthesis via their effects on TRH and other neuropeptides. TRH is the major positive regulator of hTSHB gene expression and mainly acts by activating the phosphatidylinositol-protein kinase C pathway. Other hormones/factors are also implicated in the complex regulation of TSHB gene expression, as detailed below. Figure 5. Basic elements in the regulation of thyroid function. TRH is a necessary tonic stimulus to TSH synthesis and release. TRH synthesis is regulated directly by thyroid hormones. T4 is the predominant secretory product of the thyroid gland,
