Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


function. TRH is a necessary tonic stimulus to TSH synthesis and release. TRH synthesis is regulated directly by thyroid hormones. T4 is the predominant secretory product of the thyroid gland, with peripheral deiodination of T4 to T3 in the liver and kidney supplying roughly 80% of the circulating T3. Both circulating T3 and T4 directly inhibit TSH synthesis and release independently, T4 after conversion to T3. SRIH, somatostatin. EFFECTS OF THYROID HORMONE ON TSH SYNTHESIS In animal models, thyroid hormone administration is followed by a marked decrease of both alpha and TSHB subunit mRNA expression ( 60 , 61 ), but TSHB is suppressed more rapidly and more completely than the alpha subunit. In humans with primary hypothyroidism a paradoxical increase of serum TSH concentration has been observed shortly after beginning thyroid hormone replacement therapy, followed later by TSH suppression ( 62 ). The precise mechanism for this phenomenon has not been fully elucidated: it could be due to a generalized defect in protein synthesis as a consequence of hypothyroidism, or to the presence of a still unrecognized stimulatory thyroid hormone cis-acting element (see below). Thyroid hormone regulation of TSHB subunit transcription is complex and, at least in the rat and mouse, involves control of gene transcription at both start sites of the gene ( Fig. 6 ) ( 62 - 69 ). Studies of the human, rat and mouse TSHB genes have demonstrated that they contain DNA hexamer half sites with strong similarity to the T3 response elements (TREs) found in genes which are positively regulated by thyroid hormone ( 70 - 72 ). The sequences in the TSHB gene are shown in Fig. 6 and their similarity to the typical hexamer binding sites in positively regulated genes and in the rat CGA gene is demonstrated by comparison to the TRE sequences from positively regulated genes ( 73 ). In keeping with this concept, T3 exerts similar negative activity on rat GH3 cells transfected with plasmids constructs containing the putative negative TRE of the rat TSHB gene or containing a half-site motif of the consensus positive TRE ( 74 , 75 , 73 , 69 , 76 ). The conserved TRE-like sequences are the best candidate sites in the TSHB gene to which the T3 receptor (TR) binds. The subsequent binding of T3 to TR-DNA complexes suppresses transcription of both the CGA and TSHB genes ( 77 , 66
