Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


TSHB gene to which the T3 receptor (TR) binds. The subsequent binding of T3 to TR-DNA complexes suppresses transcription of both the CGA and TSHB genes ( 77 , 66 , 73 , 69 ). The inhibitory effect of thyroid hormone is observed with all alpha and beta isoforms of TR, but TR-beta2 (a TR isoform with pituitary and central nervous system-restricted expression) is affected most substantially ( 78 ). This in vitro observation is in keeping with a series of in vivo data obtained in transgenic and knockout mice with generalized or pituitary-selective expression of mutated TR isoform genes. Knockout mice for TR-alpha 1 develop only minor abnormalities in circulating T4 and TSH concentration ( 79 ), while mice lacking both beta1 and beta2 isoforms (beta-null) develop increased serum T4 and TSH level, but retain partial TSH suppression by T3 administration ( 80 , 81 ). Mice selectively lacking the TR-beta2 isoform develop hormonal abnormalities similar to TR-beta-null animals, indicating a key role of TR-beta2 as a mediator of T3-dependent negative regulation ( 82 ). On the other hand, the residual T3-dependent TSH suppression observed in mice lacking TR-beta isoforms suggests that TR-alpha 1 may partially substitute for TR-beta in mediating T3 suppression: accordingly, mice lacking all (alpha and beta) TR isoforms develop dramatic increases in circulating T4 and TSH concentration, indicating that a complete expression of all TR isoforms is required for normal regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary thyroid axis ( 83 - 85 ). Further studies have been carried out with models of mice expressing selectively at the pituitary ( 83 , 86 ) and hypothalamic ( 87 ) level different combinations of double homozygous or combined heterozygous deletions of both TR-alpha and TR-beta genes. These studies confirmed the key role of TR-beta integrity both at the pituitary and hypothalamic level for the inhibition of TSHB and TRH gene expression. TR-alpha however, may partially substitute for TR-beta in mediating a partial thyroid hormone dependent TSH suppression. Figure 6. DNA sequences of the putative TREs in the rat, mouse, and human TSHB gene promoters. A comparison of the proximal promoter regions of the rat, mouse, and human TSHB genes is shown. The straight arrows denote TRE consensus half-sites identified by functional and TR binding assays. The first exons (relative to the downstream promoter for the rat and mouse genes) are shaded, and the bent arrows denote the sites of
