Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


by functional and TR binding assays. The first exons (relative to the downstream promoter for the rat and mouse genes) are shaded, and the bent arrows denote the sites of transcription initiation. Note a nine-nucleotide deletion in the human gene relative to the rodent genes indicated by the triangle just 5' of the transcriptional start site. (Reproduced from Chin et al. ( 69 ) with permission.) The negative transcription conferred by TSH beta TRE sequences is retained even if they are transferred to a different gene or placed in a different position within a heterologous gene ( 88 , 89 , 73 , 90 ). This suggests that the negative transcriptional response to thyroid hormone is intrinsic to this TRE structure. In contrast with positive TREs, little is known about the mechanism of T3-dependent negative regulation of genes like TSHB . The data discussed above clearly show the crucial role of the TR-beta in the negative regulation of TSH synthesis. Like for positive TREs, it has been recently established that TR binding to DNA is required for negative gene regulation ( 91 ). Early experiments suggested that unliganded TR homodimers stimulate the expression of TSH beta (an effect that is a mirror image of the silencing effect on positive TREs), but the methodology employed was not adequate to study the low level of basal TSHB transcriptional activity. The use of CV1 cell lines containing the TSH beta CAT (chloramphenicol acetyltransferase) reporter allowed a more accurate study of the molecular mechanisms involved in the liganded TR suppression ( 92 ). In this experimental system, TSHB gene suppression was dependent on the amounts of T3 and TR, but unliganded TR did not stimulate TSH beta activity, suggesting that TR itself is not an activator. Moreover, recruiting of co-activators and co-repressors were shown to be not necessarily essential, but are required for full suppression of the TSHBa gene ( 92 ). In contrast to the potentiating activity exerted on stimulatory TREs, retinoid X receptors (RXR) either unliganded or in combination with retinoic acid (RA) block thyroid hormone-mediated inhibition of the TSHB gene, possibly through competition with the TR-T3 complex binding to DNA ( 93 , 76 , 94 , 92 ). However , RA is also able to suppress TSHB gene expression when bound to RAR and RXR interacting with response elements separate from negative TREs ( 95 , 96 ). Taken together,
