Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


RA is also able to suppress TSHB gene expression when bound to RAR and RXR interacting with response elements separate from negative TREs ( 95 , 96 ). Taken together, these findings imply that distinct mechanisms are involved in thyroid hormone dependent inhibition and stimulation of TSH synthesis ( 97 , 98 ). Indirect support for this concept derives from the identification of patients with selective pituitary thyroid hormone resistance carrying TR mutations associated with normal or enhanced function on stimulatory TREs in peripheral tissues, but defective function on inhibitory TREs of the TSHB and TRH genes ( 99 ). Another peculiar feature of the negative TSH beta TRE is that its 5' portion ( Fig. 6 ) displays high homology with the consensus sequence of binding sites for c-Jun and c-Fos, which heterodimerize to form the transcription factor called AP-1. This makes the negative TSH beta TRE a "composite element" able to bind both thyroid hormone receptors and AP-1 ( 100 , 101 , 90 , 99 ). Since AP-1 antagonizes the inhibition exerted by thyroid hormone in vitro , it may act as a modulator of TRH-dependent regulation of the TSHB gene in vivo ( 90 ). The role of other important TSHB gene activity modulators (such as Pit-1 and its splice variants) will be discussed later. Other abnormalities of the mechanisms involved in the negative feed-back on TSH by thyroid hormones could be involved in rare pathological conditions of difficult identification and diagnosis. Since unliganded TR does not behave as an activator of the TSHB gene, other mechanisms are involved in the increase in TSH production observed in hypothyroidism. In the hypothyroid rat TSH production is increased 15 to 20-fold over that in the euthyroid state. This can be attributed to the stimulatory effects of TRH (see below) unopposed by the negative effects of T3; moreover, besides the transcription rate per cell, there is a 3 to 4 fold increase in the absolute number of thyrotrophs in the hypothyroid pituitary ( 102 ). Electron microscopic studies have shown near total depletion of secretory granules in the thyrotrophs of hypothyroid animals, a change that is reversed soon after administration of thyroid hormone ( 103 ). THYROID HORMONE EFFECTS ON RELEASE OF TSH The acute administration of T3 to the hypothyroid rat causes a rapid and marked decrease in the level of serum TSH ( 58 , 104 )
