Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


ON RELEASE OF TSH The acute administration of T3 to the hypothyroid rat causes a rapid and marked decrease in the level of serum TSH ( 58 , 104 ) ( Fig. 7 ). This decrease occurs prior to the decrease in pituitary alpha and beta-TSH mRNAs ( 104 , 61 , 105 ). During the period that circulating TSH is falling, pituitary TSH content remains unchanged or increases slightly ( 106 ). The suppression of TSH release is rapid, beginning within 15 minutes of intravenous T3 injection, but is preceded by the appearance of T3 in pituitary nuclei ( 106 ). In the experimental setting in the rat, as the bolus of injected T3 is cleared and the plasma T3 level falls, nuclear T3 decreases followed shortly by a rapid increase in plasma TSH. Both the chronological and quantitative relationships between receptor bound T3 and TSH release are preserved over this time ( 106 ). Figure 7. Time course of specific pituitary nuclear T3 binding and changes in plasma TSH in hypothyroid rats after a single intravenous injection of 70 ng T3 per 100 g of body weight. Since the maximal capacity of thyroid hormone binding in pituitary nuclear proteins is about 1 ng T3/mg DNA, the peak nuclear T3 content of 0.44 ng T3/mg corresponds to 44% saturation. The plasma level falls to about 55% of its initial basal level by 90 minutes after T3 injection demonstrating that there is both a chronological and a quantitative correlation between nuclear T3 receptor saturation and suppression of TSH release. (From Silva and Larsen ( 107 ) with permission). The mechanism for this effect of T3 is unknown. As discussed before, suppression of basal TSH release is difficult to study in vitro . Accordingly, the T3 induced blockade of TRH-induced TSH release has been used as a model for this event. This T3 effect is inhibited by blockers of either protein or mRNA synthesis ( 108 , 109 ). The effect is not specific for TRH since T3 will also block the TSH release induced by calcium ionophores, phorbol ester, or potassium ( 110 , 111 ). Furthermore, T3 will also block the TRH-induced increase in intracellular calcium which precedes TSH release ( 112 ). Thus, T3 inhibits TSH secretion regardless of what agent is used to initiate that process. T4 can cause an equally rapid suppression of TSH via its
