Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


release ( 112 ). Thus, T3 inhibits TSH secretion regardless of what agent is used to initiate that process. T4 can cause an equally rapid suppression of TSH via its intrapituitary conversion to T3 ( 104 ) ( Fig. 5 ). This T4 to T3 conversion process is catalyzed by the deiodinase type 2. An effect of T4 per se can be demonstrated if its conversion to T3 is blocked by a general deiodinase inhibitor such as iopanoic acid ( 113 , 104 ). In this case, the T4 in the cell rises to concentrations sufficient to occupy a significant number of receptor sites even though its intrinsic binding affinity for the receptor is only 1/10 compared to T3. A similar effect can be achieved by rapid displacement of T4 from its binding proteins by flavonoids ( 114 ). It seems likely, however, that under physiological circumstances the feedback effects of T4 on TSH secretion and synthesis can be accounted for by its intracellular conversion to T3. The effect of suppressive doses of T3, T4 and triiodothyroacetic acid on serum TSH has been evaluated in humans by ultrasensitive TSH assays ( 115 ). TSH suppression was shown to be a complex, biphasic, nonlinear process, with three temporally distinct phases: phase 1, a rapid TSH suppression, starting after 1 h and lasting for 10-20 h; phase 2, slower suppression, starting between 10 and 20 h and lasting for 6-8 weeks; and phase 3, with stable low TSH level (<0.01 mU/L). This pattern of thyroid hormone suppression of TSH is reproducible and independent of the basal thyroid status or the thyroid hormone analog used. Based on the analyses of the sources of nuclear T3 in the rat pituitary, one would predict that approximately half of the feedback suppression of TSH release in the euthyroid state can be attributed to the T3 derived directly from plasma; the remainder accounted for by the nuclear receptor bound T3 derived from intrapituitary T4 to T3 conversion ( 104 ). Various physiological studies in both rats and humans confirm this concept in that a decrease in either T4 or T3 leads to an increase in TSH. The effect of T4 is best illustrated in the iodine deficient rat model ( Fig. 8 ). Figure 8. Serum T3, T4, and TSH concentrations (mean ± SD) in rats receiving a low iodine diet (LID), with or without potassium iodide
