Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


TRH Synthesis TRH is synthesized as a large pre-pro-TRH protein in the hypothalamus and in several tissues, such as the brain, the beta cells of the pancreas, the C cells of the thyroid gland, the myocardium, reproductive organs including the prostate and testis, in the spinal cord, and in the anterior pituitary ( 122 , 123 , 120 , 124 - 127 ). Recent investigations employing sophisticated techniques such as fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry and gas phase sequence analysis showed that most TRH immunoreactivity found in extrahypothalamic tissues is actually accounted by TRH-immunoreactive peptides displaying different substitutions of the amino-acid histidine of authentic TRH, which could be active in autocrine/paracrine networks involving also extrapituitary TSH secretion ( 127 ). On the other hand, pituitary TSH production is dependent only on TRH synthesized in specific areas of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) ( Fig. 9 ), located at the dorsal limits of the third ventricle ( 128 ). In particular, TRH neurons are almost exclusively found in the parvicellular part of the PVN and, while TRH-synthesizing neurons are found in all parvicellular subdivisions of the PVN, hypophysiotropic TRH neurons are located exclusively in the periventricular and medial subdivisions ( Fig. 9 ). Figure 9. Distribution of TRH-synthesizing neurons in the PVN. Low power micrographs (A–C) illustrate the TRH neurons at three rostrocaudal levels of the PVN. Schematic drawings (D–F) illustrate the subdivisions of the PVN where hypophysiotropic TRH neurons are localized (gray). AP, anterior parvocellular subdivision; DP, dorsal parvocellular subdivision; LP, lateral parvocellular subdivision; MN, magnocellular part of PVN; MP, medial parvocellular subdivision, PV, periventricular parvocellular subdivision; III, third ventricle. (From Fekete & Lechan ( 128 ) with permission) Hypophysiotropic TRH neurons project their axons to the median eminence, where TRH is released and drained to the anterior pituitary through the long portal veins ( 128 ). Although paracrine and autocrine activity has been recently described for TRH secreted in the anterior pituitary ( 129 ), the physiological relevance of pituitary TRH is unknown. The human pre-pro-TRH molecule is a protein of 29 kDa containing 6 progenitor sequences for TRH ( 130 - 132 ). These six peptides consist of a Gln-His-Pro-Gly peptide preceded and followed by Lys-Arg or Arg-Arg di-peptides. The basic di-peptides are the cleavage sites for release of the tetra-peptide progenitor sequence. The glycine residue is the source of the terminal amide for the proline residue of TRH
