Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


found in hypothyroidism. In contrast to the anterior pituitary, where ablation of TR beta2 or the entire TR beta allele produces only partial TH resistance ( 80 , 81 ), the lack of TR beta is associated with a complete resistance of the modulation of TRH synthesis exerted by severe hypo- or hyperthyroidism ( 148 ). The physiological source of the T3 causing downregulation of TRH mRNA in the hypothalamus is the subject of ongoing investigations. Somewhat surprisingly, the PVN does not contain the type 2 5' iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) which is thought to be the source of at least 80% of the intracellular T3 in the central nervous system ( 104 , 149 ). However, studies with T3 containing mini-pumps implanted into thyroidectomized rats indicate that, for normalization of circulating TSH and hypothalamic pre-pro-TRH mRNA, T3 concentrations about twice normal have to be maintained in rat plasma ( 144 ). Thus, for both systems (TRH and TSH), feedback regulation requires a source of T3 in addition to that provided by the ambient levels of this hormone. While this T3 seems likely to be produced locally from T4, the main anatomical location of such a process has been identified only more recently in the specialized ependymal cells called tanycytes lining the floor and the infralateral wall of the third ventricle between the rostral and caudal poles of the median eminence and the infundibular recess ( 150 , 128 ). Tanycytes are one of the major sources of D2, with D2 mRNA expressed in the cell bodies, in the processes, and in their end feet ( 128 ). Originally believed to only serve as part of the blood-brain barrier, tanycytes have complex functions including an active role in endocrine regulation. In particular, T3 locally produced by tanycytes from circulating T4 represents the primary source of T3 involved in the feed-back regulation of hypophysiotropic neurons, unable to express D2 ( 128 ). The anatomical location of tanycytes places them in a strategic position to extract T4 from the bloodstream or from cerebrospinal fluid after T4 has traversed the choroid plexus ( Fig. 10 ). Despite their lipophilic nature, the transport of thyroid hormone into the cells require an active processes involving a long list of transporters ( 151 ). Two transporter families have been shown to be important in the transport of thyroid hormones in the brain: the monocarboxylate transporter (MCT8)( 152
