Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


long list of transporters ( 151 ). Two transporter families have been shown to be important in the transport of thyroid hormones in the brain: the monocarboxylate transporter (MCT8)( 152 ) and the organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1C1)( 153 ). Several lines of evidence support an important role of MCT8, a member of the MTC family in central nervous system thyroid hormone transport expressed primarily in neurons and in tanycytes. Data from both MCT8 KO mice and from humans with MCT8 mutations indicate that lack of functional MCT8 result in hypothyroid TRH neurons, in spite of high circulating T3 concentration, suggesting that MCT8 is necessary for physiological feed-back regulation ( 128 ). Figure 10. Schematic illustration of the feedback system regulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Thyroid hormones exert negative feedback effect at the level of hypothalamic TRH neurons and of pituitary gland. The central feedback effect of thyroid hormones depends on the circulating T4 levels. In the hypothalamus, T4 is converted to T3 by D2 in tanycytes. By volume transmission, T3 secreted from tanycytes reaches the hypophysiotropic TRH neurons, where T3 inhibits the proTRH gene expression via TR-β2 receptors. The set point of the feedback regulation can be altered by two mechanisms: (i) regulation of D2 activity in tanycytes may alter the hypothalamic T3 availability independently from the peripheral T4 concentration. (ii) Neuronal afferents can alter the PCREB concentration in the hypophysiotropic TRH neurons that can change the set point of feedback regulation through competition of PCREB and thyroid hormone receptors for the multifunctional binding site (Site 4) of the TRH promoter. ARC, hypothalamic arcuate nucleus; C1-3, C1-3 adrenergic area of the brainstem; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; DMN, hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus; ME, median eminence; NTS, nucleus tractus solitarius; PVN, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus; py, pyramidal tract; sp5, spinal trigeminal tract. (From Fekete & Lechan ( 128 ) with permission) The synthesis of TRH is under complex transcriptional control sharing several mechanisms, besides the negative regulation by thyroid hormone, with the TSHB gene. The human TRH gene ( Fig. 11 ) is located on chromosome 3 (3q13.3→q21) ( 154 ); the 5' flanking sequence of the TRH gene has potential glucocorticoid and cyclic AMP response elements (GRE and CRE) ( 130 ). There are also potential negative TREs located in this portion of the gene which offer regulatory sites for thyroid hormone control of TRH gene transcription. The thyroid hormone negative regulatory elements of
