Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


also potential negative TREs located in this portion of the gene which offer regulatory sites for thyroid hormone control of TRH gene transcription. The thyroid hormone negative regulatory elements of the TRH gene are localized in its 5' flanking element (-242 to +54 bp). Four sequences within this region exhibit a high degree of homology with the consensus sequences for TRE half-sites (AGGTCA) and two of them also show homology with elements implicated in negative regulation by thyroid hormone of the TSHB gene ( 147 ). In the absence of thyroid hormone, proTRH gene expression as well as prohormone convertase enzymes (PC1/3 and PC2) are increased in the PVN, while the content of TRH in the median eminence is decreased due to increased secretion of the mature hormone in the portal circulation ( 128 ). In contrast, hyperthyroidism is associated with decreased proTRH-mRNA in the PVN ( 128 ). The negative feed-back of thyroid hormones is exerted directly on hypophysiotropic TRH neurons of the PVN which express all thyroid hormone receptor isoforms. The recent availability of transgenic mice lacking either TRH, TR-beta isoforms, or both provided evidence for a pivotal role of TRH in the physiological TH feed-back on the hypothalamic pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis ( 155 ). Double TSH and TR-beta knockout mice had reduced TH and TSH levels associated with low TSH content in pituitary thyrotrophs and both serum TSH and pituitary TSH content was increased by chronic exogenous TRH administration ( 156 ). Thus, the TRH neuron appears to be required for both TSH and TH synthesis and is the predominant locus of control of the HPT axis ( 155 ). However, studies carried out with different animal models of congenital hypothyroidism show that the thyrotrophs exhibit hyperplasia and hypertrophy along with increased TSH mRNA expression not only in the athyreotic Pax8-/- mice, but also in TRHR1-/- Pax8-/- double-knockout mice, which miss a functional thyroid gland and the TRH receptor at the pituitary level, suggesting that the stimulation of thyrotroph proliferation and TSH synthesis is rather a direct consequence of the continue here athyroidism of the animals ( 157 ). Further studies are therefore required to determine the relative contributions of TRH and TH for bioactive pituitary TSH release. As shown in Fig. 11 , the TRH gene promoter contains potential binding sites for cAMP response element (CRE) binding protein (CREB), and both human and rat TRH genes
