Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


release. As shown in Fig. 11 , the TRH gene promoter contains potential binding sites for cAMP response element (CRE) binding protein (CREB), and both human and rat TRH genes are positively regulated by cAMP ( 147 ). One of the potential CREs of TRH promoter is a sequence that has overlapping TRE/CRE bases –53 to –60 bp (TGACCTCA) ( 147 ). There is evidence for competitive interactions of TR beta1 and CREB at the overlapping TRE/CRE in the TRH promoter ( 147 ). Constructs of the TRH promoter with mutations in this overlapping site prevent both the inhibition by the TR-T3 complex and the basal activation in the presence of unliganded TR, underlining the relative importance of the TRE/CRE site in relation to the other TREs in the TRH promoter ( 147 ). Figure 11. Genomic and promoter structure of the TRH gene. The murine, rat and human TRH genes are composed of three exons and two introns (A). The coding sequence for the precursor protein is present on exons 2 and 3. As depicted, the TRH promoter region precedes the transcription start site in exon 1. The proximal 250-bp sequences of the human, mouse and rat promoters are similar and share the indicated transcription factor binding sites. The location of the CREB binding site (Site 4) and sequences in human (H), mouse (M) and rat (R) are shown. (B, C) Hypothesized schematic representation of the interaction between PCREB and the thyroid hormone receptor at Site 4. (B) Illustrates that in the presence of abundant PCREB, there may be less availability for binding of the thyroid hormone receptor/T3 complex, hence, an increase in TRH gene transcription. When PCREB concentrations fall as shown in (C), increased binding of the thyroid hormone receptor/T3 complex reduces TRH gene transcription (From Fekete & Lechan ( 128 ) with permission) A glucocorticoid-responsive element (GRE) is also present in the TRH gene promoter ( 130 ). and the glucocorticoid receptor has been identified on TRH neurons of the PVN ( 158 ). The role of corticosteroids in TRH gene expression is unclear, since both inhibitory and stimulatory effects have been reported ( 159 , 160 ). The direct effect of glucocorticoids on TRH gene expression is generally stimulatory in vitro , but in vivo this activity may be overridden by the complex neuroendocrine reactions following glucocorticoid excess or deficiency ( 159 ). TRH INTERACTION WITH
