Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


is generally stimulatory in vitro , but in vivo this activity may be overridden by the complex neuroendocrine reactions following glucocorticoid excess or deficiency ( 159 ). TRH INTERACTION WITH PITUITARY THYROTROPHS AND WITH THYROID HORMONE Although TRH (either maternal or embryonic) is not required for the normal development of fetal pituitary thyrotrophs, and TRH-deficient mice are not hypothyroid at birth, TRH is required later for the postnatal maintenance of the normal thyrotroph function ( 161 ). TRH exerts its activity binding to a specific receptor in the plasma membrane of the thyrotroph to induce the release of TSH and to stimulate TSH synthesis. The TRH receptor of several animal species (including humans) has been cloned and has been identified as a G-protein-coupled receptor with seven highly conserved transmembrane domains ( 162 - 165 ). Biallelic inactivating mutations in the 5’-part of the TRH receptor gene are one of the molecular causes for central congenital hypothyroidism ( 166 - 169 ). TRH-receptor number and mRNA are increased by glucocorticoids and decreased by thyroid hormone, as well as by TRH itself ( 170 , 171 ). The second messenger for induction of the thyrotroph response to TRH is intracellular Ca 2+ ([Ca2+]i) ( 172 - 174 ). TRH was previously believed to act also through stimulation of the adenyl cyclase-cAMP pathway ( 120 ), but this mechanism has not been confirmed by studies carried out with recombinant TRH-receptor transfected in different cell systems ( 175 ). TRH activates a complex [Ca 2+ ] i response pattern dependent upon both agonist concentration and cell context. The first phase of the TRH response is an acute increase of [Ca 2+ ] i within the thyrotrophs via release from internal stores. This is the consequence of increased inositol triphosphate concentrations from hydrolysis of phosphatidyl inositol (PI) in the cell membrane ( 176 , 173 , 177 , 178 ). The hydrolysis of PI is mediated by G protein activation of phospholipase C and also generates diacylglycerol, which in turn activates intracellular protein kinase C (PKC). Stimulation of extracellular calcium influx through verapamil-sensitive channels is also observed after TRH stimulation ( 172 , 179 ). Both TRH and increased [Ca 2+ ] i stimulate intracellular calcium efflux, which helps in terminating the agonist activity ( 177 , 179 , 180 ). In transfection systems in which the TSHB gene promoter has been linked to a
