Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


calcium efflux, which helps in terminating the agonist activity ( 177 , 179 , 180 ). In transfection systems in which the TSHB gene promoter has been linked to a reporter gene, both the calcium ionophore ionomycin and phorbol esters (a protein kinase C activator) stimulate TSH gene transcription, confirming the key role of these second messengers in mediating TRH activity ( 66 ). Both increased [Ca 2+ ] i and PKC appear to be independently operative in normal thyrotrophs ( 181 ). The molecular mechanism(s) underlying the stimulation of TSHB gene expression by TRH have been partially elucidated. In GH3 cells transfected with h TSHB promoter constructs, two distinct regions of the human TSHB gene responding positively to stimulation by TRH were identified between -130 and +37 bp of the gene ( 182 - 184 ) ( Fig. 12 ) The 3'-region corresponds to eight bp of the first exon; the 5'-region ranged between -128 to -60 bp of the 5'-flanking region ( 182 , 183 ). Figure 12. The 5’ flanking sequence of the human preproTRH gene between –192 and +58 bp. Four potential thyroid response element (TRE, boxed) and two potential CREB binding elements (CRE, underlined) are shown. One sequence (from –60 to –53 bp) consists of overlapping TRE/CRE sites (bold). (Modified from Wilber & Xu ( 147 )) INACTIVATION OF TRH TRH is rapidly inactivated within the central nervous system by a cell-surface peptidase called TRH-degrading ectoenzyme (TRH-DE) ( 185 ). TRH-DE is very specific, since there is no other ectopeptidase known capable of degrading TRH and TRH is the only known substrate of this unique enzyme ( 185 ). TRH-DE has been purified to homogeneity and cDNA encoding rat TRH-DE has been cloned. In rodents, pituitary TRH-DE mRNA and enzymatic activity are stringently positively regulated by thyroid hormones, and reduced by estrogens ( 185 ). This suggests that TRH-DE may act as a regulatory element modulating pituitary TSH secretion. The expression of TRH-DE in the brain is high and displays a distinct distribution pattern, but it is not influenced by peripheral hormones, supporting the concept that brain TRH-DE may act as a terminator of TRH signals ( 185 ). OTHER FACTORS INVOLVED IN THE REGULATION OF TSH/TRH SYNTHESIS AND SECRETION A number of other substances, including ubiquitous and pituitary or thyrotroph-specific transcription factors, hormones, neuropeptides and cytokines influence TSH synthesis and secretion of TRH (
