Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


OF TSH/TRH SYNTHESIS AND SECRETION A number of other substances, including ubiquitous and pituitary or thyrotroph-specific transcription factors, hormones, neuropeptides and cytokines influence TSH synthesis and secretion of TRH ( Table 3 , Fig. 11 & 13 ). Table 3. Predominant Effects of Various Agents on TSH Secretion View in own window STIMULATORY INHIBITORY Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) Thyroid hormones and analogues Prostaglandins (?) Dopamine Alpha-adrenergic agonists (? Via TRH) Somatostatin Opioids (humans) Gastrin Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) Opioids (rat) Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) Glucocorticoids ( in vivo ) Galanin Serotonin Leptin Cholecystokinin (CCK) Glucocorticoids ( in vitro ) Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) Vasopressin (AVP) Neuropeptide Y (NPY) Interleukin 1 beta and 6 Tumor necrosis factor alpha Role of Pit-1 and its Splicing Variants in the Regulation of TSHB Gene Expression Sequence analysis of the h TSHB promoter reveals three areas with high (75-80%) homology to the consensus sequence for the pituitary-specific transcription factor Pit-1 ( 182 , 183 , 186 , 184 ). These areas are localized between -128 and -58 bp of the 5'-flanking region. Selective mutation analysis revealed that the integrity of these areas was needed for the stimulatory effect of either TRH or forskolin ( 187 ). Expression of an inactive mutant of Pit-1 decreases TRH stimulation of h TSHB ( 183 ) and transfection of Pit-1 in cell lines lacking this factor restores cAMP induction of the hTSHB gene ( 186 ). Taken together, these results strongly support an important role of Pit-1 in the regulation of hTSHB gene expression. Phosphorylation markedly increases the stimulatory activity of Pit-1 in TSHB gene expression ( 187 ), and TRH stimulates transient phosphorylation of Pit-1 in GH3 pituitary cells ( 188 ). Further support for a role of Pit-1 in the regulation of TSHB gene expression derives from animal models (dwarf mice) and from clinical syndromes of combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) ( 189 , 167 ). Snell and Jackson dwarf mice lack a functioning Pit-1 protein due to a point mutation and a gross structural rearrangement in the Pit-1 gene, respectively ( 190 ). Both species show low serum concentration of GH, prolactin and TSH associated with the loss of somato-, lacto- and thyrotropic pituitary cells. Several Pit-1 point mutations and a deletion of the entire coding sequence have been described in patients with CPHD: the effects on TSH secretion differ with the localization of the mutation, but generally result in
