Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


a deletion of the entire coding sequence have been described in patients with CPHD: the effects on TSH secretion differ with the localization of the mutation, but generally result in central hypothyroidism ( 191 - 194 , 94 , 189 , 195 , 196 ). Finally, the important role of Pit-1 in the control of TSH synthesis and secretion has been documented by the finding that circulating Pit-1 antibodies are associated with combined GH, prolactin, and TSH deficiency, the so called “anti-PIT-1 antibody syndrome” ( 197 - 200 ). Although important, the role of Pit-1 for cell-specific expression of TSHB is not as clear as with the GH and PRL genes ( 201 , 184 ). Attention has been focused on thyrotropin-specific transcription factors, including Pit-1 splicing variants. Of those, a variant called Pit-1T (containing a 14 amino-acid insertion in the transactivation domain) is found only in thyrotropic cells expressing TSHB and it increases TSHB promoter activity when transfected in non-thyrotropic cells expressing wild type Pit-1 ( 202 , 203 ). These results suggest that the combination of both Pit-1 and Pit-1T may have a synergistic stimulatory effect on TSHB promoter activity ( 204 ). Other Transcription Factors Involved in TSHB Gene Expression As stated above, the transcription factor AP-1 may be involved in modulating regulation of TSHB gene expression mediated by thyroid hormone ( Fig. 13 ). Accordingly, a potential AP-1 binding site is present between -1 to +6 bp of the TSHB gene ( 184 ), and the integrity of this site is required for maximal stimulation of the hTSHB gene ( 205 ). Haugen et al. ( 206 ) described a new 50 kd thyrotroph-specific protein whose binding together with Pit-1 is needed for optimal basal expression of the mouse TSHB gene; this factor was subsequently identified as the transcription factor GATA-2 ( 207 ). GATA-2 stimulates the mouse TSHB promoter synergistically with Pit-1 and is needed for optimal TSHB gene basal activity. Another pituitary-specific protein (P-Lim), which binds and activates the common glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit promoter, also synergizes with Pit-1 in the transcriptional activation of the TSHB gene in mice ( 208 ). Moreover, characterization of the dwarfed Ames ( df ) mouse led to the cloning of the paired-like homeodomain factor Prop-1 (Prophet of Pit-1) ( 209 ). PROP-1 is necessary for Pit1 expression. Biallelic mutations in the human PROP-1 gene have been identified
