Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


the cloning of the paired-like homeodomain factor Prop-1 (Prophet of Pit-1) ( 209 ). PROP-1 is necessary for Pit1 expression. Biallelic mutations in the human PROP-1 gene have been identified as a further cause of CPHD phenotype affecting somatotropes, lactotropes, and thyrotropes ( 210 , 189 , 167 , 211 ). Figure 13. The regulatory region of human TSHB gene (see text for details) cAMP An increase in intracellular cAMP stimulates expression of both the common CGA and TSHB subunit genes ( 182 ). In contrast to the TRH gene, this action of cAMP is probably not mediated through direct binding of CREB to a CRE sequence, but by promoting Pit-1 phosphorylation with subsequent activation of the TSHB promoter ( 183 , 186 ). Steroid Hormones Steroid hormones including corticosteroids, estrogen and testosterone modulate TSHB gene expression. Dexamethasone in pharmacological doses decreases serum TSH concentrations in normal subjects ( 212 ), in patients ( 213 ), and rats ( 214 ) with TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas, but does not significantly change TSH subunit mRNA levels ( 214 ). This suggests that glucocorticoids may act on TSH biosynthesis at a translational or post-translational level. Furthermore, as discussed before for the TRH gene, several other neuroendocrine mechanisms may participate in vivo in the modulation of TSH synthesis and secretion by glucocorticoids. In keeping with this concept, it has been shown in humans that enhanced hypothalamic somatostatinergic and dopaminergic inhibitory activities are involved in the glucocorticoid-dependent blunting of the TSH response to TRH ( 215 ). Estrogens and testosterone have limited direct effects on TSH synthesis and secretion in humans. Estrogens mildy reduce mRNA levels coding for the alpha and beta TSH subunits in hypothyroid rats ( 216 ), perhaps interacting with the same response elements involved in thyroid hormone regulation. Testosterone has similar effects, at least in part explained by its peripheral conversion to estrogen ( 217 ). Other Hormones, Neuropeptides and Cytokines Somatostatin, the major physiological inhibitor of GH secretion, is also an inhibitor of TSH secretion in rats and humans ( 218 - 220 ). The physiological relevance of this inhibition is suggested by studies carried out with antibodies to somatostatin whose administration in rats increases serum TSH in basal conditions and after TRH or cold-exposure ( 212 ). Indirect evidence for a physiological role of somatostatin in the regulation of TSH secretion has been obtained in humans by the demonstration
