Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


and after TRH or cold-exposure ( 212 ). Indirect evidence for a physiological role of somatostatin in the regulation of TSH secretion has been obtained in humans by the demonstration that stimulation of the endogenous somatostatin tone by oral glucose inhibits TSH response to TRH ( 221 ). The TSH-inhibiting activity of somatostatin is an acute phenomenon, while long-term treatment with somatostatin analogues does not cause hypothyroidism in man ( 222 , 223 ), presumably because the effects of the initial decrease in serum thyroid hormone concentration overrides the inhibitory effects of somatostatin. Somatostatin binds to five distinct types of receptors expressed in the anterior pituitary and brain and differing in binding specificities, molecular weight, and linkage to adenylyl cyclase ( 224 ). Binding of somatostatin to its receptor causes activation of Gi proteins which in turn inhibit adenylyl cyclase. Somatostatin also induces cellular hyperpolarization via modulation of voltage-dependent potassium channels ( 225 ). This mechanism is cAMP-independent and leads to a fall of [Ca 2+ ] i by reducing extracellular calcium influx ( 226 ). In animal models, TSH secretion is affected by other hypothalamic hormones: in particular, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulates TSH secretion in chickens ( 227 ) through an interaction with CRH-receptor-2 ( 228 ), and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) suppresses in vivo and in vitro TSH release in rats ( 229 ). Neurotransmitters are important direct and indirect modulators in TSH synthesis and secretion. A complex network of neurotransmitter neurons terminates on cells bodies of hypophysiotropic neurons and several neurotransmitters (such as dopamine) are directly released into hypophysial portal blood exerting direct effects on anterior pituitary cells. Furthermore, many dopaminergic, serotoninergic, histaminergic, catecolaminergic, opioidergic, and GABAergic systems project from other hypothalamic/brain regions to the hypophysiotropic neurons involved in TSH regulation. These projections are important for a normal TSH circadian rhythm, response to stress, and cold exposure, while basal TSH secretion is mainly regulated by intrinsic hypothalamic activity ( 230 - 232 ). Despite the difficulty to precisely identify the relative contributions of different neurotransmitter systems in the regulation of TSH secretion, the role of some of them (particularly dopamine and catecholamines) has been rather well defined. Dopamine, acting via the DA2 class of dopamine receptors, inhibits TSH synthesis and release; similarly, to somatostatin, this activity is exerted through a decrease in adenylate cyclase ( 233 - 235 ). Dopamine also inhibits mRNA coding for alpha and TSHB
