Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


synthesis and release; similarly, to somatostatin, this activity is exerted through a decrease in adenylate cyclase ( 233 - 235 ). Dopamine also inhibits mRNA coding for alpha and TSHB subunits and gene transcription in cultured rat anterior pituitary cells ( 77 ). In contrast, with its inhibitory activity at the thyrotroph level, dopamine at the hypothalamic levels stimulates both TRH and somatostatin release ( 236 , 237 ), with an opposite effect on TSH secretion. In contrast to dopamine, adrenergic activation positively regulates TSH secretion. Central stimulation of alpha-adrenergic pathways increases TSH release in rats, presumably through stimulation of TRH secretion. Furthermore, alpha1 adrenergic agonists also enhance TSH release from pituitary cells in vitro by mechanisms which are independent of those activated by TRH ( 238 , 239 , 236 , 237 ). It is thought that alpha-adrenergic activity on thyrotrophs is linked to adenylate cyclase activation since agents increasing intracellular cyclic AMP in these cells can increase TSH release ( 240 - 242 ). Opioids inhibit TSH secretion in rats and this action is blocked by the antagonist naloxone ( 243 ), while in humans they appear to exert a stimulatory effect, especially on the nocturnal TSH surge ( 244 , 232 ). Several other neuropeptides may affect TSH secretion in vivo or in vitro . Cholecystokinin (CCK) ( 245 ), gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) ( 246 ), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) ( 247 ) exert inhibitory effects, while arginine-vasopressin (AVP) ( 248 ), glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) ( 249 ), galanin ( 250 ), and leptin ( 251 , 252 ) stimulate TSH secretion. Although the precise physiological role of these peptides remains to be clarified, it has been recently suggested that they may be important in connecting nutrition status and thyroid function ( 253 ), as discussed in more detail later. Cytokines have recently been demonstrated to have important effects on TRH or TSH release. Both interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (cachectin) inhibit TSH basal release ( 254 - 257 ), while no inhibition is observed on TSH response to TRH ( 258 ), and this effect is independent of thyroid hormone uptake or receptor occupancy. At the same time, IL-1 beta stimulates the release of corticotropin-releasing hormone and activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 259 ). Interleukin-1 beta is produced in rat thyrotrophs, and this production is markedly increased by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (
