Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


the release of corticotropin-releasing hormone and activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 259 ). Interleukin-1 beta is produced in rat thyrotrophs, and this production is markedly increased by bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( 260 , 261 ). It could thus reduce TSH secretion by either autocrine or paracrine mechanisms. The IL-1 beta-dependent cytokine interleukin 6 (IL-6) exerts similar inhibitory effects on TSH secretion. Both IL-1 beta and IL-6 acutely inhibit TSH release from the thyrotrophs, while IL-1 beta (but not IL-6) also decreases hypothalamic TRH mRNA and gene expression ( 262 , 146 , 263 ). Both IL-1 beta and IL-6 stimulate 5’-deiodinase activity in cultured pituitary cells ( 264 ), suggesting that increased intrapituitary T4→T3 conversion may be involved in the inhibitory activity on TSH production. IL-6 is produced by the folliculo-stellate cells of the anterior pituitary ( 265 , 266 ), and, like IL-1 beta may regulate TSH release in a paracrine fashion ( 263 , 259 ). As discussed later, increased concentrations of circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines are involved in the alterations of hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis observed in non-thyroidal illnesses. SIRT1, a NAD-dependent deacetylase, has been proven to be important for TSH secretion by thyrotrophic cells by the SITR1-phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase-gamma pathway ( 267 ). In summary, an intricate set of relationships within and outside the central nervous system controls the TRH-producing neurons in the medial basal hypothalamus. Alterations in any of these mechanisms can influence TRH and consequently TSH release ( Fig 13 and 14 ). The relative importance in human physiology of these neural pathways, which have been directly studied only in animal models, is unknown. Figure 14. Schematic representation of the main factors interacting in the regulation of TSH synthesis and secretion (DA: dopamine; SS: somatostatin; α-AD: α adrenergic pathways). Red arrows: stimulation; blue blunted arrows: inhibition SHORT AND ULTRA SHORT-LOOP FEEDBACK CONTROL OF TSH SECRETION In additional to the classic negative feed-back of thyroid hormone on TSH and TRH secretion detailed in the above paragraphs, evidence is accumulating that pituitary TSH is able to inhibit TRH secretion at the hypothalamic level (short feedback) and TSH secretion at the pituitary level (ultra-short feedback) ( 268 ). Early observations of inhibition of TSH secretion by injection of pituitary extracts have been recently corroborated by the demonstration of TSH receptor expression (together with other pituitary hormone receptors) in the hypothalamus ( 269 , 270 ) and in the folliculo-stellate cells of the
