Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


recently corroborated by the demonstration of TSH receptor expression (together with other pituitary hormone receptors) in the hypothalamus ( 269 , 270 ) and in the folliculo-stellate cells of the adenohypophysis ( 271 ). The precise physiological role of short and ultra-short feedback in controlling TRH/TSH secretion remains to be elucidated. It may be speculated that they concur in the fine tuning of the homeostatic control and in the generation of the pulsatility of TSH secretion. The possibility that thyroid-stimulating autoantibodies present in Graves’ disease recognize hypothalamic and pituitary TSH receptors has also been suggested to explain suppressed serum TSH levels in some euthyroid Graves’ patients ( 268 ). Summary of the Main Steps Involved in the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid (HPT) Axis An attempt to summarize the main steps involved in the feedback regulation of the HPT axis is illustrated in Fig 14 ( 128 ). Thyroid hormones inhibit the effects of TRH on TSH release without interfering with TRH binding to its receptors, but exerting complex negative transcriptional and post-transcriptional activities on TSH synthesis and secretion discussed above. Several factors other than thyroid hormones are involved in the fine regulation of HPT axis as depicted in Fig. 13 and described in more detail in the following paragraphs. PHYSIOLOGICAL REGULATION OF TSH SECRETION IN HUMANS A number of experimental paradigms have been used to mimic clinical situations that affect the hypothalamic-pituitary thyroid axis in man. However, with the exception of the studies of thyroid status and iodine deficiency, such perturbations have limited application to humans due to differences in the more subtle aspects of TSH regulation between species. For example, starvation is a severe stress and markedly reduces TSH secretion in rats, but only marginally in humans. Cold stress increases TSH release in adult rats by alpha-adrenergic stimulation, while this phenomenon is usually not observed in the adult human. Thus, it is more relevant to evaluate the consequences of various pathophysiological influences on TSH concentrations in humans rather than to extrapolate from results in experimental animals. This approach has the disadvantage that, in many cases, the precise mechanism responsible for the alteration in TSH secretion cannot be identified. This deficit is offset by the enhanced relevance of the human studies for understanding clinical pathophysiology. Table 4. Common Polymorphisms Related to Serum Thyroid Hormones and TSH Variation ( 270 ) View in own window Gene Polymorphism Effect on serum TSH T4 T4/T3 T3
