Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


285 - 287 ). TSH secretion in humans is pulsatile ( 288 - 290 ). The pulse frequency is slightly less than 2 hours and the amplitude approximately 0.6 mU/L. The TSH pulse is significantly synchronized with PRL pulsatility: this phenomenon is independent of TRH and suggests the existence of unidentified underlying pulse generator(s) for both hormones ( 291 ). The frequency and amplitude of pulsations increases during the evening reaching a peak at sleep onset, thus accounting for the circadian variation in basal serum TSH levels ( 292 , 293 ). The maximal serum TSH is reached between 21:00 and 02:00 hours and the difference between the afternoon nadir and peak TSH concentrations is 1 to 3 mU/L. Sleep prevents the further rise in TSH as reflected in the presence of increases in TSH to 5-10 mU/ml during sleep deprivation ( 294 , 295 ). The circadian variation of TSH secretion is probably the consequence of a varying dopaminergic tone modulating the pulsatile TSH stimulation by TRH ( 296 ). Interestingly, TSH molecules secreted during the night are less bioactive and differently glycosylated than those circulating in the same individual during the day, thus explaining why thyroid hormone levels do not rise after the nocturnal TSH surge ( 296 ). There is convincing evidence seasonal change in basal TSH ( 297 ), but there are no gender-related differences in either the amplitude or frequency of the TSH pulses ( 290 ). The diurnal rhythmicity of serum TSH concentration is maintained in mild hyper- and hypothyroidism, but it is abolished in severe short-term primary hypothyroidism, suggesting that the complete lack of negative feedback to the hypothalamus or pituitary or both may override the central influences on TSH secretion ( 298 ). Age may have a major effect on circulating serum TSH levels ( 278 ). There is a marked increase in serum TSH in neonates which peaks within the first few hours of delivery returning towards normal over the next few days. It is thought to be a consequence of the marked reduction in environmental temperature at birth. Serum TSH concentrations in apparently euthyroid patients over the age of 70 may be somewhat reduced ( 299 , 300 ). However, some studies show an increase of TSH in older adults ( 301 ). TSH in Pathophysiological States NUTRITION In the rat, starvation causes a marked decrease in serum TSH and
