Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


some studies show an increase of TSH in older adults ( 301 ). TSH in Pathophysiological States NUTRITION In the rat, starvation causes a marked decrease in serum TSH and thyroid hormones. While there is an impairment of T4 to T3 conversion in the rat liver due to a decrease in both thiol co-factor and later in the Type 1 deiodinase ( 302 - 304 ), the decrease in serum T3 in the fasted rat is primarily due to the decrease in T4 secretion consequent to TSH deficiency ( 304 , 305 ). In humans, starvation and moderate to severe illness are also associated with a decrease in basal serum TSH, pulse amplitude and nocturnal peak ( 306 - 310 ). In the acutely-fasted man, serum TSH falls only slightly and TRH responsiveness is maintained, although blunted ( 311 , 312 ). This suggests that the thyrotroph remains responsive during short-term fasting and that the decrease in TSH is likely due to changes secondary to decreased TRH release. There is evidence to support this in animal studies, showing reduced TRH gene expression in fasted rats ( 313 , 314 ). Administration of anti-somatostatin antibodies prevents the starvation induced serum TSH falls in rats, suggesting a role for hypothalamic somatostatinergic pathways ( 315 ). However, fasting-induced changes in dopaminergic tone do not seem to be sufficient to explain the TSH changes ( 315 , 309 ). Recent studies provide compelling evidence that the starvation-induced fall in leptin levels (Fig. 15) plays a major role in the decreased TSH and TSH secretion of fasted animals and, possibly, humans ( 251 , 316 , 317 ). This concept stems from the observation that administration of leptin prevents the starvation-induced fall of hypothalamic TRH ( 318 ). The mechanisms involved in this phenomenon include decreased direct stimulation by leptin of TRH production by neurons of the PVN ( 251 , 319 ), as well as indirect effects on distinct leptin-responsive neuroendocrine circuits communicating with TRH neurons ( 318 , 320 ). The direct stimulatory effects of leptin on TRH production are mediated by binding to leptin receptors, followed by STAT3 activation and subsequent binding to the TRH promoter ( 321 , 322 ). One of the latter circuits has been identified in the melanocortin pathway, a major target of leptin action. This pathway involves 2 ligands expressed in distinct populations of arcuate nucleus neurons
