Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


of the latter circuits has been identified in the melanocortin pathway, a major target of leptin action. This pathway involves 2 ligands expressed in distinct populations of arcuate nucleus neurons in the hypothalamus [the alpha-MSH and the Agouti receptor protein (AgRP)] and the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) on which these ligands converge, but exert antagonistic effects (stimulation by alpha-MSH; inhibition by AgRP). Leptin activates MC4R by increasing the agonist alpha-MSH and by decreasing the antagonist AgRP and this activation is crucial for the anorexic effect of leptin. The specific involvement of the melanocortin pathway in TRH secretion is suggested by the presence of alpha-MSH in nerve terminals innervating hypothalamic TRH neurons in rat ( 128 ) and human ( 323 ) brains and by the ability of alpha-MSH to stimulate and of AgRP to inhibit hypothalamus-pituitary thyroid axis both in vitro and in vivo ( 319 ). The activities of alpha-MSH and AgRP on the thyroid axis are fully mediated by MCR4, as shown by experiments carried out in MCR4 knock out mice ( 324 ). Fasting may inhibit the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis also via the orexigenic peptide NPY, which inhibits TRH synthesis by activation of Y1 and Y5 receptors in hypophysiotropic neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus ( 325 ). At least two distinct populations of NPY neurons innervate hypophysiotropic TRH neurons ( 326 ), suggesting that NPY is indeed an important regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. A further contributing cause to the decreased TSH release in fasting may be an abrupt increase in the free fraction of T4 due to the inhibition of hormone binding by free fatty acids ( 327 ). This would cause an increase in pituitary T4 and, hence, in pituitary nuclear T3. Fasting causes a decrease in the amplitude of TSH pulses, not in their frequency ( 328 ). Ingestion of food results in an acute decline of the serum TSH concentration: this is the consequence of meal composition, rather than stomach distension ( 329 ). Long-term overfeeding is associated to a transient increase of serum T3 concentration and a sustained increased response of TSH to TRH ( 330 ). Taken together, the above data provide compelling evidence that the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis is tightly related to the mechanisms involved in weight control. In keeping with this concept, several epidemiological studies suggest that small differences in thyroid function may be important for the body mass index
