Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


to the mechanisms involved in weight control. In keeping with this concept, several epidemiological studies suggest that small differences in thyroid function may be important for the body mass index and the occurrence of obesity in the general population ( 331 - 334 ). ILLNESS The changes in circulating TSH which occur during fasting are more exaggerated during illness. In moderately ill patients, serum TSH may be slightly reduced but the serum free T4 does not fall and is often mildly increased ( 327 , 335 - 337 ). However, if the illness is severe and/or prolonged, serum TSH will decrease and both serum T4 (and of course T3) decrease during the course of the illness. This may be due to a decreased pulse amplitude and nocturnal TSH secretion ( 338 - 341 ). Since such changes are short-lived, they do not usually cause symptomatic hypothyroidism. They are often associated with an impaired TSH release after TRH ( 306 ). However, the illness-induced reductions in serum T4 and T3 will often be followed by a rebound increase in serum TSH as the patient improves. This may lead to a transient serum TSH elevation in association with the still subnormal levels of circulating thyroid hormones and thus be mistaken for primary hypothyroidism ( 342 ). On occasion, a transient TSH elevation occurs while the patient is still ill. The pathophysiology of this apparent resistance of the thyroid gland to TSH is not clear ( 343 ), although this phenomenon could be the consequence of reduced TSH bioactivity, possibly a consequence of abnormal sialylation ( 344 ). The transient nature of these changes is reflected in normalization of the pituitary-thyroid axis after complete recovery. It is currently not clearly established whether the above abnormalities in hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis during critical illness reflect an adaptation of the organism to illness or instead a potentially harmful condition leading to hypothyroidism at the tissue level ( 345 , 346 ). NEUROPSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Certain neuropsychiatric disorders may also be associated with alterations in TSH secretion. In patients with anorexia nervosa or depressive illness, serum TSH may be reduced and/or TRH-induced TSH release blunted ( 347 ). Such patients often have decreases in the nocturnal rise in TSH secretion ( 293 ). The etiology of these changes is not known although it has been speculated that they are a consequence of abnormal TRH secretion ( 348 , 349
