Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


secretion ( 293 ). The etiology of these changes is not known although it has been speculated that they are a consequence of abnormal TRH secretion ( 348 , 349 ). The latter is supported by observations that TRH concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid of some depressed patients are elevated ( 350 , 351 ). There may be a parallel in such patients between increases in TRH and ACTH secretion ( 352 ). The increased serum T4 and TSH levels sometimes found at the time of admission to psychiatric units is in agreement with this concept ( 353 , 349 ). MECHANISMS INVOLVED IN THE HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY-THYROID AXIS SUPPRESSION IN NON-THYROIDAL ILLNESSES The precise mechanism(s) underlying the suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis in severe illnesses are only partially known. Evidence for a direct involvement of TRH-producing neurons in humans has been recently provided by the demonstration of low levels of TRH mRNA in the PVN of patients who died of non-thyroidal disease ( 354 ). Alterations in neuroendocrine pathways including opioidergic, dopaminergic and somatostatinergic activity have been suggested, but in acutely ill patients the major role appears to be played by glucocorticoids ( 355 ) (See below for a more detailed discussion). Activation of pro-inflammatory cytokine pathways is another mechanism potentially involved in the suppression of TSH secretion in nonthyroidal illness. As discussed earlier, IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and IL-6 exert in vivo and in vitro a marked inhibitory activity on TRH-TSH synthesis/secretion. High levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (particularly IL-6 and TNF-alpha) have been described in sera of patients with non-thyroidal illnesses ( 356 , 357 , 262 , 358 , 359 ). Serum cytokine concentration is directly correlated with the severity of the underlying disease and to the extent of TSH and thyroid hormone abnormalities observed in these patients. Furthermore, cytokines also affect thyroid hormone secretion, transport and metabolism providing all the characteristics to be considered important mediators of thyroid hormone abnormalities observed in non-thyroidal illness ( 360 - 362 ). EFFECTS OF HORMONES AND NEUROPEPTIDES Dopamine and Dopamine Agonists Dopamine and dopamine agonists inhibit TSH release by mechanisms discussed earlier. Dopamine infusion can overcome the effects of thyroid hormone deficiency in the severely ill patient, suppressing the normally elevated TSH of the patient with primary hypothyroidism nearly into the normal range ( 235 , 363 ). Dopamine causes a reduction of the amplitude of TSH pulsatile release, but not in its
