Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


the patient with primary hypothyroidism nearly into the normal range ( 235 , 363 ). Dopamine causes a reduction of the amplitude of TSH pulsatile release, but not in its frequency ( 328 ). However, chronic administration of dopamine agonists, for example in the treatment of prolactinomas, does not lead to central hypothyroidism despite the fact that there is marked decrease in the size of the pituitary tumor and inhibition of prolactin secretion. Glucocorticoids The acute administration of pharmacological quantities of glucocorticoids will transiently suppress TSH ( 364 - 366 ). The mechanisms responsible for this effect may act both at the hypothalamic and pituitary level, as discussed above. Direct evidence of suppressed TRH synthesis was provided by an autopsy study showing reduced hypothalamic TRH mRNA expression in subjects treated with corticosteroids before death ( 367 ). TSH secretion recovers and T4 production rates are generally not impaired. In Cushing's syndrome, TSH may be normal or suppressed and, in general, there is a decrease in serum T3 concentrations relative to those of T4 ( 366 ). High levels of glucocorticoids inhibit basal TSH secretion slightly and may influence the circadian variation in serum TSH ( 222 ). Perhaps as a reflection of this, a modest serum TSH elevation may be present in patients with Addison's disease ( 368 , 369 ). TSH normalizes with glucocorticoid therapy alone if primary hypothyroidism is not also present. Similar to patients treated with long-acting somatostatin analogs, patients receiving long-term glucocorticoid therapy do not have a sustained reduction of serum TSH nor does hypothyroidism develop, because of the predominant effect of reduced thyroid hormone secretion in stimulating TSH secretion ( 370 ). Gonadal Steroids Aside from the well described effects of estrogen on the concentration of thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), estrogen and testosterone have only minor influences on thyroid economy. In contrast with the mild inhibitory activity on alpha and beta TSH subunits expression described in rats( 216 ), in humans TSH release after TRH is enhanced by estradiol treatment perhaps because estrogens increase TRH receptor number ( 371 , 372 ). Treatment with the testosterone analog, fluoxymesterone, causes a significant decrease in the TSH response to TRH in hypogonadal men ( 373 ), possibly due to an increase in T4 to T3 conversion by androgen ( 374 ). This and the small estrogen effect may account for the lower TSH response to TRH in men
