Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


to an increase in T4 to T3 conversion by androgen ( 374 ). This and the small estrogen effect may account for the lower TSH response to TRH in men than in women although there is no difference in basal TSH levels between the sexes. This is one of the few instances where there is not a close correlation between basal TSH levels and the response to TRH (see below). Growth Hormone (GH) The possibility that central hypothyroidism could be induced by GH replacement in GH-deficient children was raised in early studies ( 375 , 376 ). However, these patients received human pituitary GH which in some cases was contaminated with TSH, perhaps inducing TSH antibodies. Nonetheless, in a cohort of children treated with recombinant hGH (rhGH) and affected with either idiopathic isolated GHD or MPHD, it was demonstrated that in the former the decrease in serum FT4 levels was not of clinical relevance, while in the latter a clear state of central hypothyroidism was seen in more than a half of the children ( 377 ). Concerning adults with GHD treated with rhGH, contradictory results have been reported. One study showed no significant changes in TSH concentrations during rhGH therapy of adults with GH deficiency ( 378 ). Later on, in two studies, thyroid function was evaluated in a large cohort of patients with adult or childhood onset of severe GHD. In 47% and 36% of euthyroid subjects, independently from rhGH dose, serum FT4 clearly fell into the hypothyroid range and some of these patients reported symptoms of hypothyroidism ( 375 , 376 ). Such results underline that, in adults as well as in children with organic GHD, rhGH therapy unmasks a state of central hypothyroidism, hidden by the condition of GHD itself. In conclusion, GH does cause an increase in serum free T3, a decrease in free T4, and an increase in the T3 to T4 ratio in both T4-treated and T4 untreated patients. This suggests that the GH-induced increase in IGF-I stimulates T4 to T3 conversion. In keeping with this concept, IGF-I administration in healthy subjects is followed by a fall in serum TSH concentration ( 379 ). Catecholamines Different from the rat, there is scanty evidence of an adrenergic control of TSH secretion in humans. Acute infusions of alpha or beta adrenergic blocking agents or agonists for short periods of time do not affect basal TSH
