Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


of an adrenergic control of TSH secretion in humans. Acute infusions of alpha or beta adrenergic blocking agents or agonists for short periods of time do not affect basal TSH ( 380 , 381 ), although a small stimulatory activity for endogenous adrenergic pathways is suggested by other studies ( 382 , 383 ). Furthermore, there is no effect of chronic propranolol administration on TSH secretion even though there may be modest inhibition of peripheral T4 to T3 conversion if amounts in excess of 160 mg/day are given ( 384 ). Evidence of a tonic inhibition of TSH secretion mediated by endogenous catecholamines has been obtained in women during the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle ( 385 ). The Response of TSH to TRH in Humans and the Role of Immunometric TSH Assays More than 4 decades ago, application of ultrasensitive TSH measurements to the evaluation of patients with thyroid disease has undergone a revolutionary change. This is due to the widespread application of the immunometric TSH assay. This assay uses monoclonal antibodies which bind one epitope of TSH and do not interfere with the binding of a second monoclonal or polyclonal antibody to a second epitope. The principle of the test is that TSH serves as the link between an immobilized antibody binding TSH at one epitope and a labelled (radioactive, chemiluminescent or other tag) monoclonal directed against a second portion of the molecule. This approach has improved both sensitivity and specificity by several orders of magnitude. Technical modifications have led to successive "generations" of TSH assays with progressively greater sensitivities ( 218 , 316 ). The first generation TSH assay was the standard radioimmunoassay which generally has lower detection limits of 1-2 mU/L. The "second" generation (first generation immunometric) assay improved the sensitivity to 0.1-0.2 mU/L and “third" generation assays further improved the sensitivity to approximately 0.005 mU/L. From a technical point-of-view, the American Thyroid Association recommendations are that third generation assays should be able to quantitate TSH in the 0.010 to 0.020 mU/L range on an interassay basis with a coefficient of variation of 20% or less ( 386 ). As assay sensitivity has improved, the reference range has not changed, remaining between approximately 0.5 and 5.0 mU/L in most laboratories. However, the TSH concentrations in the sera of patients with severe thyrotoxicosis secondary to Graves' disease have been lower with each successive improvement in
