Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


low response can have two explanations. The low response in patients with hyperthyroidism and a reduced basal TSH is due to refractoriness to TRH or depletion of pituitary TSH as a consequence of chronic thyroid hormone excess. In patients with primary hypothyroidism, the low fold-response reflects only the lack of sufficient pituitary TSH to achieve the necessary increment over the elevated basal TSH. Figure 16. Relationship between basal and absolute (TRH stimulated-basal TSH) TRH-stimulated TSH response in 1061 ambulatory patients with an intact hypothalamic-pituitary (H-P) axis compared with that in untreated and T4-treated patients with central hypothyroidism. (From Spencer et al. ( 287 ) with permission) Although, as stated before, the clinical relevance of the TRH test is presently limited, there are still some conditions in which the test may still be useful. These include subclinical primary hypothyroidism, central hypothyroidism ( 25 ), the syndromes of inappropriate TSH secretion ( 393 ) and non-thyroidal illnesses. In patients with normal serum thyroid hormone concentrations and borderline TSH, an exaggerated TSH response to TRH not followed by an adequate increase in serum thyroid hormone levels may confirm the presence of subtle primary hypothyroidism ( 391 ). An abnormal relationship between the basal TSH and the TRH-response is found in patients with central hypothyroidism. Here the fold TSH response to TRH is lower than normal ( 371 , 23 , 287 ). Again, however, TRH testing does not add substantially to the evaluation of such patients in that the diagnosis of central hypothyroidism is established by finding a normal or slightly elevated basal TSH in the presence of a significantly reduced free T4 concentration. While statistically ( 287 ) lower and sometimes delayed increments in TSH release after TRH infusion are found in patients with pituitary as opposed to hypothalamic hypothyroidism, the overlap in the TSH increments found in patients with these two conditions is sufficiently large ( 371 , 23 , 24 , 394 ), so that other diagnostic technologies, such as MRI, must be used to provide definitive localization of the lesion in patients with central hypothyroidism . It should be recalled that the TRH test may be useful in the diagnosis and follow-up of several pituitary disorders, but the discussion of this point is beyond the purpose of this chapter. The TRH test still provides fundamental information in the differential diagnosis of hyperthyroidism due to TSH-secreting adenomas from syndromes with
