Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


functional status ( 398 , 399 ). Since TRH infusion will not increase TSH release in this situation, it is clear that the thyrotroph is transiently dysfunctional ( 400 ). A similar phenomenon occurs after excess thyroid hormone treatment is terminated, and after the transient hyperthyroidism associated with subacute or some variants of autoimmune thyroiditis, though the period of suppression is shorter under the latter circumstances ( 401 ). This cause of reduced circulating thyroid hormones and reduced or normal TSH should be distinguishable from central hypothyroidism by the history. Severe illness is a common cause of TSH suppression although it is not often confused with thyrotoxicosis. Quantitation of thyroid hormones will generally resolve the issue ( 327 ). Patients receiving high-dose glucocorticoids acutely may also have suppressed TSH values although chronic glucocorticoid therapy does not cause sufficient TSH suppression to produce hypothalamic-pituitary hypothyroidism (see above). Exogenous dopamine suppresses TSH release. Infusion of 5-7.5 mg/kg/min to normal volunteers causes an approximately 50% reduction in the concentrations of TSH and consequent small decreases in serum T4 and T3 concentrations ( 363 ). In critically ill patients, this effect of dopamine can be superimposed on the suppressive effects of acute illness on thyroid function, reducing T4 production to even lower levels ( 357 ). Dopamine is sufficiently potent to suppress TSH to normal levels in sick patients with primary hypothyroidism ( 363 ). This needs to be kept in mind when evaluating severely ill patients for this condition. Dopamine antagonists such as metoclopramide or domperidone cause a small increase in TSH in humans. However, somewhat surprisingly, patients receiving the dopamine agonist bromergocryptine do not become hypothyroid. Although L-dopa causes a statistically significant reduction in the TSH response to TRH, patients receiving this drug also remain euthyroid ( 370 ). Studies in animals have suggested that pharmacological amounts of retinoids may decrease serum TSH concentration (see also paragraph “ Effect of Thyroid Hormone on TSH Secretion ”) ( 402 , 96 ). Severe central hypothyroidism associated with very low serum TSH concentration has been reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma treated with high-dose bexarotene, a retinoid X receptor-selective ligand able to suppress TSH secretion ( 403 ). hCG may function as a thyroid stimulator. During pregnancy, hCG stimulates the thyroid gland of the mother resulting in the typical transient decrease of the TSH levels during the first trimester (0.2 - 0.4 mU/L).
