Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


thyroid stimulator. During pregnancy, hCG stimulates the thyroid gland of the mother resulting in the typical transient decrease of the TSH levels during the first trimester (0.2 - 0.4 mU/L). Pathologic hCG secretion can result in frank, often mild, hyperthyroidism in patients with choriocarcinomas or molar pregnancies ( 404 ). Patients with acute psychosis or depression and those with agitated psychoses may have high thyroid hormone levels and suppressed or elevated TSH values. The etiology of the alterations in TSH are not known. Those receiving lithium for bipolar illness may also have elevated TSH values due to impairment of thyroid hormone release. Patients with underlying autoimmune thyroid disease or multi-nodular goiter are especially susceptible ( 405 ). A small fraction of elderly patients, particularly males, have subnormal TSH levels with normal serum thyroid hormone concentrations. It is likely that this reflects mild thyrotoxicosis if it is found to be reduced on repeated determinations. Congenital central hypothyroidism with low serum TSH may result from mutations affecting TSHB gene or the Pit-1 gene (see paragraphs “The Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone Molecule”, “Role of Pit-1 and its splicing variants in the regulation of TSHB gene expression” and “Other Transcription Factors Involved in TSHB Gene Expression ”. Causes of an Elevated TSH Primary hypothyroidism is the most common cause of an elevated serum TSH. The serum free T4 is low normal or reduced in such patients but the serum free T3 values remain normal until the level of thyroid function has markedly deteriorated ( 118 ). Another common cause of an elevated TSH in an iodine-sufficient environment is the transient elevation which occurs during the recovery phase after severe illness ( 342 , 343 ). In such patients a "reawakening" of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis occurs pari passu with the improvement in their clinical state. In general, such patients do not have underlying thyroid dysfunction. Iodine deficiency is not a cause of elevated TSH in Central and North America but may be in certain areas of Western Europe, South America, Africa and Asia. The remainder of the conditions associated with an elevated TSH are extremely rare. Inherited (autosomal recessive) forms of partial (euthyroid hyperthyrotropinemia) or complete (congenital hypothyroidism) TSH resistance have been described associated with inactivating biallelic point mutations of the TSH receptor gene ( 406 , 407 ). Interestingly, inherited dominant forms of partial TSH resistance have also been described in the absence of TSH receptor
