Physiology of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis
KEYWORDS: tsh, pubmed, hormone, thyroid, trh, gene, secretion, pituitary, thyroid hormone, thyrotropin, serum, endocrinol, patients, regulation, clin


point mutations of the TSH receptor gene ( 406 , 407 ). Interestingly, inherited dominant forms of partial TSH resistance have also been described in the absence of TSH receptor gene mutations ( 408 , 409 ). The underlying molecular defect(s) remain(s) to be elucidated in such cases. More frequently, in a patient who has an elevated serum FT4, the presence of TSH at normal or increased levels should lead to a search for either resistance to thyroid hormone or a thyrotroph tumor. Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction may be associated with normal or even modest increases in TSH and are explained by the lack of normal TSH glycosylation in the TRH-deficient patient. The diagnosis is generally made by finding a serum free T4 index which is reduced to a greater extent than expected from the coincident serum TSH. Psychiatric illness may be associated with either elevated or suppressed TSH levels, but the abnormal values are not usually in the range normally associated with symptomatic thyroid dysfunction. The effect of glucocorticoids to suppress TSH secretion has already been mentioned. This is of relevance in patients with Addison's disease in whom TSH may be slightly elevated in the absence of primary thyroid disease. Lastly, while most of the artifacts have been eliminated from the immunometric TSH assays, there remains the theoretical possibility of an elevated value due to the presence of endogenous anti-mouse gamma globulin antibodies ( 410 , 411 ). These heterophilic antibodies, like TSH, can complex the two TSH antibodies resulting in artificially elevated serum TSH assay results in euthyroid patients. Such artifacts can usually be identified by finding non-linear results upon assay of serial dilutions of the suspect serum with that from patients with a suppressed TSH. Moreover, the possible presence of “macro TSH” should be investigated in patients with high levels of TSH, normal circulating free thyroid hormones and absence of clinical signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism ( 410 , 411 ). Macro TSH is a large molecular-sized TSH that is mostly a complex of TSH and IgG. Precipitation of the serum with PEG and measurement of TSH in the supernatant is mandatory to confirm the presence of macro TSH, a procedure that is similar to that documenting the presence of macro PRL ( 412 - 415 ). REFERENCES 1. Shupnik MA, Ridgway EC, Chin WW. Molecular biology of thyrotropin. Endocr Rev. 1989; 10 :459–475. [ PubMed : 2693083 ]
