Mobayenetal.BMCSurgery (2020) 20:220
KEYWORDS: patient, splenic, rupture, splenic rupture, covid-, scan, blood, performed, fig, spleen, symptoms, reported, infectious, mononucleosis, case


the patient according to the volume of The patient was a 52-year-old man who referred to the the fluid, and according to the patient’s CT scan and re- inal pain from the day before hospitalization. The patient ized COVID-19 unit. In the new blood tests, Hb=9.5g/ reported a history of tiredness, fever, and nausea. In the dL, WBC=4800/μL, and PLT=195,000 /μL were ob- examinations performed, there was a brief tenderness in served. An extensive fluid collection around the spleen thepatient’sepigastrium.Thepatient’sinitialpressurewas was observed on the CT scan performed for the patient 80.120withapulserateof95.Thepatient’sfeverwasnot (Fig. 4).Theexaminationofthepatient’sabdomenchan- detected upon arrival. For the patient, an upright abdom- ged significantly about 20h after the initial examination inal radiograph, abdominal and pelvic ultrasounds, and and became generalized rebound tenderness. However, blood tests including CBC,BUN,Cr,PT,PTT,INR,LFT, the patient’s blood pressure was still 70.110 and the Amylase,Lipase,LDHwererequested. pulse rate was 90. According to the examination, the pa- The patient’s upright abdominal radiograph was nor- tient was immediately transferred to the operating room mal. Perihepatic and perisplenic fluid and gallstones and underwent laparotomy. During the operation, con- were seen on the patient’s ultrasound. On laboratory trary to our expectations, a lot of blood (about 1000cc) findings, White Blood Cells (WBC)=4000 /μL with 30% was observed in the patient’s abdomen. After blood suc- lymphocytes were reported. Hemoglobin (Hb)=11g/dL tioning, the left upper quadrant was bleeding and the and Platelets (PLT)=245,000 /μL were found. Other rupture of the spleen could also be observed. Therefore, findings were normal. No pathological lesion was ob- asplenectomy wasperformed(Fig. 5). served on the patient’s lung CT scan (Fig. 1). A small In the examinations performed for the patient, the pa- amountofperihepaticandperisplenicfluidwasobserved tient’s PCR confirmed COVID-19. The patient was ad- onthepatient’sCTscan(Fig. 2). mitted to the ICU after surgery, and within 3 days after The patient was monitored and about 12h after surgery, the patient was extubated. The patient’s chest hospitalization, ill appearance, respiratory (respiratory tubes were removed within 1 week after the surgery ac- distress) symptoms, and high fever were reported for the cording to the radiographs performed. After a concomi- patient.The patient’sO2Satwas96%.Duetotheexacer- tant treatment for COVID-19 and during a two-week scan of the lungs was requested again for the patient condition. andthetests were repeated forsuspicion ofcoronavirus. During the examinations performed and the history The second CT scan was performed about 18h after taken several times from the patient and the patient’s the initial examination. Patchy ground-glass lesions companion,
