Mobayenetal.BMCSurgery (2020) 20:220
KEYWORDS: patient, splenic, rupture, splenic rupture, covid-, scan, blood, performed, fig, spleen, symptoms, reported, infectious, mononucleosis, case


examinations performed and the history The second CT scan was performed about 18h after taken several times from the patient and the patient’s the initial examination. Patchy ground-glass lesions companion, no history of the trauma was given and the alongwith bilateralpleuraleffusionwereseen ontheCT changes in the patient’s CT scan and the patient’s exam- scan of the patient’s lungs (Fig. 3). A bilateral chest tube inations occurred veryquickly. Fig.1PrimarylungCTscan.NopathologicallesionwasobservedonuponarrivallungCTscanofthepatient Mobayenetal.BMCSurgery (2020) 20:220 Page3of5 Fig.2AbdomenviewinPrimaryCTscan.Asmallamountofperihepaticandperisplenicfluidwasobservedonthepatient’sCTscan The LE cell, ANA, and HIV as well as the Monospot, In the macroscopic study of splenic pathology, a RF and Wright agglutination test were negative. The spleen tissue with dimensions of 11×8×5cm and a peripheral blood smear and the Widal agglutination test weight of 350g and a laceration with a size of 2×2cm were negative for malaria and VCA Antibody IgM and were observed and in the microscopic study, a focally IgGwerenegativeforEpstein-Barrvirus(EBV). hemorrhagic areawasreported. Fig.3SecondarylungCTscan.ThesecondCTscanwasperformedabout18haftertheinitialexamination.Patchyground-glasslesionsalong withbilateralpleuraleffusionwereseenontheCTscanofthepatient’slungs Mobayenetal.BMCSurgery (2020) 20:220 Page4of5 Fig.4AbdomenviewinSecondaryCTscan.AnextensivefluidcollectionaroundthespleenwasobservedontheCTscanperformedfor thepatient Discussion and conclusions Depending on the type of coronavirus, the symptoms Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses and the sub- can range from common cold symptoms to fever, cough, set of Coronaviridae, ranging from the common cold shortness of breath, and acute respiratory problems. The virus to more serious diseases such as SARS, MERS, and patient may also have a seemingly unexplained cough COVID-19. for several days. Unlike the SARS, the MERS- coronavirus(MERS-CoV) affects not only therespiratory system but also other vital organs in the body, such as the kidneys and the liver. In acute cases, gastrointestinal problems such as diarrhea, acute respiratory failure, blood coagulation disorders, and renal failure have also been reported, which may lead to the patient’s need for hemodialysis [5–7]. Some people have no symptoms or only mild symp- toms. But in other people, COVID-19 can lead to ser- ious problems such as pneumonia, not getting enough oxygen, and even death . These symptoms are more common in people with other underlying prob- lems, given that coronavirus symptoms and their effects on various organs are currently unknown and under investigation . There are several causes for the atraumatic splenic rupture (ASR): Infectious causes, blood and metabolicdiseases, patho- physiological disorders and iatrogenic conditions along with splenic rupture, Infectious mononucleosis (IM, mono) are the other causes of the atraumatic splenic rupture . A patient with infectious mononucleosis and splenic enlargement (splenomegaly) should be closely moni- tored. The pathologic splenic rupture is the
