Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Background Materials and methods Persistent health problems attributed to Lyme borreliosis Recruitment strategies (LB) remain controversial . A recent study estimated The study includes three cohorts recruited via Short the overall prevalence of such complaints in the Nor- Message Service (SMS), a public invitation, or through wegian general population to be 0.15% . Persistent general practitioners (GPs). The inclusion and recruit- symptoms after standard antibiotic treatment have a sub- ment procedures, as well as general characteristics of stantial impact on disability-adjusted life years (DALY) these cohorts, have been described previously . In that . Long-lasting unexplained symptoms attributed to study, all three cohorts were analysed together; here, we tick bites are hypothesized to be due to treatment fail- focus specifically on differences between high- and low- ures or persistent infections caused by Borrelia burgdor- endemic regions, defined by incident LB data from the feri sensu lato (Bb) or other tick-borne pathogens. These Norwegian Surveillance System for Communicable Dis- uncertainties, both among patients and doctors, have eases (MSIS) and county population numbers from the led to the idea that patients with medically unexplained Norwegian National Population Registry (NPR). Lyme symptoms (MUPS) may suffer from a condition borreliosis occurs most frequently along the Norwegian known as Chronic Lyme disease (CLD). littoral, extending north to southern Nordland. The term CLD is confusing, as some argue it reflects Between 5,000 and 10,000 individuals were invited ongoing long-lasting tick-borne infection despite the lack from each of the eleven low-endemic counties, while national Lyme and Associated Diseases Society (ILADS) endemic coastal counties (Vestfold–Møre og Romsdal), has attempted to define CLD, but it encompasses a broad which consistently show the highest incidence. This spectrum of symptoms and lacks precise evidence of selection reflects both incidence patterns and demo- tick-borne infections . The term CLD was previously graphic variation. A detailed county-level overview for used to describe objectively verified persistent infections, 2017, when the sample was planned, is provided in the but is now more appropriately referred to as late mani- supplementary material (Table S1). Region classification festations, according to the Infectious Diseases Society of was available only for the SMS cohort. Participants had America (IDSA) . Case reports have shown that most blood drawn by their GP. based diagnostic
