Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


the Infectious Diseases Society of was available only for the SMS cohort. Participants had America (IDSA) . Case reports have shown that most blood drawn by their GP. based diagnostic criteria for LB . Consequently, endemic counties as Østfold, Oslo, Hedmark, Akershus, some advocate antibiotic treatment for MUPS often for Oppland, Buskerud, Nord-Trøndelag, Sør-Trøndelag, several months, with substances that have not been ade- Nordland, Troms, and Finnmark. The high-endemic quately tested for efficacy [10–12]. regions included Møre og Romsdal, Rogaland, Vest- conditions manifesting as persistent symptoms attributed Sogn og Fjordane. to tick bites or tick-borne diseases is needed. While the For geographical analyses, we also grouped the 19 prevalence of persistent symptoms and their determi- counties into five natural regions: nants have recently been evaluated in the Netherlands [13–15], adjusted national and regional prevalence esti- a. Northern Norway: Nordland, Troms, and Finnmark. mates of persistent symptoms attributed to tick bites or b. Central Norway: Nord-Trøndelag, Sør-Trøndelag tick-borne diseases, their association with demographic and Møre og Romsdal. outcome measures (PROMs) have not been systemati- Fjordane. cally studied. d. Southern Norway: Vest-Agder, Aust-Agder, In this study, we aim to estimate the national and Telemark, Vestfold, and Buskerud. attributed to tick bites or tick-borne diseases, the serop- and Oppland. revalence of antibodies against tick-borne pathogens, and the detection of possible on-going tick-borne infections Buskerud was classified as part of Southern Norway and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). While our previ- Møre og Romsdal as part of Central Norway. Buskerud ous study reported national prevalence, the current includes both inland areas with lower tick exposure and study provides regional population prevalence and serop- a coastal zone, whereas Møre og Romsdal is considered revalence estimates, compares high- versus low-endemic highly endemic. For analyses, counties were dichoto- regions, validates self-reported symptoms, diagnoses, mized into high- and low-endemic groups (Table S1). and treatments via medical records, and incorporates Comparisons between high- and low-endemic areas were PCR data. therefore based on county-level classification, indepen- Detection of active infections dent of the five-region grouping. Real-time PCR for the detection of B. burgdorferi (2 assays), B. miyamotoi, (A) phagocytophilum, Rickettsia ing Body Mass Index (BMI), comorbidities, concomitant real-time PCR methods for detection of Bab. microti, medications, experiences with public and alternative Bab. divergens, and Bab. venatorum and other Babesia term treatment in public and alternative healthcare tion with Sanger sequencing that would pick up multiple systems. Underemployment refers to people
