Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


alternative Bab. divergens, and Bab. venatorum and other Babesia term treatment in public and alternative healthcare tion with Sanger sequencing that would pick up multiple systems. Underemployment refers to people not in Babesia spp. if present, were applied to samples as speci- full employment. Patient reported outcome measures fied (supplementary material, Table S12). PCR assays (PROMs) included the Patient Health Questionnaire-15 for B. burgdorferi and N. mikurensis were performed at (PHQ-15) , the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) and accredited national reference laboratories in Norway the RAND-36 health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and Sweden. Both assays are validated for human diag- survey. The RAND-36 provided an aggregated physical nostics and have demonstrated concordant results. All component summary (PCS) score. We also recorded the other PCR assays were performed at accredited labora- ther details on the questionnaires are available in a previ- diagnostics. Babesia PCR assays have not been system- ous publication . Participants were offered the option atically compared. Further technical details are provided to submit their medical records through a secure online in Supplementary material. No new gene sequences were solution or by regular mail for further review by three generated in this study. experienced physicians. Details on antibiotic treatment were provided, including whether antibiotic treatment Statistical analyses was prescribed or not, the time since the last treatment, Descriptive and univariate analyses the latency of treatment in weeks, the number of treat- Standard descriptive statistics were presented to sum- treatment and the type of specific antibiotic treatment. teristics of the study population. Univariate analyses were Information on verified tick bites, tick bite count, con- performed to assess differences between groups, defined firmed tick-borne disease before persistent symptoms, by endemic status (high vs. low), geographic region, and erythema migrans (EM), lymphocytoma, disseminated participants who delivered medical records or not. Out- borreliosis (neuroborreliosis, Lyme arthritis and carditis, comes included Bb-IgG and other tick-borne seropreva- borne encephalitis (TBE), symptoms attributed to a pos- FSS, RAND-36 (PCS), and HAD scores). Categorical sible tick-borne disease and findings from cerebrospinal variables were compared using chi-square tests or Fish- The medical records were collected between February t-tests, Mann-Whitney U tests, as appropriate. 2020 and April 2022. Population prevalence and seroprevalence Serological outcomes Population-level prevalence and seroprevalence of IgG antibodies detected in this study included those Bb-IgG were estimated using weighted logistic regres- against Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Tick-borne sion, adjusted for age (continuous) and sex. Informa- encephalitis
