Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


IgG antibodies detected in this study included those Bb-IgG were estimated using weighted logistic regres- against Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Tick-borne sion, adjusted for age (continuous) and sex. Informa- encephalitis virus (TBEV), Francisella tularensis, Coxi- tion on nonparticipants (n = 269,608; invited but did not ella burnetii, Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Babesia respond) was not analysed directly, but used to construct spp., Bartonella spp., and Rickettsia spp. (Supplementary survey weights to adjust for response bias. For serop- material, serology). revalence analyses, weights were based on incident LB cases reported to MSIS in 2017; for prevalence analyses, DNA sampling and Preparation weights were based on population proportions. Weights DNA was extracted from EDTA-anticoagulated blood were calculated by dividing the proportion of partici- samples collected from study participants. Specifically, pants in each county by the proportion of the underly- samples were collected from 101 persons recruited ing population in the same strata. Weighted logistic through public invitation and GPs, and from 285 persons regression models were fitted with group membership recruited via SMS (Supplementary material). or Bb-IgG serology as the dependent variable, and region and endemic status of counties as covariates. Predicted probabilities were calculated for each individual and averaged across the sample to obtain adjusted national years [50.1–53.7]) with p < 0.001. Furthermore, a higher and regional prevalence estimates, which were visualized proportion of those with monthly net income > 20,000 in tables and figures. Crude prevalences of other tick- NOK provided medical records (p = 0.016). A higher borne microbes were compared between groups without proportion of those who provided medical records were adjustment. from high-endemic areas of tick-borne diseases (88.2%) compared to low-endemic areas (11.8%) (p = 0.033). A work outcomes areas had lower educational levels (< 3 years after pri- Linear regression models were constructed for continu- mary school) (29.9%) compared to low-endemic areas ous outcomes (PHQ-15, FSS, RAND-36 (PCS)). Candi- (12.2%) (p = 0.011). There were no significant differences date predictors were selected using a two-step process in age, sex, BMI, physical activity, income, and employ- (univariate analysis followed by age- and sex-adjusted ment status between those recruited from high-endemic linear regression), and variables meeting the selection areas and those from low-endemic areas. See Table 1 for criteria were included in stepwise/backward multiple details. regression models (entry α = 0.10, removal α = 0.15). Final models were adjusted for age and sex and calculated in Estimation of prevalence a
