Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


compared with those who did not (n = 45, Bb-seroprevalence, or confirmed tick-borne diseases 16.1%, p = 0.034). No significant differences in comor- between high- and low-endemic areas. In our previ- bid diseases or concomitant medications were observed ous study , 35% self-reported a tick bite in the past when comparing high- and low-endemic areas (Table S2). year and 73% multiple lifetime bites, with no difference between symptomatic participants and controls. Since Discussion many bites go unnoticed, self-reported exposure cannot We report that the southwestern regions of Norway imply causality. While self-reported bites may not reliably showed the highest prevalence of persistent symptoms indicate exposure, even confirmed bites and diagnoses attributed to tick bites (152–155 per 100,000), while did not explain regional differences. However, national the northern areas had the lowest prevalence (33 per migration may explain the similarities in seroprevalence 100,000). The northern areas had a significantly lower Bb- of tick-borne pathogens between the regions. Addi- IgG seroprevalence of 15.4% compared to 37.5% nation- tionally, the seroprevalence of Bb in Northern Norway ally, while the other regions exhibited similar rates. Based remains uncertain due to a low number of blood samples. on medical records, exposure to verified tick bites and An exception is TBEV, with a higher seroprevalence in tick-borne diseases was not associated with decreased the southern region (17.4%, p < 0.015). Since only 5.4% tom burden was most strongly associated with physical only some long-term symptoms in this area. The inci- inactivity, while for severe fatigue and reduced physical dence of LB and prevalence of Ixodes ricinus are highest By summarizing the number of reported cases of LB behaviour and perceived risk have been found among in 2018 (8/100,000) from MSIS (EM not reported) with persons living in high-endemic areas . Increased an estimated annual incidence of EM of 0.15% in Nor- awareness may have led persons to attribute persistent way , the total estimated annual incidence of LB symptoms to tick bites, even when other underlying becomes approximately 0.16%. Assuming that up to causes, such as comorbidities, may have been responsi- 20% of LB patients develop persistent symptoms , ble for their symptoms . However, Bb-IgG-seroprev- this corresponds to an estimated annual incidence of alence in our total sample was clearly higher than both approximately 0.031% for post-treatment or persistent the nationally adjusted seroprevalence in persons over 20 Lyme-related symptoms. Compared to the national point years
