Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


our total sample was clearly higher than both approximately 0.031% for post-treatment or persistent the nationally adjusted seroprevalence in persons over 20 Lyme-related symptoms. Compared to the national point years of age and findings from a study conducted in prevalence of 0.12% for persistent symptoms attributed to a high-endemic area . Among those diagnosed with tick bites found in our study, this may suggest that symp- LB by alternative laboratories, only 20.8% were con- toms persist over longer time in some persons. However, firmed by our serological tests (Bb-IgG), closely matching we cannot rule out the possibility that other contributing Bb seroprevalence observed in the high-endemic Søgne factors, such as comorbidities , play a role. cohort . The low confirmation rate may reflect mis- The higher prevalence of persistent symptoms in diagnosing due to the use of inappropriate diagnostic the southwestern and highly endemic areas cannot tests or a decline in Bb-specific IgG antibody levels over be explained solely by increased tick exposure, as we time. Although IgG antibodies can persist for many years following treatment, they may eventually decline below had persistent symptoms potentially associated with tick detectable levels, especially when infections are treated bites or tick-borne infections. early . However, it is likely that fewer persons than Persistent symptoms attributed to tick bites have long assumed have been infected with or exposed to Bb. been a controversial topic, eliciting strong opinions from DNA from the tick-borne pathogen N. mikurensis both medical professionals and the public . Hypoth- was detected in low amounts by PCR in the blood of 12 eses to explain this include tissue persistence of Bb (e.g. persons; however, a follow-up study of 11 of these cases via biofilm ) and post-infectious or host-mediated revealed no greater symptom burden compared to other sequelae . A recent study indicate that Bb peptido- participants with persistent symptoms . None of the glycan can persist in discrete tissues and elicit systemic other eight tick-borne pathogens were detected by PCR immune responses , whereas Dutch and American in the blood samples. A positive PCR result generally randomized controlled trials (RCT) have consistently indicates an active infection and is usually most sensitive failed to demonstrate benefit from prolonged antibiotic for detecting tick-borne microbes during the early stages treatment . A Norwegian RCT further showed of infection [35–37]. Borrelia burgdorferi is rarely present that standard antibiotic therapy for Lyme neuroborrelio- in blood
