Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


tick-borne microbes during the early stages treatment . A Norwegian RCT further showed of infection [35–37]. Borrelia burgdorferi is rarely present that standard antibiotic therapy for Lyme neuroborrelio- in blood (except in early infection or immunosuppressed sis (LNB), consisting of two weeks of doxycycline, is suf- patients), so PCR is primarily used on synovial fluid or ficient . These contrasting lines of evidence underpin cerebrospinal fluid for diagnosing Lyme arthritis, neu- the divergent recommendations of ILADS and IDSA roborreliosis, atypical EM, and acrodermatitis chronica guidelines for managing persistent symptoms following atrophicans (ACA), whereas other tick-borne pathogens tick-bites and Lyme disease . A notable 34.9% of our examined in our study typically circulate or multiply in study participants had undergone long-term antibiotic blood cells and are more readily detected by PCR . treatment abroad, but relatively few of them had received However, the results suggest that active infections from a Lyme diagnosis from alternative laboratories. Our find- known tick-borne pathogens that were investigated are ings indicate that long-term antibiotic treatment (> 4 unlikely in these persons and raise the possibility of mis- weeks) is not associated with reduced fatigue in persons orously applied or if unreliable diagnostic methods are trary, increased fatigue was associated with such treat- used. ment, possibly reflecting a lack of therapeutic effect or The most common clinical symptom found in medi- that persons with more severe symptoms are more likely cal records was fatigue (19.5%). The prevalence of severe to receive prolonged treatment. fatigue in the Norwegian population is 2% , and the Misinformation from media and the internet can prevalence of chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic enceph- lead to cognitive bias . Cognitive mechanisms for alitis (CFS/ME) varies between 0.1 and 2.5% depending functional disorders may involve the nocebo effect, body on the criteria used . In a Scottish population study, awareness, and negative expectations increasing anxiety the adjusted prevalence of long-COVID symptoms attrib- and attention to one’s own symptoms . An ‘infectious’ utable to SARS-CoV-2 was estimated at 6.6% − 10.4%, disease, like CLD, can also more readily reduce stigma while 40.2% of infected individuals reported tiredness six , thereby reinforcing the desire to obtain a treat- months after infection . Although different methods able diagnosis. Comparatively, another study during the underlie these figures, they show that fatigue is a com- COVID-19 pandemic, found that persistent physical mon feature of these conditions. symptoms were more associated with
