Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


another study during the underlie these figures, they show that fatigue is a com- COVID-19 pandemic, found that persistent physical mon feature of these conditions. symptoms were more associated with the belief of being Most participants in our study were satisfied with infected than with confirmed infection . Further- the treatment received from both public and alterna- more, persistent physical symptoms are very common in tive healthcare services. Those who submitted medical the general population, with both symptom expression records and were satisfied with public healthcare used and underlying explanations being heterogeneous [52, alternative laboratories less frequently compared to those 53]. who did not provide medical records. Some study par- A study found no differences in symptoms, laboratory ticipants may have hidden tests or lack documentation results, or disease progression between a group with pre- because they only used alternative care. Their symptoms sumed post Lyme disease syndrome (PTLDS) and various may be different or vaguer, leading to further evaluation groups without evidence of Bb exposure . A previous outside the public system. Although we do not know for Dutch study found an increased prevalence of persistent sure about those who did not submit medical records, the symptoms after treatment for LB, with fatigue being the majority of those who did submit records experienced most significant outcome . Another Dutch study symptom improvement after treatment. Tick exposure identified several predictors for persistent symptoms fol- is high in our study population, but very few (14/169) lowing confirmed LB, including low baseline social and physical functioning, affective symptoms, negative illness perceptions, and fatigue. In a separate subgroup from the This study has several limitations. The study is retro- same study, comprising individuals with self-attributed spective, and there are possibilities of misclassification cant factor. At the one-year follow-up, 80.7% met criteria vices. Additionally, the records might be incomplete, for fatigue, cognitive impairment, or pain, consistent with with some information potentially lost due to changes of our findings where 97.3% had severe fatigue, high symp- GPs. However, the records were directly provided by par- not identical symptom profiles). Another study found no ing they intended to submit the necessary information signs of Bb infection after treatment but suggested that regarding various tick-borne infections. It is possible that immune factors, such as elevated IL-23 and autoantibod- some information was deliberately omitted, as only 36% ies, may be relevant in some patients with post-treatment of participants
