Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


is possible that immune factors, such as elevated IL-23 and autoantibod- some information was deliberately omitted, as only 36% ies, may be relevant in some patients with post-treatment of participants submitted their medical records. There symptoms . may be selection bias in submitted medical records, with In our study population, fatigue was associated with a slight overrepresentation of older, high-income indi- low physical activity, depression, and reduced work par- viduals from highly endemic areas. Conversely, recruit- ticipation. Increased somatic symptom burden correlated ment via SMS may be biased toward younger, healthier with decreased physical activity, Bb seronegativity, and participants. PCR results depend on the availability of with low work participation, which was further associ- gression and tissue type, and can be affected by inhibitors ated with comorbidities, depression, low income, and that impede amplification. The Babesia PCR assays used strongest associations with both fatigue and reduced samples, so data on detection sensitivity and specificity physical health. Prior documented tick bites or tick-borne are not available. The selection of DNA isolation kit and infections, based on medical records, were not associated protocols is critical, as some pathogens may be difficult with the health outcomes in adjusted analyses. Stepwise to access or may reside in different fractions of the sam- regression with PHQ-15, FSS and PCS as dependent vari- ple than those typically processed. In some cases, patho- ables, adjusted for age and sex, showed that psychoso- gens may be present in such low numbers that host DNA cial and functional factors had the strongest associations dominates the extraction, potentially overwhelming the with symptom severity. While these factors cannot be system and reducing sensitivity, unless enrichment pro- used to directly confirm or refute the persistent infection cedures are implemented. Additionally, sample quality hypothesis due to limitations in tick bite documentation, can be compromised by inadequate storage conditions or they underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary repeated freeze-thaw cycles, which may degrade nucleic work, and coping. Building patient trust through clear negative PCR results should be interpreted with caution effective long-term treatment alliances. as outlined above. However, the sample material in this Our study population may share many phenotypic study was processed and analysed with expertise, which similarities with other related conditions, such as CFS/ strengthens the reliability of the findings. Review of med- ME . One of the cardinal symptoms of CFS/ME ical records identified only 14/169 participants in whom is ‘post-exertional
