Dahlberg et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:1663 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: symptoms, tick-borne, study, treatment, norway, persistent, tick, records, fatigue, medical, bites, physical, associated, prevalence, adjusted


as CFS/ strengthens the reliability of the findings. Review of med- ME . One of the cardinal symptoms of CFS/ME ical records identified only 14/169 participants in whom is ‘post-exertional exhaustion,’ and in our study popula- other causes did not fully explain their symptoms, sug- tion, low physical activity was the variable most strongly gesting that persistent infection cannot be completely associated with fatigue. The direction of this associa- excluded in these few cases; however, immune status was tion remains unclear. Nevertheless, physical activity and unknown. cognitive behavioural therapy has been found to have an Conclusions effect in CFS/ME and long-COVID-19 , and it may be worthwhile to further investigate this in a popu- We found the highest prevalence of persistent symp- lation with persistent physical symptoms attributed to toms attributed to tick bites or tick-borne diseases in ticks. Furthermore, persons with unexplained physical highly tick-endemic areas, mainly southwestern Norway. symptoms often seek meaningful explanations, which However, symptom persistence was not associated with may explain why many focus on ticks as a possible cause a medical history of tick bites or evidence of tick-borne despite lacking clinical evidence. This underscores the infections. Somatic symptoms correlated with low physi- need for better education and interdisciplinary dialogue cal activity and the presence of comorbidities. Under- about both tick-borne diseases and how patient percep- employment was most strongly associated with reduced tions shape their care. physical health and increased fatigue. Other key factors the BorrSci project. The work was also funded by the Liaison Committee associated with fatigue included low physical activity between the Central Norway Regional Health Authority and the Norwegian and depressive symptoms. Fatigue was also associated University of Science and Technology. with an increased risk of long-term sick leave, whereas Data availability comorbidity was associated with underemployment. The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are Future research should clarify mechanisms of symptom not publicly available due to privacy concerns and the potential for re-identification. However, they can be obtained from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. education, interdisciplinary dialogue, and tailored man- agement strategies. Declarations Abbreviations Ethics approval and consent to participate ACA Acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans The study was approved by the Regional Committee on Medical and Health Bb Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato Research Ethics, South-East Norway (reference number 2018/759). Informed CFS/ME Chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalitis consent was obtained from all participants, who were informed that they CLD
