Chest pain, resolved. Reperfusion T-waves. Should the patient go emergently to the cath lab_ - Dr. Smith’s ECG Blog
KEYWORDS: ecg, right, leads, pain, chest, sided, right sided, patient, sided ecg, inferior, chest pain, elevation, sternum, occlusion, concerning


A patient presented to the emergency department from a clinic for a “STEMI activation”. He had been having stuttering exertional chest pain and exercise intolerance for nearly 1 week. However, he had been out of the country and told us that he “didnʼt want to go to the hospital there,” so he waited until his convenient appointment with his primary doctor in clinic in Minnesota. His physician astutely assessed the concerning history, obtained the initial ECG, which he recognized as very worrisome, and so transferred him to the ED after giving 324mg of aspirin. Here is that clinic ECG, recorded while pain-free: This is diagnostic of acute vs. subacute OMI, almost certainly reperfused. There is inferior ST elevation (II, III, aVF) and anterior precordial ST depression (V2, V3), diagnostic of inferior-posterior occlusive event. But also note the T-wave inversions inferiorly, which strongly suggest some element of reperfusion, especially in the context of resolved chest pain (pain free). There are also well-formed Q-waves that suggest that the infarct was subacute (several hours old) at the time it reperfused. Smith: I am surprised that she does not say “Repefused OMI”. The cardiology fellow was in the ED by the time Dr. Smith arrived; he looked at the ECG and said “This is a reperfused OMI. The patient should go to the cath lab now because he is at very high risk of re-occlusion at any moment.” The fellow talked with the interventionalist, who said: “This is an NSTEMI and the patient can wait for intervention.” At this moment, while the patient was still completely pain free, we recorded another ECG: Now there is significant worsening of ST elevation inferiorly and of the ST depression in the precordial leads. Accordingly, there is increased reciprocal ST depression in aVL. This is now clearly a hyperacute Occlusion MI. The artery is actively re-occluding without any pain! 5 minutes later we record a right sided ECG: Limb leads are not placed differently in a right sided ECG (only precordial leads are reversed). The limb leads now show pseudonormalization of the inferior T-waves [re-occlusion results in the previously inverted reperfusion T-waves becoming upright (“pseudonormalizing”)]. V4-6 are now V4R, V5R, V6R on the right chest. Comment on right sided ECGs: all leads for Right sided ECG are reversed: [V1 = V2R to the right of the sternum; V2 = V2R to the left of the sternum, etc.] Q-waves
