Chest pain, resolved. Reperfusion T-waves. Should the patient go emergently to the cath lab_ - Dr. Smith’s ECG Blog
KEYWORDS: ecg, right, leads, pain, chest, sided, right sided, patient, sided ecg, inferior, chest pain, elevation, sternum, occlusion, concerning


sided ECGs: all leads for Right sided ECG are reversed: [V1 = V2R to the right of the sternum; V2 = V2R to the left of the sternum, etc.] Q-waves are normal in right chest leads because they are opposite of the electrically dominant LV. Note the slight ST elevation in V4R, V5R, and V6R highly suggestive of RV infarction. Grauer: Did YOU recognize the “technical misadventure” in the recording of the right-sided ECG? With the progression of ECG changes and concerning history, even without chest pain at this moment, patient was fortunately taken to the catheterization lab. Angiogram: 90% distal LM 90% ostial proximal LAD Subtotal occlusion of LADD1 and LADD2 Subtotal occlusion of OM-1 70-80% mid and distal RCA OM-1 was the probable culprit. Since the proximal RCA was not involved, the ST Elevation in right leads is probably a false positive. Echo: Estimated LV ejection fraction lower limits of normal-51%. Regional wall motion abnormalities : mid-apical inferior and inferior. Septal walls are dyskinetic, and likely aneurysmal. Normal right ventricular size and function. (This verifies that RV MI is very unlikely). Management: Due to severe multi-vessel disease including proximal LAD, a temporizing intra-aortic balloon pump was placed while a CABG was planned for the next day to augment coronary perfusion pressure and allow for safer induction of anesthesia the next day. No percutaneous intervention was done on the OM1 culprit. First hs troponin I returned at 3443 ng/L. Next trop was not measured until 6 hours later and was 2987 ng/L. I suspect it rose a bit and then fell, the peak occurring sometime in the interval. Emilyʼs Reminders & Take-Aways: Do not let the resolution of chest pain alone dissuade you from activating Cath Lab–the ECG is crucial! Especially when ECG is concerning or prior history is highly suggestive of coronary occlusion. Itʼs estimated that over 20% of heart attacks are silent. Although a “silent MI” is one that is not discovered until a later physician visit, it highlights the fact that cardiac ischemia can be completely asymptomatic.
