Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


are uncommon, and most often resolve without discontinuing treatment. Permanent sexual adverse effects have been reported on social media and internet forums; however, the true incidence is unknown. Dutasteride inhibits type I and type II 5 alpha reductase, and it might be superior to finasteride in improving hair growth in young males. However, adverse sexual side effects are more common with dutasteride than with finasteride. Combining medications with different mechanisms of action enhances the efficacy. Topical antiandrogens, prostaglandin analogues, topical antifungals, growth factors, and laser treatment are all emerging medical treatments for MAA, yet lack the necessary research to confirm efficacy and safety. Hair transplantation involves removal of hair from the occipital scalp and re-implantation into the bald vertex and frontal scalp. With modern techniques, graft survival in excess of 90% can be reliably achieved. A combination of these therapeutic options is now available for men experiencing MAA, with favorable cosmetic outcomes possible. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Male androgenetic alopecia (MAA, male pattern baldness) is the most common cause of hair loss in men. The hair loss is progressive. Gradual conversion of terminal hairs into vellus hairs occurs in a highly reproducible pattern, denudes the scalp and leads to baldness. While some degree of androgen-dependent hair loss is universal after puberty, the prevalence of alopecia of sufficient severity to warrant a diagnosis of balding increases with advancing age. Twin studies confirm that hair loss is a genetically determined phenomenon. Observational studies in eunuchs have established the androgen-dependent nature of this condition. The morbidity of MAA is predominately psychological, although MAA is associated with slight increased risk of melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer of the scalp. MAA has a variable psychosocial impact on the affected individual, however premature MAA is more likely to cause emotional distress. MAA is reportedly associated with increased incidence of myocardial infarction, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia. Topical minoxidil and finasteride (5 alpha reductase type II inhibitor) are the only FDA approved treatments for MAA. Both agents arrest progression of hair loss and stimulate partial regrowth of hair. Dutasteride (dual 5 alpha reductase type I and II inhibitor) is more potent and has been more effective than finasteride in phase II trials but phase III trial data are limited. Hair transplantation is widely practiced in the USA and takes advantage of the relative sparing and
