Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


effective than finasteride in phase II trials but phase III trial data are limited. Hair transplantation is widely practiced in the USA and takes advantage of the relative sparing and androgen-resistant nature of donor occipital hairs. New insights into the pathophysiology, genetic basis of MAA, and the role of androgens may help in the discovery of additional treatments for androgenetic alopecia. EPIDEMIOLOGY Hamilton estimated that 30% to 50% of men developed MAA by the age of 50 (1) . Many Western studies have shown that there are racial as well as age-related differences in the incidence and pattern of hair loss in MAA (2) . The incidence and severity of MAA is reported to be more common in Caucasian men than other nationalities. It has been observed that advanced degrees of alopecia are more frequent and develop at an earlier age in Caucasian than in Mongolian populations (3) . The onset of MAA in the Japanese occurs one decade later than in Caucasians. (4) Black, Oriental, Native American, and African-American men are more likely to have preservation of their frontal hair lines, less extensive and late onset baldness than Caucasians (1,5-7) . A population study completed in Singapore supports that Chinese men are reported to have a lower incidence of MAA (8) . Age prevalence of MAA has been documented in numerous study populations. In Australia, a study of 1390 men between the ages of 40 and 69 was conducted to determine the prevalence and risk factors for MAA. The prevalence of vertex or full baldness ( Figure 1 ) (Norwood Hamilton scale) increases with age from 31% (age 40-55) to 53% (age 65-69). A receding frontal hairline was found in 25% of men aged 40-55 and 31% aged 65-69 (9) . A survey done in the USA reported a prevalence of moderate or severe MAA of 53% in the age group 40-49 (10) . An increased incidence of MAA with aging has also been reported in Korean population, with type III-vertex involvement most commonly seen in the third to seventh decades (11) . The prevalence of MAA in Singaporean males was reported to be 63%, increasing with age, from 32% at 17-26 years to 100% after 80 years (8) . Figure 1. Androgenetic alopecia patterns in men. PSYCHOSOCIAL IMPACT OF MAA Hair is an essential part of an individual's self-image and its main significance relates to socialization. Thus, the
