Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


. Figure 1. Androgenetic alopecia patterns in men. PSYCHOSOCIAL IMPACT OF MAA Hair is an essential part of an individual's self-image and its main significance relates to socialization. Thus, the consequences of MAA are predominantly psychological. Several studies show that the negative self-perception of balding patients appears to be consistent between Western (12, 13) and Asian cultures (14) . The negative impact of MAA is often trivialized or ignored by unaffected people (15) . However, there is evidence that perception by others may compound the psychological problems suffered by balding men. A Korean study of the perception of balding men by women and non-balding men found that their negative perception of men with MAA was similar to the psychosocial effects reported by the patients themselves (14) . Of note, a perception of bald men looking less attractive was found in more than 90% of subjects surveyed. This view was more common in women than non-balding men. Such negative perceptions may further impair the social functioning of balding men. A recent study confirmed a high prevalence of depression and anxiety in patients experiencing androgenetic alopecia, who often utilize avoidant coping strategies (16) . It is important to note however, that most affected men cope well with androgenetic alopecia, without significant impact on their psychosocial function. Thus, those who do seek help are likely to be in greater emotional distress and have been dissatisfied with any treatment they have received. The most distressed balding men are those with more extensive hair loss, those who have very early onset, and those that believe their balding is progressive (12) . It is important for the physician to address the patients’ emotional responses to alopecia, including anger, anxiety, and depression, including their beliefs about the impact of their condition (16) . MAA AND DISEASE ASSOCIATIONS Cotton et al. first suggested idea that male pattern baldness may be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease (17) . This has been subsequently supported by several other studies (18-21) . A recent study found that asymptomatic young men with at least Grade 3 vertex baldness have a significantly greater risk of arterial stiffness than those with normal hair status (22) . However, most of these studies were conducted by non-dermatologists and no dermatologic input was included for confirmation of MAA diagnoses. These statistically-significant, though weak, associations were discovered in epidemiological, cohort, and case control studies. Severe early onset of
