Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


non-dermatologists and no dermatologic input was included for confirmation of MAA diagnoses. These statistically-significant, though weak, associations were discovered in epidemiological, cohort, and case control studies. Severe early onset of MAA in subjects before age 30 may be associated with a higher risk for ischemic heart disease. In a retrospective study of 22,071 American subjects, men experiencing vertex balding were shown to have an increased incidence of myocardial infarction compared with frontal alopecia (23) . One study showed that frontal male pattern baldness in young men was associated with increased serum cholesterol levels and higher blood pressure compared to men of similar age with no hair loss (23) . Increased incidences of hypertension and elevated aldosterone levels have also been found in women with female pattern hair loss (24,25) . No clear link between cardiovascular diseases and MAA has been established. High androgen levels have been postulated to cause MAA as well as atherosclerosis and thrombosis, however some data has shown no association between baldness and established coronary risk factors (26) . An increased incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia has been associated with MAA, and MAA could be an early marker of the disease (27-29) . A recent study, however, suggested that there is no relationship between androgenetic alopecia, benign prostatic hyperplasia, PSA level, and prostate volume (30) . Prostate cancer has also been found to be positively associated with MAA in various studies (31,31) . A large scale Australian case-control study found that vertex balding was associated with a 50% increase in risk of prostate cancer and 11 year follow up data suggests that vertex androgenetic alopecia at age of 40 years might be a marker of increased risk of early-onset prostate cancer (32,33) . A meta-analysis conducted using Medline and Cochrane databases suggests that an increased risk of prostate cancer was only associated with vertex baldness, whereas other patterns appear to have no association (34) . However, associations with high-grade prostate cancer were found in all patterns of MAA, being especially significant in men aged 60-69 years. An association and a pathophysiological mechanism for the link between MAA and prostate cancer also remains to be established but may involve the dual dependence of these conditions on dihydrotestosterone (35) . A meta-analysis of case-control studies (n=5) has suggested a reduced risk of testicular germ cell tumor (TGCT) in men with MAA (36) . They reported that a statistically significant
