Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


. A meta-analysis of case-control studies (n=5) has suggested a reduced risk of testicular germ cell tumor (TGCT) in men with MAA (36) . They reported that a statistically significant association was observed, suggesting that MAA might become a protective factor for the risk of TGCT. Testicular cancer is hormone-dependent as supported by its rapid increase in incidence starting at pubertal age and late onset of puberty has been inversely associated with the risk of testicular cancer. MAA and testicular cancer share some biological and epidemiologic risk factors including: aging, genetic inheritance, and androgenetic influence. Androgen metabolic pathway genetic variation studies showed that Ser312-Asn polymorphism of the luteinizing hormone receptor was linked to a decreased relative risk of TGCT (37) . These conclusions have been based on a limited number of case-control studies and further research is required. Recent studies suggest higher prevalence, comorbidity, and mortality rates of COVID-19 in males than females. A review of 59,254 individuals from 11 countries, demonstrated higher mortality of SARS-CoV-2 infection in males. A possible suggestion of MAA and worse Covid-19 outcomes has led to several studies reviewing this association (38-40) . One study assessed the severity of hair loss in 1,941 admitted male symptomatic patients that tested for SARS-CoV-2 infection, consisted of 1,605 negative-tested and 336 positives. Classification of hair loss was obtained from the UK Biobank data based on the Hamilton–Norwood Scale (HNS). Severe MAA (HNS 4–7) was significantly associated with a higher rate of positive COVID-19 tests (41) . In addition, severe MAA had a higher odds ratio than other important risk factors consisting of increased Body Mass Index, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and diabetes. However, mild and moderate MAA (in comparison with patients with no hair loss) did not correlate significantly with increased COVID-19 positivity. The main limitation of that study was that the MAA characterization of patients was based on self-reported data (41) . Wambier et al. in a recent study, described SARS-CoV-2 infectivity through transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2), which is associated with androgen sensitivity (42) . Moreover, the prospective cohort study of Goren et al. involved 77 men admitted with COVID-19; ICU admission was significantly lower (1 out of 12 patients; 8%) in the group taking anti-androgens (dutasteride, finasteride, spironolactone, etc.) relative to the group that did not use anti-androgens (38 out of 65 patients; 58%) (43) . Recent studies suggested both high and low androgen levels could lead
