Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


spironolactone, etc.) relative to the group that did not use anti-androgens (38 out of 65 patients; 58%) (43) . Recent studies suggested both high and low androgen levels could lead to a severe course of COVID-19 (44) . Increased tissue dihydrotestosterone (DHT) levels are seen in hyperandrogenic conditions like MAA, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and prostate cancer (45) . Notably, Motopoli et al. studied androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) in 118 prostate cancer patients and demonstrated that ADT might have a protective role against SARS-CoV-2 infection (46) . ETIOLOGY Genetic factors and androgens both play key roles in causing “androgenic” hair loss. Genetics and Androgenetic Alopecia A familial tendency to MAA and racial variation in the prevalence of balding is well recognized (5,47) . Twin studies identified heredity as accounting for around 80% of the predisposition to baldness (48) . Genetic factors modify the magnitude of the hair follicle response to circulating androgens. Those with a strong predisposition go bald in their teenage years, while those with a weak predisposition may not go bald until they are in their 60s or 70s. Fewer than 15% of men have little or no baldness by the age of 70 (49) . Osborne in 1916 suggested that the baldness gene behaved in an autosomal dominant manner in men and an autosomal recessive fashion in women (50) . Happle and Küster were unable to demonstrate a bimodal distribution of phenotypes with clearly unaffected and clearly affected individuals as is usually seen in autosomal dominant disorders (51) . In contrast they observed a range of phenotypes for men and women that seem to follow a normal distribution. This, together with the finding that baldness risk increases with the number of affected family members, is more consistent with polygenic inheritance. Furthermore, they noted that inherited traits due to single gene defects rarely have an incidence greater that 1:1000, while polygenic diseases are much more common, as is the case with androgenetic alopecia. The current concept of it being a polygenic inheritance is supported by an Australian study that examined the frequency of baldness in the fathers of balding men (52) . Of the fifty-four father-son relationships, 81.5% of balding sons had fathers who had cosmetically significant balding. This figure greatly exceeded the proportion expected of an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. The same authors also described an association of male pattern baldness with a polymorphism of the androgen receptor
