Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


greatly exceeded the proportion expected of an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. The same authors also described an association of male pattern baldness with a polymorphism of the androgen receptor gene on the X chromosome (52,53) . The androgen receptor gene restriction fragment length polymorphism [RFLP] was found in almost all (98.1%) young bald men, older bald men (92.3%), but only in 77% of non-bald men. This polymorphism appears to be necessary for the development of MAA, but its presence in non-bald men indicates that it is necessary but not sufficient to cause the phenotype (53) . In addition, several shorter triplet repeat haplotypes were found in higher frequency in bald men than in normal controls. These RFLPs appear to be associated with a functional variant of the androgen receptor (AR) gene. Of note, the androgen receptor gene is located on the X chromosome, which is passed on from mother to a male child. However, family studies have shown resemblance of hair loss between fathers and sons, which cannot be explained by AR gene mutations alone. These data suggest that other autosomal genes may also be contributing to the phenotype. Several studies have examined the other candidate genes and chromosomal regions that can contribute to the hair loss. Genetic association studies of 5 alpha reductase genes SRD5A1 on chromosome 5 and SRD5A2 on chromosome 2, using dimorphic intragenic restriction fragment length polymorphisms in 828 families, failed to show an association between these genes and MAA (53) . However, the role of the 5 alpha reductase enzyme in MAA is evident from its role in the metabolism of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and the effect of 5 alpha reductase inhibitors in treating hair loss. The cytochrome p450 alpha aromatase enzyme has also been found to contribute to androgenetic alopecia. Aromatase diminishes intra-follicular testosterone by catalyzing the conversion of testosterone to estradiol. Differences exist in the expression of aromatase in balding and non-balding scalp (54) . Yip et al suggest that the aromatase gene (CYP19A1) might predispose to hair loss in women (55) . Hillmer et al sought to identify new susceptibility genes in MAA (56) . In a genome wide scan and fine mapping linkage study performed on 95 families, they found that there is strong evidence for an MAA susceptibility locus on chromosome 3q26 (56) . This study could not confirm or exclude the relevance of chromosomes 11q22-q24, 18p11-q22, and
