Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


found that there is strong evidence for an MAA susceptibility locus on chromosome 3q26 (56) . This study could not confirm or exclude the relevance of chromosomes 11q22-q24, 18p11-q22, and 19p13-q13 in causing MAA. Another genome-wide association study completed by Hillmer et al found a highly significant association on chromosome 20p11 suggesting that the 20p11 locus has a role in a yet-to-be-identified androgen-independent pathway (57) . A new susceptibility variant on chromosome 7p21.1 suggests HDAC9 is a 3rd candidate gene for male-pattern baldness (58) . A recent genome wide association study conducted in the United Kingdom, using 25,662 MPB cases and 17,928 controls, found 71 signiﬁcantly associated loci, 30 of which were previously undescribed. These loci account for 38% of the heritability of MAA, suggesting a relatively low level of complexity in the genetic architecture (59) . GENETIC TESTING IN ANDROGENETIC ALOPECIA A gene polymorphism-based diagnostic test that will predict the chances of future androgenetic alopecia development is now in the market (53,56) . For young patients concerned about hair loss, this test may help to define the value of early treatment initiation. In males, the gene test can predict the chances for MAA by reporting the presence or absence of a specific variation in the androgen receptor gene found on the X chromosome. The variant androgen receptor gene causes changes in the hair follicle’s response to dihydrotestosterone, resulting in alterations in the hair growth cycle. A positive test result indicates a 70% chance of developing MAA, whereas a negative test result indicates a 70% chance of not developing MAA. The test is of value as a screening test in predicting the future chances of developing MAA rather than a confirmatory test. Recently, a gene test has been developed that is designed to evaluate an individual’s response to finasteride therapy. The test is based on significant association of specific variations in the androgen receptor gene and the likelihood that a man will respond to finasteride therapy (60) . The test provides the patient’s CAG repeat length score in the androgen receptor gene. A shorter CAG repeat length (<22) is associated with a greater likelihood that the patient will experience a significant benefit by using finasteride for the treatment of MAA. The genetic test for finasteride response helps determine if the patient will have a slight, moderate, or great response to finasteride treatment. These tests are not routinely performed in clinical
