Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


The genetic test for finasteride response helps determine if the patient will have a slight, moderate, or great response to finasteride treatment. These tests are not routinely performed in clinical practice currently. Hormones and Androgenetic Alopecia The role of androgen in male pattern hair loss is well established. American anatomist James Hamilton observed that castrated males did not develop MAA unless they were supplemented with testosterone (61) . Measurements of serum androgens, testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEA), and free testosterone levels have failed to demonstrate a reproducible difference between cases and controls (62) . A study that assessed different hormonal levels in MAA and age-matched controls measured elevated levels of cortisol and androstenedione in those experiencing MAA (63) . This study further suggests a broad range of hormones may influence androgenetic alopecia. Even though scalp hair loss and hirsutism are essential features of hyperandrogenism in women, several investigations failed to demonstrate raised androgen levels in women (64) . Therefore, it is suggested that normal levels of androgens are sufficient to cause hair loss in genetically susceptible individuals. The observation that eunuchoidal patients with androgen-insensitivity syndrome and 5 alpha-reductase deficiency do not go bald suggests that MAA is induced by activation of follicular androgen receptors by DHT (65-67) . Patients affected by Kennedy's disease, with a functional abnormality of the androgen receptor gene, have a reduced risk of MAA (68) . Increased levels of DHT have been found in balding scalp compared to non-balding scalp (69) . Intrafollicular androgen over-activity may also be the result of local factors including an increased number of androgen receptors, functional polymorphisms of the androgen receptor, increased local production of DHT, and reduced local degradation of DHT (70) . Similar to the classical steroidogenic organs, such as gonads and adrenal glands, the skin and its appendages, including hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and eccrine/apocrine glands, are armed with all the necessary enzymes required for androgen synthesis and metabolism. The 5 alpha reductase enzyme plays a central role through the intrafollicular conversion of testosterone to the more active metabolite DHT (71) . DHT binds the androgen receptor with 5 times the avidity of testosterone and is more potent in its ability to cause downstream activation (72) . Two 5 alpha reductase isoenzymes have been characterized, based on their different pH optima and tissue expression patterns (73) . Type 1 5 alpha reductase is found immunohistochemically in sebaceous glands, epidermis,
