Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


alpha reductase isoenzymes have been characterized, based on their different pH optima and tissue expression patterns (73) . Type 1 5 alpha reductase is found immunohistochemically in sebaceous glands, epidermis, eccrine sweat glands, apocrine sweat glands, and hair follicles. In the skin, the activity of the type 1 5 alpha reductase is concentrated in sebaceous glands and is significantly higher in sebaceous glands from the face and scalp compared with non-acne-prone areas. Northern blot studies reveal an abundance of type 1 mRNA in neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, followed by adult facial sebocytes, and stronger expression in dermal papilla (DP) from occipital hair cells than from beard (74) . It is also found in the liver, adrenals and kidneys. Despite the wide expression pattern of type 1 enzyme, its physiological function is uncertain. The type 2 enzyme has been found by immunohistochemistry to be in the dermal papilla, the inner layer of the outer root sheath, the sebaceous ducts, and proximal inner root sheath of scalp hair follicles (75) . It is also found in the prostate, testes, and liver. Type 2 5 alpha reductase accounts for about 80% of circulating DHT. Recent studies by Hoffmann et al demonstrate that there are number of other enzymes involved in the pathogenesis of androgenetic hair loss. 17-beta- and 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (HSD), with type 2 5 alpha reductase within the dermal papilla, play a central role in the intrafollicular conversion of testosterone to DHT (76) . Fritsch et al suggest that small levels of some isoenzymes found in normal states may have important implications in disease states (77) . Steroid sulfatase, 3-beta-HSD1, 17-beta-HSD3, and type 1 5 alpha reductase are the major steroidogenic enzymes responsible for the formation of potent androgens, whereas 17-beta-HSD2, 3-alpha-HSD, and aromatase seem to inactivate the excess androgens locally in order to achieve androgen homeostasis in the hair follicles (77) . Human hair follicles, distributed in specific sites of the body, appear to have an inherited susceptibility for androgen-dependent growth starting during puberty. Depending on the body sites, androgens have paradoxically different effects on human hair follicles. Androgens stimulate hair growth in some sites such as the beard, axillary, and pubic areas and suppress the growth of frontal scalp hair of genetically disposed individuals. Itami et al proposed that the second messenger system determines whether androgen sensitive follicles will respond to androgens by either miniaturization or enhancement (78) . Androgen stimulation
