Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


genetically disposed individuals. Itami et al proposed that the second messenger system determines whether androgen sensitive follicles will respond to androgens by either miniaturization or enhancement (78) . Androgen stimulation of cultured beard dermal papilla cells lead to increased transcription of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and enhanced growth of co-cultured keratinocytes. Androgen stimulation of dermal papilla cells derived from balding scalp lead to suppression of growth of co-cultured keratinocytes. This growth suppression of keratinocytes was mediated by transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) derived from dermal papilla cells from men with MAA, suggesting that TGF-beta1 is a paracrine mediator for MAA (79) . Beard dermal papilla cells are known to secrete growth-inducing autocrine growth factors in response to testosterone, leading to an increase in dermal papilla size and enlargement of the hair follicle and hair cortex. IGF-1 has been identified as a major component of secreted cytokines (80) . Hair loss on the scalp progresses in an orderly and reproducible pattern, and is a function of factors intrinsic to each hair follicle. In vitro experiments have shown that the hair follicles are able to self-regulate their response to androgens by regulating the expression of 5 alpha reductase and androgen receptors (81-83) . This self-regulation is postulated to produce the quantifiable difference in androgen receptor numbers and 5 alpha reductase activity that is observed between balding and non-balding areas of the scalp (54, 81, 82, 84) . This intrinsic regulation is best demonstrated in hair transplantation experiments: occipital hairs maintain their resistance to MAA when transplanted to the vertex, and scalp hairs from the vertex transplanted to the forearm miniaturize at the same pace as hairs neighboring the donor site (85) . PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Large terminal follicles are shed and replaced by small vellus hairs in androgenetic alopecia. Three areas of the scalp are affected preferentially: the temples, vertex scalp, and mid frontal scalp ( Figure 2 ). Within these areas the process is strictly patterned. Bitemporal hair loss starts at the anterior hairline and moves posteriorly over the scalp. Hair loss over the vertex scalp begins centrally and radiates outwards circumferentially. Over the mid frontal scalp, hair follicle miniaturization leads to a pattern of hair loss reminiscent of a Christmas tree (86) . These three zones are not affected equally leading to clinical variations in the pattern of hair loss, with some men balding more to the front while other bald more
