Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


. These three zones are not affected equally leading to clinical variations in the pattern of hair loss, with some men balding more to the front while other bald more over the crown. Figure 2. Areas of the scalp. F-Frontal / M-Mid frontal / T-Temple / V-Vertex. The 3 key features of MAA are alteration of hair cycle dynamics, follicular miniaturization, and inflammation. Hair Cycle Dynamics and Androgenetic Alopecia Hair is lost and replaced cyclically. Follicles undergo corresponding cyclic phases of growth, involution, quiescence, and regeneration ( Figure 3 ). The growth phase (anagen) lasts for 3-5 years (87) . As hair elongation is relatively constant at 1 cm per month, the duration of the growth phase is the primary determinant of the final hair length. At the end of anagen the involutional phase (catagen) lasts for a few weeks. The period of hair follicle quiescence (telogen) that follows lasts approximately 3 months (88) . Hair follicle regeneration occurs in approximately the first week of anagen and once regenerated, the anagen phase continues until the hair reaches its final (possibly predetermined) length. Figure 3. Normal hair cycle - Each telogen hair is replaced by a new anagen hair. Hair cycle in mammals has an intrinsic rhythmic behavior and this is modified by systemic and local factors. Humans have an asynchronous hair cycle and the duration of anagen and the final length of hair differ between regions of the body. A number of molecular signals including growth factors, nuclear receptors, cytokines, and intracellular signaling pathways are involved in controlling the hair cycle. Growth factors such as IGF-1, hepatocyte growth factor, keratinocyte growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) promote the anagen phase of the hair cycle. Similarly, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF beta), interleukin 1-alpha, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha promote onset of catagen (89) . In androgenetic alopecia, the duration of anagen decreases with each cycle, while the length of telogen remains constant or is prolonged; this results in a reduction of the anagen to telogen ratio (47) . Balding patients often describe periods of excessive hair shedding, most noticeable while combing or washing. This is due to the relative increase in numbers of follicles in telogen. As the hair growth rate remains relatively constant, the duration of anagen growth determines hair length. Thus, with each successively foreshortened hair cycle, the length of each hair shaft is reduced. Ultimately, anagen duration
