Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


rate remains relatively constant, the duration of anagen growth determines hair length. Thus, with each successively foreshortened hair cycle, the length of each hair shaft is reduced. Ultimately, anagen duration becomes so short that the growing hair fails to achieve sufficient length to reach the surface of the skin, leaving an empty follicular pore. Prolongation of the kenogen phase, the lag phase or the delayed replacement of telogen hair, seems to last longer in MAA leaving a higher percentage of empty hair follicles contributing to balding (90,91) . Further, the kenogen (latent phase) is prolonged in MAA, reducing hair numbers and contributing to the balding process (90) . In MAA tiny, pale hairs gradually replace large, pigmented ones. Androgens appear to reduce alopecia hair color by inhibiting dermal papilla stem cell factor (SCF) production, which is important in embryonic melanocyte migration and bulbar melanocyte pigmentation (92) . Hair Follicle Miniaturization Hair follicle miniaturization is the histological hallmark of androgenetic alopecia (93) . Hair follicles consist of mesenchymal and ectodermal components. The ectodermal part consists of an invagination of epidermis into the dermis and subcutaneous fat. The hair bulb contains the hair matrix which produces the hair shaft. The mesenchymal component is the dermal papilla, a small collection of specialized fibroblasts that is totally surrounded by the hair bulb. In association with the changes in hair cycle dynamics, there is progressive, stepwise miniaturization of the entire follicular apparatus in MAA ( Figure 4 ). The mesenchyme-derived dermal papilla, located in the middle of the hair bulb at the follicle base, regulates many aspects of the epithelial follicle and determines the type of hair produced (94,95) . As the dermal papilla is central in the maintenance and control of hair growth, it is likely to be the target of androgen-mediated events leading to miniaturization and hair cycle changes (96-98) . The constant geometric relationship between the dermal papilla size and the size of the hair matrix suggests that the size of the dermal papilla determines the size of the hair bulb and ultimately the hair shaft produced (99, 100) . Figure 4. Progressive miniaturization of hair in each cycle. A greater than tenfold reduction in overall cell numbers is likely to account for the decrease in hair follicular size (101) . The mechanism by which this decrease occurs is unexplained, and may be the result of either apoptotic cell death, decreased proliferation
