Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


for the decrease in hair follicular size (101) . The mechanism by which this decrease occurs is unexplained, and may be the result of either apoptotic cell death, decreased proliferation of keratinocytes ( 92 ), cell displacement with loss of cellular adhesion leading to dermal papilla fibroblasts dropping off into the dermis, or migration of dermal papilla cells into the dermal sheath associated with the outer root sheath of the hair follicle (100, 102) . In vitro studies demonstrate that human balding dermal papilla cells secrete inhibitory factors, which affect the growth of both human and rodent dermal papilla cells, and factors that delay the onset of anagen in mice in vivo. These inhibitory factor(s) probably cause the formation of smaller dermal papillae and smaller hairs in MAA (103) . Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) has a demonstrated antagonistic effect on keratinocyte proliferation in the hair follicle in transgenic mice studies (104) . Smaller follicles result in finer hairs. The caliber of hair shafts reduces from 0.08mm to less than 0.06mm. On the balding scalp, transitional indeterminate hairs represent the bridge between full-sized and miniaturized terminal hairs (105) . Traditional models of MAA show follicular miniaturization occurring in a stepwise fashion. This has recently been contested, and it is now believed that the transition from terminal to vellus hair occurs as an abrupt, large step process. Either way, the cross-sectional area of individual hair shafts remains constant throughout fully developed anagen, indicating that the hair follicle, and its dermal papilla, remains the same size (105) . Therefore, follicular miniaturization occurs between anagen cycles rather than within the anagen phase. This short window of androgen effect may also explain the lengthy delay experienced between clinical response and the commencement of therapy, as any pharmacological intervention will only have effect at the point of miniaturization (105) . Follicular miniaturization leaves behind stelae as dermal remnants of the full-sized follicle. These stelae, also known as fibrous tracts or streamers, extend from the subcutaneous tissue up the old follicular tract to the miniaturized hair and mark the formal position of the original terminal follicle (106, 107) . Arao-Perkins bodies may be seen with elastic stains within the follicular stelae. An Arao-Perkins body begins as a small cluster of elastic fibers in the neck of the dermal papilla. These clump during catagen and remain situated at the lowest point of origin of the
