Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


begins as a small cluster of elastic fibers in the neck of the dermal papilla. These clump during catagen and remain situated at the lowest point of origin of the follicular stelae. With the progressive shortening of anagen hair seen in androgenetic alopecia, multiple elastic clumps may be found in a stela, like the rungs of a ladder (108) . In addition to the hair follicle miniaturization that leads to thin fibers in androgenetic alopecia, a reduction in anagen duration leads to shorter hair length, while an increase in telogen duration delays regeneration. This results in hairs so short and fine that they fail to achieve sufficient length to reach the surface of the scalp. While miniaturized hairs are also seen in alopecia areata, that autoimmune condition is potentially fully reversible with treatment (e.g., corticosteroid). In contrast, MAA is only partially reversible at its best. The mechanism for the difference may be related to the attachment of arrector pili muscle and the hair follicle, which will be discussed later in this chapter. Pattern of Hair Loss There are 2 concurrent patterns in the hair loss; a macroscopic pattern and a microscopic pattern. The macroscopic pattern of hair loss is highly reproducible with certain zones of the scalp being affected preferentially. This is best seen over the vertex scalp where the baldness begins at a central focus and hair loss progresses radially in all directions. There are no-skip lesions. Hair transplantation studies have demonstrated that this pattern is not due to a local signal or a diffusible chemical but rather genetically imprinted in the follicle. The orderly and systematic progression of hair loss is retained even when follicles are relocated to distant sites. The microscopic pattern of hair loss refers to the pattern of hair loss within scalp follicular units (109) . In contrast to beard hairs, scalp hairs exist as compound follicles with between 2 and 5 hairs emerging from a single pore. Miniaturization within these follicular units is also ordered and leads to a reduction in the number of terminal hairs per follicular unit, which can be demonstrated via dermoscopy ( Figure 5 ). This is perceived by the affected individual as a loss of hair volume. When all the hairs within a follicular unit have miniaturized, additional denuded scalp is visible and perceived by affected individuals as baldness. Figure 5. Dermoscopic images of scalp in different stages of
