Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


the hairs within a follicular unit have miniaturized, additional denuded scalp is visible and perceived by affected individuals as baldness. Figure 5. Dermoscopic images of scalp in different stages of alopecia. A) Normal scalp with 2-4 hairs in most follicular units. B) Early androgenetic alopecia with mixture of multiple and single hair in follicular units. C) Advanced androgenetic alopecia with thin and single hair in most follicular units. Inflammation Studies suggest that inflammation is a feature in MAA even though its significance in the pathogenesis of the disease is controversial. Activated T-cells infiltrating the lower portions of follicular infundibula have been demonstrated in scalp biopsies (110) . A moderate perifollicular, lymphohistiocytic infiltrate, perhaps with concentric layers of perifollicular collagen deposition, is present in some 40% of cases of androgenetic alopecia, but only 10% of normal controls (107) . Occasional eosinophils and mast cells can be seen. The cellular inflammatory changes also occur around lower follicles in some cases and occasionally involve follicular stelae. A considerable difference in the inflammatory infiltrate has been observed between balding and non-balding scalp (111) . A modest degree of chronic inflammation around the upper part of hair follicles has been well described by many investigators (108, 111, 112) . Scarring The possibility of a slow inflammatory scarring process has been suggested by the irreversibility of the hair loss, the histological evidence of fibrous tracts, and the histological similarity seen between MAA and lichen planopilaris (113) . HISTOPATHOLOGY Histological diagnosis is rarely necessary for MAA. In patients where the diagnosis is equivocal, 4mm punch vertex scalp biopsies are the ideal specimen. Horizontal scalp biopsies have more diagnostic information than vertical biopsies (107) . Triple horizontal biopsies have showed 98% diagnostic accuracy compared with 79% in a single biopsy in female androgenetic alopecia (114) . The prime feature found in scalp biopsies is the reduction in the terminal anagen hair count. The apparent reduction in the number of terminal hairs is due to progressive replacement of terminal hairs with secondary pseudo-vellus hairs, with residual angiofibrotic tracts (112) . There is a change in the ratio of terminal to vellus hairs from greater than 6:1 to less than 4:1. Also, the anagen to telogen hair ratio reduces from 12:1 to 5:1 (107) . Messenger et al reported that there is an increase in vellus follicle numbers with increasing severity of hair loss in women with female pattern hair
