Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


12:1 to 5:1 (107) . Messenger et al reported that there is an increase in vellus follicle numbers with increasing severity of hair loss in women with female pattern hair loss, suggesting that terminal follicles do indeed miniaturize (115) . Considering that hair follicle miniaturization is the key point during androgenic alopecia onset and development, diversity in hair diameter represents an important feature histologically, reflecting the different stages of miniaturization, and this accurately correlates with the clinical hair diameter diversity (116) . Arrector Pili Muscle and Androgenetic Alopecia Hair exists as follicular units consisting of 3-5 terminal hairs per follicular unit nourished by a single arborizing arrector pili muscle (APM), which attaches circumferentially around the primary follicle with variable attachment to other follicles (103, 109) . A study by Yazdabadi et al demonstrated that in MAA and female pattern hair loss, where follicle miniaturization is either irreversible or only partially reversible, there was a consistent loss of attachment of the arrector pilli muscle to vellus hair follicles ( Figure 6 ). This was in contrast to potentially reversible alopecia areata, in which the arrector pilli muscle maintained contact with the miniaturized secondary vellus follicles ( Figure 7 ). The study suggests that the persisting contact between the APM and follicular unit predicts reversibility of miniaturization (117) . A recent proposition for the pathogenesis and mechanism of androgenetic alopecia suggests that in the early stages of MAA, the arrector pili muscle remains attached to the primary follicle, yet loses attachment to a number of the regressing secondary follicles in some follicular units (93) . As further miniaturization and detachment occurs, patients may first notice a change in their hair density and complain of thinning. Once the arrector pili muscle has detached from all secondary follicles and primary follicles have undergone miniaturization and detachment, hair loss is likely irreversible (93) . This proposed mechanism establishes the importance of early treatment to halt balding prior to the loss of primary hair follicles. Figure 6. Illustrations showing the progressive miniaturization within the follicular units and the detachment with the arrector pili muscle. Figure 7. Three-dimensional reconstructions of alopecia areata (a) and MAAs (b) demonstrating the loss of contact of the arrector pili muscle with the outer root sheath of the vellus hair follicle in MAA that is largely irreversible compared with maintenance of this contact of the arrector pili muscle with outer root sheath
