Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


the outer root sheath of the vellus hair follicle in MAA that is largely irreversible compared with maintenance of this contact of the arrector pili muscle with outer root sheath which is potentially completely reversible in alopecia area. CLINICAL SYNDROME The clinical appearance of MAA is universally and instantly recognizable in most cases. The progression of the hair loss occurs in an orderly manner and has been well documented by Hamilton (1) and Norwood (118) ( Figure 8 ) . These authors use a modified grading scale for male pattern hair loss ( Figure 9 ). Affected hairs are miniaturized and there is decreased hair density. Progressive replacement of terminal hairs by vellus hairs leads to an overall decrease in hair density in affected zones as a precursor to total baldness. Androgenetic alopecia in men typically presents with bitemporal recession and vertex balding (male pattern hair loss). However, 3.9% of Australian men (119) and 11.1% of Korean men (11) with androgenetic alopecia present with “female pattern hair loss (FPHL),” characterized by diffuse rarefaction of hair on the mid-frontal aspect of the scalp and crown, with preservation of the anterior hairline. Expert dermatologists experienced in the treatment of hair disorders participated in the development of a modified Sinclair scale for men by modeling it on the original Sinclair scale, a 5-point visual analog scale for the assessment of FPHL in women. The modified Sinclair scale similarly comprises 5 clinical photographs of men's scalps and is made up of 2 separate composite images for use in men with shorter and longer hairstyles ( Figure 10 ) (120) . The scalp is generally normal, and periods of increased hair shedding may be accompanied by a positive “hair pull” on examination. A positive hair pull test is when hair is easily plucked from the scalp. A family history of MAA on either side of the family is seen in around 80% while in 20% of cases, there is no family history. Figure 8. The Hamilton-Norwood classification of male androgenetic alopecia. Figure 9. Modified male pattern hair loss grading scale. Figure 10. Modified Sinclair Scale for female pattern hair loss (a less common type of MAA) in men with short hair and long hair. MANAGEMENT A number of options are available to balding men. Firstly, as the condition is not life threatening and the morbidity are variable, a reasonable option is to have no treatment
