Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


A number of options are available to balding men. Firstly, as the condition is not life threatening and the morbidity are variable, a reasonable option is to have no treatment and allow the balding to progress naturally. In fact, this is what the vast majority of men elect to do. Regardless of whether patients pursue treatment, an adequate explanation of the pathogenesis of the disease, how common it is in the community, and the various treatment options available form an important part of the support and counselling that should occur with each patient. It is very important to ascertain whether patients' expectations regarding treatment outcome are achievable before embarking on medical therapy. Patients should also be educated about the advantage of early treatment and the necessity of prolonged therapy. Camouflage and Wigs Camouflage is the simplest and easiest way to deal with mild MAA. Changing the hair styling to cover the balding scalp, adding small fibers held in place electrostatically and dyeing the scalp the same color as hair are important and cheap measures that can achieve cosmetically satisfactory results. Modern wigs can be styled, washed, and give a natural look. Medical Management Topical minoxidil and oral finasteride are the only two treatments currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (USA) for androgenetic alopecia in men. Both of these medications prevent further hair loss but are only able to partially reverse the baldness. Both require continuous use to maintain the effect. As clinical response may take 6-12 months to become apparent, these agents should be used for at least one year before deciding whether to continue treatment. HairMax LaserComb, also known as low level laser therapy is also FDA-cleared in the context of androgenetic alopecia (121) . These are the only treatments recognized by the FDA for treatment of androgenetic alopecia. MINOXIDIL Oral Minoxidil has been used to treat hypertension since the 1960s (122) . Hypertrichosis as a consequence of minoxidil treatment was observed shortly thereafter and has been said to occur in 100% of the users (123, 124) . These observations led to the development of topical minoxidil as a treatment for hair loss (125) . It was approved by the FDA for the treatment of male androgenetic alopecia in 1984. A number of investigators have advanced hypotheses as to the mechanism of action of minoxidil. One important hypothesis is that it has vasodilatory properties. Cutaneous blood flow
