Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


alopecia in 1984. A number of investigators have advanced hypotheses as to the mechanism of action of minoxidil. One important hypothesis is that it has vasodilatory properties. Cutaneous blood flow was observed to increase after 10 to 15 minutes of applying topical minoxidil (126) . Up-regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which helps in maintaining dermal papilla vasculature and hair growth, is another important action of minoxidil (127) . Li et al proposed a possible mechanism for minoxidil stimulation of VEGF from experiments on dermal papilla cells (128) . They suggest that binding of minoxidil to adenosine receptors A1 and A2, as well as the sulphonylurea receptor SUR2B, activates adenosine-signaling pathways and increase the release of VEGF. Overexpression of VEGF increases perifollicular vascularization and accelerate hair growth. The prevailing view is that minoxidil promotes hair regrowth through its action to open potassium channels (129, 130) . It is postulated that minoxidil sulfate, the active metabolite, opens the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) sensitive potassium channels (KATP channel), thereby having a relaxant effect on vascular smooth muscle and rendering the intracellular potential more negative. This negative gradient promotes depletion of intracellular calcium. In the presence of calcium, epidermal growth factor has been shown to inhibit hair follicular growth in vitro. The conversion of minoxidil to minoxidil sulfate is higher in hair follicles than in the surrounding skin and may suppress EGF-induced inhibition of growth, prolonging the anagen growth phase of hair follicles (128) . The effect on the cell cycle is to initiate the onset of anagen (and thereby shorten telogen duration) and to prolong the duration of anagen by delaying initiation of catagen. Several studies have shown the effect of topical minoxidil in promoting hair growth (131, 132) . A five-year follow up with topical minoxidil has shown the sustained effect of minoxidil with long term use (133) . Minoxidil works as a non-specific promoter of hair growth, but the slow miniaturization of hair follicles induced by androgens continues in spite of treatment. Evidence for this is seen in a 120-week double-blind study comparing the clipped hair weight of men treated with 5% minoxidil, 2% minoxidil, and placebo and a group with no treatment (132) . As expected, the minoxidil groups experienced a surge in hair weights at the induction of therapy. The 5% group was superior to the 2% group in terms of the initial peak in hair weights. Both
