Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


experienced a surge in hair weights at the induction of therapy. The 5% group was superior to the 2% group in terms of the initial peak in hair weights. Both were superior to placebo and no treatment groups. However, all groups (minoxidil, placebo, and no treatment) showed a progressive 6% per annum decrease in hair weights during the treatment period. This would mean that patients using minoxidil as mono-therapy for MAA continue to bald despite of treatment. If treatment is ceased, any positive effect on hair growth is lost in 4-6 months (134) . Minoxidil topical preparations are available in 2% and 5% solutions. Both strengths are currently in use for treatment in males, yet the 5% minoxidil solution used twice daily has shown higher efficacy than the 2% solution (135) . A recent advancement in the use of minoxidil as a hair loss treatment is the development of a 5% topical foam. The traditional topical solution consists of a liquid vehicle with a tendency to spread beyond the intended site of treatment, and that takes time to dry. It also contains a high concentration of propylene glycol, a potential irritant. The newly developed topical hydroalcoholic foam is propylene glycol-free, and it is more easily applied specifically to target areas and rubbed directly on to the scalp skin. Placebo controlled double-blind trials have demonstrated that the hydroalcoholic foam is efficacious, safe and well accepted cosmetically by patients (136) . On commencing treatment, minoxidil may cause a surge in the growth of miniaturized hairs and induction of anagen from resting hair follicles. This may produce a rapid hair shedding of previous telogen hairs 2-8 weeks after treatment initiation. This temporary shedding may be interpreted as a clinical indication that the minoxidil is having a beneficial effect and the hair shedding usually resolves after a few weeks. Hypertrichosis (fine hairs on non-androgen-sensitive skin) on the face and hands is a common side effect observed following topical and oral minoxidil. Itching of the scalp, increased dandruff, and erythema are commonly reported with topical minoxidil preparations. Contact allergic dermatitis to minoxidil can occur and could either be due to minoxidil itself or more commonly to propylene glycol in the vehicle (137) . Patch testing is worthwhile in differentiating the cause of contact dermatitis and the new minoxidil form which does not contain propylene glycol is an alternative in these patients. Oral Minoxidil is not
