Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


is worthwhile in differentiating the cause of contact dermatitis and the new minoxidil form which does not contain propylene glycol is an alternative in these patients. Oral Minoxidil is not licensed for the use in androgenetic alopecia; however, it is increasingly being utilized for a variety of hair disorders including MAA (138) . An open-label, prospective, single-arm study of thirty men aged 24–59 years with AGA types III vertex to V were treated with oral minoxidil 5 mg once daily for 24 weeks (139) . They found a significant increase in total hair counts from baseline at weeks 12 and 24 (both p = 0.007). Photographic assessment of the vertex area by an expert panel revealed 100% improvement, with 43% of patients showing excellent improvement. The frontal area also showed a significant response but less than that of the vertex area. Common side effects were hypertrichosis (93%) and pedal edema (10%). No serious cardiovascular adverse events and abnormal laboratory findings were observed. The reassuring safety profile of oral minoxidil has also been reflected in a large multicenter study evaluating the safety of oral minoxidil in a total of 1404 patients (943 women [67.2%] and 461 men [32.8%]) with a mean age of 43 years (range 8-86). The most frequent adverse effect was hypertrichosis (15.1%). Systemic adverse effects included lightheadedness (1.7%), fluid retention (1.3%), tachycardia (0.9%), headache (0.4%), periorbital edema (0.3%), and insomnia (0.2%), leading to drug discontinuation in 29 patients (1.2%). No life-threatening adverse effects were observed (140) . FINASTERIDE Finasteride is a synthetic azo-steroid that is a potent and highly selective antagonist of type II 5 alpha reductase. It is not an anti-androgen. It binds irreversibly to the enzyme and inhibits the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Thus, while the pharmacokinetic half-life is approximately eight hours, the biological effect persists for much longer. Finasteride was initially FDA approved for use in benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and was approved to treat MAA in 1997. The underlying principle for its use in MAA is the reduction of DHT production in order to limit its action on scalp hair follicles. Various studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of finasteride in MAA, with the most benefits seen in patients with primarily type III vertex or type IV Hamilton/Norwood hair loss (141-147) . Finasteride has been reported to slow the progression of MAA and to produce partial regrowth in about two thirds of men
