Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


vertex or type IV Hamilton/Norwood hair loss (141-147) . Finasteride has been reported to slow the progression of MAA and to produce partial regrowth in about two thirds of men (141) . A study measuring hair counts using macrophotographs found that both total and anagen hair counts increase with treatment of finasteride (142) . A significant increase in the anagen to telogen ratio was also achieved. This demonstrates the ability of finasteride to stimulate conversion of hair follicles into the anagen phase, possibly through reversion of the decrease in anagen phase and the increase in lag phase. A study looking at scalp biopsies shows that finasteride stimulates an increase in terminal hair counts and a decrease in vellus hair counts (143) . Other studies have used hair count and hair weight as objective measures of outcome and demonstrated that both increase, with hair weight increasing to a larger extent (144, 148) . Factors that affect hair weight include the number of hairs, hair growth rate and hair thickness. These findings show the ability of finasteride to reverse the miniaturization process, producing hair of greater length and thickness, and possibly with a greater growth rate. A daily oral finasteride dose of one milligram reduces scalp DHT by 64% and serum DHT by 68% (145) . Finasteride was originally given for benign prostatic hyperplasia at 5mg daily. For the treatment of androgenetic alopecia, dose ranging studies have found no significant difference in clinical benefit between five and one milligram daily regimens, nor is there any significant further reduction of scalp or serum DHT levels (135) . In practice, finasteride can be administered at either a dose of one milligram per day, or at longer intervals. A 5-year multinational study looking at the effect of finasteride on treatment of MAA found it to be superior to placebo (146) . The placebo group suffered a progressive decline in hair count, losing approximately 26% of terminal hairs compared to baseline counts at the end of the 5-year study. In contrast, patients on finasteride experienced a 10% increase in hair count at the end of the first year. Hair count declined somewhat thereafter but remained above baseline, remaining at 5% above baseline hair count after 5 years of treatment. The rate of decline in hair count in the finasteride group is significantly less than that of the placebo group. Taken together, there is a progressive increase
