Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


years of treatment. The rate of decline in hair count in the finasteride group is significantly less than that of the placebo group. Taken together, there is a progressive increase in the difference between treatment and placebo group over time. This demonstrates the effects of finasteride in stimulating a substantial amount of hair regrowth, reaching its peak efficacy after one year of treatment, and slowing the progression of hair loss thereafter. At the end of the first year, some in the placebo group were swapped onto receiving finasteride for the remaining four years. These patients demonstrated a decrease in hair count during the first year with placebo, followed by an improvement in the subsequent four years with finasteride. The improvement is similar to that of the group who received finasteride for five years throughout the study. However, mean hair count level is less than that of the patients who have taken finasteride "a year earlier" at all comparable time points, with the difference being similar to the amount of hair loss sustained during the year of placebo treatment. This shows the relative benefits of early commencement of treatment with finasteride. Some of the finasteride patients were also crossed-over to receive placebo after a year of finasteride treatment. A decrease in hair count was observed twelve months later, demonstrating the reversal of the beneficial effects of treatment obtained during the first year. Further evidence of the efficacy of finasteride in the treatment of MAA is seen in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled twin study (147) . At month 12, all subjects in the finasteride group demonstrated an increase in hair count, while a decrease was found in 44% of the placebo group. Serum DHT levels were significantly decreased in the finasteride group, with no significant change observed in the placebo group. Global photography assessment shows significant improvement on hair growth in vertex and superior-frontal scalp in the finasteride group, with no significant differences between treatment groups observed in the temporal or anterior hairline views. This finding shows the relative effectiveness of finasteride for protecting hair loss over the vertex and superior-frontal regions of the scalp, in comparison to the minimal response over the temporal and the anterior hairline regions. An open randomized comparative study with 5% topical minoxidil and oral finasteride 1 milligram a day showed significantly more hair growth in the finasteride group (149) . One Japanese study shows that the
