Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


comparative study with 5% topical minoxidil and oral finasteride 1 milligram a day showed significantly more hair growth in the finasteride group (149) . One Japanese study shows that the hair growth with finasteride continues to increase with continuing treatment without significant side effects (150) . A recent 10-year study of 118 men treated with 1 mg/day finasteride for androgenic alopecia found that 86% of men continued to benefit from treatment over the entire course of 10 years — showing increased or stable rates of hair growth and only 14% experiencing any further hair loss (151) . Sexual side effects are a main concern when treating patients for male pattern baldness with finasteride. The evidence available to date about the safety of the drug is controversial and needs to be further evaluated. In view of this, it is very important to properly counsel patients before the treatment. Long-term studies have reported few adverse effects when using finasteride. In the finasteride group loss of libido was reported in 1.9% and erectile dysfunction (ED) in 1.4% in the first year. The placebo groups reported these same events with frequencies of 1.3% and 0.6% respectively. These events appeared to resolve on cessation of the drug and, in some ceased with continued treatment. It has been suggested that even these figures overstate the true incidence of sexual dysfunction (106, 148, 152) . A recent review of the efficacy and safety of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia concluded that sexual side effects are uncommon and most often resolve spontaneously even without discontinuing treatment (153) . However, a recent study by Irwig et al conducted standardized interviews with 71 otherwise healthy men aged 21-46 years taking finasteride (154) . The subjects reported the onset of sexual side effects associated with the temporary use of finasteride, with symptoms persisting for at least three months despite stopping the drug. The study revealed that the subjects reported new-onset persistent sexual dysfunction (low libido, ED, and problems with orgasm) associated with the use of finasteride. Total sexual dysfunction score increased for both before and after finasteride use ( P < 0.0001 for both). The small number of patients, selection bias, recall bias prior to finasteride use, and the absence of serum hormone analyses were the limiting factors of the study. The study recommended that physicians treating MAA should discuss the potential risk levels with patients while
