Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


and the absence of serum hormone analyses were the limiting factors of the study. The study recommended that physicians treating MAA should discuss the potential risk levels with patients while prescribing the drug. Furthermore, a meta-analysis in 2015 describes available toxicity information for finasteride as limited, of poor quality, and systematically biased (155) . Further pharmaco-epidemiological studies, with clear evaluation of adverse events and their duration, may be needed. In view of the conflicting and continuing data and importance of the subject, the International Society of Hair Restoration Surgery (ISHRS) established a Task Force on Finasteride Adverse Event Controversies to evaluate published data and make recommendations. ISHRS recommend that finasteride use for MAA is entirely at the discretion of the patient given that the male pattern hair loss is largely a cosmetic condition. However, the treating physician should provide full information about the drug to enable the patient to make an informed decision. Of note, older men on finasteride experienced a 50% reduction in serum prostate specific antigen [PSA] levels, which could result in an underestimation of prostatic cancer risk. Previous recommendations in the urology literature state that PSA levels remain valid whilst patients are on finasteride, but the value should be doubled to correct for the finasteride effect (156, 157) . Men between 18 to 41 years old are thought to have a negligible decrease in measured PSA levels. More recent studies now suggest that finasteride treatment at the 5mg/day dose affects the serum PSA concentration in a time-dependent manner (158) . In the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial, the adjustment factor needed to be increased from 2 at 24 months to 2.5 at 7 years after the initiation of finasteride (159) . In a study conducted with men aged 40-60 years taking 1mg finasteride /day for 48 weeks, results suggest that existing recommendations for the adjustment of serum PSA concentration in prostate-cancer screening in men taking 5 mg/day finasteride should also apply to men taking the 1 mg/day preparation for MAA (160) . Limited data suggest that reduction in PSA of malignant origin appears to be no greater than the percentage reduction in PSA of benign origin (161) . The free/total PSA ratio, currently used to help differentiate benign from malignant processes in the prostate, remains valid during treatment with finasteride, as finasteride does not affect the free/total PSA ratio in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (but might decrease
