Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


from malignant processes in the prostate, remains valid during treatment with finasteride, as finasteride does not affect the free/total PSA ratio in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (but might decrease the ratio in men with prostate cancer) (156) . The effect of finasteride on the incidence and severity of prostate cancer has been extensively investigated and conflicting evidence for the risk of increased incidence of high-grade prostate cancer associated with finasteride prevents its use as a chemoprevention agent. In a trial involving 18,882 men older than 54 years with a normal digital rectal examination and a serum PSA equal to or less than 3ng/ml, men were randomized to finasteride 5mg daily or placebo groups. There was a 25% reduction in prostate cancer prevalence in those taking finasteride (162) . However, 6.4% of the men taking finasteride developed histologically high-grade cancer (Gleason score 7-10), compared with 5.1% of those in the placebo group. Recent data suggest that several confounding factors could have contributed to the above results. It is suggested that morphological and histological alterations, the degree of sampling error induced by the reduction of prostate volume, differential sensitivity of the biopsy between the groups, and increased sensitivity of PSA in detecting prostate cancer with finasteride may have contributed to an apparent increase of higher grade cancers (163-167) . Alternatively, finasteride use has also been suggested to significantly improve prostate cancer detection with digital rectal examination (168) . Topical finasteride has been investigated as potential variation in drug delivery. While a 0.05% of finasteride solution applied to the scalp was well absorbed and produced a 40% reduction in serum DHT, it had shown no effect on hair regrowth. One explanation for this observation is that inhibition of prostatic DHT production is an important factor in preventing hair loss with finasteride, i.e. a significant reduction in circulating DHT is required in addition to the local blockade of 5 alpha reductase at the hair follicle (169) . However, a double blind, randomized clinical study between oral finasteride and topical finasteride showed similar efficacy after 18 months in one study (170) . Further studies are needed to assess the efficacy of topical finasteride. Medical treatment should be continued indefinitely, as the benefit will not be maintained upon ceasing therapy. Up to one year of treatment may be required before any clinical response is noticeable. Baseline and follow up photographs are helpful in monitoring the
