Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


be maintained upon ceasing therapy. Up to one year of treatment may be required before any clinical response is noticeable. Baseline and follow up photographs are helpful in monitoring the response to treatment, but unlikely to detect changes of less than 20% in hair density. The authors make use of a camera mounted on a stereotactic device; a system that is identical to the set-up used in the phase III finasteride trials (169) . Photographs are taken of the vertex and frontal hairline at six-monthly to yearly intervals and hair densities at these time points can be readily compared. This set-up is proving to be useful in the long-term monitoring of treatment response ( Figure 10 & 11 ) . Patients are able to observe their regrowth during treatment, while the photographs serve as a motivating factor, improving long-term patient compliance to medical treatment. Similar set-ups using digital photographs also appear useful (171) . Figure 11. Photographic evaluation of treatment response to finasteride. a - pretreatment. b - post treatment. Figure 11. Hair photography using the stereotactic device. Finasteride is a teratogen, pregnancy category X drug and is therefore contraindicated in pregnancy. Male rats exposed to finasteride in utero develop hypospadias with cleft prepuce, decreased anogenital distance, reduced prostate weight, and altered nipple formation (160) . As the drug is secreted in the semen and can be absorbed through the vagina during intercourse, it was originally advocated that men taking finasteride should avoid unprotected intercourse with pregnant women. In practice, the concentration of finasteride in the semen is well below the minimum effect dosage, and no recommendations regarding the use of condoms are made in the product information leaflet. To date there are no reports of adverse pregnancy outcomes among women whose partners take finasteride. Finasteride has demonstrable small effect on semen parameters in normal men including decreased total sperm count, semen volume, sperm concentration, and sperm motility but no apparent effect on sperm morphology (172) . With regards to long-term safety, finasteride has now been in use for over 10 years. Many recipients are elderly men taking 5mg per day. Very few side-effects have been observed. There is no effect of long-term use on bone mineral density (173-174) . Reversible painful gynecomastia has been reported and the incidence is thought to be around 0.001% (175, 176) . Depression measured by increased Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Hospital Anxiety and
