Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


Reversible painful gynecomastia has been reported and the incidence is thought to be around 0.001% (175, 176) . Depression measured by increased Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) before and after treatment has been reported (177) . Finasteride related reports of suicidality and psychological adverse events have led to coining of the term post finasteride syndrome and the creation of organizations such as the Post-Finasteride Syndrome Foundation (178) . In 2011, a post-marketing report was sent to the US Food and Drug Administration suggesting that finasteride might be linked to depression, self-harm, and suicide (178) . In the last 5 years, health authorities in Canada, Korea, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom have also acknowledged these potential adverse effects and issued warnings for finasteride (178) . There is a potential biological basis linking finasteride with depression and anxiety. Some reports suggest that men with depression have lower levels of the neurosteroid allopregnanolone, which is produced by the 5α-reductase enzyme and has antidepressant and anxiolytic effects (179) . Topical finasteride application for the treatment of MAA was first explored by Mazarella et al. in a study involving 52 patients (28 men). They reported at 6 months of treatment, a progressive and significant decrease in the rate of hair loss was observed in the topical finasteride versus placebo group, with no significant changes in plasma levels of total testosterone, free testosterone, and DHT between treatment groups (180) . Pirraccin et al. reported a phase III randomized control trial reviewing safety and efficacy of topical finasteride spray solution (181) . A total of 458 patients were randomized, 323 completed the study and 446 were evaluated for safety. Their primary endpoint was defined as change from baseline in target area hair count at week 24. They found this was significantly greater with topical finasteride than placebo (adjusted mean change 20.2 vs. 6.7 hairs; P<0.001), and numerically similar between topical and oral finasteride. No serious adverse events were reported. As maximum plasma finasteride concentrations were >100 times lower, and reduction from baseline in mean serum DHT concentration was less (34.5 vs. 55.6%), with topical versus oral finasteride, there is less likelihood of systemic sexual adverse events related to a decrease in DHT with topical finasteride (181) . DUTASTERIDE Dutasteride inhibits both type I and type II 5-alpha reductase. It is approximately 3 times and more than 100 times more potent
