Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


in DHT with topical finasteride (181) . DUTASTERIDE Dutasteride inhibits both type I and type II 5-alpha reductase. It is approximately 3 times and more than 100 times more potent than finasteride at inhibiting the type I and II 5-alpha reductase isoenzymes respectively (182) . Dutasteride can decrease serum DHT by more than 90%, while finasteride decreases serum DHT by 70% (182, 183) . The serum half-life of dutasteride is 4 weeks as compared with a serum half-life of 6-8 hours for finasteride. There is persistent suppression of DHT level after dutasteride is ceased. For this reason, patients taking dutasteride should not donate blood until at least 6 months after stopping their medication, to prevent administration to a pregnant transfusion recipient (184) . Dutasteride 0.5mg dose is FDA approved for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia while its use in MAA is ‘off label’. A phase II randomized placebo-controlled study of dutasteride versus finasteride showed that the effect of dutasteride was dose dependent and 2.5mg of dutasteride was superior to 5mg finasteride in improving scalp hair growth in men between the ages of 21 and 45 years (184) . It was also able to produce hair growth earlier than finasteride. This was evidenced by target area hair counts and clinical assessment at 12 and 24 weeks. In addition, a recent randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study on the efficacy of dutasteride 0.5mg/day in identical twins demonstrated that dutasteride was able to significantly reduce hair loss progression in men with MAA (185) . A single case report showed improvement of hair loss with dutasteride 0.5mg in a woman who had failed to show any response to finasteride (186) . In one phase III study dutasteride 0.5mg daily showed significantly higher efficacy than placebo based on subject self-assessment and by investigator and panel photographic assessment (187) . There was no major difference in adverse events between the two groups, the treatment and placebo groups. However, this study was limited to only 6 months. Another more recent phase III trial found that dutasteride 0.5mg was statistically superior to finasteride 1mg and placebo at 24 weeks (188) . Side effects, including decreased libido, impotence, and gynecomastia, are slightly more common with dutasteride than with finasteride (184, 189) . Reduction in the sperm count and the volume has been reported with dutasteride (187, 190) . There is no effect on bone density (189) . The issue
