Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


(184, 189) . Reduction in the sperm count and the volume has been reported with dutasteride (187, 190) . There is no effect on bone density (189) . The issue of 5alpha reductase inhibitor use and prostate cancer is considered in another Endotext chapter. Dutasteride mesotherapy or microinjections were developed as an alternative to systemic antiandrogens in view of several men being reluctant to treat their MAA with systemic 5a-reductase enzyme inhibitors due to risk of adverse sexual side-effects. Saceda-Corralo et al. reported improvement of AGA in men treated with 1 mL of intradermal dutasteride 0.01% mesotherapy. Another study evaluated intradermal injection of dutasteride in 28 male patients with AGA over 11 weeks (191) . Villarreal-Villarreal et al. reviewed dutasteride injections combined with oral minoxidil versus oral minoxidil alone and found a better response on the vertex area compared to the frontal area. They hypothesize that dutasteride might be more effective in vertex due to the greater concentration of 5 alpha reductase compared to the frontal zone. There have been no reports of sexual dysfunction in these patients and the main adverse event experienced is pain during the injections (192, 193) . Emerging Medical Therapy TOPICAL ANTIANDROGENS Oral anti-androgens (e.g., spironolactone, cyproterone acetate) have been widely used to treat women with androgenetic alopecia. However, these are contraindicated in men due to its feminization effects. A topical anti-androgen, fluridil has been rationally developed for use in male androgenetic alopecia. It is designed to be locally metabolized, not systemically resorbable, and degradable into inactive metabolites without systemic anti-androgenic activity (194) . A double blind, placebo-controlled study showed that patients using topical fluridil had an increase in the anagen to telogen ratio, and the maximum attainable effect was achieved within the first 90 days of daily use. No side effects on libido and sexual performance have been found. Nevertheless, a long-term study is required to further investigate fluridil's long-term safety and effectiveness in male androgenetic alopecia. Clascoterone (cortexolone 17α-proprionate) is a novel androgen receptor inhibitor, and recent trials reporting its topical use in acne have demonstrated promising results. Clascoterone antagonizes dihydrotestosterone (DHT) through competitive binding with cytoplasmic androgen receptors as it shares the same fused four-ring backbone structure (195) . In August 2020, clascoterone cream 1% received its first approval in the USA for the treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age or older (196) . Clascoterone has been found
