Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


clascoterone cream 1% received its first approval in the USA for the treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age or older (196) . Clascoterone has been found to have the same efficacy as finasteride in vitro (197) . LATANOPROST The prostaglandin analogue latanoprost stimulates hair growth supposedly by prolonging the anagen phase of the hair cycle. Lengthening of eyelashes and eyebrows has been observed when latanoprost is used topically for glaucoma (198) . In a placebo controlled study, latanoprost was able to significantly increase hair density compared with baseline and placebo and may also encourage pigmentation (199) . TOPICAL ANTIBIOTICS AND ANTIFUNGALS The role of inflammation in the pathogenesis of MAA is not clear. In particular, the significance of inflammatory cells close to the infra infundibulum of transitional hairs remains obscure. A study conducted in 20 men who used a lotion containing antimicrobials, piroctoneolamine and triclosan, regularly for 18 months showed a decrease in the density of activated T cells in the region of the follicular infra-infundibulum and isthmus over time (200) . Trichograms taken at 3-month intervals suggested signs of hair regrowth with moderate increase in density of transitional hairs. Further studies are needed to confirm the effect of topical antimicrobials as a therapeutic option for MAA. Topical ketoconazole shampoo has been shown to increased hair growth in both humans and in rodents when compared with placebo (201) . Oral ketoconazole has been beneficial in treating hirsutism but the potential side effects do not warrant its use for androgenic alopecia. Ketoconazole shampoo is a good additive treatment and thought to be having anti-inflammatory and anti-androgenic properties, and it will also help associated seborrheic dermatitis if present (202) . GROWTH FACTORS The growth and development of hair follicles is influenced by a number of different growth factors and cytokines. Use of such growth factors to promote hair growth, topically or subcutaneously, is a potential therapeutic target. Preliminary investigations using animal models have shown positive results. A phase I, double-blind clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety of a bioengineered, non-recombinant, human cell–derived formulation containing follistatin, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was performed to assess the efficacy in stimulating hair growth (203) . Twenty-six subjects were entered into the study and none showed an adverse reaction to the single intradermal injection. After one year, a statistically significant increase in total hair count continued
