Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


Twenty-six subjects were entered into the study and none showed an adverse reaction to the single intradermal injection. After one year, a statistically significant increase in total hair count continued to be seen. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) isolated from whole blood can be used for its growth factors and stimulatory mediators. Some hair transplant surgeons use this product to encourage transplanted graft growth (204) . Platelet-rich plasma is also available as a stand-alone treatment for MAA, with recent limited data suggesting positive regrowth with minimal side effects (205, 206) . It is hypothesized that platelet-rich plasma stimulates hair growth by improving follicle vascularization, inhibiting apoptosis and therefore, prolonging the anagen phase, and inducing a faster transition from the telogen to the anagen phase (207) . LASER TREATMENT Laser/light treatment for hair loss has become very popular in the last few years for a number of dermatological conditions. It has also been promoted as a preventative measure against MAA. Several different manufacturers provide lasers and light sources of varying wavelengths and with different suggested modes of use. Whilst there is evidence that laser light can stimulate hair growth at some wavelengths, the biological mechanism by which it occurs has not been defined and clinical data from large scale, placebo controlled trials is lacking (208-210) . The most well-recognized modality are low-level laser/light therapies (LLLT), such as the HairMax Lasercomb®, and He-Ne laser, which are considered safe, effective, and easily accessible treatment options (211) . Fractional laser is hypothesized that it induces hair growth when restricted to appropriate settings by upregulating the Wnt/βcatenin pathways and efficiently penetrating the scalp (212) . Although the exact mechanisms of certain fractional lasers on hair regrowth are still uncertain, trauma stimulated wound healing likely plays a role. Hair follicle stem cells provide progeny that migrate to the epidermal defect and promote re-epithelialization (212) . Laser-assisted drug delivery is an evolving technology with potentially broad clinical applications. Lasers stimulate drug delivery by means of 3 processes; 1) tissue ablation; 2) photomechanical waves, resulting from the conversion of light into mechanical energy giving the laser a therapeutic effect; and 3) non-ablative resurfacing where thermal and physical injuries disrupt the skin barrier, promoting the delivery of medications through these laser channels (213) . A prospective study comparing the efficacy and safety of fractional erbium-glass (Er:Glass) laser used in combination with topical 5% minoxidil versus 5% minoxidil alone for the treatment
