Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


channels (213) . A prospective study comparing the efficacy and safety of fractional erbium-glass (Er:Glass) laser used in combination with topical 5% minoxidil versus 5% minoxidil alone for the treatment of male AGA. They treated 30 men with AGA who were randomized to 24 weeks of split-scalp treatment using fractional Er:Glass laser and 5% minoxidil on one side (combined therapy) or 5% minoxidil alone on the other side (monotherapy). The primary outcome was the difference in hair density and diameter, from baseline, between two treatment sides, at week 24. The secondary outcome was a global photographic assessment, evaluated by two dermatologists and the participants. Results demonstrated that combination therapy provided significantly superior results for both the primary and secondary outcomes (214) . Further studies are required to formally evaluate the role of LAD in MAA treatment algorithm. CLINICAL TRIALS There is currently an open label study, evaluating the safety, tolerability, and efficacy in both males and females with androgenetic alopecia being treated with HMI-115 over a 24-week treatment period (215) . HMI-115 is a potent monoclonal antibody, blocking the prolactin (PRL) receptor-mediated pathway in a non-competitive manner. It can be administered subcutaneously. The antibody was well tolerated in a clinical Ph I study (combined single and multiple dosing). The antibody was effective in stimulating hair growth in aged stump-tailed macaques, nearly doubling the number of terminal hairs after 6 months even in previously fully bald areas and showing a sustainable impact even after 2 years post treatment (216) . The stump-tail macaque model is considered one of the rare predictive animal models for male and female pattern hair loss in humans (217) . Surgical Treatments Hair transplantation involves removal of hair from the occipital scalp and re-implantation into the bald vertex and frontal scalp. With modern techniques, graft survival in excess of 90% can be reliably achieved. Prerequisites for the procedure are stabilization of the hair loss with medical treatment and good donor hair population on the occipital hair. The modern hair transplant technique was started in Japan in the 1930s, where small punch grafts were used to cover damaged eyebrows or lashes. (218) Norman Orentreich reported on the use of autografts and proposed the term "donor dominance", in that the hair taken from the androgen resistant occipital scalp remain androgen resistant when implanted into the androgen sensitive bald areas of the scalp (85) . In 1995, Bernstein, Rassman et
