Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


the hair taken from the androgen resistant occipital scalp remain androgen resistant when implanted into the androgen sensitive bald areas of the scalp (85) . In 1995, Bernstein, Rassman et al introduced " Follicular Unit Transplantation ," where hair is transplanted in naturally occurring units of 1-4 hair (219) . In " Follicular Unit Transplantation ", donor hair can be harvested in two different ways: Strip Harvesting - a strip of scalp 8 - 14 mm and 20 – 30 cm is removed under local anesthesia, from the occipital scalp and the wound is then sutured back together. The donor hair is then separated into follicular units and then transplanted into the balding area. The main disadvantage of this method is that it will leave a linear scar in the donor occipital area. ∙Follicular Unit Extraction (FUE) Harvesting - individual follicles of occipital hair are removed under local anesthesia with 1mm punch biopsies. Each unit is then reinserted back into the scalp in the bald areas using a micro blade. The advantages of this technique are that there are no visible scars and takes a shorter time to heal than strip harvesting. Both techniques can achieve good results, but follicular unit transplantations have the advantage of being able to achieve much greater hair densities. It is preferable that surgical candidates have frontal or mid-frontal hair loss as opposed to hair loss at the vertex, and their donor hair density needs to be adequate to support the surgery (i.e., > 40 follicular units/cm 2 ). Also, thicker donor hairs are able to create better coverage compared with finer hair. Disadvantages of hair transplants are increased time and labor requirements, which translates to greater cost for the patient. Transplanted hairs seem to immediately go into a telogen resting phase after insertion. Thus, surgical results can only be adequately assessed after no less than three months after surgery. There is always a degree of graft failure. Various reasons account for dead grafts, including the skill of the surgeon, the density of graft placement, careless handling and preparation of the graft units, and desiccation of the grafts whilst awaiting insertion. Scalp reductions result in a more unnatural look with excision scars tending to be more noticeable over time (220) . In addition, the inability to predict further hair loss over time in each patient has meant that the procedures are now uncommonly performed. Combination
