Male Androgenetic Alopecia
KEYWORDS: hair, pubmed, finasteride, alopecia, men, treatment, androgenetic, androgenetic alopecia, maa, loss, hair loss, study, growth, scalp, minoxidil


more noticeable over time (220) . In addition, the inability to predict further hair loss over time in each patient has meant that the procedures are now uncommonly performed. Combination of Medical, Medical and Surgical Therapy An open, randomized, parallel-group study comparing the efficacy of available medications as monotherapy or combined therapy (finasteride alone, finasteride and 2% topical minoxidil, topical minoxidil alone and finasteride and ketoconazole shampoo) showed that finasteride in combination with either topical minoxidil or ketoconazole showed significantly better hair regrowth than with finasteride as monotherapy and showed no difference in the incidence of side effects. It is inferred that the combination of medication with different mechanisms of action enhances the efficacy (221) . A recent case study showed that adding dutasteride 0.5mg in a patient who had poor response to finasteride had marked improvement of hair loss (222) . Topical minoxidil and finasteride can be a useful adjunct to hair transplant surgery for MAA. Without adjuvant medical therapy to prevent progression of balding process, an unnatural appearance can evolve over time. A successful medical treatment is key to stopping hair loss progression and offering a better guarantee of a sustained long-term transplant outcome. Hair transplant surgeons therefore recommend medical therapy should first be initiated prior to reviewing the option of transplantation (223) . Studies have found that topical use of minoxidil in perioperative period could prevent the usual shedding that occurs 1 to 2 weeks after transplantation and speed the time for regrowth (224) . These results were confirmed by a double-blind trial, which showed that significantly less grafted hair was lost during the shedding period (225) . Use of topical minoxidil as a premedication in hair transplant surgery has the advantage of stabilizing the hair loss, increasing the number of hairs in anagen phase and decreasing post-surgical telogen effluvium. Minoxidil should be stopped 2 to 3 days before surgery to minimize skin irritation and to reduce the theoretical risk of intraoperative bleeding caused by vasodilation. Therapy should be restarted in 1-2 weeks. A randomized, double-blind trial in 79 men with MAA using finasteride 1 mg daily or placebo 4 weeks before and 48 weeks after hair transplantation demonstrated that the treatment group had significant improvement from baseline, in comparison with placebo group (226) . CONCLUSION MAA is increasingly common among men as they age. Many men find it a distressing and unwelcome event and increasing numbers
