Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, endocrine, min, syndrome, aldosterone, blood, table, blood pressure, pressure, mineralocorticoid, adrenal, type, patients, renal, renin


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hypertension is defined differently by various societies with a blood pressure exceeding 139/89 mm Hg for adults aged 18 years or older generally considered being elevated, based on the mean of 2 or more properly measured seated BP readings on each of 2 or more office visits. Hypertension affects approximately 31% of Americans when using the above cutoff level. Blood pressure control is suboptimal and is achieved in less than 1 in 3. For children, hypertension is defined as an average systolic BP and/or diastolic BP that is greater than the 95th percentile for age, gender, and height on more than 3 occasions. Normal BP in children is defined as a SBP and DBP less than the 90th percentile for age, gender, and height. Figure 1 provides an overview of classification of BP for adults 18 years and older. Figure 1. Classification of Hypertension. AHA, American Heart Association; ACC, American College of Cardiology; ESC, European Society of Cardiology; ESH, European Society of Hypertension; DHL, German Hypertension League; NICE, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence of the United Kingdom. DBP, diastolic blood pressure; SBP, systolic blood pressure. Modified from: Jordan J, Kurschat C, Reuter H. Arterial hypertension. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2018 Aug 20;115(33-34):557-568 Less than 5% of hypertension is endocrine related, the vast majority being “essential”. Endocrine hypertension is suggested by finding physical or historical clues suggesting a specific endocrine disease or patient’s failure to respond to conventional therapy. The first step when evaluating a patient with suspected endocrine-related hypertension is to exclude other causes of secondary hypertension. A detailed medical history and review of systems should be obtained. The onset of hypertension and the response to previous anti-hypertensive treatment should be determined. A history of target organ damage (i.e. retinopathy, nephropathy, claudication, heart disease, abdominal or carotid artery disease) and the overall cardiovascular risk status should also be explored in detail. Moreover, a detailed family history may provide valuable insights into familial forms of endocrine hypertension. A secondary cause of hypertension should be suspected with the following: Young age Resistant hypertension Need for more than 3 antihypertensives to control blood pressure Very high blood pressure >180/110 mm Hg Family history of kidney disease Hypokalemia Plethora with features of Cushing’s syndrome Spells with variable blood pressure spikes Features of growth hormone excess Features of hypothyroidism, i.e. swollen eyes, dry skin Signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism, i.e. palpitations, weight
