Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, endocrine, min, syndrome, aldosterone, blood, table, blood pressure, pressure, mineralocorticoid, adrenal, type, patients, renal, renin


aldosterone synthase activity in the cortisol-producing zona fasciculata, making mineralocorticoid production regulated by corticotropin. The hybrid gene has been identified on chromosome 8. Familial hyperaldosteronism type 2 is not glucocorticoid-remediable. During the last years, other forms of familial aldosteronism were identified with 18-oxoF 10-1,000 higher (in type 3) than seen in familial hyperaldosteronism type 1 and/or type 2. Familial hyperaldosteronism type 3 is caused by germline mutations in the potassium channel subunit KCNJ5 and familial hyperaldosteronism type 4 is caused by germline mutations in the CACNA1H gene, which encodes the alpha subunit of an L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (Cav3.2). Pheochromocytoma These rare neuroendocrine tumors are composed of chromaffin tissue containing neurosecretory granules. Adrenal pheochromocytomas and most paragangliomas located in the abdomen produce and secrete catecholamines which can cause paroxysmal or sustained hypertension with hypertensive crisis. Hyperthyroidism Hyperthyroidism increases systolic blood pressure by increasing heart rate, decreasing systemic vascular resistance, and raising cardiac output. In thyrotoxicosis, patients usually are tachycardic and have high cardiac output with an increased stroke volume and elevated systolic blood pressure. Hypothyroidism Hypothyroid patients have impaired endothelial function, increased systemic vascular resistance, extracellular volume expansion, and an increased diastolic blood pressure. Hypothyroid patients have higher mean 24-h systolic BP and BP variability on 24-h ambulatory BP monitoring. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: 11beta-hydroxylase deficiency (5% of CAH) 11beta-hydroxylase is responsible for the conversion of deoxycorticosterone (DOC) to corticosterone (precursor of aldosterone) and 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol. In approximately 2/3 of individuals affected by a deficiency of this enzyme, monogenic low renin hypertension with low aldosterone levels ensues caused by accumulation of 11-deoxycortisol and DOC. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency This enzyme deficiency is rare and leads to diminished production of cortisol and sex steroids. Chronic elevation of ACTH causes an increased production of DOC and corticosterone with subsequent hypertension, hypokalemia, low aldosterone concentrations with suppressed renin. Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess Low-renin hypertension can present in various forms; one of them is apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME), an autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency of the 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11beta-HSD2) enzyme. This enzyme converts cortisol to the inactive cortisone in renal tubular cells. The lack of this enzyme results in high levels of cortisol in renal tubule cells, which activates the mineralocorticoid receptor. Liddle Syndrome Liddle described patients with severe hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis, who had low plasma aldosterone levels and plasma renin activity. “Gain of function” mutations in the genes
