Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, endocrine, min, syndrome, aldosterone, blood, table, blood pressure, pressure, mineralocorticoid, adrenal, type, patients, renal, renin


receptor. Liddle Syndrome Liddle described patients with severe hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis, who had low plasma aldosterone levels and plasma renin activity. “Gain of function” mutations in the genes coding for the beta- or gamma-subunit of the renal epithelial sodium channel, located at chromosome 16p13, lead to constitutive activation of renal sodium resorption and subsequent volume expansion. Pseudohypoaldosteronism Type 2 This condition is transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion, and can cause low renin hypertension. Hypertension in these patients may develop as a consequence of increased renal salt reabsorption, and hyperkalemia ensues as a result of reduced renal K excretion despite normal glomerular filtration and aldosterone secretion. Abnormalities such as activating mutations in the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel of the distal renal tubule are responsible for the clinical phenotype. Glucocorticoid Resistance or Chrousos Syndrome This autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder is rare and caused by inactivating mutations of the glucocorticoid receptor gene. Permanent elevation of ACTH can lead to stimulation of adrenal compounds with mineralocorticoid activity (corticosterone, DOC), and elevation of cortisol may lead to stimulation of the mineralocorticoid receptor, resulting in hypertension. In women, hirsutism and oligomenorrhea may develop through stimulation of androgens. Constitutive Activation of the Mineralocorticoid Receptor (MC receptor) The MC receptor can be mutated leading to the onset of hypertension before age 20. “Gain of function” mutations in the MC gene on chromosome 4q31 were identified. The inheritance pattern is autosomal-dominant. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED AND SUGGESTED The presence of clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of endocrine hypertension (see table 1 ) should lead to a general screening for the most common forms of endocrine hypertension ( Table 5 ). Table 5. Screening Tests for Endocrine Causes of Hypertension View in own window Cushing’s Syndrome 24-hour urinary cortisol, overnight dexamethasone suppression test, midnight salivary cortisol Primary Hyperaldosteronism Plasma aldosterone: renin ratio Pheochromocytoma Urinary or plasma metanephrines, urinary catecholamines Thyroid Dysfunction TSH, FT4, T3 In patients with a positive screening test, subsequent confirmation by various testing modalities is necessary ( Table 6 ). These steps may involve supplementary laboratory tests and localization imaging tests (CT, MRI). Table 6. Tests for Diagnosing the Most Prevalent Forms of Endocrine Hypertension View in own window Cushing’s Syndrome ACTH-dependent (5-10%) (ACTH > 20 ng/L) High-dose Dexamethason suppression test or CRH test If positive, then pituitary MRI and/or bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling If negative, then chest/abdomen MRI and/or 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT scan
