Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


secretion and synergizes the action of GHRH ( 3 ). Additionally, other factors such as gender, nutritional status, sleep patterns, physical activity, and metabolic and hormonal signals from other endocrine glands, including glucocorticoids, thyroid hormones, and sex steroids, also play an important role in modulating day-to-day GH secretion ( 1 ). Growth hormone regulates its own secretion by a feedback mechanism that involves other peripheral mediators, such as insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), free fatty acids, glucose, and insulin ( 4 ). Peripheral GH actions are primarily mediated through IGF-I synthesized mainly by the liver. Because IGF-I has a longer half-life in the circulation than GH, it is considered to provide an integrated measure of GH secretion. Like GH, serum IGF-I levels decline with aging ( 5 ), and tend to be low in obesity ( 6 ) and in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( 7 ) that may overlap with the levels observed in younger GH–deficient patients. Hence, for these reasons, the diagnosis of adult GH deficiency (GHD) cannot be established in most patients by a random single measurement of serum GH or IGF-I level. DIAGNOSIS OF ADULT GH DEFICIENCY: CURRENT PERSPECTIVE Adult GHD is a rare heterogeneous disorder that commonly results from a variety of organic causes, including hypothalamic-pituitary tumors and/or their treatment, head trauma, and infiltrative diseases ( 8 ). This condition is characterized by decreased lean body mass and increased fat mass, dyslipidemia, cardiac dysfunction, decreased fibrinolysis and premature atherosclerosis, decreased muscle strength and exercise capacity, decreased bone mineral density, increased insulin resistance, and impaired quality of life ( 9 ). Treatment with GH replacement improves many, but not all, of these abnormalities ( 10 , 11 ). However, due to the high cost of GH replacement (GH costs approximately $18,000 to $30,000 per year depending on the dose and brand used) ( 12 ) and concerns of potential long-term safety risks, particularly the development of diabetes mellitus, cancer and tumor recurrence, it is imperative that an accurate biochemical diagnosis is made so that appropriate GH replacement is offered to adults who are GH-deficient, and not for non-approved conditions (e.g., aging and sporting enhancement) ( 13 , 14 ). For the clinician, establishing the diagnosis of adult GHD is challenging because of the lack of a single biological end-point (e.g., growth failure in children with GHD). Other biochemical measurements like IGF-I, IGF-binding protein-3, or GH
