Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


of adult GHD is challenging because of the lack of a single biological end-point (e.g., growth failure in children with GHD). Other biochemical measurements like IGF-I, IGF-binding protein-3, or GH secretion over a 24-hour period have shown poor diagnostic value as there is an overlap between healthy and adults with GHD, particularly in adults > 40 years of age ( 5 , 15 ). Hence, a GH stimulation test is often required to establish the diagnosis, and should only be considered if there is a clinical suspicion of GHD and the intention to treat if the diagnosis is confirmed. Currently, there is no ideal stimulation test as each test has its pros and cons, and the decision to consider performing a GH stimulation test to diagnose adult GHD must factor in the validity of the chosen test and its GH cut-points, and the availability of local resources and expertise. Clinical practice guidelines recommend the evaluation of adult GHD to be based on medical history, clinical findings, and utilizing the appropriate GH stimulation test for biochemical confirmation ( 8 , 16-18 ). The exception of when GH stimulation testing can be exempted include those with organic hypothalamic-pituitary disease with ≥ 3 pituitary hormone deficiencies and low serum IGF-I levels [< -2.0 standard deviation scores (SDS)] ( 19 ), patients with genetic defects affecting the hypothalamic-pituitary axes, and those with hypothalamic-pituitary structural brain defects ( 8 , 16 , 18 ). Evaluation for adult GHD should not be performed in patients with no evidence of a suggestive history, e.g., sellar/parasellar mass lesion or a history of a hypothalamic–pituitary insult, such as surgery, radiation therapy, head trauma, or brain tumor. Conversely, GH stimulation testing should not be performed in patients with commonly encountered, generalized, nonspecific symptoms of weakness, frailty, fatigue, or weight gain, without a history of organic hypothalamic/pituitary disease, as such patients are unlikely to benefit from GH therapy ( 8 , 16 , 18 ). These considerations are important for the clinician when deciding which patients to consider testing for possible adult GHD. All GH stimulation tests are based on the concept that a GH secretagogue agent acutely stimulates pituitary GH secretion, and peak serum GH levels are detected by sequential blood sampling of serum GH levels after administration of the agent. The desired criteria of an ideal GH stimulation test should include the following: the ability to accurately and reliably
