Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


blood sampling of serum GH levels after administration of the agent. The desired criteria of an ideal GH stimulation test should include the following: the ability to accurately and reliably differentiate adults with GHD from GH-sufficient individuals, high reproducibility, safety with minimal side-effects, affordability, and short test duration. It should also not be unpleasant to the patient and it should be simple to perform. The insulin tolerance test (ITT) has historically been accepted as the gold-standard test for the assessment of adult GHD provided adequate hypoglycemia (blood glucose <40 mg/dL) is achieved ( 8 , 16 , 17 ). However, multiple drawbacks associated with the ITT hamper its wider use ( 20 ), and they include the requirement of close medical supervision by a physician throughout the test, the possibility of inducing severe life-threatening hypoglycemia, and the potential of causing seizures and altered consciousness resulting from neuroglycopenia in certain susceptible sub-populations. This test is also contraindicated in the elderly (> 65 years of age) and in patients who are at risk of and/or with a history of cardio-/cerebrovascular disease and seizures. Finding a reliable alternative to the ITT for the diagnosis of adult GHD has been challenging. When the GHRH-arginine test was available in the United States before EMD Serono discontinued manufacturing the GHRH analog (Geref @ ) in November 2008 ( 8 , 16 , 17 ), GHRH-arginine test became the most acceptable alternative to the ITT. Since then, the glucagon stimulation test (GST) has grown in popularity replacing the GHRH-arginine test as the test of choice if the ITT cannot be performed or is contraindicated ( 21 ). Previous studies have examined the diagnostic utility of the GST for adult GHD, but these studies have either not taken body mass index (BMI) into consideration ( 22 , 23 ) or included only controls with normal BMIs ( 24 , 25 ). Several recent retrospective studies have questioned the diagnostic accuracy of the GST when the GH cut-point of 3μg/L is applied to overweight/obese adults ( 26-29 ) and in those with glucose intolerance ( 28 , 29 ), while Hamrahian et al. ( 30 ) demonstrated in a prospective study of 28 patients by comparing the GST to the ITT that a lower GH cut-point of 1 μg/L improved its diagnostic accuracy with a 92% sensitivity and 100% specificity. In this document, we will discuss published evidence of
