Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


the ITT that a lower GH cut-point of 1 μg/L improved its diagnostic accuracy with a 92% sensitivity and 100% specificity. In this document, we will discuss published evidence of the GH stimulation tests used in the United States and the inherent caveats and limitations of each individual test. The lower GH cut-point of 1 μg/L for the GST should be utilized to improve its diagnostic accuracy in some overweight and all obese patients. We will also summarize current knowledge of the oral macimorelin test as the only approved diagnostic test for adult GHD by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency, and its change in status of availability in the United States. GENERAL LIMITATIONS AND IMPORTANT CAVEATS WHEN INTERPRETING GH STIMULATION TESTS The responses to all GH stimulation tests show intra-individual variability, and the GH cut-points vary depending on the test used. For the ITT and GST, the cut-points advocated by previous consensus guidelines were 3-5 μg/L and 2.5-3 μg/L, respectively ( 8 , 16 ). Other GH stimulatory agents such as clonidine, L-DOPA, and arginine are weaker GH secretagogues, and would require very low GH cut-points with utilization of sensitive GH assays to achieve adequate specificity (e.g., arginine of 0.4 μg/L) ( 31 ). Hence, these tests are not recommended in the United States ( 8 , 16 ). Other limitations include the relative lack of validated normative data based on age, gender, BMI, glycemic status, and the paucity of data for specific etiologies of adult GHD that have recently been described, such as traumatic brain injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage, ischemic stroke, and central nervous system infections ( 32 , 33 ). One of the caveats in interpreting the results of GH stimulation tests is that adult GHD itself is complicated by an increased susceptibility to central obesity ( 34 ). Obesity per se is a state of relative GHD ( 35 - 40 ), and earlier physiologic studies in obese individuals have shown that spontaneous GH secretion is reduced, GH clearance is enhanced, and stimulated GH secretion is reduced ( 40-42 ). Conversely, serum IGF-I levels are unaffected, or even increased, and this discordance is related to the increased hepatic GH responsiveness ( 43 ). The decreased serum GH levels in obesity up-regulate GH receptor and sensitivity. Furthermore, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are now recognized as being highly prevalent
