Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


GH cut-point of 3-5 μg/L when adequate hypoglycemia (blood glucose < 40 mg/dL) is achieved ( 8 , 16 , 17 ). This GH cut-point was originally proposed by Hoffman et al. ( 45 ) in 1994 based on GH responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, mean 24-hour GH levels derived from 20-min sampling, and serum IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels in 23 patients considered GH-deficient due to organic pituitary disease, and in 35 sex-matched normal subjects of similar age and BMI. The ranges of stimulated peak GH responses separated GH-deficient (0.2-3.1 μg/L) from GH-sufficient (5.3-42.5 μg/L) patients. However, an overlap in mean 24-hour GH, IGF-I, and IGFBP-3 levels was observed, demonstrating the challenge in utilizing random single serum GH, IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels to accurately differentiate GH-sufficiency from GHD. Disadvantages of the ITT include the requirement of close medical supervision, may be unpleasant, and cautioned in some patients because of potential adverse effects (e.g., seizures or loss of consciousness resulting from neuroglycopenia), and contraindicated in elderly patients and in patients at risk of and/or with a history of cardio-/cerebrovascular disease and seizures. Furthermore, normoglycemic and/or hyperglycemic obese patients with insulin resistance may fail to achieve adequate hypoglycemia ( 46 ), necessitating the use of higher insulin doses (0.15-0.2 IU/kg), thus increasing the risk of delayed hypoglycemia. Although the ITT demonstrates good sensitivity, its reproducibility is another major limitation. Differences in peak GH responses have been demonstrated in healthy subjects undergoing ITT at varying times ( 47 ) and in women at different times of their menstrual cycle ( 48 ). Table 2. Recommended Protocol for Performing the ITT View in own window CONTRAINDICATIONS: History of epileptic seizures, coronary artery disease, pregnancy, or age > 55 years. PRECAUTIONS: Patients commonly develop neuroglycopenic symptoms during the test and should be encouraged to report these symptoms (administration of IV anti-emetics can be considered). Late hypoglycemia may occur (patients should be advised to eat small and frequent meals after completion of the test). PROCEDURE: Fast from midnight for 8-10 hours. All morning medications can be taken with water (if the HPA axis is simultaneously assessed, then glucocorticoids should be withheld ≥ 12 hours before testing). Weigh patient. 1 Place IV cannula for IV access in both forearms. 2 Administer IV human Regular insulin (standard dose: 0.05-0.1 units/kg for non-diabetic subjects with a BMI < 30 kg/m2 and high dose: 0.15-0.3 units/kg for subjects with a BMI
