Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


discretion is required in deciding the insulin dose for these patients. A dose of 0.05-0.1 units/kg may be more appropriate to prevent severe or delayed hypoglycemia. Glucagon Stimulation Test Glucagon is reportedly to be more potent than arginine or clonidine in stimulating GH secretion ( 24 , 25 ). Glucagon is also a more potent GH secretagogue when administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously compared to the intravenous route ( 49 ). However, the mechanism/s of glucagon-induced GH stimulation remains unclear, and one hypothesis is that glucagon decreases ghrelin-independent effects of glucose or insulin variations ( 50 ). There have been three earlier studies that have assessed the GST in identifying adult GHD in patients with pituitary disorders ( 22 , 23 , 51 ). Gomez et al. ( 51 ) and Conceicao et al. ( 23 ) compared the diagnostic characteristics of GST to ITT and included a control group matched for age and sex in both studies, and for BMI in one study ( 51 ). Using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, both studies proposed that a GH cut-point of 3 μg/L provided optimal sensitivity and specificity ( 51 , 52 ). Gomez et al. ( 51 ) also demonstrated an inverse correlation between age (R = - 0.389, P = 0.0075) and BMI (R = - 0.329, P = 0.025) with peak GH levels in healthy controls. These data suggest that there is a potential association between relative, but not organic, GHD in aging and obesity. However, this study was conducted in a European cohort, where the frequency and severity of obesity is generally to a lesser degree than in the United States ( 53 ). Conversely, Conceicao et al. ( 23 ) demonstrated that peak GH levels were unaffected by age in either the control or patient group, and neither were there any gender differences. Additionally, Gomez et al . ( 51 ) used intramuscular glucagon doses of 1 mg and 1.5 mg for body weights ≤ 90 kg and > 90 kg respectively, whereas Conceicao et al . ( 23 ) used intramuscular glucagon of 1 mg for all subjects. In another study, Berg et al. ( 22 ) demonstrated an optimal peak GH cut-point of 2.5 μg/L with 95% sensitivity and 79% specificity using ROC analysis. This study also reported lower peak GH levels with GST compared to ITT (5.1 vs 6.7 μg/L, P < 0.01)
