Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


intervention and resolved spontaneously ( 63 ). One drug-related serious adverse event was reported; that was in a subject with an asymptomatic QT interval prolongation on the electrocardiogram that resolved spontaneously within 24 h ( 62 ). Thus, careful assessment of the patient’s concurrent medications is recommended as well as discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers, provided this is considered safe by the prescribing physician and with sufficient washout time prior to testing. However, in August 2022, a press announcement stated that Novo Nordisk Healthcare AG provided a 270-day notice period to terminate the amended development and commercialization license agreement for macimorelin (Macrilen®) in the United States ( 65 ). This means that as of May 23, 2023, Aerterna Zentaris regained its full rights in the United States and Canada to macimorelin but because it has yet to find a partner in the United States to market macimorelin, it was further announced that sales of macimorelin will be temporarily discontinued and use of the agent beyond May 2023 will continue until its supplies in the United States runs out ( 66 ). Table 4. Recommended Protocol for Performing the Macimorelin Test View in own window CONTRAINDICATIONS: Drugs that may increase its plasma levels and prolong QT. PRECAUTIONS: Dysgeusia. PROCEDURE: Fast from midnight for 8-10 hours. All morning medications can be taken with water. Weigh patient. Place IV cannula for IV access in one forearm. Dissolve in water 1 (120 ml) or 2 pouches (240 ml) of macimorelin (≤ 120 kg = 1 pouch; > 120 kg = 2 pouches) Calculate macimorelin dose (0.5 mg/kg as a single oral dose) and volume of water required to reconstitute macimorelin solution (patient body weight X kg = X ml macimorelin solution, e.g., patient with a body weight of 70 kg would require 70 mL of reconstituted macimorelin solution) After volume of macimorelin is calculated, stir the solution gently and thoroughly for 2-3 min, and use within 30 min of preparation. Draw the exact macimorelin volume of solution into a needleless syringe, transfer the exact volume of into a drinking glass, and instruct the patient to drink the entire volume of solution within 30 seconds. SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENTS: Blood is drawn for measurements of serum GH levels at 30, 45, 60 and 90 min. INTERPRETATION: Peak serum GH levels tend to occur between 45-60 mins. When used according to prescribing package label, peak GH levels
