Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


GH levels at 30, 45, 60 and 90 min. INTERPRETATION: Peak serum GH levels tend to occur between 45-60 mins. When used according to prescribing package label, peak GH levels ≤ 2.8 µg/L at any time point is diagnostic of adult GHD. CAUTION: Peak GH levels ≤ 5.1 µg/L at any time point may be considered in patients with a high-pre-test probability to diagnose adult GHD, as this higher GH cut-point limits the risk of a false-positive diagnosis and maintains a high detection rate for GH-deficient patients because of the more potent GH stimulatory effect of macimorelin compared with the ITT. Safety and diagnostic performance in patients < 18 and > 65 years of age, and in patients with impaired glucose tolerance and poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, and BMI-adjusted peak GH cut-points for overweight and obese patients is not established. Summary of Tests Table 5 displays a summary of the desirable test characteristics of GH stimulation tests currently available in the United States. Table 5. Summary of Desirable Test Characteristics of each GH Stimulation Test Currently Available in the United States View in own window Test Accurate? Safe? Tolerability? Simple? Quick? Available? Cost ITT Gold standard No 2 No 4 No No Yes $ GST Yes 1 Yes 3 No 3 Yes No Yes $ Macimorelin Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes/No $$$ 1 if appropriate BMI-specific GH cut-points are used; 2 contraindicated in patients with a history hypoglycemia, history of previous seizures, in the elderly (> 65 years of age), and in patients at risk of and/or with a history of cardio-/cerebrovascular disease; 3 caution in patients with propensity for nausea and vomiting, and elderly patients who may be at risk of developing symptomatic hypotension and dizziness ( 57 ); 4 patients may not tolerate severe symptomatic hypoglycemia. GST, glucagon stimulation test; ITT, insulin tolerance test. STANDARDIZATION OF GH ASSAYS Accurate measurement of GH levels is critical for establishing the diagnosis of adult GHD because the analytical method influences the results of GH stimulation tests, which is dependent on specific GH cut-point levels. However, circulating GH is present in several different isoforms and isomers, including the most common variant of 22 kDa, and other smaller molecules, such as the 20 kDa GH variant. Monoclonal antibodies binding to a specific molecular form of GH are used to limit detection to the 22 kDa GH, but will not detect other GH
