Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests in Assessing Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency
KEYWORDS: patients, test, hormone, growth, pubmed, levels, growth hormone, stimulation, ghd, adult, endocrinol, gst, peak, macimorelin, itt


20 kDa GH variant. Monoclonal antibodies binding to a specific molecular form of GH are used to limit detection to the 22 kDa GH, but will not detect other GH isoforms. Other molecules similar to GH (e.g., placental GH and prolactin) could potentially cross-react and affect the measurement of GH levels. Growth hormone binding protein, to which approximately 50% of circulating GH is bound, can also cause interference in a GH assay. Furthermore, substantial heterogeneity exists among currently utilized assays due to the use of different standard preparations for calibration of GH immunoassays, and lack of harmonization between various GH assays makes it difficult to directly compare diagnostic cut-points across different published studies. Another source of confusion when interpreting data of GH stimulation tests was that some laboratories reported GH levels in activity (mU/L), whereas others used mass units (μg/L) ( 67 ). Due to the heterogeneity of GH assays, it is important that GH assays utilize a universal GH calibration standard 98/574 (National Institute for Biological Standards and Control), a recombinant pituitary GH preparation of high purity ( 68 ). All assay manufacturers should also specify the validation of their assay, which should include specification of the GH isoforms detected (20 kDa GH, 22 kDa GH, and other isoforms), the analyte being measured, the specificities of the antibodies used, and the presence or absence of growth hormone binding protein interference. CONCLUSIONS The decision to perform GH stimulation tests should be based on the clinical suspicion of the treating endocrinologist. If the clinical suspicion is high, such as in a patient with history of surgery on a sellar mass, concurrent 1-2 other pituitary hormone deficiencies, and a low (< -2 SDS) or low-normal (< 0 SDS) serum IGF-I level, then performing GH stimulation testing is recommended. If the clinical suspicion is low, such as in cases where there is no suggestive history, such as hypothalamic-pituitary disease, surgery or radiation therapy, head trauma, or childhood-onset GHD, then the diagnosis of adult GHD should not be pursued and GH stimulation testing should not be performed. For now, the ITT remains the gold standard GH stimulation test, and the GST and macimorelin test (where available) are reasonable alternatives to the ITT. As the reliability of the GST GH cut-point of 3 μg/L in overweight/obese subjects and in those with glucose intolerance can misclassify some patients, the utilization of GH cut-points of the GST
