HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, hospitalization, manuscript, gastrointestinal, author, diseases, author manuscript, decile, costs, highest, burden, highest decile, etable, manuscript author, patients highest


these patients. Based on multivariate logistic regression, ‘high-need, high-cost’ patients were more likely to have Medicare/Medicaid insurance, obesity and infection-related hospitalization. Conclusions—In a nation-wide database analysis of patients with IBD, CLD, FGID, gastrointestinal hemorrhage or pancreatic diseases hospitalized at least once, we found that a small fraction of high-need, high-cost patients contribute disproportionately to hospitalization costs. Population health management directed towards these patients would facilitate high value care. Keywords healthcare spending; utilization; population health management; high risk INTRODUCTION Gastrointestinal and liver diseases are prevalent, expensive and contribute to substantial healthcare utilization in the United States. Recent estimates suggest that annually over $103 billion is spent on the management of gastrointestinal and chronic liver diseases, of which 62% is attributed to inpatient care, and 20% to ambulatory care.1 Previous cross-sectional analyses of burden of healthcare utilization with gastrointestinal and liver disease have helped identify leading causes and estimated costs of ambulatory visits, emergency There is limited information on the annual burden and costs of hospitalization in patients with chronic gastrointestinal and liver diseases. Identifying patients at high risk for frequent hospitalizations and long hospital stays is imperative to improve population health and reduce healthcare costs. Metrics focusing on 30-day readmissions risk fail to capture overall patients who eventually become ‘high-need, high-cost’ (HNHC) patients may not be readmitted within 30-days of index admission; (b) even among patients with 30-day readmission, there may be some who have multiple subsequent hospitalizations and others with just one-time readmission; and (c) patients may have varying lengths of hospitalization, with disproportionate costs.4,5 An alternative metric of high-value care may be ‘total days illnesses.6,7 A detailed understanding of variability in hospitalization-related burden and healthcare costs of chronic gastrointestinal diseases will allow identification and characterization of HNHC patients of hospitalization-related care and facilitate population Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript We used the Nationwide Readmissions Database (NRD) 2013, an all-payer database of (HCUP), which longitudinally captures over 85% inpatient discharges from 21 state inpatient databases, to estimate the annual burden and patterns of hospitalization in patients with five common chronic gastrointestinal and liver diseases (inflammatory bowel diseases [IBD], chronic liver diseases [CLDs], functional gastrointestinal disorders [FGIDs], gastrointestinal hemorrhage and pancreatic diseases). This database has been used to calculate rates and risk factors associated with 30-day readmissions in various conditions. 10–13 METHODS We constructed a retrospective cohort
