HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, hospitalization, manuscript, gastrointestinal, author, diseases, author manuscript, decile, costs, highest, burden, highest decile, etable, manuscript author, patients highest


gastrointestinal hemorrhage and pancreatic diseases). This database has been used to calculate rates and risk factors associated with 30-day readmissions in various conditions. 10–13 METHODS We constructed a retrospective cohort within NRD 2013 (see online supplement).14,15 This study was exempt from Institutional Review Board as the NRD is a publicly available database that contains de-identified patient information. We included all adults (age ≥18y) with ≥1 hospitalization between January–June 2013, with a primary or secondary discharge diagnosis of IBD, CLDs, FGIDs, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, or pancreatic disorders, based on International Classification of Diseases, Ninth (CCS) for ICD-9-CM (eTable 1, online supplement).2 The ‘at-risk for re-hospitalization’ period was defined as the period from discharge data following any of the above gastrointestinal or liver diseases to the end of the study year, December 31, 2013 or death. We excluded patients whose index hospitalization was between July–December, 2013, were for a given admission. Details of reported patient and hospital characteristics in this database are shown in online endoscopy, colonoscopy, paracentesis, etc.), abdominal surgeries, blood transfusions, and parenteral or enteral nutrition were captured (eTable 1). Outcomes Measured We measured overall annual burden and patterns of hospitalization, using total days spent in the hospital as primary metric. Due to variability in follow-up time (depending on month of index hospitalization, when ‘at-risk for hospitalization’ time started), this was normalized and presented as per-month of follow-up (calculated by summing the “length of stay” secondary outcomes were number of all-cause hospitalizations per month and costs of hospitalization per month. Cost of hospitalizations was computed by multiplying charges for inflation was adjusted to the year 2016. To measure variability and better characterize Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript stratified into deciles, and HNHC patients were defined as patients in the highest decile by In order to understand causes of admissions in these patients, we categorized all hospitalizations as cardiac, respiratory, infections, genitourinary, gastrointestinal, endocrine/ metabolic, neuropsychiatric, hematological or solid organ neoplasms, and others, based on primary CCS diagnosis codes (eTable 2).10 In order to characterize HNHC patients, we lowest and highest decile of hospitalization burden, as well as procedural burden, and mortality across all admissions. Furthermore, we investigated the proportion of preventable discharge data as a “screening tool” to identify ambulatory conditions for which high- quality, community-based outpatient care can potentially prevent hospitalization, complications, or more severe disease
