HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, hospitalization, manuscript, gastrointestinal, author, diseases, author manuscript, decile, costs, highest, burden, highest decile, etable, manuscript author, patients highest


eTable 15). Overall, 4% of the patients in the lowest decile died DISCUSSION In this all-payer, nationally representative study of patients who were hospitalized at least once during the index year, we made several key observations. First, there is considerable variability in burden and costs of hospitalization in patients with gastrointestinal and liver diseases, with a small fraction of HNHC patients (defined as patients in the highest decile by total days spent in hospital/month) contributing to the majority of the hospitalization burden and costs. Across a spectrum of common gastrointestinal and liver diseases, patients in the highest decile of hospitalization burden for each condition spent a median 3.7–5.1 days/ and with hospitalization costs averaging between $7,438–11,425/month. Second, patient-, hospital- and index-hospitalization characteristics of HNHC patients are fairly similar across diseases – these patients have Medicare/Medicaid insurance, lower income status, index related hospitalization, and more frequently underwent gastrointestinal procedures, received blood transfusions and enteral or parenteral nutrition at their index as well as subsequent hospitalizations, consistent with prior findings.17,18 At a patient-level, modifiable risk factors may include tackling the obesity epidemic and mental health issues and minimizing interventions may include better access to care and connectivity between rural and specialty hospitals. Third, among patients hospitalized once with chronic gastrointestinal or liver diseases, gastrointestinal causes constitute the most common causes for subsequent hospitalizations, and infections and cardiopulmonary causes are other common reasons for readmission, particularly in patients with frequent hospitalizations. The first step in population health management is identifying patients with highest healthcare utilization and sources of variability in outcomes. Our study identified key five common gastrointestinal and liver diseases. We anticipate that similar patterns would be observed across other chronic non-gastrointestinal conditions, wherein a small fraction of patients account for majority hospitalization-related care. HNHC patients include two sets of patients: one who are chronically high utilizers, who have established disease-related complications at very high risk of repeated decompensation (for example, patients with decompensated cirrhosis) and second, compensated patients who are not chronically ill, but at high-risk of complications (for example, patients with controlled inflammatory bowel disease, who develop a severe flare). In our analysis, over a one-year cycle, we are unable to distinguish what proportion of patients are in the first category of chronically being high- need, high cost vs. patients who transiently develop high healthcare needs (for example, Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 01. Author
