HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, hospitalization, manuscript, gastrointestinal, author, diseases, author manuscript, decile, costs, highest, burden, highest decile, etable, manuscript author, patients highest


category of chronically being high- need, high cost vs. patients who transiently develop high healthcare needs (for example, Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript management is implementation of multi-component chronic care models which are focused on effective and efficient team care with proactively planned healthcare interactions, self- information technology aided-clinical decision support.19 Understanding healthcare utilization commonalities across different diseases would help target system-level adoption of interventions that have been successful in other diseases to the field of gastroenterology. The strengths of our study include (a) use of a nationally representative database to study longitudinal hospitalization-related care, (b) a novel, patientcentered metric of burden of highest decile of hospitalization-related care, and (d) assessment of causes of admissions, across deciles of hospitalization burden. Our study has several limitations. First, the analyses are based on administrative codes, and laboratory variables. Second, causes of readmissions were identified using primary discharge diagnoses, which were grouped by disease system to allow interpretation. Third, since the NRD uses data from state inpatient databases, it does not track patients across state boundaries. However, in validation studies performed by HCUP, the rate of cross-state hospitalizations were found to be <5% of all admissions for patients, thereby unlikely to substantially affect our estimates.14 Fourth, the concept of PQIs is more widely prevalent in primary care as standard hospital-wide quality measures and none of these are gastrointestinal or liver disease-specific, which somewhat limits their relevance to our field. Fifth, there was potential overlap in patients between different gastrointestinal diseases; approximately 20% patients had two or more candidate gastrointestinal or liver condition at index hospitalization. Since our focus was on identifying burden and costs of hospitalizations with certain defined gastrointestinal diseases, rather than due to those diseases, this overlap would not significantly influence interpretation of results for patients which may bias ‘at-risk for hospitalization’ time period; however, for most gastrointestinal In conclusion, in this nationally representative study of patients hospitalized at least once during the index year, we observed considerable variability in burden of hospitalization across five common chronic gastrointestinal and liver diseases, including IBD, CLDs, FGIDs, gastrointestinal hemorrhage and pancreatic diseases, with a small fraction of patients contributing disproportionately to total hospitalization burden and costs. The characteristics of these HNHC patients were remarkably similar across different diseases. Population health management strategies directed towards identifying HNHC patients and implementing
