Included in the theme issue:
KEYWORDS: herpes, zoster, dermatol, herpes zoster, isotopic, response, isotopic response, skin, cases, infection, case, gvhd, disease, following, wolf


INFLAMMATORY SKIN DISEASES Letters to the Editor 383 Acta Derm Venereol 2012; 92: 339–409 Isotopic Response of Graft Versus Host Disease Following Herpes Zoster Infection: Case Report and Review of the Literature Tarun Mehra, Giesela Metzler, Jürgen Bauer, Martin Köberle and Claus Garbe tuebingen.de Accepted October 16, 2011. Wolf’s isotopic response is the occurrence of an unrelated of his skin lesions, the maximum daily dose administered being cutaneous disorder in an area of healed skin previously 50 mg, which had been gradually reduced to 2 mg. The patient had had herpes zoster in the right dermatome T4 approximately affected by another pathology (1, 2), the most frequent being granulomatous reactions followed by dysimmune been treated with ibuprofen 600 mg 3 times a day, tramadol reactions and malignancies (3). Cutaneous graft versus 50 mg once daily and topically with fusidic acid gauze as an host disease (GVHD) presenting as an isotopic response infection prophylaxis. As he had presented himself 10 days is very rare. We describe here an unusual manifestation after the onset of symptoms, no aciclovir had been given. Due to persistent post-herpetic neuralgia, gabapentin 600 mg 3 times of the aforementioned disorder and review the literature daily had been prescribed. He had been free of skin lesions for on this topic. approximately 30 months after receiving allogeneic bone mar- row transplantation (BMT). Two 4-mm skin punch biopsies were taken, one from the upper CASE REPORT back outside of T4 and another from the affected skin within T4. Dermatohistopathological analysis revealed a superficial A 69-year-old Caucasian man presented with erythematous and interface-dermatitis with hypergranulosis, orthohyperkeratosis hyperpigmented scaly plaques, which were either sharply or and pigment incontinence, a complete loss of the epidermal vaguely demarcated. They were predominantly located in the stratum basale, as well as subepidermal detachment. A sparse dermatome T4, with similar lesions on the upper back, shoulders and lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrate with a few eosinophilic and neck outside of T4 (Fig. 1). granulocytes was present, but remained confined to the super- His medical history revealed a myelodysplastic syndrome ficial dermis (Fig. 2). Dermatohistopathological differential type refractory anaemia with excess blasts (RAEB), for which diagnosis was a lichenoid drug eruption or a chronic GVHD. he had received an allogeneic stem cell transplant with a hu- The sparse inflammatory infiltrate in the dermo-epidermal man leukocyte antigen (HLA) mismatch in December 2007 junction zone was unusual for a lichen planus or
