Included in the theme issue:
KEYWORDS: herpes, zoster, dermatol, herpes zoster, isotopic, response, isotopic response, skin, cases, infection, case, gvhd, disease, following, wolf


stem cell transplant with a hu- The sparse inflammatory infiltrate in the dermo-epidermal man leukocyte antigen (HLA) mismatch in December 2007 junction zone was unusual for a lichen planus or for a lichenoid and donor lymphocytes in May 2008. He had received GVHD drug reaction and the few eosinophils also did not strengthen prophylaxis, comprising 30 mg methotrexate on day 1 after the case for the latter diagnosis. transplantation, and 20 mg on days 3 and 6, in addition to PCR did not detect varicella zoster virus (VZV)-DNA from a tacrolimus, starting a day before transplantation at 3 mg/day lesional skin sample. Serological testing with an enzyme-linked and reduced by 0.5 mg approximately every 3 weeks, over a immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed a borderline result for period of 18 weeks. He had not developed an acute GVHD. VZV IgM and a positive result for VZV IgG, compatible with He had received prednisolone for autoimmune hepatitis and a past VZV infection. polymyalgia rheumatica until one month before the appearance The patient was diagnosed with a post-her- petic isotopic response of GVHD following allogeneic stem cell transplantation, due to the consecution of skin lesions as well as dermatohistopathology. Topical therapy with triclosan 1% and betamethasone 0.2% in a petrolatum-based ointment was initiated and the patient was referred to private practice for further medical supervision. DISCUSSION Infection with VZV or herpes simplex virus (HSV) is the most common pre- disposing skin disorder for an isotopic response (4). Of all isotopic responses following a VZV/HSV infection, the secondary cutaneous pathology is, in most cases, a granulomatous reaction, with 60 cases recorded so far, followed by dysimmune Fig. 1. Erythematous and hyperpigmented scaly plaques, either sharply or vaguely demarcated: reactions (45 cases), malignancies (32 (a) on the right side of the thorax, dermatome Th 4; (b) on the back, shoulders and neck; (c) on the chest, dermatome Th 4; and (d) on the upper back, outside of Th 4. cases), leukaemic or lymphomatous © 2012 The Authors. doi: Acta Derm Venereol 92 Journal Compilation © 2012 Acta Dermato-Venereologica. ISSN 0001-5555 384 Letters to the Editor The authors declare no conflicts of interest. REFERENCES (full list) 1. Wyburn-Mason R. Malignant chan- ge arising in tissues affected by herpes. Br Med J 1955; 2: 1106–1109. 2. Wolf R, Brenner S, Ruocco V, Filioli FG. Isotopic response. Int J Dermatol 1995; 34: 341–348. Fig. 2. Two skin biopsies
