Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


ABSTRACT Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a disorder characterized by excretion of large volumes of hypotonic urine. The underlying cause is either a deficiency of the hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) in the pituitary gland/hypothalamus [central DI or Arginine Vasopressin Deficiency (AVP-D )], or resistance to the actions of AVP in the kidneys [nephrogenic DI or Arginine Vasopressin Resistance (AVP-R )]. In most circumstances, DI is also characterized by excessive consumption of water (polydipsia). A third condition called primary polydipsia can clinically show overlapping features with DI. Both DI and primary polydipsia are collectively referred to as ‘polyuria-polydipsia syndromes. Like other endocrine disorders, an accurate diagnosis of DI can be challenging. This is mainly because the results obtained from diagnostic testing can show significant overlap among the different forms of DI and primary polydipsia. When a case of DI is suspected, the initial step involves the confirmation of the presence of hypotonic polyuria, which is the hallmark of DI. Once hypotonic polyuria is established, the next step is to identify the type of polyuria-polydipsia disorder (central DI vs. nephrogenic DI vs. primary polydipsia). This can be determined either through the water deprivation test or through the copeptin stimulation tests using osmotic and non-osmotic AVP stimulants. Lastly, a detailed history and physical examination must be performed , and appropriate laboratory and imaging studies must be undertaken to identify the underlying etiology of DI. This chapter describes the diagnostic steps to be pursued to identify the presence of DI, distinguish the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia disorders, identify the underlying disorders responsible for the DI, the challenges faced with diagnostic testing for DI in clinical practice, and future prospects in the field of DI diagnosis. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a disorder of water homeostasis that is characterized by excretion of large volumes of hypotonic urine either due to the deficiency of the hormone arginine vasopressin [AVP, also known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH)], or due to resistance to the action of AVP on its receptors in the kidneys ( 1 , 2 ). Large volumes of urine excretion, also known as polyuria (typically over 4 L per day), is the hallmark of DI. The urine of DI has been classically described as insipid (tasteless), hypotonic, and dilute ( 3 ). Polyuria is defined as excretion of a urinary
