Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


is the hallmark of DI. The urine of DI has been classically described as insipid (tasteless), hypotonic, and dilute ( 3 ). Polyuria is defined as excretion of a urinary volume >150 ml/Kg/24 hours at birth, >100-110 ml/Kg/24 hours up to the age of 2 years, and >50 ml/Kg/24 hours in older children and adults ( 1 ). DI is typically classified into 3 forms: 1. Central DI or Arginine Vasopressin Deficiency (AVP-D), 2. Nephrogenic DI or Arginine Vasopressin Resistance (AVP-R ), and 3. Gestational DI. Primary polydipsia is a disorder that is characterized by excessive intake of water which results in hypotonic polyuria. Clinically, this condition can manifest with symptoms of DI and adds to the diagnostic challenge of identifying DI. Primary polydipsia and DI together are referred to as ‘polyuria-polydipsia syndromes’, characterized by hypotonic polyuria ( 4 , 5 ). Central DI is caused by a variety of disorders that arise from either the pituitary or the hypothalamus. These conditions are characterized by defective production, transport, or secretion of AVP ( 3 , 6 ). This results in inappropriately low AVP levels in the setting of increased plasma osmolality. Nephrogenic DI is a form of DI that results from resistance by the kidney towards the action of AVP, due to AVP receptor defects or as an adverse effect of certain medications ( 3 , 6 ). A third, rare form of DI occurs during pregnancy. Also known as gestational DI, this type of DI results from the enzymatic breakdown of the endogenous AVP by a placental cysteine aminopeptidase ( 3 , 7 ). Therefore, this enzymatic degradation of plasma AVP during pregnancy can unmask sub-clinical DI in those women with borderline-low plasma AVP levels ( 8 ). Although primary polydipsia is not a true DI state, long-standing primary polydipsia can give rise to a DI-like picture on laboratory evaluation (described later) ( 4 ). There are several etiologies that give rise to each of these forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes ( 6 ). They have been listed in Table 1. Table 1 . Etiologies of the Various Polyuria-Polydipsia Syndromes View in own window Central Diabetes Insipidus or Arginine Vasopressin Deficiency (involvement of pituitary and/or hypothalamus) · Neoplastic: Craniopharyngioma Germinoma Meningioma Pituitary macroadenoma (invasive) Metastasis to the pituitary and/or the hypothalamus · Vascular: Hypothalamic infarction/hemorrhage Cerebral infarction/hemorrhage Anterior communicating artery ligation Anterior communicating artery aneurysm Sheehan’s syndrome Sickle cell disease
