Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


a pituitary adenoma ( 1 , 9 ). In most circumstances, despite losing large volumes of water in the urine, individuals with DI do not manifest dehydration. This is due to the activation of the thirst center in the hypothalamus that induces a strong sense of thirst with rising plasma osmolality which results in the intake of large volumes of water ( 6 ). Therefore, although an intact thirst mechanism helps to compensate for the urinary water loss, the polyuria and polydipsia persist, and this can cause considerable distress for the patient unless the underlying DI is treated. A plasma osmolality of about 285 mOsm/Kg usually acts as a trigger for thirst, with further increments in plasma osmolality resulting in a linear increase in thirst ( 6 , 10 ). DI becomes more challenging to manage if this thirst response is diminished or if the patient is unable to access water for drinking. Patients with an attenuated thirst response have reduced urge to drink water despite rising plasma osmolality and loss of large volumes of water in the urine, resulting in ‘adipsic DI’ ( 11 ). Although being classically associated with craniopharyngioma, adipsic DI can also manifest with CNS trauma, CNS tumors, or after CNS neurosurgical or neurovascular procedures ( 12 ). Moreover, the thirst mechanism may be lost in hypothalamic lesions, whereby DI may present acutely with signs and symptoms of dehydration. Patients who are unable to voluntarily access water include infants and young children, and individuals with altered consciousness. In young children, lack of adequate water intake can lead to dehydration, sleeplessness, irritability, enuresis, failure to thrive, and impaired growth ( 1 ). Similarly, among patients with altered/reduced consciousness, rapid output of large volumes of urine can result in dehydration and acute, sometimes severe, hypernatremia can ensue ( 2 ). The shrinkage of the brain induced by excessive water loss and severe hypernatremia could potentially lead to intracranial bleeding, obtundation, convulsions, or coma ( 13 ). Diagnosing the type of DI/polyuria-polydipsia syndrome is essential for making the optimal treatment decision. A potential misdiagnosis and the resultant treatment can lead to catastrophic consequences ( 7 ). For instance, if primary polydipsia is misdiagnosed as central DI and desmopressin treatment is initiated, severe hyponatremia can occur ( 14 , 15 ). There have been several tests that have been developed over the past century to diagnose the presence of DI
