Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


is initiated, severe hyponatremia can occur ( 14 , 15 ). There have been several tests that have been developed over the past century to diagnose the presence of DI and to differentiate the various types of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes. This chapter specifically comprises the description of different diagnostic tests utilized in the diagnosis of these conditions. DIAGNOSING DIABETES INSIPIDUS The major challenge with diagnosing and classifying the type of DI arises from the fact that the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes can show overlapping features on diagnostic testing. The water deprivation test, also known as the indirect water deprivation test should potentially be able to distinguish the various forms of DI. Deprivation of water intake should allow patients with primary polydipsia to concentrate their urine while those with central or nephrogenic DI continue to excrete dilute urine. Administration of desmopressin (Deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin), the synthetic analogue of AVP, after water deprivation should help with differentiating patients with central DI from those with nephrogenic DI as the former should be able to concentrate the urine once the deficient action of AVP is replaced with desmopressin, while the latter should not show a significant response due to end-organ resistance to the action of AVP or its analogues. While water deprivation followed by desmopressin administration should be theoretically sufficient to identify the type of DI, in reality, the interpretation of these tests is more complicated, especially if a patient has partial central DI, partial nephrogenic DI or chronic primary polydipsia ( 4 ). Patients with partial central or nephrogenic DI retain some amount of response to water deprivation and desmopressin administration ( 4 , 16 ). In the case of chronic primary polydipsia, long-standing water diuresis blunts the renal medullary concentration gradient and causes down-regulation of the aquaporin-2 channels in the proximal tubule and the collecting duct due to suppressed endogenous AVP, thus creating a state mimicking nephrogenic DI ( 4 , 17 ). The basic algorithmic approach for diagnosing any suspected case of DI usually involves the following steps: 1. Confirmation of hypotonic polyuria 2. Diagnosis of the type of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome and 3. Identification of the underlying etiology ( 6 ). Performing diagnostic testing in this order can potentially aide with establishing the appropriate diagnosis and with choosing the most relevant biochemical and imaging tests. CONFIRMATION OF HYPOTONIC POLYURIA Polyuria is defined as excretion of a urinary volume >150 ml/Kg/24 hours at
