Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


the appropriate diagnosis and with choosing the most relevant biochemical and imaging tests. CONFIRMATION OF HYPOTONIC POLYURIA Polyuria is defined as excretion of a urinary volume >150 ml/Kg/24 hours at birth, >100-110 ml/Kg/24 hours up to the age of 2 years, and >50 ml/Kg/24 hours in older children or adults. A hypotonic urine is typically defined as a urine with an osmolality of <300 mOsm/Kg. The primary objective in this step involves differentiating between conditions that give rise to polyuria resulting from osmotic diuresis (such as in hyperglycemia) and DI/primary polydipsia, in which polyuria predominantly involves water diuresis. Conformation Of Polyuria The first step is to confirm if a patient indeed has polyuria. Complaints of ‘polyuria’ can often be a misrepresentation of the actual symptoms of urinary urgency, nocturia, urinary incontinence, urinary tract infection, or prostatic hypertrophy ( 2 ). Once these symptoms have been ruled out, a 24-hour urine collection should be obtained. A 24-hour urine volume of <2.5 L could be reassuring and there is no concern for osmoregulatory disruption. Those patients without polyuria but with other above-mentioned urinary symptoms must be referred for urological evaluation. Alternatively, individuals can keep a diary for 24 hours making a note of the amount of their urine output ( 3 ). A 24-hour urine creatinine will help ensure an appropriate sample collection. Patients need not hold any medications that can cause polyuria, such as diuretics or sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors for this step as the goal of this step is to establish the presence of polyuria. Excluding Other Causes of Polyuria Once polyuria is confirmed, the next step would be to assess for urinary osmolality. The urine in cases of DI/primary polydipsia is hypotonic. A urine osmolality of >800 mOsm/Kg indicates optimal plasma AVP levels and appropriate renal response to AVP, therefore ruling out any form of DI ( 7 , 18 ). In most cases, polyuria with isotonic/hypertonic urine is driven by glucose, sodium urea, radiocontrast dye , or medications such as diuretics or mannitol ( 19 , 20 ). Glycosuria can result either from uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (DM), general hyperglycemia (from steroid administration, tube-feeding/parenteral nutrition), or by the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors ( 21 ). Administration of normal saline in large volumes for intravascular volume expansion can lead to sodium-induced polyuria ( 19 ). Sodium-induced polyuria is also seen with release of bilateral bladder obstruction and salt wasting nephropathies
