Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


in large volumes for intravascular volume expansion can lead to sodium-induced polyuria ( 19 ). Sodium-induced polyuria is also seen with release of bilateral bladder obstruction and salt wasting nephropathies ( 20 , 22 ). Urea-induced solute diuresis can be seen with high amounts of protein intake from TPN or tube feeds formula, tissue catabolism from high dose glucocorticoids, all of which result in production of urea from breakdown of proteins ( 19 , 23 ). Administration of urea for treatment of hyponatremia, and recovery from azotemia can also result in urea-solute diuresis ( 19 ). Mannitol-induced diuresis can result from treatment of increased intracranial pressure with mannitol ( 19 ). INITIAL SERUM/PLASMA AND URINE INVESTIGATIONS In individuals with established hypotonic polyuria or in individuals with urine osmolality of ≥300 mOsm/Kg and <800 mOsm/Kg, further evaluation must be undertaken through laboratory investigations. Serum sodium and plasma osmolality measurements could assist with indicating the type of the underlying polyuric state. A high serum sodium (>146 mmol/L) could point towards central or nephrogenic DI while a low normal or low sodium (<135 mmol/L) could indicate primary polydipsia as the underlying disorder ( 5 , 24 , 25 ). Similarly, a high plasma osmolality (≥300 mOsm/Kg) is typically seen in DI while a normal or low plasma osmolality (≤280 mOsm/Kg) is usually seen in primary polydipsia ( 4 , 26 ). As an alternative to urine osmolality, urine specific gravity is also useful in identifying a hypotonic polyuric disorder. For normal plasma osmolality, the urine specific gravity is between 1.003 to 1.030 ( 27 ). The specific gravity value depends on the number and the size of particles in the urine, unlike urine osmolality which solely depends on the number of particles in the urine. Because of this, although urine specific gravity and urine osmolality generally correlate well, presence of large molecules might elevate urine specific gravity despite the chance of the urine osmolality actually being low ( 28 ). Unlike falsely elevated urine specific gravity, false low values of urine specific gravity are uncommon, and a low urine specific gravity suggests DI or primary polydipsia. Both urine osmolality and specific gravity are easily measured on a urine specimen, but urine osmolality is more widely utilized in management of DI as osmolality is not affected by the size of the particles in the urine. Situations where urine specific gravity is suggested to be
