Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


more widely utilized in management of DI as osmolality is not affected by the size of the particles in the urine. Situations where urine specific gravity is suggested to be useful is when facilities for urine osmolality measurement are not available or if - rapid results are required, especially in managing neurosurgical patients, and on rare occasions where DI co-exists with DM with hyperglycemia (as in craniopharyngioma, Wolfram syndrome, described later) ( 29 ). With uncontrolled DM, the urine osmolality and specific gravity should be high. But with co-existent DI and DM, the urine osmolality and the urine specific gravity can be inappropriately low ( 30 ). Some studies have also noted low urine specific gravity but normal urine osmolality with concomitant DI and DM ( 29 ). In clinical practice, some physicians rely solely on urine osmolality while others prefer to assess both urine osmolality and urine specific gravity for managing DI. Any underlying renal dysfunction must be ruled out by measuring urine sodium, blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine ( 2 ). Electrolyte abnormalities including hypokalemia and hypercalcemia can give rise to polyuria due to down-regulation of aquaporin-2 channels giving rise to a clinical picture of nephrogenic DI ( 31 ). Therefore, any serum potassium or calcium abnormalities must be appropriately corrected. DIAGNOSIS OF THE TYPE OF DIABETES INSIPIDUS Probably the most challenging step in the work-up of a suspected case of DI is to assign an accurate diagnosis: central DI vs. nephrogenic DI vs. primary polydipsia. These polyuric-polydipsic states can demonstrate substantial overlap, both in their clinical presentation and in their response to diagnostic testing. It is also possible for one or more forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome to co-exist in a single individual. An algorithm for the diagnostic approach for DI is described in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Algorithm for Diagnosis of the Various Types of Polyuria Polydipsia Syndromes. Under some circumstances, a diagnosis of DI or primary polydipsia is established based on clear evidence of hypotonic polyuria and based on serum sodium and plasma osmolality values, with high serum sodium/plasma osmolality being consistent with DI and a low serum sodium/plasma osmolality being consistent with primary polydipsia (see Figure 1 ). But in most situations, the diagnosis is still unclear. Such situations, where the initial diagnostic testing is indeterminate, include a urine osmolality value of 300 – 800 mOsm/Kg or a normal serum sodium/plasma osmolality. In
