Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


diagnosis is still unclear. Such situations, where the initial diagnostic testing is indeterminate, include a urine osmolality value of 300 – 800 mOsm/Kg or a normal serum sodium/plasma osmolality. In these circumstances, there is a need to establish the diagnosis with more accuracy, and further testing must be considered. In this section, the various diagnostic tests specifically utilized to diagnose and identify the type of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome are discussed, along with their advantages and limitations. WATER DEPRIVATION TEST The water deprivation test is also known by the terms ‘indirect water deprivation test’ and ‘dehydration test’. The term ‘indirect’ is utilized as this test generally does not involve ‘direct’ measurements of plasma AVP to diagnose and differentiate the various forms of DI. The water deprivation test is almost always followed with desmopressin administration to further characterize the type of polyuric polydipsic state. The basic principle behind the water deprivation test is that in individuals with normal posterior pituitary and renal function (or those with primary polydipsia), an increase in plasma osmolality from dehydration stimulates AVP release from the posterior pituitary which then leads to water reabsorption in the nephrons, thus resulting in concentration of urine and an increase in urine osmolality. In central or nephrogenic DI, the urine fails to optimally concentrate with water deprivation and there is persistent excretion of hypotonic urine. Once the diagnosis of DI is established, desmopressin administration can distinguish between central and nephrogenic DI. In central DI, once the deficient action of AVP is substituted with desmopressin administration, the urine osmolality should increase while in nephrogenic DI, as the desmopressin is ineffective due to lack of renal response to its actions, the low urine osmolality persists. Testing Protocol The test is performed either as an out-patient or preferably after admitting the patient to an in-patient ward in a controlled setting. For those individuals with milder polyuria (50 – 70 ml/Kg/24 hours), the test can be initiated in the evening, and the dehydration can be performed overnight as an out-patient. However, for those who experience significant polyuria or nocturia, the test is better performed during the day so that the patient can be supervised ( 3 ). The individual undergoing the test must not have undergone thirsting prior to the test. Any electrolyte abnormalities (potassium, calcium) must be corrected prior to the test. The patient has to discontinue any medications that can affect urine output (diuretics, SGLT-2
