Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


prior to the test. Any electrolyte abnormalities (potassium, calcium) must be corrected prior to the test. The patient has to discontinue any medications that can affect urine output (diuretics, SGLT-2 inhibitors, desmopressin, carbamazepine, chlorpropamide, glucocorticoids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) 24 hours prior to initiation of dehydration, and refrain from activities such as smoking and caffeine intake that might affect AVP release or urine output ( 6 , 32 ). Baseline plasma osmolality, serum sodium, urine osmolality (and plasma AVP or plasma copeptin where available) are obtained. In case of an out-patient overnight water deprivation, these baseline measures are obtained on the morning preceding the overnight water deprivation test ( 33 ). The dehydration phase is initiated overnight among those patients in whom this phase is performed as an out-patient. The timing of initiation of overnight water deprivation for out-patient testing is determined based on the 24-hour urine output of the patient (which would have been previously determined in order to establish the diagnosis of a polyuria-polydipsia syndrome), with a goal of achieving approximately 3% loss of body weight. The duration of overnight water deprivation (in hours) can be determined by using the following formula: patient’s weight (Kg) x 0.03 x 1000 (ml) / urine output (ml/hour) ( 33 ). Clear, written instructions must be provided to the patient about terminating the dehydration phase in case of unseen adverse events such as nausea, diarrhea, dizziness, or syncope. Once the overnight dehydration phase is completed, the patient arrives at the hospital the following day around 07:00 – 08:00 am to obtain serum/plasma and urine studies. Patients are advised to bring along an accompanying person for their hospital visit following the overnight water deprivation. In case the overnight dehydration is prematurely terminated for any reason (dizziness, or intractable thirst leading to consumption of water), then in these patients, in-patient water deprivation must be undertaken. The dehydration phase for in-patient testing usually begins at 08:00 am. The patient voids prior to beginning the test and the baseline weight, blood pressure, and heart rate are measured prior to initiation of dehydration. Following the initiation of the test, the patient should have nothing by mouth. Weight, blood pressure, and heart rate must be recorded hourly as a cautionary measure due to the risk of severe water loss and dehydration in the setting of lack of access to drinking water. Adequate supervision is advised to watch for any
