Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


cautionary measure due to the risk of severe water loss and dehydration in the setting of lack of access to drinking water. Adequate supervision is advised to watch for any undisclosed drinking of water. Every voided urine is recorded, and the osmolality of the urine is measured. Alternatively, for the convenience of measurement, urine output and urine osmolality can be measured once every 2 hours. Serum sodium and plasma osmolality are also obtained every 2 hours along with urine measurements. The dehydration phase should be discontinued if one of the following occur: loss of more than 3% of body weight, elevation of serum sodium to above normal limits (≥146 – 150 mmol/L as per most literature), orthostatic hypotension or orthostatic symptoms (dizziness), or intractable thirst ( 4 ). The next phase of the test is the desmopressin phase, which involves administration of desmopressin following dehydration. This phase can be initiated if either one of the following end-points are achieved: 1. Dehydration phase is completed for 8 hours (except in those who need longer periods of dehydration), 2. Two consecutive urine osmolality measures do not differ by >10% and loss of 2% body weight, 3. Premature termination of dehydration phase due to loss of more than 3% of body weight, elevation of serum sodium to above normal limits, orthostatic hypotension, or intractable thirst ( 3 ). An injection of 2-4 µg desmopressin is administered either through intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous route and the above-mentioned urine and serum/plasma measures are obtained hourly for 1 – 2 hours after injection. Administration of desmopressin through oral or intranasal route does not result in predictable absorption, and especially where assigning an accurate diagnosis is crucial, optimal desmopressin concentrations in the blood must be ensured. So, oral or intranasal desmopressin administration is not recommended to be used as a part of water deprivation test. During this phase, the patient can eat and drink, even up to 1.5 – 2 times the volume of urine passed during the dehydration phase. The total duration of the test can vary based on the clinical presentation. In those patients with complete forms of DI, the test can be performed in less than 8 hours while in those with partial DI or a non-DI condition, the test could last longer, sometimes even over 18 hours ( 3 ). Interpretation of Results In normal individuals, with dehydration, the urine osmolality usually increases
