Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


to the water deprivation test is provided in Figure 2 . Figure 2. Graphical representation of the water deprivation test. Image courtesy: Sriram Gubbi, NIDDK, NIH. Limitations Although traditionally widely regarded as the gold standard in literature for diagnosing DI, the water deprivation test does have its limitations ( 3 , 24 ). The most common scenario being partial central or partial nephrogenic DI. Patients with partial central DI retain some degree of AVP secretory capacity that can be stimulated with dehydration leading to concentration of urine. In partial nephrogenic DI, maximal AVP secretion from water deprivation can overcome renal resistance to AVP’s action and enable water reabsorption. In addition, long-standing central DI and chronic primary polydipsia can also give rise to false results on water deprivation test. With long standing central DI, due to chronic deficiency of AVP, the aquaporin-2 channels are down-regulated as AVP is required for the synthesis and membrane translocation of these channels ( 34 ). Therefore, administration of desmopressin after water deprivation in long-standing central DI might not result in an adequate increase in urine osmolality due to lack of adequate water reabsorption from insufficient aquaporin-2 channel availability, which could misleadingly suggest a picture of nephrogenic DI. On the other hand, chronic primary polydipsia can suppress the release of endogenous AVP due to increased intravascular volume and decreased plasma osmolality from high volumes of water intake. In this situation, water deprivation might not lead to an adequate rise in plasma osmolality high enough to stimulate the release of endogenous AVP. This can result in a sub-optimal increase in urine osmolality, thus simulating a clinical picture of central/nephrogenic DI. Moreover, high volumes of water intake from chronic primary polydipsia can create a ‘wash out’ of the renal medullary osmotic gradient and also a down-regulation of the aquaporin-2 channels, and administering desmopressin in this situation may not result in adequate increase in urine osmolality ( 4 , 17 ). Another confounding scenario occurs in patients with central DI and impaired glomerular filtration due to compensatory increase in expression of AVPR2 gene resulting in up-regulation of aquaporin-2 channels leading to a higher urine concentration than expected ( 19 ). Also, the water deprivation test must be performed in children only under the supervision of a pediatrician and the test should not be performed in infants ( 35 ). Adjunctive measurements of plasma AVP or copeptin levels can improve
