Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


children only under the supervision of a pediatrician and the test should not be performed in infants ( 35 ). Adjunctive measurements of plasma AVP or copeptin levels can improve the diagnostic yield of the water deprivation test and are described in detail in the upcoming sections below. The protocol for the water deprivation test, interpretation of the results, and limitations are represented in Table 2 . Table 2. Summary of the Indirect Water Deprivation Test View in own window Protocol Preparation phase: · Test can begin either overnight (for out-patient testing) or at 08:00 am (for in-patient testing). · No thirsting prior to the test. Smoking and caffeine intake are avoided. · Any electrolyte abnormalities (potassium, calcium) are corrected. · Drugs that can affect urine output (diuretics, sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors, glucocorticoids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) must be held 24 hours prior to dehydration. · Baseline weight, blood pressure and heart rate are measured prior to dehydration. · Baseline plasma osmolality, serum sodium, urine osmolality (and plasma AVP or plasma copeptin where available) are obtained (these measures can be obtained on the morning prior to overnight dehydration in cases of out-patient water deprivation test). Dehydration phase: · This phase usually lasts for 8 hours (can last longer in certain cases). · For out-patient testing, the duration (hours) of overnight dehydration can be determined using the formula: patient’s weight (Kg) x 0.03 x 1000 (ml) / urine output (ml/hour). · Patient is allowed to have nothing by mouth. · Adequate supervision is necessary to watch for any undisclosed drinking (in case of in-patient testing). · Weight, blood pressure and heart rate are measured every 1 hour (in case of in-patient testing). · Urine output, urine osmolality, serum sodium and plasma osmolality are measured every 2 hours (for in-patient testing). Plasma copeptin is measured towards the end of the dehydration phase. (in case of out-patient overnight dehydration, serum/plasma and urine measures are obtained around 07:00 – 08:00 am the following morning) · Dehydration phase is discontinued if one of the following occurs: o Dehydration is completed for 8 hours (not applicable for those who might need longer periods of dehydration). o Two consecutive urine osmolality measures do not differ by >10% and loss of 2% body weight. o The total body weight reduces by more than 3%. o Serum sodium increases to above upper limit of normal (preferably >150 mmol/L). o Orthostatic hypotension
