Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


of 2% body weight. o The total body weight reduces by more than 3%. o Serum sodium increases to above upper limit of normal (preferably >150 mmol/L). o Orthostatic hypotension or orthostatic symptoms. o Intractable thirst (or if patient admits to drinking water overnight in case of out-patient testing). Desmopressin phase: · An injection of 2 µg desmopressin is administered either through intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous route (use of oral or intranasal desmopressin is not preferred due to unpredictable absorption). · The patient is allowed to eat and drink, even up to 1.5 – 2 times the volume of urine passed during the dehydration phase. · Urine output, urine osmolality, serum sodium and plasma osmolality are measured hourly for 1 – 2 hours after desmopressin administration. Interpretation Central DI: o Baseline urine osmolality of <300 mOsm/Kg and an increase in urine osmolality by >50% from baseline following desmopressin administration (complete central DI). o Baseline plasma copeptin of <2.6 pmol/L without prior dehydration (complete central DI). o The ratio of Δ copeptin from start till the completion of dehydration phase to serum sodium at the end of the dehydration phase of <0.02 pmol/L (indicates partial central DI). Nephrogenic DI : o Urine osmolality fails to rise above 300 mOsm/Kg or by <50% after desmopressin administration (complete nephrogenic DI). o Baseline plasma copeptin of ≥21.4 pmol/L without prior dehydration (complete and partial nephrogenic DI). o Baseline plasma AVP of ≥3 pg/ml without prior dehydration (complete and partial nephrogenic DI). Primary Polydipsia: o Urine osmolality usually increases (300 – 800 mOsm/Kg, usually up to 600 – 700 mOsm/Kg) without significant changes in plasma osmolality following dehydration. o The ratio of Δ copeptin from start till the completion of dehydration phase to serum sodium at the end of the dehydration phase of ≥0.02 pmol/L Advantages · Most extensively utilized and validated test. · No risks of hypertonic saline administration (thrombophlebitis, need for central line). · Plasma copeptin or AVP measurements are not necessary if the center does not have the facilities/assays to measure these peptides. Disadvantages · More time consuming than hypertonic saline infusion test. · Can give overlapping results in cases of partial central DI, partial nephrogenic DI, or chronic primary polydipsia. · Majority of the interpretation relies on urinary measurements, which can be affected by any of the above conditions due to their modulation of aquaporin-2 channel synthesis and expression. · More
