Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


Majority of the interpretation relies on urinary measurements, which can be affected by any of the above conditions due to their modulation of aquaporin-2 channel synthesis and expression. · More burdensome for the patients and less convenient when compared with hypertonic saline infusion test. MEASUREMENT OF PLASMA AVP AVP is encoded by the arginine vasopressin gene ( AVP , 20p13), which also encodes prepro-AVP (a single peptide), neurophysin II (NPII), and a glycoprotein, copeptin. The pro-hormone of AVP is synthesized in the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus ( Figure 3 ). Due to the above mentioned limitations of the indirect water deprivation test, measurement of plasma AVP levels was suggested for its potential to be used as a ‘direct’ test in conjunction with water deprivation test to distinguish the various polyuria-polydipsia syndromes ( 36 ). In nephrogenic DI, as there is no deficiency of AVP, the plasma AVP levels is high, in order to overcome the resistance posed by the kidneys to the action of AVP. On the other hand, plasma AVP should be low or relatively low in central DI for the elevated plasma osmolality ( 4 ). In primary polydipsia, plasma AVP levels may be normal or can be suppressed in long-standing cases. Subnormal AVP levels in cases of central DI could be due to osmoreceptor dysfunction in the hypothalamus or due to defective AVP release from the neurohypophysis ( 37 ). Despite the initial promising results of its potential utility, plasma AVP is seldom utilized for diagnosing DI in clinical practice. Figure 3. Anatomy of the pituitary gland and the hypothalamus. The pituitary gland comprises of two developmentally and functionally distinct parts: the anterior pituitary (adenohypophysis), derived from the Rathke’s cleft and the posterior pituitary (neurohypophysis). The gland is attached to the hypothalamus through the posterior pituitary via a stalk. The posterior pituitary along with the hypothalamus and the stalk forms the functional unit of infundibuloneurohypophysis. This diagram emphasizes the neuronal network that supplies the posterior pituitary. The vasopressinergic neurons (magnocellular neurons) are present in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus. These neurons synthesize arginine vasopressin (AVP), its precursors and co-peptides, and their axons project into the posterior pituitary where the AVP is stored along with oxytocin (produced by the oxytotic neurons present in the same nuclei) in the axonal terminals. These hormones are transported to the posterior pituitary through the supraoptic-hypophyseal tract. Another set
