Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


with oxytocin (produced by the oxytotic neurons present in the same nuclei) in the axonal terminals. These hormones are transported to the posterior pituitary through the supraoptic-hypophyseal tract. Another set of neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (also called parvocellular neurons) project into other areas of the brain and spinal cord, some of which secrete AVP. Image courtesy: Sriram Gubbi, NIDDK, NIH. There are several limitations to measuring plasma AVP levels. AVP is rapidly cleared from the plasma, with a half-life of around 16 minutes ( 38 ). In addition, the pre-analytical instability of AVP in the plasma is high. A large amount of circulating AVP is bound to platelets through V1 receptors and failure to adequately segregate platelets from the plasma after blood sampling or prolonged storage of unprocessed blood samples can lead to wide fluctuations or even an increase in the measured plasma AVP levels ( 24 , 39 ). For the AVP to be detectable by the currently available assays, an additional step of extraction/concentration of plasma is necessary, and this requires at least 1 ml of blood sample ( 24 ). Additionally, the current laboratory method employed in AVP measurement is radioimmunoassay (RIA), which has several limitations and analytical errors. Plasma concentration of AVP (measured in pg/ml) is one of the lowest among all hormones, and as AVP is a small peptide, sandwich assays cannot be effectively utilized to measure plasma AVP levels ( 5 ). A comparison study of RIA and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) done in Japan evaluating plasma AVP levels during hypertonic saline stimulation test demonstrated a lower detection limit (0.3 pg/mL) and a broader quantification range with LC-MS/MS than RIA ( 40 ). The AVP levels in the plasma can be stabilized up to 2 - 4 hours after blood sampling by storing the sample at 4ºC ( 22 , 41 , 42 ). However, the average turn-around time for the measurement of AVP is 3-7 days in most laboratories which would make maintenance of hormonal stability even more challenging ( 4 , 43 ). For these reasons, plasma AVP measurements are not routinely utilized. A related peptide to AVP, copeptin is a more stable marker to diagnose the various hypotonic polyuric states. MEASUREMENT OF PLASMA COPEPTIN Copeptin (Carboxy-Terminal-Pro-vasopressin) is the C-terminal peptide of pro-vasopressin that is co-secreted with AVP in stoichiometric amounts from the posterior pituitary ( 4 , 43 ).
