Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


states. MEASUREMENT OF PLASMA COPEPTIN Copeptin (Carboxy-Terminal-Pro-vasopressin) is the C-terminal peptide of pro-vasopressin that is co-secreted with AVP in stoichiometric amounts from the posterior pituitary ( 4 , 43 ). Both of these peptides are derived from a precursor molecule synthesized in the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus ( Figure 3 ) ( 24 ). The post-transcription processing of AVP, copeptin, and related peptides are diagrammatically represented in Figure 4 . Unlike plasma AVP measurement, which is technically challenging, copeptin measurement in the plasma is relatively less cumbersome and has several advantages: copeptin can remain stable for days after sampling of blood and can be measured relatively quickly ( 43 ). Plasma levels of copeptin strongly correlate with plasma AVP levels over a wide range of osmolalities, both in healthy individuals and those with DI or primary polydipsia ( 24 , 44 ). Moreover, plasma copeptin demonstrates the same response to changes in plasma osmolality and plasma volume as does plasma AVP ( 5 , 24 ). Several studies have been conducted to validate the utility of plasma copeptin in the diagnosis of hypotonic polyuric states and to distinguish one form from the other ( 4 , 5 , 7 , 24 , 32 ). Figure 4. Post-transcription processing of vasopressin and related peptides. The pre-pro-vasopressin is a peptide consisting of 164 amino acids. This pre-pro-hormone is then converted to pro-vasopressin after the removal of the signal peptide and N-linked glycosylation of copeptin. Further processing of pro-vasopressin gives rise to the individual peptides: arginine vasopressin (AVP), neurophysin II (NP II), and copeptin. Image courtesy: Sriram Gubbi, NIDDK, NIH. The next question logically is whether plasma copeptin is a better test when compared to plasma AVP with regards to diagnosing the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes. Without prior thirsting (without water deprivation/hypertonic saline infusion), baseline plasma copeptin of ≥21.4 pmol/L or a plasma AVP level of ≥3 pg/ml have been shown to distinguish nephrogenic DI (partial and complete) from other types of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes with 100% sensitivity and specificity ( 5 , 45 ). Similarly, a single baseline plasma copeptin measurement of ≥2.9 pmol/L without prior water deprivation has demonstrated the ability to differentiate primary polydipsia from central DI with a sensitivity of 82% and specificity of 78%, while plasma AVP of ≥1.8 pg/ml can distinguish primary polydipsia from central DI with 54% sensitivity and 89% specificity ( 5 ). Prior
