Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


copeptin assays are not yet available worldwide and its utilization is limited to a few centers. Once the test becomes more widely available in the future, plasma copeptin level measurements are likely to be frequently pursued to diagnose and distinguish the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes. COPEPTIN STIMULATION TESTS The indirect water deprivation test is the most well tested and widely utilized as the standard diagnostic test for DI. Adjunctive measurements of plasma AVP or copeptin levels can enrich the diagnostic yield of the water deprivation test. But it is quite evident that the test has several limitations and, in many situations, just does not provide an accurate diagnosis. Therefore, several copeptin stimulation tests have been formulated in the recent years using osmotic stimulants of copeptin such as hypertonic saline and urea in addition to non-osmotic stimulants such as arginine and glucagon. 1. Osmotic Stimulation tests (Hypertonic Saline Infusion test, Urea stimulation test). 2. Non-osmotic stimulation tests (Arginine stimulation test, Glucagon stimulation test). Hypertonic Saline Infusion Test Although relatively newer than the water deprivation test, some of the earliest reports on the potential utility of hypertonic saline infusion in the differential diagnosis of DI dates to the 1940s ( 47 ). Hypertonic saline (3% saline, 513 mOsm/L) infusion coupled with plasma copeptin measurement is an alternative test that is now being recommended by many experts in the field of DI as the preferred test to be used in place of water deprivation test. TESTING PROTOCOL The test overall lasts for about 3 hours and can be initiated at 08:00 am. Medications that have diuretic or anti-diuretic effects (diuretics, SGLT-2 inhibitors, desmopressin, carbamazepine, chlorpropamide, glucocorticoids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) need to be discontinued 24 hours prior to testing ( 32 ). The patient lies in a supine position. Two intravenous cannulas are inserted, one for infusion and the other for blood sampling. Before commencing the intravenous infusion, venous sampling is performed to obtain plasma copeptin, serum sodium, glucose, urea, and plasma osmolality ( 32 ). Hypertonic saline infusion is then commenced, initially with a bolus dose of 250 ml given over 10 – 15 minutes, followed by a slower infusion rate of 0.15 ml/Kg/min. Serum sodium and osmolality are measured every 30 minutes. The infusion is terminated once the serum sodium is ≥150 mOsm/L ( 32 ). Typically, protocols allow up to a maximum of 3 hours of infusion ( 32 ,
