Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


minutes. The infusion is terminated once the serum sodium is ≥150 mOsm/L ( 32 ). Typically, protocols allow up to a maximum of 3 hours of infusion ( 32 , 48 ). At this point, a plasma copeptin is measured and the patient is asked to drink water at 30ml/Kg within 30 minutes ( 32 , 48 ). This is followed by intravenous infusion of 5% glucose (dextrose) at 500 ml/hour for one hour ( 32 , 48 ). Serum sodium is measured once more after completing the 5% glucose infusion to ensure its return to normal values. Vital parameters, including blood pressure and heart rate must be constantly assessed, preferably on a monitor. TEST INTERPRETATION A plasma copeptin level of <4.9 pmol/L after hypertonic saline infusion indicates central DI (partial and complete) while a level of ≥4.9 pmol/L indicates primary polydipsia ( 5 , 32 ). It is likely that this cut-off value might be changed to 6.5 pmol/L in the future due to its higher diagnostic accuracy, based on more recent data (described below) ( 32 ). Baseline copeptin value of >21.4 pmol/L is indicative of nephrogenic DI (partial and complete) and <2.6 pmol/L indicates complete central DI ( 4 , 5 , 32 ). The major advantage with the hypertonic saline infusion test is that it basically excludes the renal component out of the equation and any potential down-regulation of aquaporin-2 channels will not affect the diagnosis. This test depends only on two aspects: 1. Increasing the plasma osmolality, which is a strong stimulus for endogenous AVP synthesis and release and 2. Measurement of endogenous AVP secretory capacity by measuring plasma copeptin, which is secreted in equimolar proportions from the posterior pituitary along with AVP ( 3 , 4 ). Thus, unlike water deprivation test which is mainly a test based on urine output and osmolality, the hypertonic saline infusion test is free from any requirements to measure urinary indices. In fact, when compared with water deprivation test with desmopressin administration with/without plasma copeptin measurement, the hypertonic saline infusion test with plasma copeptin measurements has been demonstrated to be the superior test for diagnosing the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes ( 32 ). Hypertonic saline infusion test also takes less time to perform, causes less patient burden, and is more convenient and tolerable when compared with indirect water deprivation test ( 32 ). A modified hypertonic saline
