Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


also takes less time to perform, causes less patient burden, and is more convenient and tolerable when compared with indirect water deprivation test ( 32 ). A modified hypertonic saline infusion test followed by water deprivation has also been previously described when the diagnosis after water deprivation is inconclusive ( 49 ). In this scenario, administration of hypertonic saline (as described in the protocol) followed by measurements of plasma AVP, serum sodium, plasma and urine osmolality can potentially differentiate the types of DI when the plasma AVP levels are plotted on a nomogram relating plasma AVP values to either urine osmolality or serum sodium/plasma osmolality (normal plasma AVP for urine osmolality or serum sodium/plasma osmolality suggests primary polydipsia, low plasma AVP for serum sodium/plasma osmolality suggests central DI, and low urine osmolality for plasma AVP levels suggests nephrogenic DI). However, this test is more cumbersome than either indirect water deprivation test or hypertonic saline infusion test alone and requires measurements of plasma AVP levels which is also challenging (as described above. Measurement of plasma AVP’). Therefore, this combined method is not utilized in routine clinical practice. With the advent of plasma copeptin assays and with the ability to eliminate urine measurements out of the equation for the regular hypertonic saline infusion test, the plasma AVP measurement-based combined water deprivation and hypertonic saline infusion test is likely going to be obsolete in the future. Recent data by Fenske et al. have demonstrated the diagnostic accuracy of hypertonic saline infusion test combined with plasma copeptin measurement to be higher (96.5%) than that of water deprivation test (76.6%) in correctly identifying the type of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome ( 32 ). Even when it came to differentiating those with partial central DI from patients with primary polydipsia, the hypertonic saline infusion test with plasma copeptin measurement had a higher accuracy (95.2%) as compared to water deprivation test without plasma copeptin measurement (73.3%) ( 32 ). Data from the same study has also shown that a plasma copeptin value of 6.5 pmol/L provides the best diagnostic accuracy (97.9%) for differentiating central DI (partial and complete) from primary polydipsia (vs. 96.5% for the plasma copeptin cut-off level of 4.9 pmol/L), with a value of >6.5 pmol/L being consistent with primary polydipsia. Surprisingly, in the same study, water deprivation test followed by plasma copeptin measurement demonstrated a lower diagnostic accuracy when compared to water deprivation test alone without
