Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


consistent with primary polydipsia. Surprisingly, in the same study, water deprivation test followed by plasma copeptin measurement demonstrated a lower diagnostic accuracy when compared to water deprivation test alone without plasma copeptin measurement (44% vs. 76.6%). These results show that combining hypertonic saline infusion and plasma copeptin measurements currently offers the best diagnostic capability with distinguishing the various forms of hypotonic polyuric states. The protocol for the hypertonic saline infusion test, interpretation of the results, and limitations are presented in Table 3 . Table 3. Hypertonic Saline Infusion Test (with plasma copeptin measurement) View in own window Protocol Preparation phase: · Test can begin at 08:00AM. · Drugs that can affect urine output (diuretics, sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors, glucocorticoids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) must be held 24 hours prior to dehydration. · Patient lies in a supine position. Two intravenous cannulas are placed: one for blood sampling and the other for infusion. · Baseline serum sodium, glucose, urea, plasma osmolality and plasma copeptin are obtained prior to infusion. Hypertonic saline infusion phase: · Hypertonic saline infusion is commenced: Bolus dose of 250ml given over 10 – 15 minutes, followed by 0.15 ml/Kg/min. · Serum sodium and osmolality are measured every 30 minutes. · The infusion is stopped if: o The serum sodium raises to >150 mmol/L. o The infusion is completed for 3 hours. · Plasma copeptin is measured after the infusion is stopped. · Heart rate and blood pressure are continuously monitored throughout the phase. Hypotonic fluid administration phase: · Patient is asked to drink water at 30ml/Kg within 30 minutes. · This is followed by intravenous infusion of 5% glucose at 500ml/hour for 1 hour. · Serum sodium is measured after the completion of 5% glucose infusion to ensure its return to normal values. · Heart rate and blood pressure are continuously monitored throughout the phase. Interpretation Central DI: o Baseline plasma copeptin <2.6 pmol/L prior to hypertonic saline infusion (complete central DI). o Plasma copeptin level of ≤4.9 pmol/L after hypertonic saline infusion (partial or complete). * Nephrogenic DI: o Baseline plasma copeptin ≥21.4 pmol/L prior to hypertonic saline infusion (partial or complete). Primary polydipsia : o Plasma copeptin level of >4.9 pmol/L after hypertonic saline infusion. * Advantages · Takes less time to perform than water deprivation test. · Eliminates the need to obtain urine studies which can be affected by aquaporin-2 channel availability, thus reducing the chances
