Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


· Takes less time to perform than water deprivation test. · Eliminates the need to obtain urine studies which can be affected by aquaporin-2 channel availability, thus reducing the chances of confounding results. · Hypertonic saline is a stronger osmotic stimulus when compared to dehydration and is therefore more potent with causing AVP release in cases of partial central DI or chronic primary polydipsia. So, this is likely to be a better test to utilize in cases of partial central DI and chronic primary polydipsia. · Distinguishes central DI (complete and partial) from primary polydipsia with a higher accuracy when compared with water deprivation (with/without plasma copeptin) test. · Less burdensome and more convenient for the patients than water deprivation test. Disadvantages · Several centers mandate the use of central lines for hypertonic saline administration. · Hypertonic saline infusion has the theoretical risk of causing superficial thrombophlebitis. · Higher risk for hypernatremia when compared to water deprivation test. Hypertonic saline infusion should be used in caution or avoided in individuals with heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension, and seizure disorder · Plasma copeptin assays are currently of limited availability. *A higher cut-off value of 6.5 pmol/L distinguishes central DI from primary polydipsia with increased accuracy based on newer data, with a value of >6.5 pmol/L being consistent with primary polydipsia (Fenske et al., 2018). LIMITATIONS The challenges with utilizing hypertonic saline infusion test are as follows: 1. Hypertonic saline has been claimed to cause thrombophlebitis when administered through peripheral intravenous line. However, this risk is overestimated and is rarely observed in practice ( 50 ). 2. Several institutions require placement of a central venous catheter and admission to an intensive care unit for administration of hypertonic saline. Central line insertion is a more invasive and time-consuming procedure when compared to a peripheral intravenous line and can cause more bleeding or infections, and an admission to an intensive care unit exerts substantial expenditure on the patient and the institute. 3. Hypertonic saline should be avoided in individuals with heart failure, poorly controlled hypertension, and seizure disorder where changes in plasma osmolality can trigger seizures. 4. Copeptin assays are not yet commercially available in several countries. Urea-Stimulated Copeptin Test Urea is another osmotic stimulant for arginine vasopressin release from posterior pituitary. Therefore, another diagnostic approach to distinguish central DI from primary polydipsia can be urea-stimulated copeptin test. Lustenberger et al. ( 51 ) conducted
