Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


for arginine vasopressin release from posterior pituitary. Therefore, another diagnostic approach to distinguish central DI from primary polydipsia can be urea-stimulated copeptin test. Lustenberger et al. ( 51 ) conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over trial which showed that copeptin levels increased from 4.6 pmol/L at baseline to 10.1 pmol/L at 120 min after ingestion of a single dose of urea (0.5g/kg; minimum 30g, maximum 45g), while the levels remained stable at 3.8 pmol/L in the placebo group. In patients with primary polydipsia the median copeptin levels peaked after 150 min at 7.4 pmol/L (4.3, 10.3) from baseline of <2.7 pmol/L with maximum median change of +4.1 pmol/L (+1.3, +6.1) while in patients with central DI the median copeptin remained below detection limit throughout the test with baseline of <2.7 pmol/L and maximum median change of ±0 pmol/L (±0, +0.5). The best copeptin cutoff was observed at 3.5 pmol/L after 120 min of ingestion of urea to distinguish central DI from primary polydipsia with sensitivity and specificity of 92% (CI, 77 to 100%). Maximum specificity and sensitivity of 100% was observed at a copeptin level of 2.7 pmol/L and 4.7 pmol/L respectively ( 51 ). If validated, this oral urea-based test could potentially serve as simple and cost-effective, initial oral diagnostic test in diagnosis of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome which can be safely carried out in primary care settings. Ingestion of urea is usually well-tolerated except for a very common side effect of dysgeusia which can now be reduced with availability of more palatable formulations. Arginine-Stimulation Test With regards to diagnostic testing, further refinements are implemented to the copeptin-based testing, such as utilization of non-osmotic neurohypophyseal secretagogues, to minimize adverse effects or discomfort related to iatrogenic hypernatremia induced by hypertonic saline. Arginine, a known growth hormone secretagogue, is also a non-osmotic stimulus to the posterior pituitary, and it increases plasma copeptin levels in healthy individuals ( 52 , 53 ). Arginine-stimulated copeptin measurement is another diagnostic tool to differentiate central DI from primary polydipsia. In a prospective study by Winzeler et al. ( 53 ), intravenous arginine-stimulation was able to distinguish patients with central DI, and primary polydipsia, and healthy controls using the 60-minute post-stimulation plasma copeptin levels, with high diagnostic accuracy of 93% using the cutoff of 3.8 pmol/L ( 53 ). In a head-to-head trial by Refardt et al. ( 54 ), the diagnostic accuracy for arginine-stimulated copeptin (using cutoff
