Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


( 56 ). This multivariable approach can offer better accuracy without measuring copeptin levels (which remain widely unavailable) and can make arginine-stimulation test more simple and feasible option. However, the study had several limitations including but not limited to small sample size, retrospective nature, lack of validation by using hypertonic saline-stimulation test. The most common reported adverse effect with arginine-stimulated hypertonic saline is mild nausea ( 53 , 54 ). More than 70% of the patients preferred testing with arginine as compared with hypertonic saline ( 54 ). However, arginine is not widely available limiting its use. PROTOCOL Preparation Phase: Overnight fast with fluids allowed until 6 am (2 hours before testing begins) Start stress dose steroids for those on chronic steroid therapy. Begin the test at 8am. Arginine Phase: An infusion of L-arginine hydrochloride (21%) at a dose of 0.5 g/kg of body weight (maximum, 40 g) diluted in 500 ml of 0.9% normal saline administered over a 30-minute period. Blood samples for copeptin measurement obtained at baseline before the infusion and 60 and 90 minutes after the start of the infusion. Interpretation: Central DI Baseline plasma copeptin <2.6 pmol/L prior to arginine infusion (complete central DI). Plasma copeptin ≤3.8 pmol/L after arginine infusion (partial or complete). Nephrogenic DI Baseline plasma copeptin >21.4 pmol/L prior to arginine infusion (partial or complete). Primary Polydipsia Plasma copeptin >3.8 pmol/L after arginine infusion. Advantages: Takes less time to perform as compared to water deprivation test. Less cumbersome and more convenient for the patients as compared to Hypertonic saline infusion test. Can be preferred where use of hypertonic saline is contraindicated. Eliminates the need to obtain urine studies. Disadvantages: Less accurate than hypertonic saline infusion test to distinguish central DI (partial or complete) from primary polydipsia. Limited availability of Arginine. Glucagon-Stimulated Copeptin Test Glucagon, another known growth hormone secretagogue and neurohypophyseal stimulant, was also evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial for differential diagnosis of central DI and PP (57). Subcutaneous injection of 1mg Glucagon led to significant increase in plasma copeptin levels measured at baseline and 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 minutes in healthy controls compared to placebo, and while there was minimal increase of 0.55 pmol/L in plasma copeptin in central DI patients, there was a substantial increase of 15.70 pmol/L in copeptin levels in patients with primary polydipsia. Sensitivity and specificity were measured at 100% (95% CI, 100
