Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


in central DI patients, there was a substantial increase of 15.70 pmol/L in copeptin levels in patients with primary polydipsia. Sensitivity and specificity were measured at 100% (95% CI, 100 to 100) and 90% (95% CI, 70-100) respectively using cutoff copeptin level of 4.6 pmol/L ( 57 ). Further studies performing head-to-head prospective comparisons with hypertonic saline infusion test are required to identify the best copeptin-based diagnostic test. THERAPEUTIC TRIAL If none of the modalities succeed in establishing an appropriate diagnosis of DI, a therapeutic trial with desmopressin can be undertaken ( 3 , 49 ). The therapeutic trial can be provided in the form of desmopressin tablets of 100 µg by mouth every 8 hours for 48 hours. If this treatment abolishes polyuria, normalizes serum sodium/plasma osmolality or at least brings down serum sodium to near normal levels, resulting in elimination of thirst, the diagnosis is most certainly central DI. If there is cessation of polyuria and there is slight normalization of serum sodium/plasma osmolality without reduction in polydipsia/thirst, the most likely diagnosis is primary polydipsia. In nephrogenic DI, therapeutic trial with desmopressin does not result in any significant changes in serum sodium or plasma and urine osmolality ( 49 ). This method can distinguish between various forms of DI with 90% accuracy ( 49 ). However, caution is advised when utilizing desmopressin for diagnostic testing due to the risk of hyponatremia, which can sometimes be severe in patients with primary polydipsia and the test is preferably done in a monitored in-patient setting ( 49 ). OTHER POTENTIAL DIAGNOSTIC MARKERS Macimorelin, another growth hormone secretagogue which also has stimulatory effect on prolactin, does not stimulate copeptin ( 58 ). Apelin is an endogenous hormone present in magnocellular neurons of hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei together with arginine vasopressin and oxytocin ( 59 ). Apelin plays an important role in water homeostasis by inhibiting the release of AVP from posterior pituitary and counteracting its anti-diuretic effect on the kidneys. It augments the diuresis by antagonizing the effects of angiotensin II on the afferent arterioles and is degraded by angiotensin converting enzyme type 2 ( 59 ). The patients with central DI have increased apelin-to-copeptin ratio while those with PP have a normal ratio at baseline ( 59 ). A post hoc secondary analysis of a multi-center cross-over trial showed that after stimulation with either hypertonic saline or arginine, the apelin
