Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


a normal ratio at baseline ( 59 ). A post hoc secondary analysis of a multi-center cross-over trial showed that after stimulation with either hypertonic saline or arginine, the apelin levels and apelin-to-copeptin ratio decreased in all patients with greater reduction seen in patients with PP (59). Possible explanations could be concomitant deficiency of apelin in patient with central DI or appropriately suppressed apelin levels to limit water diuresis. The sub-group analysis of this study showed that the change in apelin-to-copeptin ratio can improve the accuracy of arginine-stimulated copeptin test ( 59 ). ROLE OF DIAGNOSTIC SCORING SYSTEM A diagnostic score using laboratory data and clinical parameters for distinguishing central DI from PP was recently developed by Atila et al ( 60 ). Data from 2 international multicenter studies was used and excluded the patients with nephrogenic DI with basal copeptin levels. The score includes the sum of 1. Basal laboratory score (basal serum sodium multiplied by serum osmolality, divided by 100), 2. Extended laboratory score (-50 points for plasma copeptin >4.9 pmol/L), 3. Clinical score ( +50 points for anterior pituitary dysfunction, +50 points for history of pituitary surgery, +30 points for drinking >1L at night, +20 points for sudden onset of symptoms, +20 points for ≥3 episodes of nocturia or +10 points for 2 episodes of Nocturia), and 4. Clinical MRI score (+40 points for thickening of pituitary stalk and +10 points absence of posterior bright spot). A high-sensitivity threshold of <415 points excludes central DI, whereas high-specificity threshold of >461 points identifies patients with a high likelihood of Central DI ( 60 ). The clinical score was only slightly less precise without incorporating copeptin levels, therefore can still be used in the clinical practices where copeptin measurements are not available ( 60 ). Table 4. Arginine Vasopressin Deficiency (Central Diabetes Insipidus) Diagnostic Score Developed by Atila et al 2025 (ref. 60 ) View in own window Basic Laboratory Score Serum sodium (mmol/L) x Plasma Osmolality (mOsm/kg) Divided by 100 <415 excludes central DI >461 suggests high likelihood of central DI Extended Laboratory Score -50 points for Copeptin >4.9 pmol/L Clinical Score +50 points for anterior pituitary dysfunction +50 points for history of pituitary surgery +30 points for drinking >1L at night +20 points for sudden onset of symptoms +20 points for ≥3 episodes of nocturia or +10 points for 2 episodes of Nocturia) Clinical MRI Score +40
