Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


drinking >1L at night +20 points for sudden onset of symptoms +20 points for ≥3 episodes of nocturia or +10 points for 2 episodes of Nocturia) Clinical MRI Score +40 points for thickening of pituitary stalk +10 points absence of posterior bright spot IDENTIFICATION OF THE UNDERLYING CAUSE OF THE DI Once the type of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome is identified, efforts must be undertaken to diagnose the underlying pathology responsible for this clinical presentation. A detailed list of the potential causes for each type of DI and primary polydipsia is provided in Table 1. In cases of central DI, a thorough clinical history should be obtained, and a detailed physical exam needs to be performed to evaluate for the signs and symptoms of hormonal deficiencies (or excess in cases of hyperprolactinemia) from other pituitary axes ( 9 , 61 ). Biochemical evaluation must include a morning plasma measurement of pituitary hormones (growth hormone, prolactin, ACTH, TSH, FSH, and LH), and the hormones from their target organs (insulin-like growth factor 1, cortisol, free thyroxine, total and free testosterone, estradiol). An MRI of the sella and suprasellar regions with gadolinium needs to be obtained to evaluate for any anatomical disruptions of the pituitary or hypothalamic anatomy (macroadenomas, empty sella, infiltrative diseases, surgery) ( 19 , 23 ). The normal posterior pituitary demonstrates hyperintensity on T1 images (also known as the ‘bright spot’), suggested to be due to phospholipid-rich granules storing AVP and oxytocin ( Figure 5 ) ( 62 ). The absence of this bright spot could indicate an absence of posterior pituitary function. However, this should not be used as a sole criterion to attribute a pituitary etiology as causing the DI, because absence of the bright spot on the pituitary MRI is also seen in up to 25% of normal individuals and may disappear with aging ( 63 ). Also, an enlarged/thickened pituitary infundibular stalk can be found on the MRI, which may be seen in cases of hypophysitis, granulomatous disorders, tuberculosis, craniopharyngioma, germinoma or a metastasis to the sella or suprasellar region ( 3 , 9 , 19 , 64 ). The hypothalamus is the site of AVP synthesis ( Figure 3 ) and any pathological involvement of the region (inflammatory, infectious, vascular, or neoplastic process) can certainly result in the destruction of the hypothalamus leading to deficiency of AVP synthesis ( 3 ). This is specifically important among patients
