Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


(inflammatory, infectious, vascular, or neoplastic process) can certainly result in the destruction of the hypothalamus leading to deficiency of AVP synthesis ( 3 ). This is specifically important among patients with adipsic DI as the thirst center might be disrupted due to the above-mentioned etiologies that can involve the hypothalamus. Any history of cranial trauma or intra-cranial surgery could also give rise to central DI. Figure 5. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the pituitary gland. The above image is a non-contrast T1 MRI image of a normal pituitary gland. The white arrow points towards the ‘bright spot’ seen in the posterior pituitary. This finding is a result of phospholipid-rich granules that store arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin. Image courtesy: NIDDK, NIH. In cases of DI with onset during infancy or early childhood, genetic/congenital causes must be suspected. Some of the genetic conditions causing DI include AVP-neurophysin II gene alterations ( AVP-NP II, autosomal dominant), Wolfram syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder caused by alterations in WFS1 (4p16.1) associated with diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, optic atrophy, and deafness (OMIM 22300, DIDMOAD syndrome), and other autosomal recessive disorders due to production of mutant, weaker forms of AVP, and X-linked recessive disorders resulting in sub-normal plasma AVP levels ( 23 , 65 - 68 ). Congenital malformations, such as septo-optic dysplasia ( HESX1, OMIM 601802, 3p14), Schinzel-Giedion midface retraction syndrome ( SETBP1 , OMIM 611060, 18q12), Culler-Jones syndrome ( GLI2, OMIM 165230, 2q14), Alstrom syndrome ( ALMS1, OMIM 606844, 2p13), Hartsfield syndrome ( FGFR , OMIM615465, 8p11), Webb-Dattani syndrome ( ARNT2 , OMIM 606036, 15q25), amongst others, can also give rise to childhood-onset DI ( 69 - 73 ). Nephrogenic DI in most cases is acquired, usually in the setting of intake of certain drugs like lithium, demeclocycline, pemetrexed, cisplatin, and others ( 6 , 7 , 19 , 23 , 74 ). Therefore, a review of the patient’s medication intake history can lead to the identification of the potential culprit medication, which can then be discontinued. Use of osmotic diuretics or electrolyte abnormalities such as hypercalcemia or hypokalemia and low caloric intake especially low protein intake must be investigated in cases of nephrogenic DI ( 6 , 19 , 31 ). Any underlying acute or chronic renal disease (vascular, inflammatory, or neoplastic processes, polycystic kidney disease, acute tubular necrosis), obstructive uropathy, and systemic diseases such as amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, or sickle cell disease can
