Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


acute or chronic renal disease (vascular, inflammatory, or neoplastic processes, polycystic kidney disease, acute tubular necrosis), obstructive uropathy, and systemic diseases such as amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, or sickle cell disease can also give rise to nephrogenic DI and prompt evaluation for these disorders is necessary ( 6 , 7 , 19 , 23 ). Congenital causes for nephrogenic DI include mutations in the gene for aquaporin-2 receptor (autosomal recessive) and the gene for V-2 receptor (X-linked recessive inheritance), and must be suspected in childhood-onset nephrogenic DI ( 7 ). Other genetic causes of nephrogenic DI include; polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy ( STRADA , OMIM 608626, 17q23) and some Barter syndrome subtypes, including Bartter syndrome, type 4b, digenic forms ( CLCNKA , OMIM 602024, 1p36.13) and other inherited renal syndromes (nephropathic cystinosis, nephronopthisis) ( 23 , 75 , 76 ). Primary polydipsia or dipsogenic DI is often seen in individuals on treatment for mood disorders or schizophrenia ( 77 ). The dry mouth caused by intake of medications with strong anticholinergic properties to treat these disorders is most likely the cause for excessive water intake ( 77 ). Hypothalamic disease (sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, trauma, neoplasms) can alter the thirst response by lowering the thirst threshold, either by disruption of the thirst center or through osmoceptor dysfunction, which leads to polydipsia ( 3 , 7 ). Primary polydipsia which results from this subset of cases with low thirst threshold in hypothalamus, is also referred to as ‘dipsogenic DI’. In other cases, individuals are health enthusiasts or just habitual compulsive drinkers of large volumes of water without any underlying organic or pharmacologic cause ( 6 , 23 ). Another etiology is psychosis-intermittent hyponatremia polydipsia (PIP) syndrome ( 23 ). A unique presentation of DI which is worthy of note, is the one that occurs during pregnancy. Also known as gestational diabetes insipidus, this disorder occurs during pregnancy due to the enzymatic breakdown of the endogenous AVP by a placental cysteine aminopeptidase ( 6 , 7 ). In women with borderline-low plasma AVP levels, pregnancy can unmask sub-clinical DI from enzymatic degradation of AVP ( 8 ). However, work-up for other etiologies of DI must be considered when appropriate in this situation. CONCLUSIONS Making an accurate diagnosis of DI and ascertaining its type and the underlying etiology poses a significant challenge to this day. In clinical practice, under some circumstances, a diagnosis of DI is
