Diagnostic Tests for Diabetes Insipidus
KEYWORDS: plasma, test, copeptin, urine, avp, water, osmolality, central, polydipsia, pubmed, deprivation, water deprivation, primary, primary polydipsia, hypertonic


accurate diagnosis of DI and ascertaining its type and the underlying etiology poses a significant challenge to this day. In clinical practice, under some circumstances, a diagnosis of DI is established based on serum/plasma and urine studies alone and based on the history and clinical presentation, investigations to identify the underlying etiology are pursued. However, an accurate diagnosis of the type of DI or any polyuria-polydipsia syndrome in general, is difficult to establish as there can be a significant overlap in the results among the various forms of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes on diagnostic testing. Specific testing protocols, such as the indirect water deprivation test or the hypertonic saline infusion test can assist with providing a diagnosis with increased accuracy. Measurement of plasma AVP levels is not routinely performed due to several pre-analytical considerations and lack of widespread availability of assays. The combination of hypertonic saline infusion coupled with plasma copeptin level measurement has achieved diagnostic accuracies that have not been previously attained by any other testing modalities with regards to differential diagnosis of polyuria-polydipsia syndromes ( 32 ). But the newer non-osmotic, neurohypophyseal secretagogue (arginine-) based plasma copeptin measurements holds the promise of being the safer, less cumbersome testing modality. However, more randomized trials comparing these modalities with hypertonic saline infusion are necessary, with cost and regional availability of these agents also taken into consideration. Therefore, hypertonic saline infusion, plasma copeptin-based approach and arginine-stimulation test could potentially become the standard of practice in the future to accurately establish the diagnosis of DI and related polyuria-polydipsia syndromes. REFERENCES 1. Di Iorgi N, Napoli F, Allegri AE, Olivieri I, Bertelli E, Gallizia A, et al. Diabetes insipidus—diagnosis and management. Horm Res Paediatr. 2012;77(2):69-84. [ PubMed : 22433947 ] 2. Garrahy A, Moran C, Thompson CJ. Diagnosis and management of central diabetes insipidus in adults. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2019;90(1):23-30. [ PubMed : 30269342 ] 3. Robinson AG VJ. Posterior pituitary. Williams Textbook of Endocrinology, ed 13;2015:300-3322015. 4. Fenske W, Quinkler M, Lorenz D, Zopf K, Haagen U, Papassotiriou J, et al. Copeptin in the differential diagnosis of the polydipsia-polyuria syndrome—revisiting the direct and indirect water deprivation tests. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96(5):1506-15. [ PubMed : 21367924 ] 5. Timper K, Fenske W, Kühn F, Frech N, Arici B, Rutishauser J, et al. Diagnostic Accuracy of Copeptin in the Differential Diagnosis of the Polyuria-polydipsia Syndrome: A Prospective Multicenter Study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015;100(6):2268-74. [
