Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


present with prominent anxiety include acute stress disorder, adjustment disorders, and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Because they are deemed to arise out of traumatic or stressful experiences, they are grouped separately in the DSM-5-TR. Anxiety disorders tend to be highly comorbid with other medical and psychiatric conditions. Depression, substance use disorders, personality disorders, and other anxiety disorders are particularly common comorbidities, as are cardiovascular disease, asthma, migraines, and arthritis. Because anxiety disorders often precede other psychiatric comorbidities, early and effective treatment of the anxiety disorder can prevent or mitigate their development. Etiology of Anxiety Disorders There is no single gene or psychological cause for anxiety disorders, but they do seem to develop in the context of typical biopsychosocial factors. Anxiety disorders tend to run in families, and they do so through at least 2 mechanisms (1): A childhood trait of "behavioral inhibition" appears to be somewhat inherited, and that trait is associated with an increased risk of anxiety disorders in adolescence. Social fears and avoidance can be transmitted to children through parental modeling and/or early traumatic experiences that might include childhood maltreatment or medical illnesses (eg, asthma). It has been hypothesized that these experiences and genetic vulnerabilities prime some children to be unusually attentive to their own physical and emotional reactions to stress, which can then lead to panic disorder and social anxiety disorder. Many people develop an anxiety disorder, however, without an identifiable antecedent trigger. For example, most people with a snake phobia have never been bitten by a snake and do not report a characteristic traumatic experience. Anxiety can also be a response to environmental and social stressors during adulthood, such as the ending of a significant relationship or exposure to a life- threatening disaster, though most people who experience such stressors do not go on to develop an anxiety disorder. Multiple neurotransmitters are involved in the development of anxiety disorders. The 2 predominant neurotransmitters—GABA and glutamate—play a key role, as do other neurotransmitters like serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. These neurotransmitters play an important role in influencing medication selection. Some medical disorders can directly cause anxiety. These include asthma, cardiac arrhythmias, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), heart failure, hyperthyroidism, Cushing syndrome, and pheochromocytoma. The medications used to treat some medical disorders can also induce anxiety as a symptom. These include Asthma (albuterol, corticosteroids, theophylline) Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (amphetamines and other stimulants) Hyperthyroidism (levothyroxine, liothyronine) Seasonal allergies (antihistamines and
