Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


some medical disorders can also induce anxiety as a symptom. These include Asthma (albuterol, corticosteroids, theophylline) Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (amphetamines and other stimulants) Hyperthyroidism (levothyroxine, liothyronine) Seasonal allergies (antihistamines and decongestants) Seizure disorders (phenytoin) Parkinson disease (levodopa) In addition, a variety of substances and illicit drugs can directly induce anxiety, including caffeine, cocaine, and MDMA (ecstasy). Some drugs that are generally used to induce relaxation can also cause anxiety. Cannabis (marijuana) induces anxiety in some people, either directly or through an adulterant such as phencyclidine (PCP). Withdrawal from alcohol, sedatives, and some other drugs can also cause anxiety. COVID-19–related anxiety The COVID-19 pandemic was associated with surges in rates of depression and anxiety in people who had not been infected (2). Such psychological reactions may have been exacerbations of underlying issues, but the symptoms are often intensified by media exposure, economic hardship, uncertainty regarding the future, fears of infection (for themselves and loved ones), loss of familiar supports (eg, friends, employment), and behavioral restrictions (eg, masks, social distancing). 3/10 Symptomatic COVID-19 infection is also associated with increased anxiety (3). The triggers for this increased anxiety can be physiologic (eg, shortness of breath); psychological (eg, immediate fears of death); social (eg, isolation from loved ones); and pharmacologic (eg, corticosteroids are often used in treatment of COVID-19). In addition, it has been hypothesized that COVID-19 induces a host immune response that directly leads to neuropsychiatric symptoms (eg, anxiety, mood changes, neuromuscular dysfunction); these neuropsychiatric reactions may be acute or part of a syndrome known as long COVID. (See also COVID-Related Neuropsychiatric Manifestations.) Symptoms and Signs of Anxiety Disorders Anxiety disorders tend to differ from usual and normal anxiety by being persistent (> 6 months), excessive, debilitating, and uncomfortable. Anxiety disorders can induce a broad range of physical symptoms, including (1): Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea Pulmonary: Shortness of breath, choking Autonomic: Dizziness, faintness, sweats, hot and cold flashes Cardiac: Palpitations, accelerated heart rate Musculoskeletal: Muscle tension, chest pain or tightness A panic or worry diary can be a useful tool for recording symptoms, both because retrospective anxiety reports can be vague and because treatment strategies often depend on details. Diagnosis of Anxiety Disorders Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition, Text Revision (DSM-5-TR) criteria Diagnosis of a specific anxiety disorder is based on its characteristic symptoms and signs according to DSM-5-TR. In general, an anxiety disorder may be suspected when the
