Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


Revision (DSM-5-TR) criteria Diagnosis of a specific anxiety disorder is based on its characteristic symptoms and signs according to DSM-5-TR. In general, an anxiety disorder may be suspected when the following apply (1): Anxiety is very distressing. Anxiety interferes with functioning. Anxiety does not stop spontaneously within a few days. Other causes are not identified. When diagnosing an anxiety disorder, it is important to rule out anxiety attributable to certain medical conditions (eg, asthma, hyperthyroidism), and/or substances or medications (2). Furthermore, if present, the clinician needs to assess the extent to which the medical disorder and/or substance is actually implicated in the anxiety. As is true in all psychiatric assessments, a careful history is crucial to accurate diagnosis. If patients meet criteria for an anxiety disorder, and the clinician concludes that the symptoms are best explained by the direct physiologic effects of a medication or illicit drug/substance, the patient is deemed to have a substance-/medication-induced anxiety disorder. Similarly, if the significant anxiety is deemed to be the direct physiologic result of another medical condition, the patient may be diagnosed with anxiety disorder due to another medical condition. As is true for almost all psychiatric conditions, there are no laboratory tests for anxiety disorders, though laboratory tests may help identify medical conditions associated with the anxiety. Clinical judgment is required before making the diagnosis. In addition to eliciting characteristic symptoms and time course, the clinician must also evaluate whether the clinical situation meets the threshold for causing clinically significant distress and/or dysfunction. The different anxiety disorders can often be distinguished from one another based on the answers to 3 key questions: What situations induce the fear and anxiety? What thoughts are associated with the anxiety? What avoidance strategies are used? Cultural factors Culture influences the expression, conceptualization, and treatment of all psychiatric conditions, including anxiety disorders (3, 4). During the psychiatric assessment, it is important to look for ways in which the anxiety symptoms might be affected by the surrounding political, economic, and legal systems, as well as by specific issues related to migrant status, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, religion, spirituality, and family structures. Patients may feel intimidated, embarrassed, or reluctant to discuss anxiety with anyone, much less physicians, who may appear to belong to a different and potentially more privileged socioeconomic group. Similarly, people who want to be "good patients" might not be upfront about psychiatric issues if they suspect
