Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


appear to belong to a different and potentially more privileged socioeconomic group. Similarly, people who want to be "good patients" might not be upfront about psychiatric issues if they suspect that their clinicians are too busy to address anything other than their most prominent nonpsychiatric medical issue. It is useful for the clinician to consider that different individuals or groups use different words to describe distress. For example, people in many countries use the phrase "thinking too much" rather than describing symptoms that match specific psychiatric criteria for disorders such as major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or generalized anxiety disorder (5). It can also be useful to ask patients what they think is causing their problems. Not all patients believe completely in the medical model, and, if tactfully asked, many patients might reluctantly mention that they (or their relatives) believe their symptoms were induced by a religious or other mystical source (eg, an "evil eye"). Eliciting such information improves the patient-clinician alliance, deepens the understanding of both the patient and the presenting complaints, and improves the likelihood that the patient will be more transparent and adherent going forward. Treatment of Anxiety Disorders Psychoeducation Relaxation techniques Psychotherapies, such as cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy (CBT) Pharmacotherapy (benzodiazepines, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]) The following general principles are important to take into consideration when treating anxiety disorders: A variety of interventions are effective for managing anxiety disorders. Most patients can be managed successfully in primary care settings. Accurate identification of the anxiety disorder and pertinent comorbidities is crucial. Treatment of comorbid medical conditions that can contribute to anxiety (eg, asthma). Co-occurring substance use disorders should generally be treated concomitantly with the anxiety disorder. It should be recognized that the substance is often partly being used to reduce anxiety, and withdrawal can induce additional anxiety. Lifestyle modifications such as obtaining adequate exercise and sleep (1) and limiting caffeine intake may significantly reduce anxiety symptoms. Treatment recommendations are influenced by patient preferences and access to mental health care professionals. Psychotherapy and medications are effective for most anxiety disorders, particularly when used together (2, 3). Psychoeducation and relaxation techniques Psychoeducation is typically fundamental to the treatment of anxiety disorders. It can feel liberating for the patient to understand how a sometimes bewildering array of symptoms and behaviors can be conceptualized into a diagnosis. Education also provides a cognitive structure to help patients pursue a treatment that may
