Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


understand how a sometimes bewildering array of symptoms and behaviors can be conceptualized into a diagnosis. Education also provides a cognitive structure to help patients pursue a treatment that may feel uncomfortable. Relaxation techniques should be taught early in the treatment. These techniques are useful both because fear and anxiety are fundamental to anxiety disorders and because the treatment can transiently intensify the disabling thoughts and feelings. Without a tool for controlling anxiety, many patients will not adhere to treatment. Relaxation techniques may include muscle relaxation, breathing management, yoga, hypnosis, and/or meditation, but patient preference is important in determining the specific approach. Relaxation techniques can be briefly described and then "prescribed" as homework. Adherence and effectiveness are more likely to be optimized if the clinician periodically demonstrates the techniques (eg, slow, steady breathing) with enthusiasm. Psychotherapies Various psychotherapies are equally efficacious for most psychiatric disorders. This equivalency appears to be related to so-called nonspecific factors, which include the personal characteristics of the therapist and a positive therapeutic climate that allows the patient to effectively engage in the talk therapy and remain adherent with agreed-upon practices and medications. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) has the most robust evidence as a psychosocial treatment for anxiety disorders (4). Psychoeducation and relaxation techniques should be introduced early in CBT. CBT involves both cognitive restructuring and exposure therapy. Cognitive restructuring begins with the idea that patients with anxiety disorders overestimate the danger (catastrophize) and underestimate their ability to deal with the danger. These inaccurate thoughts and antecedent triggers are clarified during treatment. Often, the pattern of anxiety can be neatly laid into a characteristic cycle of triggers, behaviors, and anxiety. As this cycle is clarified, patients are taught to recognize and confront their inaccurate thoughts (ie, cognitive restructuring). CBT also focuses on the behavioral elements of the anxiety disorder. Typically, patients with anxiety disorders respond to perceived danger with a "fight-or-flight" response. Some patients with prominent anxiety are able to "fight" their anxiety, often with a counter-phobic response (eg, an actor with prominent social anxiety), but most respond with avoidance. Exposure therapy aims to identify the avoidance behavior and then present the patient with gradually intensifying opportunities to be safely exposed to the fearful trigger, gradually desensitizing the patient. 7/10 Other psychotherapies used for treatment of anxiety disorders combine aspects of CBT, relaxation, and mindfulness along with other strategies that appear to be helpful. These treatments include
