Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


the patient. 7/10 Other psychotherapies used for treatment of anxiety disorders combine aspects of CBT, relaxation, and mindfulness along with other strategies that appear to be helpful. These treatments include mindfulness-based stress reduction, hypnosis, panic-focused psychodynamic psychotherapy, interpersonal therapy, and supportive psychotherapy: Mindfulness-based stress reduction is a standardized program in which groups meet for 8 consecutive weeks; sessions feature sitting and walking meditation, yoga, and mindful relaxation techniques. There is also a daily home practice to reinforce the principles practiced during the 2.5-hour sessions (5). Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy combines these mindfulness elements with CBT methods such as psychoeducation and cognitive restructuring. Hypnosis is used to teach management of the interaction between mental anxiety and physical stress such as muscle tension, increase in respiratory and heart rate, and sweating. Mental anxiety and physical stress tend to reinforce each other, while hypnotic suggestions to imagine being in a safe and comfortable place coupled with visualization of means of successful stress management can reduce anxiety symptoms rapidly while teaching a coping skill (6). Panic-focused psychodynamic psychotherapy is a structured, time-limited psychotherapy that shares features with other interventions, though the sessions tend to focus on the stressors, feelings, and emotional meanings of panic attacks (7). Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a structured, time-limited psychotherapy that addresses current problems and relationships. IPT focuses on 1 or more of 4 areas: relationship conflicts, life changes, grief or loss, and problems with relationships. Most often used to treat depression, IPT appears to be well-tolerated and effective for several anxiety disorders (8). While CBT focuses on cognitions and behaviors, IPT focuses on feelings that develop in the context of interpersonal situations. Supportive psychotherapy aims to support the patient's healthy defenses and healthy behaviors through empathy, validation, and nonjudgmental listening. Supportive techniques tend to improve the therapeutic alliance and reduce treatment nonadherence. Supportive psychotherapy can be therapeutic by itself and can also be a fundamental part of other psychotherapies. Pharmacotherapy Pharmacotherapy is typically helpful in the management of anxiety disorders, especially when used in conjunction with any of the above psychotherapeutic techniques. Antidepressants and benzodiazepines are the 2 medication classes with the strongest evidence base, though there is also a role for nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytics (such as buspirone) and atypical antipsychotics (9). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are generally considered first-line based on their efficacy and safety profiles. These "antidepressant" medications address the symptoms of the anxiety disorders regardless of whether
