Overview of Anxiety Disorders
KEYWORDS: anxiety, disorders, disorder, anxiety disorders, anxiety disorder, treatment, symptoms, patients, medical, used, asthma, patient, people, psychiatric, psychotherapy


(9). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are generally considered first-line based on their efficacy and safety profiles. These "antidepressant" medications address the symptoms of the anxiety disorders regardless of whether there is a comorbid depressive disorder. SSRI antidepressants are generally started at the lowest available dose to minimize adverse effects. Patients with anxiety may be sensitive to bodily changes and may discontinue treatment if they 8/10 experience adverse effects early on. Once the patient has tolerated the initial dose, the antidepressant can be gradually increased until a therapeutic dose or therapeutic effect is reached. A positive clinical effect may occur at any time but often takes 6 or more weeks to achieve. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) , particularly duloxetine and venlafaxine, have also demonstrated safety and efficacy for the treatment of anxiety disorders. Benzodiazepines may be used for acute relief of anxiety but can create dependence and a desire for increasing levels that limit their benefit/risk ratio for chronic use (10). They are often used in conjunction with an antidepressant and psychotherapy. The benzodiazepine can often be tapered once the anxiety symptoms have improved. Treatment of comorbidities When present, comorbid substance use disorders and other psychiatric conditions must also be appropriately managed. Comorbid substance use disorders are often not spontaneously reported (11). Substances such as alcohol, marijuana, and benzodiazepines are often used to self-medicate by those with anxiety disorders. Patients may be reluctant to give up these substances until they trust that the clinician has a viable alternative treatment. Self-medication often leads to a vicious cycle. For example, the alcohol use that quickly reduces anxiety may be followed by rebound anxiety, followed by an increased urgency to self-medicate. Comorbid bipolar disorder can cause specific management difficulties. Many people with bipolar disorder are initially misdiagnosed, particularly because they often have far more periods of depression than mania. Treatment with an antidepressant medication may be an appropriate first-line treatment for an anxiety disorder with comorbid major depression. However, for an individual with both anxiety and a bipolar disorder, that same medication choice can trigger a manic episode consisting of intensified anxiety and irritability. A missed bipolar disorder can result in decades of inappropriate treatments. Comorbid medical disorders can also be challenging to manage. For example, asthma can physiologically cause anxiety, but so can some of the medications used to treat asthma. Anxiety can contribute to an asthma exacerbation, and fears of an
