Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


ABSTRACT While progress has been made, osteoporosis in men is still under-diagnosed and under-treated. In general, men fracture about 10 years later than women, with large increases in fracture risk after about age 75, although a small number of men may present with vertebral fractures in middle age. There is overlap between secondary causes of osteoporosis and risk factors for primary osteoporosis, but men with fragility fractures or low bone density require evaluation by history and physical examination as well as a short list of laboratory tests. Bone mineral density by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry remains the best test for diagnosing osteoporosis in men, although opportunistic bone density measurements from CT scans are promising. Clinicians should recommend a comprehensive program of treatment with fall risk reduction, attention to diet and vitamin D status, and pharmacologic treatment. In general, medications that work in women should lead to fewer fractures in men, although there are few studies in men with fracture risk reduction as the primary outcome. Most men with osteoporosis should be treated with oral or intravenous bisphosphonates, but men at very high fracture risk should be considered for initial anabolic treatment. Compared to women, men are more likely to die after hip fracture. The long-term management of men with osteoporosis is based solely on a few studies in women. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Despite new information and even some attention in popular publications, osteoporosis in men remains under-appreciated, under-diagnosed, and under-treated. While the evidence base for evaluation and management of male osteoporosis will always be less than that of female osteoporosis, there is enough information available to identify those men at highest risk, evaluate them thoroughly, and treat them with a program that will reduce osteoporotic fractures. Nonetheless, there are many impediments to quality care at all stages: recognition, diagnosis, assessment, and management (both short- and long-term). In this chapter, the challenges for the primary care and specialty clinician will be addressed with the purpose of providing an approach to reducing osteoporotic fracture in men. DEFINITION, CLASSIFICATION, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF MALE OSTEOPOROSIS Definitions of Osteoporosis in Men In an older adult, regardless of gender, a fall from a standing position should not result in a fracture. Hence, one definition of osteoporosis is just such a fracture. By consensus, some fractures are considered osteoporotic; and others may or
