Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


a standing position should not result in a fracture. Hence, one definition of osteoporosis is just such a fracture. By consensus, some fractures are considered osteoporotic; and others may or may not be, even if they occur with minimal trauma. For the most commonly used fracture risk calculator FRAX (see below), low trauma fractures of the spine, hip, forearm (radius and ulna), and humerus are considered osteoporotic. Pelvic, rib, and sternal fractures may also be osteoporotic. Most authorities do not count skull or digital fractures, and ankle fractures are the most controversial. Interestingly, in a study ( 1 ) of older men (MrOS, see below), any fracture after age 50 increased the risk of osteoporotic hip fracture, when combined with bone mineral density (BMD) measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The above is compatible with the standard definition of osteoporosis as compromised bone strength leading to increased risk of low trauma fracture ( 2 ). A more operational diagnosis relies on DXA measurements, with a BMD T-score of -2.5 or worse in the spine or hip serving as the diagnosis of osteoporosis ( 3 ). This means that the patient’s BMD is at least 2.5 standard deviations below the normal young mean. As the BMD decreases, the fracture risk rises markedly. In men there has been great controversy about the normative database that should be used for the calculation of T-scores. Based on the fact that men and women fracture at similar (overlapping but not quite identical) absolute bone density measurements (in g/cm 2 ), several major osteoporosis organizations, including the International Society for Clinical Densitometry (ISCD), recommend use of the young, white female normative database for all T-score calculations ( 4 ). The reader is directed to a discussion of this subject ( 5 ), and more details about DXA are discussed below. While the man with a T-score of -2.5 or less is clearly at the highest risk for fracture, more fractures occur in men with T-scores between -1 and -2.5, what is called osteopenia or low bone mass. The reason for this is that there are many more men in this category. For example, baseline DXA testing was done in the Rotterdam study ( 6 ), a large, long-term observational study. In men, 29% of hip fractures were in those with osteoporosis by DXA, 64% had osteopenia, and 7% had normal bone density. DXA measures bone
