Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


a large, long-term observational study. In men, 29% of hip fractures were in those with osteoporosis by DXA, 64% had osteopenia, and 7% had normal bone density. DXA measures bone quantity, and fracture risk is also determined by bone quality, which is impossible to measure definitively with current clinical tools. Thus, fracture risk calculators have been established, based on epidemiological data, to reflect bone quality and add to the predictive power of DXA. The most commonly used fracture risk calculator is FRAX ( 7 ), available online as www.sheffield.ac.uk/FRAX/ . FRAX calculates the 10-year risk of hip fracture and of major osteoporotic fracture (MOF) based on the femoral neck BMD in g/cm 2 plus a series of risk factors: age, sex, previous fracture, parental hip fracture, current smoking, having more than 3 alcoholic drinks daily, rheumatoid arthritis, exposure to systemic glucocorticoid drugs, and secondary osteoporosis. It also can be calculated using the body mass index (BMI) as a surrogate for femoral neck BMD. While some studies (e.g. 8 ) suggest that FRAX works better in women than men, the calculator has been adopted internationally. There are other risk calculators, such as the Garvan nomogram ( 9 ), which unlike FRAX includes falls as a risk factor for determining fracture risk. It is interesting to note that at age 50, a man has a risk of experiencing an osteoporotic fracture of 13 to 25%, depending on the population studied. A much smaller percentage of men over age 50 have T-scores of -2.5 or worse, although the proportion increases with age. In a study of NHANES data, osteoporosis was defined from FRAX calculations: a 10-year hip fracture risk of ≥ 3% or MOF of ≥ 20% ( 10 , 11 , 12 ). Using this definition 16% of American men at age 50 and 46% at age 80 met criteria for osteoporosis, much more similar to actual incidences of osteoporotic fracture ( 12 ). There is some evidence (e.g. 13 ) that treating women who meet this fracture risk criterion respond to current osteoporosis treatment. There are, to my knowledge, no studies in men that show that diagnosing osteoporosis in a man by this method and treating him with standard medication leads to fewer fractures. Indeed Ensrud ( 14 ) has reported that men with osteoporosis by DXA have the best response to osteoporosis treatment, compared to those with better BMD. However,
