Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


to fewer fractures. Indeed Ensrud ( 14 ) has reported that men with osteoporosis by DXA have the best response to osteoporosis treatment, compared to those with better BMD. However, as will be described below, studies of osteoporosis medications in men have almost always used the more liberal male normative database for the calculation of the T-score and accepted men with osteopenia plus a history of an osteoporotic fracture for inclusion. In these studies, such men responded to the treatment regimen with improvements in the standard surrogates for fracture. It is also interesting that the Rotterdam study ( 6 ) mentioned above also used sex-specific normative databases for the DXA diagnosis of osteoporosis. Had they used the female database for all participants, the group with osteoporosis by DXA at baseline would have accounted for an even smaller percentage of the hip fractures observed. A practical approach to the diagnosis is provided below. There are other potential tools for determining fracture risk. For example, FRAX Plus ( 15 ) will be released soon. It will add falls, diabetes mellitus, and other risk factors to the fracture risk prediction. Trabecular Bone Score ( 16 ) can be derived from DXA of the spine. It reflects bone architecture and can be added to FRAX calculations. It is thought to be a reflection of bone quality ( 17 ). The reader is directed to the chapters on osteoporosis in women, which will include other methods to better quantify fracture risk. Epidemiology of Osteoporosis in Men Fractures in men occur about 10 years later in life than in women ( 18 ). Men, with generally bigger bones, have more to lose over time. In addition, men do not undergo the rapid increase of bone turnover that occurs with menopause and the marked drop in estradiol secretion. Instead, it is well-accepted that the loss of sex steroids in men is a much more gradual process ( 19 ), and it is interesting to note that, with aging, BMD is more closely associated with serum bioavailable estradiol levels than with any serum measure of testosterone ( 20 ). Nonetheless, in middle-aged men presenting usually with vertebral fractures or low spine BMD by DXA, one of the causes of osteoporosis earlier in life is hypogonadism. This type of osteoporosis is analogous to what Riggs and Melton labelled postmenopausal osteoporosis in a seminal paper ( 21 ) many years
