Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


of osteoporosis earlier in life is hypogonadism. This type of osteoporosis is analogous to what Riggs and Melton labelled postmenopausal osteoporosis in a seminal paper ( 21 ) many years ago. They described osteoporosis in women soon after menopause as loss of mostly trabecular bone (and thus vertebrae were particularly at risk) and associated with the dramatic drop in ovarian estrogen production. Men with organic causes of hypogonadism (for example, pituitary tumors) may also present with very low serum testosterone levels and osteoporosis. There are other causes of this earlier type of osteoporosis in men, including hypercalciuria ( 22 ) and secondary causes, which may not be very apparent clinically. An example of the latter is celiac disease, which may not bring the patient to clinical attention but can lead to early fracture risk. (See below for other secondary causes of osteoporosis in men). Finally, there have been reports of genetic disorders leading to so-called idiopathic osteoporosis in men, such as low levels of IGF-I without abnormalities in growth hormone ( 23 ) and low serum bioavailable estradiol levels ( 24 ). It is much more likely for a man to experience an osteoporotic fracture after age 75 than at middle age, but the clinician needs to know that early osteoporosis occurs and that it should lead to evaluation and treatment. The majority of fractures in men occur later in life. The Rotterdam Study ( 6 ) assessed only nonvertebral fractures because the date of vertebral fractures was much more difficult to ascertain. In men the incidence of nonvertebral fracture accelerates after about age 75. The incidence of nonvertebral fractures in men at ages 80 to 84 is about the same as the incidence in women ages 70 to 74. This observation is the basis for stating that fractures occur about 10 years later in men than women, and it may explain why men come to fracture with more co-morbidities than women, a possible explanation for why men do relatively poorly after hip fracture in particular. As used in FRAX, risk factors for fracture, presumably reflecting bone quality, magnify the impact of bone quantity (DXA) on fracture risk. In the FRAX calculation age, prior fracture, and history of parental fracture are the most important variables. Not well known is a report ( 25 ) from Leslie and colleagues proposing that the age at which a parent has fractured a hip
