Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


information. This long-term US observational study included about 6000 men for more than 15 years ( 26 ). Of the many important findings from the study, one is of particular interest. What are the characteristics of men, in addition to DXA, that predict hip fracture? In this excellent report ( 1 ), several surprising factors were discovered and others were expected. Of the latter group, age ≥75, current smoking, Parkinson’s disease, hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, and decreased cognitive function were risk factors that greatly increased the fracture risk prediction, when added to BMD. More interestingly, several other risk factors were found: low dietary protein, any fracture after age 50, divorce, tricyclic anti-depressants or hypoglycemic agents, tall stature, and the inability to do chair stands. Having 4 of these risk factors increased hip fracture risk 5-fold in men with osteoporosis by DXA. Secondary causes of osteoporosis are thought to be particularly important in men, but there is overlap between what might be called a secondary cause of osteoporosis and in another context a risk factor for primary osteoporosis. In addition, while treatment of a secondary cause may be adequate to lower fracture risk, a man will possibly be at risk for primary osteoporosis as he ages – and need osteoporosis specific treatment. Hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, and hypercalciuria are well-characterized secondary causes of osteoporosis in men. A particularly important cause is glucocorticoid excess, usually due to treatment of an inflammatory disorder with systemic glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) is considered the most important medication-related type of osteoporosis and is of particular concern because fracture risk is increased ( 27 ) after 3 months of prednisone equivalent doses of 5 to 7.5 mg daily – and maybe earlier ( 28 ) and maybe even lower doses. There is evidence that men are less likely to be evaluated and treated for GIOP ( 29 ), perhaps because clinicians again do not think that osteoporosis happens in men. While endogenous Cushing’s syndrome leads to GIOP, most cases are due to exogenous glucocorticoids, and about 1% of the adult population may be taking such medications at any particular time. Multiple myeloma may present with osteoporosis-like vertebral fractures; hence, this diagnosis must be in the differential diagnosis of the new patient presenting this way. Malabsorption, particularly celiac disease, is another potential secondary cause of osteoporosis. While type 2 diabetes mellitus is clearly associated with increased fracture risk ( 30 ), bone
