Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


presenting this way. Malabsorption, particularly celiac disease, is another potential secondary cause of osteoporosis. While type 2 diabetes mellitus is clearly associated with increased fracture risk ( 30 ), bone density is usually not decreased, whereas in type 1 diabetes mellitus, BMD is variable. Celiac disease is associated with type 1 diabetes mellitus, and thus it should be considered in men with type 1 diabetes mellitus and a fracture. Mastocytosis is associated with osteoporosis, although the mechanism is not fully understood. Hemochromatosis, presumably via some of its consequences is also on the list of secondary causes. Immobilization leads to loss of bone. Spinal cord injury is much more common in men than women, and bone is lost distal to the cord lesion and may be worse than immobilization per se because of comorbidities ( 31 ). The fracture risk is high in men with spinal cord injury, and other types of decreased mobility should be considered when assessing men: stroke, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, etc. Men with HIV now have life expectancies close to those without HIV, but the risk of osteoporosis and fracture is greater. Fractures appear about 10 years earlier than in men without HIV. In a systematic review of large numbers of people living with HIV (mostly men), the relative risk of a low trauma fracture was 1.51 and the relative risk of a hip fracture was 4.09 ( 32 ). In a meta-analysis of bone mineral density testing ( 33 ), low bone mass (osteopenia) and osteoporosis by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was more prevalent in persons (again mostly men) with HIV compared to non-infected controls. Interestingly, initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) appeared to be associated with lower bone density, confirmed by a subsequent randomized trial ( 34 ). ART with tenofovir alafenamide appears to have better renal safety than tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( 35 ) and may have less impact on bone. Fortunately, men with HIV appear to response well to bisphosphonate therapy for osteoporosis 36). Osteoporosis and Hypogonadism As mentioned above, men with organic causes of hypogonadism are at risk for fracture and may present at middle age or later with fracture or low BMD. More common and more controversial is the parallel decrease in BMD and serum testosterone levels with aging. While not proven, it is reasonable to assume that as testosterone and muscle mass diminish with age, falls will increase, leading
