Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


decrease in BMD and serum testosterone levels with aging. While not proven, it is reasonable to assume that as testosterone and muscle mass diminish with age, falls will increase, leading to fractures. The relationship between serum testosterone and BMD is less clear. As previously mentioned, Khosla and colleagues reported ( 20 ) that BMD was more strongly related to bioavailable estradiol levels than any measure of testosterone. Of course, in men the major source of estradiol is aromatization of testosterone. The importance of estrogen is illustrated by the impact of iatrogenic hypogonadism. Prostate cancer often responds to androgen withdrawal, and for men with rising PSA levels or other evidence of recurrence or spread, androgen withdrawal may be accomplished by orchiectomy (not done very often today) or by use of analogs of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH). Some GnRH analogs acutely increase gonadotropins LH and FSH such that an androgen receptor blocker such as bicalutamide or nilutamide is given on a short-term basis until the pituitary is down regulated. GnRH analog treatment results in serum testosterone levels that are essentially zero and in very low levels of estradiol (the remaining estrogens are presumably from conversion of adrenal androgens). Some men are treated with an androgen blocker alone. In most studies ( 37 ) bone loss is much more profound in the men treated with GnRH analogs compared to men treated with only androgen receptor blockers, who have normal estradiol levels. Abiraterone ( 38 ) blocks conversion of precursors to androgens and may be used in concert with GnRH analogs. Prednisone is needed to prevent mineralocorticoid excess due to the enzyme blockage caused by abiraterone. The dose is 5 mg twice daily, a little more than a replacement dose. This potentially adds to the risk that men treated with this combined androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) will have particularly increased fracture risk. However, the most widely cited study ( 39 ) of fracture in men on ADT is several years old, done before abiraterone was approved. The important finding from this study was that while ADT given to a man who has a rising PSA level after primary treatment of prostate cancer leads to a 10-year survival rate of 80 to 90%, the 5-year fracture rate was almost 20% in Caucasian men and 2/3 or ¾ of that rate in African-Americans. Thus, the profound hypogonadism of ADT is clearly a major risk for fracture.
