Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


fracture rate was almost 20% in Caucasian men and 2/3 or ¾ of that rate in African-Americans. Thus, the profound hypogonadism of ADT is clearly a major risk for fracture. This still leaves unanswered whether testosterone given to men with decreased serum testosterone levels associated with aging would benefit from testosterone replacement. There are no studies large enough to show a fracture benefit of such treatment. In a careful study ( 40 ) of older men with low serum testosterone levels, testosterone gel or placebo gel was used for one year. At the end of the year, there was a modest increase in BMD by DXA and also by quantitative computed tomography (qCT). More importantly, there was an increase in bone strength by finite element analysis of the qCT data. The Endocrine Society Male Osteoporosis Guideline ( 41 ) states that older men at risk for fracture should be treated with osteoporosis-specific medications but those who also have symptomatic hypogonadism can be considered for testosterone replacement. The likely impact of testosterone deficiency on muscle and the bone strength response to testosterone replacement make it plausible that testosterone replacement will lead to fewer fractures. The TRAVERSE study ( 42 ) is a large study of testosterone replacement on cardiovascular safety in older hypogonadal men. There was no increase in cardiovascular events in the men treated with testosterone gel ( 43 ), nor was there evidence of increased prostate cancer risk or urinary retention ( 44 ). Interestingly, there were more fractures in the men receiving testosterone replacement ( 45 ). However, the fractures occurred soon after starting replacement, and the majority were ankle and risk fractures ( 45 , 46 ). This suggested to Grossmann and Anawalt ( 46 ) that testosterone-induced changes in behavior may have been the etiology of the fracture increase. SCREENING AND DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION IN MEN DXA Testing Men From this extensive review of pathogenesis and epidemiology of osteoporosis in men, it is possible to postulate which men should be screened for osteoporosis and how they should be evaluated. Age is a major risk factor for fracture. At what age should a man undergo DXA testing and does such testing lead to fewer fractures? The Endocrine Society Guideline ( 41 ) suggests DXA testing in most men at age 70 or above. The United States Preventive Services Task Force ( 47 ) states that there is insufficient
