Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


Guideline ( 41 ) suggests DXA testing in most men at age 70 or above. The United States Preventive Services Task Force ( 47 ) states that there is insufficient evidence to recommend DXA testing in men, although it supports DXA testing in women by age 65. There are few studies demonstrating that DXA screening in women leads to fewer fractures. The recent SCOOP study ( 48 ) from the UK revealed that a two-stage method of choosing women for testing by first calculating FRAX using BMI as a surrogate for femoral neck BMD resulted in fewer hip fractures. In this study, women at low risk for fracture by FRAX were not screened further. Those at high risk were treated, and those in the middle had a DXA. Based on DXA results and recalculation of FRAX with femoral neck DXA results, women at risk were placed on therapy and had fewer fracture than those not screened for osteoporosis. There are no similar prospective studies in men, but Colon-Emeric and colleagues ( 49 ) used the Department of Veterans Affairs and Medicare databases to determine the impact of screening men with DXA. Overall, screening did not lead to fewer fractures. However, strategic screening did. Men aged 80 or older, men on systemic glucocorticoids or ADT, and men with FRAX calculated with BMI (somewhat like the SCOOP study women) had fewer fractures if they were screened by DXA. In addition, men over age 65 with several other risk factors (including rheumatoid arthritis, alcohol or tobacco abuse, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic liver disease, stroke, Parkinson’s disease, gastrectomy, hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, or traditional anti-seizure drug use) were also likely to benefit, should they have a DXA done. This study was observational and done with the Department of Veterans Affairs population, which tends to be sicker than the general population and from the population of the prospective study, MrOS. Nonetheless, the findings are compatible with the epidemiology of fractures in men and can serve as a basis for clinical care. It is unrealistic to expect that a study like SCOOP will be done in men. The SCOOP population was about 12,500 women; a male version would likely need approximately 40,000 participants. Based on the Colon-Emeric observational study ( 49 ) and studies from MrOS ( 1 ), Table 2 suggests which older men that should be screened for osteoporosis by DXA. Table 2. Which Men
