Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


observational study ( 49 ) and studies from MrOS ( 1 ), Table 2 suggests which older men that should be screened for osteoporosis by DXA. Table 2. Which Men Should Be Screened (by DXA) for Osteoporosis? View in own window Men > 50 Years Old After a fragility fracture (usually vertebral in younger group) On chronic glucocorticoids Organic causes of hypogonadism Hypercalciuria Men > 65 Years Old All of the above plus: On androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer High risk for fracture based on FRAX using BMI Current smoking/COPD Alcohol abuse/chronic liver disease Rheumatoid arthritis Parkinson’s disease or other mobility disorder Gastrectomy/bariatric surgery Hyperthyroidism Hyperparathyroidism On enzyme-inducing anti-seizure medications for > 2 years Men > 80 Years Old If not already screened, all men over 80 should have a DXA (unless there is a contraindication). In the United States, reimbursement for DXA testing is limited. This may be one reason that so few men are assessed for fracture risk. One potential method to identify men at risk for fracture is to assess bone density from CT scans done for other reasons. There are several methods of so-called opportunistic bone density evaluation that have been used (e. g. 50), including a study done in male veterans ( 51 ). It is likely that artificial intelligence can be harnessed to make this process even more efficient. Whether finding men at risk this way will lead to more clinical evaluation and treatment and fewer fractures remains to be determined. Beyond DXA: Laboratory Evaluation of Osteoporosis in Men If a man has osteoporosis by DXA or meets other criteria for osteoporosis or has low bone mass (osteopenia) but may be at higher risk for fracture, what other tests should be done? Spine x-rays or vertebral fracture analysis (images of the spine by DXA machines) may reveal vertebral fractures that increase subsequent fracture risk. There are no specific blood tests for osteoporosis, and the evidence base for the tests that follow may be weak. Nonetheless, it makes clinical sense to do a few laboratory tests to look for secondary causes/risk factors for osteoporosis and to ensure the safety of treatment, should it be indicated. Many patients will have had some of these tests as part of their general medical care, so the actual addition to routine testing may be small. For all patients, assessments of serum calcium and phosphate and renal function are
