Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


as part of their general medical care, so the actual addition to routine testing may be small. For all patients, assessments of serum calcium and phosphate and renal function are necessary to look for hypercalcemia (which might signal hyperparathyroidism) and to determine if some osteoporosis treatments can be safely given. Avoiding controversies about ideal levels of serum 25-OH vitamin D in the general population, there is consensus that for the patient with osteoporosis, the target level should be 30 ng/ml ( 52 ). All of those tests mentioned may help to identify the unusual patient with osteomalacia. Serum alkaline phosphatase reflects bone formation and turnover, among other things. It is interesting that low serum alkaline phosphatase may be a sign of hypophosphatasia ( 53 ), a disorder of variable severity that may present as osteoporosis. Such patients should not be treated with anti-resorptive agents. An automated complete blood count should be done, particularly if there is any suspicion of multiple myeloma because about 75% of such patients will have anemia. All of the above tests, with the exception of 25-OH vitamin D, may be done as routine screening tests in many people visiting primary care clinicians, although measurement of 25-OH vitamin D has become very common as well. Once the 25-OH vitamin D level is at goal, a 24-hour urine for calcium and creatinine (and possibly sodium) may help to signal hypercalciuria, or in in the case of low urinary calcium excretion, may reflect malabsorption. For a patient suspected of hyperparathyroidism or hyperthyroidism, appropriate testing for parathyroid hormone (PTH) or thyroid hormones/TSH should be done. Similarly, for patients in whom there is a suggestion of another secondary cause of osteoporosis, specific tests such as serum protein electrophoresis, celiac antibodies, cortisol, tryptase, etc. can be done. More controversial is whether serum testosterone should be measured. Most symptoms of hypogonadism are non-specific, such as fatigue. Decreased libido is considered the most specific symptom, but decreased muscle mass and decreased beard growth might be present. For the symptomatic man, measurement of early morning testosterone is reasonable. Many experts may suggest measurement of free and bioavailable testosterone as well as gonadotropins. The diagnosis of hypogonadism requires two early morning (preferably fasting) testosterone measurements ( 54 ). We would also measure PSA and review the hematocrit and hemoglobin before considering testosterone replacement. In addition, measurement of testosterone should only be done if the clinician would
