Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


54 ). We would also measure PSA and review the hematocrit and hemoglobin before considering testosterone replacement. In addition, measurement of testosterone should only be done if the clinician would consider testosterone replacement, likely in addition to an osteoporosis-specific treatment. In the Veterans Affairs population, routine laboratory testing was found to reveal new secondary causes and/or osteoporosis risk factors ( 55 ). In contrast, in the healthier MrOS cohort, routine testing was found to be less helpful ( 56 ). Table 3. Practical Approach to the Man with Osteoporosis View in own window History and Physical Exam Evidence of secondary causes of osteoporosis, risk factors Family history Height versus maximum attained height Gait Kyphosis General condition of teeth Evidence of significant visual abnormalities Ability to rise from chair without using hands Tenderness to percussion of spine Standard Laboratory Tests Serum Chemistries: Calcium, Phosphate, Alkaline Phosphatase, Albumin Measure of Renal Function (e.g. serum creatinine, eGFR) Complete blood count Serum 25-OH vitamin D When 25-OH vitamin D is at goal: 24-hour urine calcium, creatinine, and maybe sodium Laboratory Tests in Specific Cases (triggered by history and physical exam) Thyroid function tests (TSH, Free T4, maybe Total T3) Parathyroid hormone (PTH) Ionized Calcium Total, Free, and Bioavailable Testosterone LH, FSH, Prolactin CTX or other marker of bone resorption Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase (or other marker of bone formation) Celiac antibodies Serum/Urine Protein Electrophoresis Magnesium Tryptase Tests for cortisol excess (e.g. urinary free cortisol, dexamethasone suppression test, midnight salivary cortisol) Images X-rays of thoracic and lumbar spine X-rays of fractured bone Pituitary imaging (usually MRI) MANAGEMENT OF OSTEOPOROSIS IN MEN Non-Pharmacologic Management of Osteoporosis One criticism heard about current osteoporosis treatment is that it focuses only on pharmacologic methods. A more comprehensive approach to osteoporosis treatment is preferred. Indeed, there are ways to reduce fracture that do not involve prescription of drugs, and they should be an important part of the therapeutic regimen. While there has been controversy about the role of calcium and vitamin D on fracture risk and on potential side effects, such as cardiovascular events, discussion of these controversies can be found in other chapters. One recent meta-analysis ( 57 ) concluded that daily calcium and vitamin D are likely to be salutary for osteoporosis. The widely-cited Institute of Medicine report ( 58 ) suggested 1000 to 1200 mg of elemental calcium in the diet and vitamin D intake of 400
