Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


be salutary for osteoporosis. The widely-cited Institute of Medicine report ( 58 ) suggested 1000 to 1200 mg of elemental calcium in the diet and vitamin D intake of 400 to 800 units per day. As stated above, most experts would suggest that a target vitamin D level of 30 ng/ml is reasonable for patients with osteoporosis. From MrOS ( 1 ) we learned that the protein content of the diet is also important. A liquid protein supplement might be a good source of calcium and protein for some older men. In my own experience, older men who live alone may have poor diets, and such protein supplements may be an easy way to augment their diet. Fall risk reduction is also very important. In most cases, patients fall first, fracture second. Thus, attention to eyesight, avoidance of drugs that affect standing blood pressure or cause sleepiness or confusion, and home safety are very important parts of a comprehensive osteoporosis treatment program. Treatment of cataracts, for example, leads to fewer fractures ( 59 ). In MrOS ( 1 ) use of hypoglycemic agents was associated with increased hip fracture risk. People with seizure disorders fall; thus, control of epilepsy is important. Avoidance of alcohol, opiates, benzodiazepines, and psychiatric drugs is suggested, but of course some patients may require medications that can cause drowsiness or imbalance. Anti-hypertensive medications need to be titrated such that postural hypotension does not occur. Convincing a man to use a walking aid may be challenging. Night lights, elimination of loose throw rugs and extension cords, and care with pets are also important to avoid falls. Consultation with Occupational Therapy and/or Physical Therapy should be considered in many cases. Exercise prescriptions should aim to improve muscle strength as well as balance. Risk factors for falls are listed in table 4 . Table 4. Risk Factors for Falls Adapted From Guidelines of the National Osteoporosis Foundation View in own window Environmental Risk Factors Lack of assistive devices in bathrooms, loose throw rugs, low level lighting, obstacles in the walking path, slippery outdoor conditions Medical Risk Factors Age, anxiety and agitation, arrhythmias, dehydration, depression, female gender, impaired transfer and mobility, malnutrition, orthostatic hypotension, poor vison and use of bifocals, previous fall, reduced mental acuity and diminished cognitive skills, urgent urinary incontinence, Vitamin D insufficiency (serum 25-OH-D < 30ng/ml (75nmol/l)), medications causing over-sedation (narcotic analgesics, anticonvulsants, psychotropics), diabetes Neurological and
