Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


previous fall, reduced mental acuity and diminished cognitive skills, urgent urinary incontinence, Vitamin D insufficiency (serum 25-OH-D < 30ng/ml (75nmol/l)), medications causing over-sedation (narcotic analgesics, anticonvulsants, psychotropics), diabetes Neurological and Musculoskeletal Risk Factors Kyphosis, poor balance, reduced proprioception, weak muscles Other Risk Factors; Fear of falling The presence of any of these risk factors should trigger consideration of further evaluation and treatment to reduce the risk of falls and fall-related injuries. Table from the Endotext chapter entitled “Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation” by E. Michael Lewiecki. Medications for Osteoporosis in Men The pharmacologic treatment of osteoporosis in men is by and large the same as treatment in women. Alendronate, risedronate, zoledronic acid, denosumab, teriparatide, and abaloparatide are all FDA approved for men with osteoporosis. Most men have been treated with bisphosphonates, similar to women. Alendronate was the first modern bisphosphonate approved by regulatory agencies in the mid-1990’s; it was shown to change surrogates of fracture (BMD and bone turnover markers) in men similarly to women ( 60 ). Although fracture risk reduction was not the primary outcome of the study, there were fewer morphometric vertebral fractures in the men randomized to alendronate compared those on placebo. Similarly, risedronate and zoledronic acid have been shown to increase bone density in men to a similar degree as in women ( 61 , 62 ). A criticism by some is that current surrogates for fracture may not be adequate, and that raising BMD or suppressing bone turnover markers in men is not enough evidence to conclude that fracture risk will be lowered by bisphosphonates. In a two-year study ( 63 ) with morphometric vertebral fractures as the primary outcome, Boonen et al demonstrated that zoledronic acid not only increased BMD in men, compared to placebo infusions, but it also led to fewer vertebral fractures. Specifically, at 2 years there was a 67% relative risk reduction and 3.3% absolute risk reduction in morphometric vertebral fractures. Thus, the clinician can be confident that if the patient is compliant and adherent to bisphosphonate treatment, fracture risk should be decreased. All of the cited studies in men used a male normative database for calculation of the T-score. Men were eligible for the studies if they had osteoporosis by this criterion or had osteopenia (usually a T-score of -2) plus history of a low trauma facture. In women treated with bisphosphonates, vertebral fractures are decreased by about half and hip
