Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


criterion or had osteopenia (usually a T-score of -2) plus history of a low trauma facture. In women treated with bisphosphonates, vertebral fractures are decreased by about half and hip fractures by a third. In the zoledronic acid registration trial in women ( 64 ), at 2 years the relative risk reduction of morphometric vertebral fractures was 71% and the absolute risk reduction was 5%. Compared to the study in men, at baseline the women were older, were more likely to have had a previous fracture, and had lower BMD. It is impossible to compare results between the two gender-specific studies in any meaningful way, other than to conclude that zoledronic acid works similarly in men and women. The usual starting treatment for osteoporosis is oral alendronate 70 mg by mouth once weekly. As in women, oral alendronate (or most preparations of risedronate) has to be taken on an empty stomach with just a glass of water, and the patient is instructed to take nothing else by mouth for at least 30 minutes. In general, this is not a problem, but for men also taking levothyroxine and/or proton pump inhibitors, timing may be difficult. In patients on levothyroxine, one strategy is to have them take the levothyroxine in the middle of the night, when older men are likely to need to urinate. This does not work for bisphosphonates because lying down after taking the bisphosphonate may lead to esophageal irritation. For the man with gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD), avoidance of oral bisphosphonates is indicated if the GERD is not under good control. For such men and for those unable or unwilling to adhere to the correct oral regimen, intravenous zoledronic acid, 5 mg given over 15 minutes or more, is a reasonable choice. The FDA-approved interval for zoledronic acid is one year. In our experience ( 65 , 66 ), increasing the interval to 1.5 years or so allows all bisphosphonate patients to have a 5-year initial treatment period. Long-term management of osteoporosis in men is discussed below. An alternative oral treatment is risedronate given as a monthly 150 mg tablet. For some men, particularly those with a high pill burden, this may be an attractive regimen. As an alternative to bisphosphonates, another anti-resorptive or anti-bone turnover medication is denosumab, an antibody against RANK Ligand. Among the earliest uses of this medication was a study of a high-risk group, men
