Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


to bisphosphonates, another anti-resorptive or anti-bone turnover medication is denosumab, an antibody against RANK Ligand. Among the earliest uses of this medication was a study of a high-risk group, men on ADT for prostate cancer. In this important study, Smith and colleagues ( 67 ) randomized men receiving GnRH analogs to profoundly suppress testosterone secretion to denosumab or placebo. There were fewer morphometric vertebral fractures in the men who were given denosumab as a subcutaneous injection every 6 months compared to men receiving placebo injections. After a study ( 68 ) showing that denosumab altered surrogates for fracture in men similarly to the effect in women, the drug was approved for osteoporosis in men, regardless of etiology. Interestingly, denosumab increases forearm bone density, something not found with bisphosphonate treatment ( 60 ). In long term studies of bisphosphonates in women ( 69 , 70 ) BMD rises and then plateaus after a few years of treatment. In contrast, studies in women have shown continued increases in BMD for at least 10 years with continued denosumab treatment ( 71 ). The consequences of this plus the impact of withdrawal of osteoporosis treatment will be discussed below. As men age, there is thinning of trabeculae, whereas in women there is loss of trabecular number and the spacing between trabeculae increases ( 72 ). Thus, while the changes in vertebral fracture risk appear very similar in men and women, the impact on fracture could be different. DXA does not capture all of the changes with time. More recent studies ( 73 ) with high resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) also show sex-specific changes, but the studies are small. To my knowledge, there are no bone biopsy or HR-pQCT studies that demonstrate sex-dependent differences in response to therapy. In women anabolic agents increase trabecular thickness and connectivity and increase cortical bone thickness. Of late, increased use of such agents as the initial treatment has been advocated for those patients at highest risk for fracture based on recent studies in women ( 74 ) demonstrating benefits to starting with anabolic treatment. In the United States, only teriparatide and abaloparatide are FDA approved for osteoporosis in men. There is another anabolic agent, romosozumab, that is approved for women, but there is no reason to believe that it would not work in men. There is one published report of improved fracture surrogates in men given romosozumab
