Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


approved for women, but there is no reason to believe that it would not work in men. There is one published report of improved fracture surrogates in men given romosozumab ( 75 ). Abaloparatide works similarly in men and women ( 76 , 77 ). The use of anabolic agents, regardless of the patient’s sex, is limited by inconvenience of treatment (both teriparatide and abaloparatide are administered as a daily subcutaneous injection) and cost. While romosozumab is given as a monthly injection in a clinician’s office, its cost in the United States is similar to that of abaloparatide, which is somewhat cheaper than teriparatide. In Japanese women, a higher dose of teriparatide given weekly or semi-weekly has been found to be effective ( 78 ), but there have been no studies of similar preparations in Europe or the United States. Based on studies in women, anabolic agents should be considered, including off-label use, for men at the highest risk of fracture. In a 3-year study ( 79 ) of men and women with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, teriparatide was shown to result in fewer spine fractures than alendronate. More recently, a study in women ( 80 ) showed that anabolic treatment led to fewer fractures than anti-resorptive treatment with risedronate. Until there are better surrogates for fracture, there will never be a study comparing fracture risk in men treated with anabolic agents compared to anti-resorptives. The data from studies in women are convincing, and there is no physiological reason to question whether men would respond differently. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials ( 81 ) led to the conclusion that osteoporosis drugs work the same in men and women. In summary, initial treatment of osteoporosis in men should be comprehensive, with attention to diet, exercise, vitamin D, fall risk reduction, and home safety. After vitamin D is satisfactory, and possibly after dental work is completed, most men can be treated with bisphosphonates, usually oral alendronate. For those who cannot take an oral preparation, intravenous zoledronic acid is the drug of choice. For men at the highest risk for fracture, based on fracture history, DXA, risk factors, and risk calculators, a 1 to 2-year course of anabolic treatment should be considered, although teriparatide and abaloparatide can be prescribed for more than 2 years, if needed. For very high-risk patients, the anabolic therapy can be followed by 2 years of
