Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


be considered, although teriparatide and abaloparatide can be prescribed for more than 2 years, if needed. For very high-risk patients, the anabolic therapy can be followed by 2 years of denosumab treatment, followed by consolidation with a bisphosphonate. For those men with CKD 4, denosumab is a good choice but must be continued indefinitely. Denosumab is also appealing for men on ADT who receive long-acting GnRH analogs every 6 months because they can receive denosumab at the same visit. However, there are rapid bone loss and potential vertebral fractures in women who have recently withdrawn from denosumab ( 82 , 83 ). In one observational study in men ( 84 ) zoledronic acid prevented the loss of bone after men had discontinuation of denosumab. Long-Term Management of Osteoporosis in Men There are no long-term studies of osteoporosis treatment in men. Hence, all suggestions for management must be made from the few studies in women. The FLEX trial ( 69 ) showed that 10 years of alendronate in women led to fewer clinical vertebral fractures than 5 years of alendronate followed by 5 years of placebo tablets. The HORIZON extension trial ( 70 ) showed that a plan of 6 annual infusions of zoledronic acid was associated with fewer morphometric vertebral fractures than 3 annual infusions of zoledronic acid followed by 3 placebo infusions. Based on these studies plus some other information, a task force of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research recommended an approach to long-term osteoporosis management ( 85 ). While the approach was aimed mostly at postmenopausal women, the task force recommended that it be applied to men as well. In this approach, the initial treatment period is 5 years for oral bisphosphonates and 3 years for zoledronic acid. At the end of the initial treatment period, the patient is re-assessed by history, physical examination, and repeat BMD. Those patients remaining at elevated fracture risk should continue treatment and be re-assessed again in 2 to 3 years. Those patients whose fracture risk has been demonstrably decreased by treatment can interrupt therapy and be re-assessed at 2 to 3 years. Beyond 10 years of treatment there are no studies, and so clinical judgement will be necessary to manage such patients. I have proposed, based on studies in women ( 86 , 87 ) and men ( 65 ), that the interval between zoledronic acid infusions can be
