Osteoporosis in Men
KEYWORDS: men, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, bone, pubmed, fractures, treatment, women, study, dxa, fracture risk, years, testosterone, free


manage such patients. I have proposed, based on studies in women ( 86 , 87 ) and men ( 65 ), that the interval between zoledronic acid infusions can be lengthened such that each patient would receive 3 infusions of zoledronic acid over 5 years. This creates a 5-year initial treatment plan for the majority of people with osteoporosis: all but those at highest risk for fracture. For the latter group, initial therapy should be anabolic for the first 1 to 2 years, and then the patient would be placed on anti-resorptive agents. While this approach to long-term osteoporosis management makes sense, it will likely never be supported by large randomized trials. A summary of a practical approach to the evaluation of osteoporosis in men is shown in Table 5 . Table 5. Approach to Osteoporosis Treatment in Men View in own window For All Men: Conservative Treatment Fall risk reduction/home safety Adequate calcium, vitamin D, dietary protein Weight bearing exercise/balance training Smoking cessation/minimization of alcohol intake Treat Secondary Osteoporosis with Specific Therapy Men with Borderline Fracture Risk Conservative treatment Repeat DXA in 2 to 3 years Use FRAX to demonstrate low risk Osteoporosis by DXA, Osteopenia + Fracture, High Risk by FRAX Oral alendronate or risedronate or intravenous zoledronic acid Clinical reassessment every year Repeat DXA at 2 to 3 years Change Rx if response inadequate Repeat DXA at 5 years to consider drug holiday versus continued Rx Very High Risk by DXA, FRAX, Clinical Findings Anabolic Rx for 1 to 2 years Then denosumab for 2 years Then 1 year of alendronate or 1 infusion of zoledronic acid DXA at 2 to 3 and 5 years Drug holiday versus continued treatment based on fracture risk after treatment CONCLUSIONS Despite the overall paucity of evidence underpinning osteoporosis evaluation and treatment in men, it is important to identify men at risk for fracture, evaluate them efficiently, and treat them. As more men live long enough to fracture, the burden of male osteoporosis will increase. In addition, because men with hip fracture are more likely to die after fracture ( 88 ), compared to women of the same age, improving diagnosis and treatment is likely to save lives, decrease suffering, and lead to lower costs. REFERENCES 1. Cauley JA, Cawthon PM, Peters KE, Cummings SR, Bauer DC, Taylor BC, Shikany JM, Hoffman AR, Lane NE, Kado DM. Stefanick ML, Orwoll ES.
