Cardinetal.BMCSurgery2013,13(Suppl2):S18
KEYWORDS: bleeding, patient, risk, case, delayed, procedure, patients, polypectomy, endoscopic, endoscopy, days, surgical, major, italy, haemorrhage


Cardinetal.BMCSurgery2013,13(Suppl2):S18 RESEARCH ARTICLE Open Access Severe delayed postpolypectomy bleeding in elder patient with post-polycythemia myelofibrosis Fabrizio Cardin1*, Maria Luigia Randi2, Marco Mosele1, Claudio Terranova3, Carmelo Militello1 From 26th National Congress of the Italian Society of Geriatric Surgery Naples, Italy. 19-22 June 2013 Abstract Background: The interest of the case lies in an unexpected delayed bleeding following an endoscopic procedure in a patient with post-polycythemia myelofibrosis. The case gives the opportunity to discuss the medical management and monitoring of patients with myeloproliferative disorders undergoing minimally invasive surgery interventions. Case presentation: A 75 years old woman affected by post-polycythemia myelofibrosis underwent endoscopy polypectomy followed by a delayed major local bleeding. At the time of the endoscopy followed by bleeding, the platelet count was 837 × 109/L, haemoglobin 113 g/L, PCV 35,2% and WBC 20.22 × 106/L. No antithrombotic prophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin was used. Antiplatelet drug was withdraw seven days before endoscopy and restarted one week after the procedure. Polyp size was 11x19 mm and it was located on right side of the colon. Fourteen days after procedure the patient developed a severe lower intestinal bleeding, which required RBC transfusion; the bleeding was in the site of polypectomy as demonstrated by arteriography; selective embolization of the three branches of the ileo-colic artery resolve the haemorrhage. Conclusion: There are some patients in whom current guidelines do not apply and our case stress the importance of myeloproliferative neoplasms as a risk factor for complications of endoscopic polypectomy. The delayed haemorrhage we observed suggest to strictly control the patient for a period longer than only one week also in case of antithrombotic treatment with antiplatelet drugs. Introduction Haemorrhage may occur during (immediate bleeding) Endoscopic procedures are known to be a possible cause or some after (delayed bleeding) the procedure. Usually, of significant or uncontrolled bleeding. High-risk proce- the delayed bleeding which complicates 0.3-0.6% of dures are considered those which have a risk of major polypectomies occurs 3-7 days after the procedure, bleeding higher than 1% . even if a haemorrhage occurred 29 days after polypect- The National Cancer Institute Common Terminology omy as been described . Criteria for Averse Events defined as major bleeding The use of antithrombotic drugs complicates the man- those requesting hospitalization, transfusion support or agement of gastrointestinal bleeding: in particular, post- a new surgical intervention. Polypectomy is generally endoscopic haemorrhages have been reported to occur in considered a high-risk
