Cardinetal.BMCSurgery2013,13(Suppl2):S18
KEYWORDS: bleeding, patient, risk, case, delayed, procedure, patients, polypectomy, endoscopic, endoscopy, days, surgical, major, italy, haemorrhage


requesting hospitalization, transfusion support or agement of gastrointestinal bleeding: in particular, post- a new surgical intervention. Polypectomy is generally endoscopic haemorrhages have been reported to occur in considered a high-risk procedure: the overall incidence 6.1/1000 patients treated with aspirin . However, of clinically significant post-polypectomy bleeding may recent guidelines state that no adjustment in anticoa- range from 0.2 to 1.6/1000 in large scale reports . gulation or antiplatelet therapy need to be made for low- risk procedures, irrespective of the underlying condition. In particular cases, antiplatelet drug withdraw 7-10 days *Correspondence: 1GeriatricSurgeryUnit,GeriatricsDepartment,UniversityHospitalofPadova, before and resumed next day the procedure should be viaGiustinianin.2Padova,Italy indicated, but the evidence is low . While resuming Fulllistofauthorinformationisavailableattheendofthearticle ©2013Cardinetal;licenseeBioMedCentralLtd.ThisisanopenaccessarticledistributedunderthetermsoftheCreativeCommons AttributionLicense( anymedium,providedtheoriginalworkisproperlycited. Cardinetal.BMCSurgery2013,13(Suppl2):S18 Page2of3 anticoagulant therapy is associated with increased risk of transfusion; the bleeding was in the site of polypectomy severe delayed post-polypectomy bleeding, this seems not as demonstrated by arteriography; selective embolization be the case with aspirin . The larger polyp and those of the three branches of the ileo-colic artery resolve the on the right site of the colon are those at higher risk of haemorrhage. It is noteworthy that in 2010 the patient bleeding . Other factors may also influence the risk of performed an aortic valve substitution complicated by a bleeding after polypectomy. Older age has been shown to local hemorrhagic complication which requested again be associated with increased risk requesting increased erythrocytes transfusion. risk of transfusion. Moreover, a special attention has to be given in some particular diseases, i.e. hemostatic mye- Discussion loproliferative neoplasms, which have “per se” an Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are clonal haemato- increased risk of mucosal bruising. However, there are logical diseases, interesting mainly median-advanced age, limited data assessing the bleeding risk of specific proce- characterized by low rate of transformation into myelofi- dures in these settings and specifically no data have been brosis and acute leukaemia but high risk of venous and found in patients with chronic myeloproliferative neo- arterial thrombosis and of haemorrhages . There is a plasms (MPN). These diseases mainly affect people in common belief that surgery could present an important middle-advanced age and many cases are diagnosed after circumstantial risk factor for thrombosis and bleeding 70 years. , however, there are few available data on the inci- The interest of the case lies in an unexpected delayed dence of these complications after surgical intervention bleedingfollowing anendoscopic procedure ina patient in patient with MPN.
