Cardinetal.BMCSurgery2013,13(Suppl2):S18
KEYWORDS: bleeding, patient, risk, case, delayed, procedure, patients, polypectomy, endoscopic, endoscopy, days, surgical, major, italy, haemorrhage


data on the inci- The interest of the case lies in an unexpected delayed dence of these complications after surgical intervention bleedingfollowing anendoscopic procedure ina patient in patient with MPN. On our best knowledge, no infor- withpost-polycythemiamyelofibrosis.Thecasegivesthe mation is available regarding the risk of bleedings after opportunity to discuss the medical management and endoscopic surgical procedures. The retrospective study monitoringofpatientswithmyeloproliferativeneoplasms from the GIMEMA group on 311 surgical proce- undergoingminimallyinvasivesurgeryinterventions. dures in patients with polycythemia vera (PV) and essen- tial thrombocythemia (ET) shows that the overall Case presentation incidence of bleeding after surgery is of about 10 %, with A 75 years old woman underwent endoscopy polypect- a clear trend in subjects receiving antithrombotic prophy- omy followed by a delayed major local bleeding. The his- laxis and the hemorrhagic risk strongly related to the first tory of the patients was characterized by polycythemia 2 weeks of post-surgical period. Most of the patients vera diagnosed in 1998. The patient was regularly fol- experienced major haemorrhages that required transfu- lowed in a haematological committed center for myelo- sion treatment and prolonged hospital admission. proliferative neoplasms and treated with phlebotomies, The use of aspirin to prevent thrombotic complica- low-dose aspirin and hydroyurea. In 2006 the presence of tions, which are the main causes of morbidity and mor- JAK2V617F mutation was demonstrated (allele burden tality in MPN, is largely shared but it is a common 97%). The year later, increased WBC, presence of some belief that aspirin has to be withheld one week before immature circulating myeloid cells and a slight decrease elective surgical procedures. The patients must be in haemoglobin were observed together with an increased strictly followed for unpredictable development of spleen volume suggesting a transformation into myelofi- thrombotic or hemorrhagic derangement. In our patient, brosis. The clinical hypothesis was confirmed with the despite the antiplatelet drug has been resumed 8 days observation of leukoerithroblastic peripheral blood after the procedure, a major bleeding occurred. We picture and fibrosis grade 3 (on scale 0-3) in the bone want to draw attention on the “window” period that fol- marrow biopsy specimen,. Moreover, the CD34 cells in lows endoscopic polypectomy. The delayed haemorrhage blood were 35 × 106/L and the cytogenetic study, which we observed suggest to strictly control the patient for a was not obtained at the time of diagnosis, showed a com- longer period than only one week. There are some plex caryotype with
