Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


ABSTRACT Bacteria are microscopic single-celled organisms that exist in millions inside and outside the human body. Some bacteria are harmful and can cause a multitude of diseases in human beings. Diabetes mellitus, being a global pandemic, serves as an important cause of susceptibility to bacterial infections. Uncontrolled hyperglycemia is associated with impaired innate and adaptive immune responses that predispose to bacterial infections. In addition, chronic complications of diabetes like neuropathy (sensorimotor and autonomic) and peripheral vascular disease can lead to skin ulcerations with secondary bacterial infections. Diabetes also increases the incidence of infection related mortality. The relationship of diabetes and bacterial infections can be reciprocal, with certain infections like periodontitis exacerbating insulin resistance. Abnormalities in the bacterial flora of the gastrointestinal tract can play a role in the development of diabetes. Bacteria can infect any organ in the human body, the most common sites of infection in diabetes being the urinary tract, respiratory tract, skin, and soft tissues. Certain bacterial infections are very specific for diabetes like emphysematous pyelonephritis, emphysematous cholecystitis, and malignant otitis externa. Different antibiotic regimens (empirical and culture-specific) have been recommended for different bacterial infections, depending upon the site and severity. Our chapter gives an overview of the various bacteria, important from the standpoint of diabetes. We have also discussed the epidemiology and pathogenesis of bacterial infections in diabetes. In addition, we have highlighted the spectrum of bacterial infections and their management in diabetes. Stringent glycemic control, vaccination, adequate foot care practices, source control are some of the preventive measures to avoid bacterial infections in diabetes. Adequate knowledge about the spectrum and management of bacterial infections is important to prevent morbidity and mortality in diabetes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes is on the rise worldwide, with a global prevalence in adults in 2019 being 9.3% of the world population. In total numbers, this reflects a population of 463 million people with diabetes worldwide in 2019, with a projection of an increase to 700 million adults by 2045. A further 1.1 million children and adolescents under the age of 20, live with type 1 diabetes ( 1 ). The association between diabetes and bacterial infections is well recognized clinically and further adds to the morbidity associated with diabetes and its complications ( 2 ). Patients with diabetes have a two-fold higher risk of community-acquired
