Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


infections is well recognized clinically and further adds to the morbidity associated with diabetes and its complications ( 2 ). Patients with diabetes have a two-fold higher risk of community-acquired bacterial infections such as pneumococcal, streptococcal, and enterobacterial infections as compared with patients without diabetes ( 3 - 5 ). Urinary tract infections are more frequent in patients with diabetes. Janifer et al reported a high prevalence of 42.8% in 1157 South Indian subjects with type 2 diabetes ( 6 ). In a large retrospective cohort study in England comparing 102,493 patients with diabetes mellitus vs. n = 203,518 matched control subjects, incidence rate ratios (IRR) for infection-related hospitalizations were 3.71 (95% CI, 3.27 to 4.21) in those with type 1 diabetes mellitus and 1.88 (95% CI, 1.83 to 1.92) in those with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 7 ). Diabetes is also associated with an average twofold higher risk of infection related mortality compared with individuals without diabetes ( 8 ). Increased incidence and severity of bacterial infections in diabetes has been linked to an impaired innate and adaptive immune responses within the hyperglycemic environment ( 9 ). Apart from hyperglycemia, other chronic complications of diabetes may also predispose patients to infections. For example, neuropathy in combination with peripheral vascular disease in diabetes can lead to ulcerations in the skin and secondary infections ( 10 ). There is a bidirectional relationship between diabetes and bacterial infections. While diabetes increases the susceptibility to bacterial infections and its complications, chronic infections such as periodontitis is associated with increased pro inflammatory cytokines which can exacerbate insulin resistance and worsen glycemic control ( 11 ). There is a recent growing evidence that abnormalities in the microbiota composition can have a major role in the development of diabetes ( 12 ). Awareness regarding the complex inter relationships between diabetes and associated bacterial infections is important for prevention and prompt treatment. A wide spectrum of bacterial infections such as malignant otitis externa, emphysematous pyelonephritis, emphysematous cholecystitis tend to be more common in diabetics than in others, and other infections may be more severe in diabetics than in nondiabetics ( 13 ). Infections may also be the first manifestation of long-standing unrecognized diabetes ( 14 ). The following figure illustrates the classification of medically important bacteria ( 15 ). Fig 1. Classification of medically important bacteria EPIDEMIOLOGY OF COMMON BACTERIAL INFECTIONS IN DIABETES Epidemiology of common
