Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


examined the association between glycemic control in 85,312 patients with diabetes mellitus aged 40–89 years and the incidence of infection ( 36 ). Infection rates rose steadily with HbA 1c , which was particularly evident among those with HbA 1c >11% ( 36 ). INCREASED INCIDENCE OF INFECTIONS IN DIABETES: PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Infections are an important concern in individuals with diabetes due to the immune system’s failure to fight off invading pathogens ( 37 ). Diabetes progression itself is associated with immune dysfunction; autoimmunity in T1DM and low-grade chronic inflammation in T2DM ( 38 ). Numerous studies have investigated the diabetes-related mechanisms that impair the host’s defence against pathogens. These mechanisms include a complex interplay between the host’s innate immunity and adaptive immunity ( 39 , 40 , 41 ). As noted earlier, chronic complications of diabetes can also predispose to infections ( 10 ). The proposed mechanisms for increased susceptibility to infections in diabetes are depicted in figure 2 . Fig 2. Complex interactions between immune dysregulation (both innate and adaptive) from glycemic status, organism specific factors and diabetic complications plays major role in development of diabetes related infections. Innate immunity Cellular innate immunity is affected in uncontrolled diabetes. The steps involved in pathogen elimination by polymorphonuclear (PMN) leucocytes are: a. PMN adhesion to vascular endothelium, initially via the cell surface adhesion molecule L-selectin and then integrins b. transmigration through the vessel wall down a chemotactic gradient c. phagocytosis and microbial killing ( 2 ). Hyperglycemia induces an increase in intracellular calcium concentration thereby reducing adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels, which in turn leads to reduced phagocytic ability of polymorphonuclear cells. Correction of hyperglycemia leads to a significant reduction in intracellular calcium levels, an increase in ATP content, and improved phagocytosis ( 42 ). The hyperglycemic environment also inhibits glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) with resultant increase in apoptosis of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and reduced polymorphonuclear leukocyte transmigration through the endothelium. Superoxide production is reduced in parallel with increasing glycemic exposure and consequently results in decreased microbial killing ( 2 ). Hyperglycemia is associated with increased formation of advanced glycation end products (AGE). AGE albumin has been shown to bind to the receptor for AGE (RAGE) present on neutrophils. This binding inhibits transendothelial migration and Staphylococcus aureus induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), resulting in impaired bacterial killing ( 43 ). Hyperglycemia also adversely affects the humoral component of innate immunity. Deficiency of
