Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


and Staphylococcus aureus induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), resulting in impaired bacterial killing ( 43 ). Hyperglycemia also adversely affects the humoral component of innate immunity. Deficiency of C4 complement as well as decreased complement activation has been demonstrated in diabetes. This results in decreased opsonisation and phagocytosis of microbes. ( 44 , 45 ). Increased duration of cytokine response, increased pro-inflammatory cytokine gene expression and impaired local cytokine production leads to a dysregulated cytokine response in uncontrolled diabetes further increasing susceptibility to severe infections ( 46 , 47 , 48 ). Adaptive Immunity There are two broad classes of adaptive immunity responses—antibody responses and cell-mediated immune responses, which are carried out by B cells and T cells respectively. In antibody responses, B cells are activated to secrete immunoglobulins which bind to the invading microbial antigens and block their binding to receptors on host cells. Antibody binding also marks invading pathogens for destruction by the phagocytes ( 49 ). Decreased levels of circulating immunoglobulins (IgG antibodies) as well as increased non enzymatic glycation of IgG antibodies leading to quantitative and qualitative defects in the humoral responses have been demonstrated in uncontrolled diabetes ( 50 , 51 ). In cell-mediated immune responses , the second class of adaptive immune response , T cells which are activated by certain cytokines and antigen presenting cells, react directly against a foreign antigen that is presented to them on the surface of a host cell or themselves secrete cytokines that activate macrophages to destroy the invading microbes after phagocytosis ( 47 ). Dysregulation between anti-inflammatory and proinflammatory cytokines and defects at the level of antigen presenting cells in uncontrolled diabetes leads to dysfunction of T cells ( 52 , 53 ). The role of immune systems and pathogenesis of bacterial infections is depicted in figure 3 . Fig 3. Pathogenesis of bacterial infections in diabetes. Describes role of various components of innate and adaptive immunity in pathogenesis of bacterial infection in diabetes; G6PD-Glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase; PMN-Polymorphonuclear cells; NADPH – Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate; ROS- Reactive oxygen species; ATP -Adenosine triphosphate; AGEs- Advanced glycation end products; RAGE-Receptor for advanced glycation end products. Chronic Complications of Diabetes Predisposing to Infections Over 50% of men and women with diabetes have bladder dysfunction which may impair voiding and increase the risk for urinary tract infections ( 54 ). The presence of renal disease and urinary incontinence
