Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


and women with diabetes have bladder dysfunction which may impair voiding and increase the risk for urinary tract infections ( 54 ). The presence of renal disease and urinary incontinence in women are also predisposing factors for urinary tract infections. Diabetic cystopathy secondary to autonomic nervous dysfunction in long standing diabetes is characterized by a loss of sensation of bladder distension leading to decreased frequency of voiding and increased post-void residual urine volume. The possibility that voiding disorders may contribute to UTI should be considered in all diabetic patients ( 55 ). Peripheral diabetic neuropathy contributes to motor, autonomic, and sensory components of neuropathic foot ulcers. Damage to motor neurons of the foot musculature may lead to an imbalance of flexors and extensors, anatomic deformities, and eventual skin ulcerations. Damage to autonomic nerves impairs sweat gland function in the foot leading to a decreased ability to moisturize skin, resulting in epidermal cracks and skin breakdown. Lastly, the affected sensory component results in a loss of sensation of foot and reduced awareness of minor injuries ( 56 ). With ischemia, often as a result of related peripheral arterial disease, neuropathy can result in impaired barrier defences, skin ulcers with poor healing, and an increased risk of secondary infections and gangrene ( 57 ). Pulmonary autonomic neuropathy in diabetes reduces mucociliary clearance and predisposes the lung to infections. Furthermore, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance impair collective surfactant D-mediated host defences of the lung in diabetes. Loose junctions between airway epithelial cells, which increase the transepithelial glucose gradient along with an increase in the glucose concentration of the airway surface liquid due to hyperglycemia, may dampen the airway defence against infection, resulting in lung bacterial overgrowth in diabetes ( 58 ). SPECTRUM OF BACTERIAL INFECTIONS Head and Neck Infections BACTERIAL MENINGITIS The majority of bacterial meningitis cases in adults is caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Listeria monocytogenes meningitis is more often found in elderly patients (>60 years) and those with acquired immune-deficiencies, such as diabetes. Immunodeficiency associated with diabetes is also a predisposing factor for pneumococcal and Haemophilus influenzae meningitis. Patients with bacterial meningitis and diabetes mellitus are older, have more comorbidities, frequently present with altered mental status and have higher mortality. In patients with diabetes, empirical antibiotics should include Cefotaxime/ ceftriaxone plus amoxicillin/ampicillin/ penicillin G ( 16 , 59 , 60 ). MALIGNANT OTITIS EXTERNA Malignant otitis externa (MOE) is an invasive, potentially life-threatening
