Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


diabetes, empirical antibiotics should include Cefotaxime/ ceftriaxone plus amoxicillin/ampicillin/ penicillin G ( 16 , 59 , 60 ). MALIGNANT OTITIS EXTERNA Malignant otitis externa (MOE) is an invasive, potentially life-threatening infection of the external ear and skull base. MOE affects immunocompromised individuals and its presentation in an otherwise healthy individual should prompt an investigation for diabetes mellitus or other immune-deficiencies. In most cases, the causative agent of MOE is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Typical patients with MOE are elderly individuals who have diabetes and severe, unremitting otalgia, aural fullness, otorrhea, and conductive hearing loss. Headache, temporomandibular joint pain, and decreased oral intake secondary to trismus may also be present. Findings of pain disproportionate to the examination, otorrhea, and granulation tissue along the floor of the ear canal at the bony–cartilaginous junction are usually the first nonspecific signs and symptoms of MOE. Important principles of treatment include aggressive control of diabetes and culture directed antibiotic therapy for at least 6-8 weeks. Although surgical intervention is no longer standard of care for MOE, it does require biopsy and culture, and may require local debridement of granulation tissue and bony sequestration or drainage of associated abscess. Long-term monotherapy with oral ciprofloxacin (750 mg twice daily) has been proposed as the preferred initial antibiotic regimen. However, microbial resistance to ciprofloxacin has been described and numerous studies have proposed carbapenem or third- generation cephalosporins as the initial empirical treatment. Recurrence rates of 15% to 20% have been reported for MOE ( 18 , 61 , 62 ). The risk factors for malignant otitis externa and its pathogenesis in diabetes are depicted in figure 4 . Fig 4: Risk factors for Malignant Otitis Externa and its pathogenesis in diabetes PERIODONTITIS Periodontitis is a complex chronic inflammatory condition in which inflammation in the periodontal tissues is stimulated by the long-term presence of the subgingival biofilm ( figure 5 ). Periodontitis is a slowly progressing disease but the tissue destruction that occurs is largely irreversible. In the early stages, the condition is typically asymptomatic, is not usually painful, and many patients are unaware until the condition has progressed enough to result in tooth mobility. Advanced periodontitis is characterized by gingival erythema and edema, gingival bleeding, gingival recession, tooth mobility, suppuration from periodontal pockets, and tooth loss. In a randomized clinical trial, intensive periodontal treatment was associated with better glycemic control (A1C 8.3% vs 7.8% in control subjects and intensive treatment
