Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


from periodontal pockets, and tooth loss. In a randomized clinical trial, intensive periodontal treatment was associated with better glycemic control (A1C 8.3% vs 7.8% in control subjects and intensive treatment group respectively). Oral and periodontal health should be promoted as integral components of diabetes management ( 63 , 64 ). Fig 5. Chronic periodontitis with gingival inflammation in a patient with poorly controlled diabetes DEEP NECK SPACE INFECTIONS/ABSCESS Patients with diabetes are susceptible to spreading deep neck infections with a high frequency of complications, including tracheostomy and prolonged hospital stay. Odontogenic infections and upper airway infections are the leading reported causes of deep neck infections and the most common organism isolated is Klebsiella pneumoniae . Early open surgical drainage remains the most appropriate method of treating deep neck abscesses. The choice of empirical antimicrobial agents in diabetic patients should take into account the agents effective against Klebsiella pneumoniae ( 65 ). Respiratory Infections COMMUNITY ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA Patients with diabetes are at high risk of hospitalization due to community acquired pneumonia (CAP) ( figure 6 ). Atypical clinical features like impaired consciousness and more severe pneumonia at admission are reported in patients with diabetes. Acute onset of disease, cough, purulent sputum, and pleuritic chest pain are less frequent among patients with diabetes. S. pneumonia, Legionella, and H influenza are frequent causative organisms of pneumonia in diabetes ( 22 ). Studies have also reported increased incidence of Klebsiella and pneumococcal pneumonia ( 3 , 66 ). Independent risk factors for mortality in patients with diabetes and CAP are advanced age, bacteremia, septic shock at admission, and gram-negative pneumonia ( 22 ). The American Thoracic Society guidelines recommend combination therapy with amoxicillin/ clavulanic acid/ cephalosporin and macrolide/ doxycycline or monotherapy with respiratory fluoroquinolone for initial outpatient treatment in patients with diabetes. Beta lactam + macrolide or beta-lactam + fluoroquinolone is recommended in cases of severe in-patient pneumonia. Coverage for Pseudomonas aeruginosa is recommended in case of prior respiratory isolation, recent hospitalization with parenteral antibiotics treatment, and locally validated risk factors for Pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 67 ). The American Diabetes Association recommends vaccination against pneumococcal strains with one dose of PPSV23 (pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine) between the ages of 19–64 years and another dose after 65 years of age. The PCV13 (pneumococcal conjugate vaccine) is no longer routinely recommended for patients over 65 years of age because of the declining rates of pneumonia due to
