Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


65 years of age. The PCV13 (pneumococcal conjugate vaccine) is no longer routinely recommended for patients over 65 years of age because of the declining rates of pneumonia due to these strains. All children are recommended to receive a four-dose series of PCV13 by 15 months of age. For children with diabetes who have incomplete series by ages 2–5 years, a catch-up schedule is recommended to ensure that these children have four doses. Children with diabetes between 6–18 years of age are also advised to receive one dose of PPSV23, preferably after receipt of PCV13 ( 68 ). Fig 6. Radiographs of lower respiratory tract infection. A- Postero-anterior view radiograph of chest showing right middle lobe and left lower lobe consolidation in a patient with diabetes. B- Postero-anterior view radiograph of chest showing right lower lobe consolidation in a patient with diabetes Cardiovascular Infections INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS Infective endocarditis (IE) in diabetes is associated with poorer outcomes ( figures 7 and 8 ). Diabetes mellitus was associated with increased mortality, acute heart failure, stroke, atrioventricular block, septic shock, and cardiogenic shock. The clinical profile of native valve infective endocarditis (NVIE) patients with diabetes is reported to be different compared to those without diabetes. Patients with diabetes had higher rates of comorbidities, and IE risk factors such as older age, and hemodialysis. They were less likely to have structural heart disease (valvular heart disease and congenital heart disease) and intravenous drug abuse. Patients with diabetes had higher rates of staphylococcus species, enterococci, and gram-negative microorganisms reflecting the increased health care utilization in DM patients, exposing them to nosocomial infections ( 26 ). Ampicillin with flucloxacillin or oxacillin with gentamicin is recommended as initial empirical therapy in community acquired native valves or late prosthetic valves (≥ 12 months post-surgery) endocarditis. Vancomycin with gentamicin and rifampicin is recommended in early PVE (<12 months post-surgery) or nosocomial and non-nosocomial healthcare associated endocarditis ( 69 ). Fig 7. Two-dimensional Echocardiography of a patient with diabetes showing aortic root abscess (red arrowhead) and vegetations attached to aorto-mitral continuity (blue arrowhead), suggestive of infective endocarditis Fig 8. Two-dimensional echocardiography in a patient with diabetes, showing large vegetation (blue arrowhead) attached to the posterior mitral leaflet, suggestive of infective endocarditis Gastrointestinal Infections EMPHYSEMATOUS CHOLECYSTITIS Emphysematous cholecystitis (EC) is an uncommon but serious biliary tract infection that occurs in increased frequency with male preponderance among diabetics. The common causative organisms
