Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


endocarditis Gastrointestinal Infections EMPHYSEMATOUS CHOLECYSTITIS Emphysematous cholecystitis (EC) is an uncommon but serious biliary tract infection that occurs in increased frequency with male preponderance among diabetics. The common causative organisms are Clostridium perfringens and E. coli ( 28 ). Clinical findings of EC may be indistinguishable from those of uncomplicated cholecystitis although occasional crepitus may be present in some patients. The emphysematous infection is diagnosed by radiographic demonstration of gas on plain films or by CT. The treatment of choice is rapid surgical removal of the gallbladder and broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy. Mortality caused by this infection is substantially higher than that of uncomplicated cholecystitis, ranging 15% to 25% compared with less than 4 percent ( 13 ). LIVER ABSCESS Diabetes is a strong, potentially modifiable risk factor for pyogenic liver abscess ( figure 9 ). Pyogenic liver abscess patients with diabetes are older, with isolate of Klebsiella. pneumoniae being the predominant pathogen and require an increased use of combined antibiotic therapy with carbapenems. However, these patients have fewer abdominal surgeries and fewer E. coli infections as compared to patients without diabetes. In addition, poorly controlled glycemia in pyogenic liver abscess patients is associated with high incidence of fever and abscesses in both the lobes of the liver ( 29 , 30 ). Fig 9. Contrast enhanced axial (A) and sagittal (B) CT images showing multifocal well defined hypodense lesions involving both lobes of liver suggestive of liver abscesses in a patient with diabetes Urinary Tract Infections The urinary tract is the most frequent site of infection in patients with diabetes ( 8 , 70 , 71 ). The spectrum of urinary tract infections in these patients ranges from asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) to lower UTI (cystitis), pyelonephritis, and severe urosepsis. Serious complications of UTI, such as emphysematous cystitis and pyelonephritis ( figure 10 ), renal abscesses and renal papillary necrosis, are all encountered more frequently in type 2 diabetes than in the general population ( 72 , 73 ). Figure 10. Emphysematous pyelonephritis. Non contrast CT abdomen of a 45-year-old female with emphysematous pyelonephritis showing bilateral enlarged kidney with evidence of abscess formation on either side (black arrowheads) and air pockets in left kidney The most common pathogens isolated from diabetic patients with UTI are E. coli , other Enterobacteriaceae such as Klebsiella spp., Proteus spp., Enterobacter spp., and Enterococci. Patients with diabetes are more prone to have resistant pathogens as
