Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


precipitating event leading to lower extremity amputation ( figure 11 ) ( 77 - 79 ). Fig 11. A-Trophic changes in the bilateral feet of a patient with diabetes with clawing of toes, thickened toe nails, loss of hair and shiny skin texture. B-Infected foot ulcer with slough in the plantar aspect of heel of a patient with diabetes. C-Another infected foot ulcer involving the entire sole in a patient with diabetes, the ulcer shows presence of granulation tissue along with oozing of pus and slough Outcomes in patients presenting with an infected foot ulcer are poor. In one large prospective study at the end of one year, the ulcer had healed in only 46% (and it later recurred in 10% of these), while 15% had died and 17% required a lower extremity amputation ( 80 ). There are various validated classification systems to assess the severity and prognosis of foot ulcers and infection. One such scoring system is the SINBAD system which grades area, depth, sepsis, arteriopathy, and denervation plus site as either 0 or 1 point creating an easy to use scoring system that can achieve a maximum of 6 points ( 81 ). The IWGDF (International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot) infection classification is recommended to characterize and guide infection management in diabetic foot infections. The IWGDF/IDSA (Infectious Diseases Society of America) classification consists of four grades of severity for diabetic foot infection ( Table 3 ) ( 82 , 83 ). Table 3. IWGDF/IDSA Classification for Foot Infections View in own window Clinical classification of infection, with definitions IWGDF classification Uninfected No systemic or local symptoms or signs of infection 1 (Uninfected) Infected At least, 2 of these items are present Local swelling or induration Erythema >0.5 cm around the wound Local tenderness or pain Local increased warmth Purulent discharge And no other cause(s) of an inflammatory response of the skin (eg. trauma, gout, acute Charcot neuro-osteoarthropathy, fracture, thrombosis or venous stasis) Infection with no systemic manifestation involving: only the skin or subcutaneous tissue (not any deeper tissues) and any erythema present does not extend >2 cm around the wound 2 (mild infection) Infection with no systemic manifestation involving: erythema extending ≥ 2 cm from the wound margin, and/or tissue deeper than skin and subcutaneous tissue (e.g., tendon, muscle, joint, bone) 3 (moderate infection) Any foot infection with associated systemic manifestations (of the systemic inflammatory
