Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


± Gram negative rods β-lactamase inhibitor-amoxicillin/clavulanate; second or third generation cephalosoporins Recent antibiotic exposure Gram positive cocci ± Gram negative rods β-lactamase 2-ticarcillin/clavulanate, piperacillin/tazobactum; 3 rd generation cephalosporins; group I carbapenems (depends on prior therapy) Macerated ulcer or warm climate Gram negative rods including pseudomonas β-lactamase 2-ticarcillin/clavulanate, piperacillin/tazobactum; semi synthetic penicillins + ceftazidime; semi synthetic penicillins + ciprofloxacin; group 2 carbapenems Ischemic limb/necrosis/gas forming Gram positive cocci ± Gram negative rods ± Anaerobes β-lactamase inhibitor or 2; group 1 or 2 carbapenems; 2 nd or 3 rd generation cephalosporins + clindamycin or metronidazole MRSA risk factors MRSA Consider adding or substituting with glycopeptides; linezolid; daptomycin; fusidic acid; trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ± rifampicin; doxycycline Risk factors for resistant gram negative rods ESBL (Extended spectrum beta lactamase producing bacteria) Carbapenem; Aminoglycoside and Colistin; Fluoroquinolone MRSA-Methicillin resistant Staph aureus ; 1 st generation cephalosporins-Cefadroxil, cefazolin, cephalexin; 2 nd generation cephalosporins-Cefotetan, cefoxitin, cefuroxime, cefprozil; 3 rd generation cephalosporins-Cefixime, cefotaxime, cefpodoxime; β-lactamase 2-ticarcillin/clavulanate, piperacillin/tazobactum; group 1 carbapenem: ertapenem; group 2 carbapenem: imipenem, meropenem, doripenem FOURNIER’S GANGRENE Fournier's gangrene (FG) is a fulminant form of infective necrotising fasciitis of the perineal, genital, or perianal regions, which commonly affects men with diabetes ( figure 12 ) ( 84 ). Diabetes mellitus is reported to be present in 20%–70% of patients with Fournier’s gangrene ( 85 ). FG shows vast heterogeneity in clinical presentation, from insidious onset and slow progression to rapid onset and fulminant course, the latter being the more common presentation. The local signs and symptoms are usually dramatic with significant pain and swelling. The patient also has pronounced systemic signs; usually out of proportion to the local extent of the disease. Crepitus of the inflamed tissues is a common feature because of the presence of gas forming organisms. As the subcutaneous inflammation worsens, necrotic patches start appearing over the overlying skin and progress to extensive necrosis ( 86 ). There has been an associated increased incidence of FG with the use of SGLT2 inhibitors in diabetes. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has identified 55 cases of FG in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors between 2013 and 2019, out of which 39 were men and 16 were women ( 87 ). Time to onset of FG after initiation of SGLT2-inhibitors varied considerably, ranging from 5 days to 49 months ( 87 ). All patients were sick and had surgical debridement. Three patients died ( 87 ). SGLT2-inhibitors
