Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


initiation of SGLT2-inhibitors varied considerably, ranging from 5 days to 49 months ( 87 ). All patients were sick and had surgical debridement. Three patients died ( 87 ). SGLT2-inhibitors cause glycosuria that can enhance the growth of bacterial flora in the urogenital milieu. This in turn increases the risk of urogenital infections, including FG. All types of SGLT2-inhibitors have been associated with FG. The FDA has issued a warning about the risk of FG to be added to the prescribing information of all SGLT2-inhibitors and to the patient medication guide. Cultures from the wounds commonly show poly microbial infections by aerobes and anaerobes, which include coliforms, klebsiella, streptococci, staphylococci, clostridia, bacteroides, and corynebacteria ( 88 ). FG has a high mortality rate of 40% ( 85 ) and warrants an aggressive multimodal approach, which includes haemodynamic stabilisation, broad spectrum antibiotics and surgical debridement ( 86 ). Fig 12. Fournier’s gangrene. Redness, swelling of the scrotum, penis and perineal tissues with necrosis and sloughing of the overlying skin NECROTIZING FASCIITIS Necrotizing fasciitis (NF) has been defined as a severe soft-tissue infection that causes extensive necrosis of subcutaneous tissue and fascia, relatively sparing the muscle and skin tissue ( figure 13 ) ( 89 ). Based on bacterial culture results, NF is classified into the following categories: type I, which consists of synergistic polymicrobial infection; type II, representing infections caused by group A Streptococcus alone or combined with S taphylococcus; and type III, which comprises infections caused by Vibrio species ( 90 ). Diabetic NF patients are reported to be more susceptible to polymicrobial and monomicrobial Klebsiella pneumoniae infections, which should be considered when choosing empirical antibiotics for these patients ( 91 ). Fig 13. A and B Necrotizing fasciitis; black necrotic tissue and slough seen invading the subcutaneous tissues and fascia INFECTION MIMICS IN DIABETES Charcot Neuroarthropathy Charcot neuroarthropathy is a limb-threatening, destructive process that occurs in patients with neuropathy associated with medical diseases such as diabetes mellitus. Clinicians treating diabetic patients should be aware that the early signs of acute Charcot neuroarthropathy, such as pain, warmth, edema mimic foot infection. Early detection and prompt treatment can prevent joint and bone destruction, which, if untreated, can lead to morbidity and high-level amputation. The differentiation between acute presentations of Charcot’s joint and osteomyelitis is often difficult because the two conditions have many features in common. However, the lack of systemic sepsis
