Bacterial Infections in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, pubmed, patients, infection, foot, bacterial, risk, diabetic, patients diabetes, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, type, associated, free


high-level amputation. The differentiation between acute presentations of Charcot’s joint and osteomyelitis is often difficult because the two conditions have many features in common. However, the lack of systemic sepsis or fever, significant hyperglycemia and leukocytosis may direct the diagnosis towards neuropathic joint ( 92 , 93 ). INFECTIONS AS A RISK FACTOR FOR DIABETES Infections have been documented as a predisposing factor for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. Recent studies have revealed H. pylori infections to be significantly higher among diabetic patients than in non-diabetic patients ( 94 , 95 ). Evidence suggests that advanced periodontitis also compromises glycemic control. Furthermore, periodontal treatment has been associated with improvement in glycemic control ( 63 , 64 ). Abnormalities in the microbiota composition can have a major role in the development of obesity and diabetes. A reduced microbial diversity is associated with inflammation, insulin-resistance, and adiposity. A rise in the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio is found to be related to a low-grade inflammation and to an increased capability of harvesting energy from food. Changes in some metabolites, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), produced by gut microbiota, and decreased amounts of the Akkermansia muciniphila are associated with the presence of type 2 diabetes ( 12 ). Increased pro inflammatory cytokine response in infections leads to insulin resistance. Even pathogen products, such as lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycans, can cause insulin resistance leading to development of diabetes ( 96 ). CONCLUSION Awareness regarding the spectrum and severity of infections, in diabetes, is essential for prevention and prompt treatment. Strict glycemic control, proper choice of antibiotics and source control form the cornerstones of management. Preventive measures like vaccination and foot care practises go a long way in reducing infection related morbidity and mortality in diabetes. REFERENCES 1. International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes Atlas, 9th edn. 2017. 2. Peleg AY, Weerarathna T, McCarthy JS, Davis TM. Common infections in diabetes: Pathogenesis, management and relationship to glycaemic control. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2007; 23 :3–13. [ PubMed : 16960917 ] 3. Thomsen RW, Hundborg HH, Lervang HH, et al. Risk of community-acquired pneumococcal bacteremia in patients with diabetes: a population-based case-control study. Diabetes Care. 2004; 27 :1143–7. [ PubMed : 15111535 ] 4. Thomsen RW, Riis AH, Kjeldsen S, et al. Impact of diabetes and poor glycaemic control on risk of bacteremia with haemolytic streptococci groups A, B, and G. J Infect. 2011; 63 :8–16. [ PubMed : 21663970 ]
