Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


ABSTRACT Thyroid nodules are common in clinical practice and the majority are benign with the risk of malignancy varying from 7 to 15%. Clinical evaluation includes careful history and physical examination, laboratory tests, neck ultrasound (US), and a fine-needle aspiration (FNA). Thyroid FNA or biopsy is an accurate test for determining malignancy in a nodule and is an integral part of current thyroid nodule evaluation. Results are superior when FNA is performed with ultrasound-guidance (USFNA). Herein, we describe techniques used for US-guided FNA. FNA results are classified as diagnostic (satisfactory) or nondiagnostic (unsatisfactory). Unsatisfactory smears (5-10%) result from hypocellular specimens usually caused by cystic fluid, bloody smears, or suboptimal preparation. Diagnostic smears are conventionally classified into benign, indeterminate, or malignant. A benign cytology is negative for malignancy, and includes cysts, colloid nodule, or Hashimoto thyroiditis. Malignant (or suspicious for malignancy) cytology is usually positive for malignancy on histology, and includes primary thyroid tumors or, less frequently, nonthyroidal metastatic cancers. Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common malignancy, characterized by increased cellularity, sheets of cells, and typical nuclear abnormalities. Indeterminate or suspicious specimens include atypical changes, Hürthle (oncocytic) cells or follicular neoplasms, typically with absent or scant colloid, hypercellularity, and sometimes a microfollicular arrangement. The Bethesda Cytologic Classification has a 6-category classification. Overall, the indeterminate category Bethesda III category has a risk of malignancy of 6-18% if Non-invasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features (NIFTP) is not considered cancer. Advances in molecular testing can help further separate benign from malignant nodules with an indeterminate cytology. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Thyroid nodules are common in clinical practice with a prevalence of up to 60%. The majority is benign and the risk of malignancy is between 7 to 15% ( 1 ). Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of the thyroid gland is an accurate diagnostic test used routinely in the initial evaluation of nodular thyroid disease ( 2 - 6 ). Epidemiologic studies suggest that nodular thyroid disease is a common clinical problem, with a prevalence of 4% to 7% in the adult population in North America and an annual incidence of 0.1%, which translates into approximately 300,000 new nodules in the United States ( 3 ). In patients with a single palpable nodule, additional nodules can be detected in about 20-48% by ultrasonography ( 7 ). A
