Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


new nodules in the United States ( 3 ). In patients with a single palpable nodule, additional nodules can be detected in about 20-48% by ultrasonography ( 7 ). A survey of clinical members of the American Thyroid Association revealed that most endocrinologists (96%) perform FNA for diagnosis of thyroid nodules ( 8 ). In addition, FNA with ultrasonographic guidance (US-FNA) is used routinely in follow-up surveillance of patients with thyroid cancer. Therefore, the importance of FNA biopsy in thyroid practice cannot be overemphasized. This chapter describes biopsy techniques, cytologic diagnosis, complications, FNA results, diagnostic pitfalls, and other information that may be useful to clinicians who manage patients with nodular thyroid disease. DEFINITIONS/HISTORY The diagnosis of thyroid nodules by needle biopsy was first described by Martin and Ellis ( 9 ) in 1930, who used an 18-gauge–needle aspiration technique. Subsequently, cutting needle biopsy with Silverman or Tru-Cut needles was used for tissue examination. None of these techniques gained wide acceptance because of fear of malignant implants in the needle track, false-negative results, and serious complications. However, Scandinavian investigators introduced small‑needle aspiration biopsy of the thyroid in the 1960s, and this technique came into widespread use in North America in the 1980s ( 10 ). For FNA biopsy, most use fine or thin (22- to 27-gauge) needles, most commonly 25 or 27-gauge needles. As the name indicates, the biopsy technique uses aspiration to obtain cells or fluid from a mass. In contrast to percutaneous large‑needle biopsy, which obtains tissue specimens and requires histologic fixation, aspiration biopsy offers cytological examination of the specimen. Another technique, fine‑needle non-aspiration (FNNA) biopsy, also referred to as capillary technique, avoids aspiration but obtains representative cytologic samples. Although the FNA technique appears simple, considerable time and experience are required to acquire and maintain skillful biopsy technique. Debate continues about who is best qualified to perform FNA biopsy, but the best results are obtained if the person performing the biopsy has appropriate technique and volume. In the opinion of the authors, individuals performing biopsies should have appropriate knowledge of thyroid pathologies in order to relate the findings to the clinical context. EQUIPMENT The basic equipment needed to perform FNA biopsy is simple and relatively inexpensive ( 2 , 4 , 11 ) The following items are necessary to have but many are not essential ( Table 1 ). Table 1. FNA Biopsy Equipment – Figure 1 View in
