Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


4 , 11 ) The following items are necessary to have but many are not essential ( Table 1 ). Table 1. FNA Biopsy Equipment – Figure 1 View in own window 1. Disposable 3-10-mL plastic syringes 2. Disposable 25- or 27-gauge needles, 1.5 inches long [shorter needles can be used for more superficial nodules] 3. Alcohol prep sponges 4. Sterile gauze 5. Gloves 6. Probe cover 7. Sterile gel 8. Lidocaine—1% for those who prefer biopsy with local anesthesia 9. Glass slides, with 1 end frosted on 1 side, 1-mm thin (Gold Seal, Erie Scientific Company) 10. Alcohol swabs and bandaid for post procedure Additional tools: For sample procesing 11. Containers for (cystic) fluid collection and transportation to the cytology laboratory 12. Laboratory slips with the patient’s name, clinic number, biopsy sites, and other relevant information to be transferred to the cytology laboratory 13. Alcohol bottles for immediate wet fixation of smears 14. Rarely used nowadays: A syringe holder or syringe pistol—most commonly used is the Cameco syringe pistol (Belpro Medical). The pencil-grip syringe holder is another syringe-holding device (Tao and Tao Technology, Incorporated).- Figure 1. FNA biopsy equipment is simple and inexpensive. It includes alcohol wipes or disinfectant, gauze pads, plastic syringes, 23- to 27-gauge needles, glass slides, a fixative solution, and, optionally a pistol- grip mechanical syringe holder. Many experts use cell-preserving solutions to wash out the needles for the preparation of cytoblocs. THE PATIENT The thyroid gland should be palpated carefully and the nodule(s) to be biopsied identified under sonographic guidance. The consent process is important. It should fully explain the procedure including risks and benefits, and address all questions raised by the patient. The procedure can be done with local anesthesia or without. Per nodule, typically 3 informative passes are obtained, in particular if rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) by a cytopathologist is not available. In experienced hands, no serious complications are expected. Mild pain, minor bleeding or infection can occur but are unlikely to happen. Very rarely, transient hoarseness due to recurrent laryngeal nerve injury has been reported. With the appropriate caution, the procedure can usually be performed in patients with blood thinners. The procedure is performed in the outpatient setting with the patient lying on an adjustable examination bed or chair. The procedure can be performed by a single person, but the presence of a nurse or clinical assistant is encouraged, if available. The
