Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


on an adjustable examination bed or chair. The procedure can be performed by a single person, but the presence of a nurse or clinical assistant is encouraged, if available. The patient may be seated or supine; we prefer the supine position. The patient is placed supine with the neck hyperextended to expose the thyroid; for support, a pillow is placed under the shoulders ( Fig. 2 A ). The patient is asked not to swallow, talk, or move during the procedure. It is best to talk to the patient and keep them informed of the progress of the biopsy. Once completed, firm pressure is maintained on the biopsy site(s) then the area is cleaned and a Band-Aid applied. It is best to observe patients for a few minutes for any side effects. This time can be used to counsel on after-procedure care instructions and potential results, if available including written instructions. Subsequently, the patient can be discharged. Figure 2. A) Patient position during fine-needle aspiration (FNA). A supine position and a pillow under the patient’s shoulder allow hyperextension of the neck and maximal exposure. B) Syringe is placed in syringe holder. C) The nodule is identified and stabilized with operator’s the nonaspirating hand. The operator stands on the side of the patient opposite that of the thyroid nodule. Current Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require the use of gloves because of concern about bloodborne diseases. D) With a quick motion, the needle passes through the skin and enters the nodule. Immediate mild suction follows. As soon as aspirate appears, suction is released and the needle is withdrawn. THE TECHNIQUES FNA Biopsy Numerous reports, reviews, and even textbooks provide detailed descriptions of various FNA biopsy techniques ( 11 - 15 ). Although most reports agree on the principles of the technique, variations have been described to improve results. It is important to position the patient correctly, identify and locate the mass, provide adequate light during the biopsy, and have a clinical assistant available for help if needed. The physician performing the biopsy should be positioned at the patient’s side, preferably contralateral to the lesion. The nodule(s) to be aspirated is identified, and the overlying skin is cleansed with alcohol. The use of povidone-iodine or sterile technique is not necessary but encouraged. A retrospective study across multiple sites of the Mayo Clinic compared ultrasound-guided thyroid FNA using no anesthetic, subcutaneous injectable
