Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


use of povidone-iodine or sterile technique is not necessary but encouraged. A retrospective study across multiple sites of the Mayo Clinic compared ultrasound-guided thyroid FNA using no anesthetic, subcutaneous injectable anesthetic, and topical anesthetic to compare the degree of pain/discomfort ( 16 ). The study found patient discomfort associated with FNA was comparable during and after the procedure regardless of the use of anesthetic or the type. However, others reported that FNA-associated pain is frequent and that the use of local anesthesia is beneficial ( 17 ) In the method illustrated here, a 10‑mL plastic syringe is attached to a Cameco syringe holder and held in the right hand by a right‑handed operator ( Fig. 2 B ). Two fingers of the free (left) hand firmly grasp the nodule while the other hand holds a pistol-grip syringe holder ( Fig. 2 C ). The needle is then inserted through the skin and into the nodule. Once the needle tip is in the nodule, gentle suction is applied while the needle is moved in and out within the nodule vertically ( Fig. 2 D ). This maneuver allows the dislodging of cellular material and easy suction into the needle. During this period of 5 to 10 seconds, suction is maintained, and as soon as fluid or aspirate appears in the hub of the needle, the suction is released, and the needle is withdrawn. Of note, many operators do not use the handle; in this case, simply using a syringe with needle may suffice using the same maneuver. Nowadays, ultrasound evaluation identifies cystic and partially cystic lesions. The appearance of fluid suggests that the nodule is cystic; suction is maintained, and as much fluid as possible is aspirated. It is important to release the syringe plunger and remove the vacuum before withdrawing the needle; this allows the aspirate to remain in the needle and not be sucked into the syringe. Next, the needle is detached from the syringe ( Fig. 3 A ), and 5 mL of air is drawn into the syringe ( Fig. 3 B ). The needle is reattached to the syringe, and with the bevel facing down, 1 drop of aspirated material is ejected onto each of several glass slides ( Fig. 3 C ). It is important that all slides be labeled and placed in order on a nearby table before the aspiration begins. Smears are prepared
