Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


glass slides ( Fig. 3 C ). It is important that all slides be labeled and placed in order on a nearby table before the aspiration begins. Smears are prepared by using a second glass slide in a manner similar to that of making blood smears ( Fig. 3 D ). The slides for wet fixation should be placed immediately in 95% alcohol for staining with the Papanicolaou stain. For Giemsa staining, air-dried smears are necessary, and prepared slides are left unfixed and transported to the laboratory. Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) of cytology slides to evaluate for adequacy by cytopathologists may lower non-diagnostic rates and the number of necessary needle passes ( 18 ). This may, however, add more time to complete the procedure. Figure 3. A) The needle is removed quickly from the syringe. B) Five ml of air is aspirated into the syringe, and the needle is placed back on the syringe. C) With the needle bevel facing down, 1 drop of aspirated material is expelled onto each of several glass slides. Slides are labeled and placed on the table before aspiration, ready for use. D) With a second slide, smears are prepared in a manner similar to that for blood smears. Slides are then immediately wet fixed by placing them in an alcohol bottle. Usually, 3 to 6 aspirations are made ( 13 , 14 ), some authors suggest at least 6 ( 19 ). Additional passes might be needed for molecular testing if decisions were made to obtain those. However, needle washouts typically provide sufficient materials for molecular analyses. Preferably, the aspirates should be obtained from the peripheral areas and different parts of the nodule in a sequential manner to ensure representative sampling ( 13 ). For larger nodules, the deep center of the mass should be avoided because it is more likely to contain degeneration and fluid, decreasing the chance of a diagnostic specimen. For cystic lesions, the fluid should be completely aspirated and FNA attempted on residual solid tissue if present. Aspirated fluid should be placed in a plastic cup and saved for cytology evaluation. For each pass, one should use a new needle and syringe. The needle can be inserted in parallel or perpendicular way to the ultrasound probe. In the parallel approach, the US image can see the entire needle path. The perpendicular approach is generally simpler and the needle travels shorter
