Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


perpendicular way to the ultrasound probe. In the parallel approach, the US image can see the entire needle path. The perpendicular approach is generally simpler and the needle travels shorter distance; however, only needle tip can be seen in the nodule. Both techniques are equally effective. Generally, minor procedures such as thyroid FNA, can be safely performed while patients are on antiplatelets/anticoagulation ( 20 ). Special attention should be made to use a smaller gauge needle (27-gauge needle), minimize the number of passes, and monitor the patient for a few minutes for signs of bleeding. In certain situations, INR might need to be less than 2- 2.5 at the day of the procedure per certain operator preferences. Overall, the risk of stopping anticoagulation for the purpose of FNA procedure must always be weighed against the risk of complication related to discontinuing the medication for few days. The overall data suggest low risk of bleeding when doing the biopsy on anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy with hematoma only occurred in 0.89% ( 21 ). FNNA Biopsy The FNNA, also referred to as fine-needle capillary (FNC) sampling technique, has been described by several authors ( 2 , 22 ). This technique is thought to minimize trauma to thyroid tissue and to reduce blood contamination. For this technique, patient preparation is similar to that for FNA. However, no syringe or suction is necessary. The hub of a 27-gauge needle is held in a pencil-grip fashion, and the needle is gently inserted into the nodule and then moved in and out for 5 to 10 seconds. Aspirate flows into the needle through capillary action, and as soon as aspirate appears in the hub, the needle is withdrawn and attached to a syringe with air inside. Next, the plunger is used to expel the material onto glass slides. The procedure is repeated several times, and the slides are prepared as described above for FNA. Other techniques such as Core-needle biopsy ( 23 ) or Large-needle aspiration biopsy ( 24 ) are used less commonly as first-line procedure. They can be associated with a higher risk of complications such as pain and bleeding, but they have some utility with repeatedly non-diagnostic FNA or when lymphoma, which requires additional analyses such as flow cytometry, is suspected. POST BIOPSY PROCEDURE After the biopsy has been completed, firm pressure is applied to the biopsy site(s) with a 4×4-inch gauze pad.
