Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


additional analyses such as flow cytometry, is suspected. POST BIOPSY PROCEDURE After the biopsy has been completed, firm pressure is applied to the biopsy site(s) with a 4×4-inch gauze pad. Once bleeding has stopped, an adhesive bandage is placed on the puncture site(s), and the patient is observed for a few minutes. If there are no problems, the patient is allowed to leave. COMPLICATIONS Thyroid FNA biopsy, particularly using US-FNA, is very safe. No serious complications such as tumor seeding, nerve damage, tissue trauma, or vascular injury have been reported ( 11 - 15 ). Needle puncture may cause slight discomfort and possible skin ecchymosis at the aspiration site(s). However, even a minor hematoma is uncommon. Patient use of anticoagulants or salicylates does not preclude FNA biopsy. Needle track implantation of thyroid carcinoma is extremely rare and appears to be an exceptional complication ( 25 ). Post aspiration hemorrhage within a cystic lesion is uncommon. CYTOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS Aspirates from normal glands often have scant thyroid follicular cells and colloid. Wet‑fixed smears are usually prepared with a modified Papanicolaou stain, which shows nuclear details. Air-dried smears are often prepared with a Romanovsky stain. May‑Grünwald-Giemsa is a modified Romanovsky staining procedure that is sometimes used in thyroid cytologic preparations. The six Bethesda Classification System categories of cytology results include: Non-diagnostic (unsatisfactory), Benign, Atypia or undetermined significance (or follicular lesion of undetermined significance), Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for follicular neoplasm, suspicious for malignancy, and malignant ( Table 7 ). Benign Cytology Aspirates obtained from multinodular goiters, a benign microfollicular adenoma, or normal thyroid are referred to as colloid nodules and show loosely cohesive sheaths of follicular epithelium, colloid, blood, and rare macrophages. Colloid nodules are the most common cytology and contain an abundance of colloid with sparse follicular cells. There is considerable variation in the number of cells, as well as the type and amount of colloid present ( Fig. 4 ). Figure 4. Colloid nodule. Sheath of normal thyroid epithelium shows uniform nuclei and pale cytoplasm (Papanicolaou, ×100). Another benign diagnosis is Hashimoto thyroiditis. It has typically a characteristic pattern on FNA smears, showing hypercellularity with lymphocytes, Hürthle cells, and minimal or no colloid ( Fig. 5 ). Figure 5. Hashimoto thyroiditis. A) Group of Hürthle cells with large cytoplasm and prominent nuclei, surrounded by a teratogeneous population of lymphocytes (Papanicolaou, ×60). B) Hypercellular aspirate with lymphocytes and Hürthle cells (May-Grünwald-Giemsa, ×250).
