Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


A) Group of Hürthle cells with large cytoplasm and prominent nuclei, surrounded by a teratogeneous population of lymphocytes (Papanicolaou, ×60). B) Hypercellular aspirate with lymphocytes and Hürthle cells (May-Grünwald-Giemsa, ×250). Subacute (granulomatous) thyroiditis is a rare condition with a benign aspirate. Typically, the smear shows multinucleated giant cells, epithelioid histiocytes, and scattered inflammatory cells. Malignant Cytology Papillary carcinoma, the most common thyroid malignancy, is readily diagnosed by FNA. Typically, cytology shows large irregular nuclei, and nuclear grooves. Psammoma bodies may or may not be present, but if present, they are highly suggestive of papillary thyroid carcinoma ( Fig. 6 ). Figure 6. Papillary thyroid carcinoma. A) Follicular cells with large irregular nuclei, nuclear grooving, and pale chromatin (Papanicolaou, ×400). B) Histologic preparation showing typical papillary configurations (hematoxylin-eosin, ×50). Medullary thyroid carcinoma accounts for 5% to 10% of thyroid cancers and may present as a thyroid nodule or neck mass. Typically, aspirates from a medullary thyroid carcinoma are hypercellular, composed of large, poorly cohesive cells, and predominantly spindle shaped. Amyloid is often, but not invariably, present, and there is no colloid ( Fig. 7 ). Figure 7. Medullary thyroid carcinoma. A) Cellular specimen staining positively for calcitonin by immunohistochemistry (×100). B) Loosely cohesive fragments of spindle-shaped cells. Amyloid is present as amorphous blue material intimately associated with neoplastic cells (Papanicolaou, ×400). High-grade carcinoma can be diagnosed cytologically, but distinguishing between primary and metastatic cancer is not easy. FNA RESULTS The accumulated experience of the past 4 decades has confirmed the reliability and usefulness of FNA as a diagnostic test ( 2 - 4 , 11 - 15 , 26 - 31 ). The role of FNA biopsy in the evaluation of thyroid nodules is now firmly established, and FNA has become the initial test because it is both safe and cost effective. In most clinics, FNA has become a standard test, performed most often by an endocrinologist. Diagnostic Cytology An adequate specimen of good technical quality is considered diagnostic or satisfactory and may be benign, suspicious, or malignant. A benign (negative) cytologic diagnosis is reported for 50% to 90% of the specimens (average, 70%) ( 13 , 15 , 27 , 32 ), 10-30% of FNA cytologic specimens may be suspicious for malignancy (indeterminate) (average, 20%) ( 32 , 33 ). A malignant (positive) cytologic diagnosis is made in about 1% to 10% of cases (average, 5%). For example, Caruso and
