Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


for malignancy (indeterminate) (average, 20%) ( 32 , 33 ). A malignant (positive) cytologic diagnosis is made in about 1% to 10% of cases (average, 5%). For example, Caruso and Mazzaferri ( 33 ) reported the following results from 9 series that included more than 9,000 patients: benign, 74%; malignant, 4%; inadequate, 11%; and suspicious, 11%. We reviewed more than 18,000 specimens from 7 large series and obtained similar cytologic results: benign, 69%; malignant, 4%; suspicious, 10%; and nondiagnostic, 17% ( 32 ). False Negative Rates False-negative results reflects missed malignancy. False-negative rates generally occur in 1.5% to 11.5% (average, <5%) ( 19 , 30 , 33 , 34 ). The false-negative rate is defined as the percentage of patients with a benign cytology in whom malignant lesions are later confirmed on thyroidectomy. The frequency of false-negative cytologic diagnosis depends on the number of patients who subsequently have surgery and histologic review. In most retrospective series, less than 10% of patients with a benign cytologic diagnosis subsequently undergo thyroid surgery, suggesting that false-negative rates should be interpreted with some skepticism ( 33 , 35 ). Despite this note of caution, most authorities agree that the true false-negative rate is less than 5% if all patients undergo thyroid surgery. False-negative rates are lower in centers experienced with the procedure and with cytologic interpretation by expert cytopathologists. False Positive Rates False-positive rates vary from 0% to 8% (average, 3%) ( 30 , 32 , 33 ). A false‑positive diagnosis indicates that a patient with a malignant FNA result was found on histologic examination to have benign lesions. Causes of False Diagnoses Interpretive or sampling errors account for false diagnoses ( 14 , 32 , 34 ). Hashimoto thyroiditis is probably the most common cause of a false‑positive cytology. Misclassification of follicular and Hürthle cell adenomas as papillary carcinomas accounts for other errors. FNA biopsy of thyroid lymphomas may yield lymphocytes that can be interpreted as Hashimoto thyroiditis, accounting for a false‑negative diagnosis. Inadequate or improper sampling accounts for some false-negative errors. For example, nodules smaller than 1 cm may be too small for accurate needle placement, and nodules larger than 4 cm may be too large to allow proper sampling from all areas, thereby increasing the likelihood of misdiagnosis. Finally, the cytopathologist should establish and observe criteria to exclude a diagnosis of malignancy ( 2 , 4 , 11 , 26 ).
