Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


areas, thereby increasing the likelihood of misdiagnosis. Finally, the cytopathologist should establish and observe criteria to exclude a diagnosis of malignancy ( 2 , 4 , 11 , 26 ). The Problem of Cellular Tumors Hypercellular specimens from follicular or Hürthle cell lesions may have features suggestive of, but not diagnostic for malignancy ( 3 , 11 , 14 , 27 ). Thus, the cytopathologist labels these suspicious for malignancy because cytologic features neither confirm nor rule out malignancy. Histologic examination is necessary for definitive diagnosis. Hypercellularity may be seen with non-neoplastic lesions, and Hürthle cell changes may be seen in patients with lymphocytic thyroiditis. The diagnosis of follicular neoplasm is indicative of an underlying malignancy in 14% of cases and Hürthle cell neoplasm in 15% ( 29 , 32 ). Many pathologists maintain that benign and malignant follicular tumors cannot be distinguished on the basis of aspirated cells only, and the lesion must be removed for histopathologic examination ( 4 , 14 , 35 ). However, Kini et al ( 36 ) believes that follicular adenomas and follicular carcinomas usually can be differentiated on the basis of nuclear size. Several authors have discussed the problem of follicular neoplasm. In a study of 149 patients with the cytologic diagnosis of follicular neoplasm, Tuttle et al. ( 37 ) reported that risk of malignancy was higher in men, solitary nodules, and nodules larger than 4 cm. In a study of 219 patients with follicular neoplasm, Schlinkert et al. ( 38 ) showed that nodules are more likely malignant in younger patients, in men, if the nodule is solitary, and if it is larger than 4 cm. Baloch et al. ( 39 ) studied 184 cases of follicular neoplasm and reported that risk factors for malignancy included male sex, older age (>40 years), and larger nodules (>3 cm). Overall, they found that 70% of these lesions are benign. Molecular studies are now routinely used with thyroid nodule evaluation and biopsy to help further asses the likelihood of malignancy in thyroid nodules in nodules with undetermined cytology with reasonable sensitivity and specificity [see section below]. Non-Diagnostic Cytology Inadequate specimens are labeled non-diagnostic or unsatisfactory and account for 2% to 20% of specimens (average, 10%) ( 32 , 33 ). Several factors influence non-diagnostic rates for FNA results, including the skill of the operator, vascularity of the nodule, criteria used to judge adequacy of
