Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


negative; histology positive for cancer FNA, fine-needle aspiration. *From Gharib et al. ( 4 ). Used with permission. FNA GUIDELINES Several guidelines and reviews have been published to help improve the adequacy and accuracy of cytology specimens ( 4 , 49 - 51 ). FNA biopsy should be performed by individuals who have had training in both thyroid ultrasound examination and thyroid biopsy. Thyroid FNA in the hands of experienced operators achieves high diagnostic accuracy. Aspirates should be obtained from different portions of the nodule, preferably peripheral areas, in an organized and sequential manner. It is essential to ensure that an adequate number of follicular cells are present. A cytopathologist, preferably one with experience in thyroid cytology, should review and interpret the slides. If re-aspiration yields insufficient material, a core biopsy is the next step. In the event that the final result is still insufficient, surgical excision is warranted for nodules with suspicious features. Several reports have offered suggestions to minimize false-negative rates ( 3 , 4 , 19 , 32 ). In a review on thyroid FNA, Belfiore and La Rosa suggested acquiring biopsy expertise, avoid suboptimal sampling, and repeat FNA during follow up especially if sonographically suspicious to reduce false-negative results ( 11 ). To minimize false‑negative results, we follow the steps summarized in Table 3 . Table 3. Steps to Improve Accuracy of FNA and Lead to Better Nodule Management View in own window Step Explanation Biopsy performed by expert in thyroid pathologies Offers better thyroid examination; accumulates experience with FNA Experienced cytopathologist reviews slides Improves cytologic interpretation Caution with small (<1 cm) or large (>4 cm) nodules Increased chance of misdiagnosis; US FNA improves accuracy 3-6 aspirates from different nodule sites Improves cytologic sampling Re-biopsy if cytology is nondiagnostic About 50% will be diagnostic on re-aspiration Nondiagnostic cytology is not negative Risk of cancer is low but not ruled out Aspirates with no follicular cells are nondiagnostic These should not be considered negative for malignancy Excise nodules yielding suspicious cytology 20-40% chance of malignancy Excise clinically suspicious, cytologically benign nodules Clinical impression overrides FNA diagnosis FNA, fine-needle aspiration; US-FNA, FNA with ultrasonographic guidance. *Modified from Gharib ( 2 ). By permission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. US-FNA BIOPSY Published thyroid guidelines and reviews state that thyroid US should not be used as a screening test in the general population ( 3 , 4
