Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


Education and Research. US-FNA BIOPSY Published thyroid guidelines and reviews state that thyroid US should not be used as a screening test in the general population ( 3 , 4 ). However, US is recommended for all patients with a single palpable nodule or a multinodular goiter or in a patient suspected of having a nodule ( 3 ) ( Table 4 ). US machines are safe, easy to use, relatively inexpensive, have high resolution, and are widely available. It is important to note that US results are quite operator dependent. Table 4. Indications for Thyroid Ultrasound Examination* View in own window Palpable solitary nodule Palpable multinodular goiter Suspicion of nodule(s) in patient with difficult neck palpation Prior history of neck radiation Family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma, multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, or papillary thyroid carcinoma Unexplained cervical adenopathy Preoperative thyroidectomy for cancer; long-term postoperative surveillance *Data from Gharib et al. ( 4 ). THYROID ULTRASOUND AND SONOGRAPHIC RISK STRATIFICATION SYSTEMS Thyroid US is the imaging modality of choice for the evaluation of thyroid nodule(s). High-resolution neck US is safe and provides excellent imaging results with no significant cost, and can be done in the outpatient settings. Sonographic features used to characterize thyroid nodule risk of malignancy focus on five major sonographic criteria: echogenicity, composition, shape, echogenic foci, and margins ( Table 5 ). Vascularity is debatable and therefor, not currently included in those criteria. US can also identify concerning lymph nodes. Features such as hypoechogenicity, irregular/infiltrative border, microcalcification, and a taller-than-wide shape in the transverse view, individually or in combination, are suggestive of malignancy especially if cervical lymph node involvement is seen. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of each of these features is variable and none of them alone can reliably distinguish malignant lesion from otherwise ( 52 ). Table 5. Sonographic Characteristics of Thyroid Nodules View in own window 1 Echogenicity: hypo- iso,or hyperechoic 2 Calcifications: micro- or macrocalcifications 3 Margins: well-defined/smooth or irregular 4 Vascularity: high or low 5 Shape: taller than wide 6 Composition: Solid, Cystic, Mixed Professional organizations such as the American Thyroid Association ( 51 ) and the American College of Radiology ( 50 ) developed ultrasound based risk stratification systems based on the above criteria and assigned a value or points to each of those when increasing the risk of malignancy, and assigning cutoff size when deciding FNA and to avoid unnecessary
