Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


the above criteria and assigned a value or points to each of those when increasing the risk of malignancy, and assigning cutoff size when deciding FNA and to avoid unnecessary over diagnosis. There are several other Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data Systems (TIRADS) and current efforts aim at developing an international TIRADS to unify lexicons and definitions and ultimately unify recommendations. Neck ultrasound also plays a predominant role in the follow-up of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer, including active surveillance of small papillary thyroid carcinomas. An ever-increasing number of practicing endocrinologists are training to use US in routine practice. US is now used to supplement physical examination, when a thyroid mass is present, when a nodule needs careful measurement, or when an impalpable thyroid lesion is suspected. As a result of this widespread use, many small (<1.5 cm) thyroid incidentalomas are detected, creating what has been referred to as a “thyroid nodule epidemic” ( 3 , 7 , 53 ). Such a finding has been an unintended consequence of thyroid US use and has created a management dilemma for the clinicians. The overall predictive value of US for malignancy based on a systematic review and meta-analysis of multiple studies is summarized in Table 6 ( 54 ). Although no single US feature is diagnostic for malignancy, the specificity is highest for taller-than-wide and microcalcifications, and lowest for echogenicity. The presence of at least 2 suspicious US criteria reliably identifies 85% to 93% of thyroid malignancies ( 3 ). Table 6. Value of US Features Predicting Thyroid Malignancy* View in own window US Feature Sensitivity, % Specificity, % Microcalcifications 39.5 87.8 Hypoechogenicity 62.7 62.3 Irregular margins 50.5 83.1 Solid 72.7 53.2 Intranodular vascularity 45.9 78.0 Taller than wide 26.7 96.6 *Adapted and modified from Remonti et al. ( 54 ) Sensitivity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value increase significantly with US-FNA ( 3 , 55 - 58 ). Nowadays, FNA should be exclusively performed with US-guidance. US-FNA permits precise needle placement in a nodule, thereby increasing both the rate of satisfactory aspirates and the diagnostic accuracy ( 3 , 55 - 58 ). FNA PITFALLS The experience as well as the expertise of the cytopathologist is critical in avoiding pitfalls. Determining the adequacy of an aspirate, cellular atypia, performing and interpreting immunostains, and differentiation of lymphocytic thyroiditis from lymphoma are but a few of the challenges. Larger nodules are more
