Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


Determining the adequacy of an aspirate, cellular atypia, performing and interpreting immunostains, and differentiation of lymphocytic thyroiditis from lymphoma are but a few of the challenges. Larger nodules are more likely to yield false‑negative results. To improve sampling, aspirates should be obtained from multiple sites of the nodule rather than repeatedly from a single spot. The absence of malignant cells in an otherwise acellular specimen does not exclude malignancy. It is good practice to biopsy all suspicious nodules in a multinodular gland ( 3 , 4 ). RE-BIOPSY Opinions on indications for re-aspiration are divided, some favoring ( 11 , 59 ), others not favoring ( 4 , 60 ) routine re-biopsy. Lucas et al. ( 60 ) reported no advantage in routine re-biopsy, whereas Chehade et al. ( 59 ) found that repeated biopsy may decrease the rate of false-negative FNA from an average of 5.2% to less than 1.3%. Thyroid nodule guidelines from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and the Associazione Medici Endocrinologi ( 4 ) did not suggest routine re-biopsy of FNA-benign nodules. The American Thyroid Association also recommends against routine re-biopsy ( 51 ). Repeat FNA for nodules that grow during serial sonographic follow-up can be done although nodule growth can be defined variably due to interobserver variation. Minimally significant change in nodule size of 50% increase in volume may warrant repeat FNA ( 61 ). Additional indications for re-biopsy are a non-diagnostic initial FNA, indeterminate cytology, and sonographically suspicious nodules with a benign cytology. In such instances, the current ATA guidelines recommend repeat biopsy within 1 year. BETHESDA SYSTEM The Bethesda System for reporting diagnostic criteria is shown in table 7 and the risk of malignancy for each diagnostic criteria in table 8 . Table 7. The Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: Recommended Diagnostic Categories View in own window I. Nondiagnostic or unsatisfactory Cyst fluid only Virtually acellular specimen Other (obscuring blood, clotting artifact, etc.) II. Benign Consistent with a benign follicular nodule (includes adenomatoid nodule, colloid nodule, etc.) Consistent with lymphocytic thyroiditis (Hashimoto) in the proper clinical context Consistent with granulomatous thyroiditis (subacute) Other III. Atypia of undetermined significance or follicular lesion of undetermined significance IV. Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm Specify if Hürthle cell type (oncocytic) V. Suspicious for malignancy Suspicious for papillary carcinoma Suspicious for medullary carcinoma Suspicious for metastatic carcinoma Suspicious for lymphoma Other VI. Malignant
