Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


follicular neoplasm Specify if Hürthle cell type (oncocytic) V. Suspicious for malignancy Suspicious for papillary carcinoma Suspicious for medullary carcinoma Suspicious for metastatic carcinoma Suspicious for lymphoma Other VI. Malignant Papillary thyroid carcinoma Poorly differentiated carcinoma Medullary thyroid carcinoma Undifferentiated carcinoma (anaplastic) Squamous cell carcinoma Carcinoma with mixed features (specify) Metastatic carcinoma Non-Hodgkin lymphoma Other * Adapted with permission from Cibas and Ali ( 62 ). Table 8. The Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: Risk of Malignancy and Recommended Clinical Management View in own window Diagnostic Category Risk of Malignancy (%)** Usual Management Nondiagnostic or unsatisfactory 5-10 Repeat FNA with ultrasound guidance Benign 0-3 Clinical follow-up Atypia of undetermined significance or follicular lesion of undetermined significance 6-18 Repeat FNA, molecular testing, or lobectomy Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm 10-40 Molecular testing, Lobectomy Suspicious for malignancy 45-60 Near total thyroidectomy or lobectomy Malignant 94-96 Near total thyroidectomy or lobectomy FNA-fine needle aspiration *Adapted with permission from Cibas and Ali ( 62 ) ** When NIFTP is not considered cancer THE UTILITY OF MOLECULAR TESTING IN THYROUD FNA/BIOPSY Molecular testing is particularly useful in indeterminate cytology such as Bethesda class III or class IV that are expected to have a malignancy risk of 18 and 40% respectively ( Table 8 ). The use of molecular markers in indeterminate thyroid nodule cytology has lowered the need for diagnostic lobectomy in those cases. Repeat biopsy of Bethesda class III and IV can still be done to obtain more definitive diagnosis but the cytological assessment of a 2nd FNA only provide definitive diagnosis in about 40% ( 63 ). Molecular testing of the thyroid FNA samples has significantly evolved since its introduction at the beginning of the 21 st century. Multiple methods were developed for this approach and the tests are based on 3 main pathways: testing for somatic mutations, gene expression profiles, and microRNA (MiRNA) classifiers. The most widely used molecular tests, ThyroSeq and Afirma assays have reasonable positive and negative predictive values suitable for using them when ruling-in and ruling-out thyroid cancer. Thyroseq V3 and Afirma GSC perform best to rule out malignancy ( 64 ) Afirma molecular testing initially started as a microarray analysis of mRNA expression, currently a Genomic Sequencing Classifier (GSC) relying on RNA sequencing approach with a sensitivity of 96%, specificity of 68%, and positive predictive value of 47% ( 65 ). The current version
