Fine-Needle Aspiration of the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, pubmed, fna, biopsy, needle, aspiration, nodule, american, thyroid nodules, malignancy, clinical, journal, cytology, association


a Genomic Sequencing Classifier (GSC) relying on RNA sequencing approach with a sensitivity of 96%, specificity of 68%, and positive predictive value of 47% ( 65 ). The current version of ThyroSeq (version 3) is based on targeted next-generation sequencing analysis of 112 cancer related genes for point mutations, gene fusions, copy number alterations, and abnormal gene expression. This test has a reported sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 82%, with a negative predictive value of 97%, and positive predictive value of 66% ( 66 ). Other molecular tests may include a combination of more than one method such as those based on miRNA classification (ThyraMIR) and next-generation sequencing mutational analysis (ThyGeNEXT) which have excellent positive and negative predictive values ( 67 ). When obtaining molecular testing, an additional dedicated needle pass can be useful. However, it is also possible to rinse the needles of all passes in the preservation fluid or cells from cytology slides. Furthermore, original cytology slides can be used in select cases such as in ThyGeNEXT/ThyraMIR ( 68 ). THE USE OF US-GUIDED FNA WITH MINIMALLY INVASIVE THYROID PROCEDURES Ultrasound-guided minimally invasive interventional techniques have been widely recognized and increasingly used over the last two decades. Those techniques include percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) and thermal ablations such as laser and radiofrequency ablation. They can be used to treat both benign and malignant thyroid lesions. This includes the treatment of small papillary carcinomas, especially in patients who do not wish to pursue active surveillance, and in patients who are poor surgical candidates ( 69 ). Multiple international consensus statements were published to guide the use of these techniques with rapidly evolving indications ( 70 - 73 ). Pre-procedural evaluation involves performing neck ultrasound, determining thyroid function status, and requiring two benign cytology for most solid nodules or one benign cytology for autonomously functioning thyroid nodules with low-risk thyroid ultrasound features ( 69 ). PEI is used for predominantly cystic benign thyroid nodules. It was introduced in the early 1990s as successful treatment for benign thyroid nodules ( 74 - 76 ). With success rate defined as volume reduction of more than 50% with symptom control, PEI can reduce nodule volume from 50% to 98% ( 77 , 78 ). Long-term outcomes of cystic nodule treated with PEI are excellent with minimum side effects and proven benefit. The procedure can be done in the outpatient setting under
