Pulmonary Edema
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, edema, pulmonary edema, acute, heart, failure, chest, patient, heart failure, patients, radiograph, cardiac, severe, blood, chest radiograph


Cardiogenic pulmonary edema is acute alveolar flooding caused by pulmonary venous hypertension secondary to severe left ventricular failure. Findings are severe dyspnea, diaphoresis, wheezing, and sometimes blood-tinged frothy sputum. Diagnosis is clinical and by chest radiograph. Treatment is with oxygen, IV nitrates, diuretics, and, in patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction, sometimes short-term IV positive inotropes and assisted ventilation (ie, endotracheal intubation with mechanical ventilation or bilevel positive airway pressure ventilation). When left ventricular (LV) filling pressure increases suddenly, plasma fluid moves rapidly from pulmonary capillaries into interstitial spaces and alveoli, causing pulmonary edema. Although precipitating causes vary by age and country, 30 to 40% of cases result from acute coronary ischemia (1, 2). Some cases are from decompensation of significant underlying heart failure (HF), including HF with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) due to hypertension, and the rest are from arrhythmia, an acute valvular disorder, or acute volume overload often due to IV fluids. Medication or dietary nonadherence is often involved. Symptoms and Signs of Pulmonary Edema Patients with pulmonary edema present with extreme dyspnea, restlessness, and anxiety with a sense of suffocation. Cough, possibly producing blood-tinged sputum, pallor, cyanosis, and marked diaphoresis are common; some patients froth at the mouth. Frank hemoptysis is uncommon. The pulse is rapid and low volume, and blood pressure (BP) is variable. Marked hypertension indicates significant cardiac reserve; hypotension with systolic BP < 100 mg Hg is ominous. Inspiratory fine crackles are widely dispersed anteriorly and posteriorly over both lung fields. Marked wheezing may occur. Noisy respiratory efforts often make cardiac auscultation difficult; a summation gallop—merger of third (S3) and fourth (S4) heart sounds—may be present. "Cardiac asthma" refers to coughing, wheezing, breathlessness, and sometimes paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, that occur with left heart failure and pulmonary edema. Signs of right ventricular failure (eg, neck vein distention, peripheral edema) may be present. Diagnosis of Pulmonary Edema History and physical examination showing severe dyspnea and pulmonary crackles Chest radiograph Sometimes chest ultrasound Sometimes arterial blood gas analysis Sometimes serum brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal-pro BNP (NT-pro-BNP) Additional acute heart failure testing as indicated A chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation can mimic pulmonary edema due to left ventricular failure. While a patient without any prior history of cardiac disease may present in new-onset heart failure with acute pulmonary edema, patients with severe dyspnea due to COPD usually have a history of COPD, although
