Pulmonary Edema
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, edema, pulmonary edema, acute, heart, failure, chest, patient, heart failure, patients, radiograph, cardiac, severe, blood, chest radiograph


any prior history of cardiac disease may present in new-onset heart failure with acute pulmonary edema, patients with severe dyspnea due to COPD usually have a history of COPD, although they may be too dyspneic to relate it. Imaging in Patients With Pulmonary Edema Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Pulmonary Edema 2/8 This radiograph shows bilateral perihilar patchy opacities in a "bat-wing" or "butterfly" pattern consistent with cardiogenic pulmonary edema. In this patient, the costophrenic angles are seen sharply, indicating the absence of significant pleural effusions. Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Pulmonary Edema and Bilateral Pleural Effusions This patient has bilateral patchy interstitial infiltrates characteristic of pulmonary edema, as well as bilateral pleural effusions (arrows). The normally sharp costophrenic angles are obscured by fluid. Kerley B Lines Kerley B lines (arrows) are horizontal lines in the lung periphery that extend to the pleural surface. They denote thickened, edematous interlobular septa often due to pulmonary edema. Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Cardiomegaly and Cephalization This patient has cardiomegaly (width of cardiac silhouette is > 50% of thoracic cage on a posterior-anterior chest radiograph). The patient also has cephalization (black arrows) whereby upper lobe pulmonary vessels become more prominent. These findings are often seen in patients with heart failure. Chest Radiograph of a Patient with Fluid in Minor and Major Fissures Lateral chest radiograph in a patient with fluid in major (1) and minor (2) fissures as well as a loculated effusion (3) seen along right posterior chest wall. Comet Tail Artifact Sonographic "comet tail artifact" (white arrow) inferior to rib (black arrows) on thoracic ultrasound. Comet tail artifact corresponds to the radiographic finding of Kerley B lines. A chest radiograph, done immediately, is usually diagnostic, showing marked interstitial edema. Chest ultrasound may also be useful, particularly if pleural effusions are suspected. Pulse oximetry and arterial blood gas analysis may reveal hypoxemia, hypercapnia, or metabolic acidosis if tissue perfusion is impaired. Hypoxemia can be severe. Carbon dioxide retention is a late, ominous sign of secondary hypoventilation. Bedside measurement of serum BNP or NT-pro BNP levels (elevated in pulmonary edema; normal in COPD exacerbation) is helpful if the diagnosis is in doubt. ECG and other blood tests (cardiac biomarkers, electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen [BUN], creatinine) are performed. 4/8 Echocardiography is helpful to determine the cause of the pulmonary edema (eg, myocardial infarction, valvular dysfunction, hypertensive heart disease, dilated cardiomyopathy), as
