Pulmonary Edema
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, edema, pulmonary edema, acute, heart, failure, chest, patient, heart failure, patients, radiograph, cardiac, severe, blood, chest radiograph


blood urea nitrogen [BUN], creatinine) are performed. 4/8 Echocardiography is helpful to determine the cause of the pulmonary edema (eg, myocardial infarction, valvular dysfunction, hypertensive heart disease, dilated cardiomyopathy), as well as evaluating the patient's overall hemodynamic status, and may influence the choice of therapies. Treatment of Pulmonary Edema Treatment of cause Oxygen Ventilatory support as indicated IV diuretic Sometimes nitrates Sometimes IV inotropes Treatment of pulmonary edema involves providing oxygen and appropriate ventilatory support, administering diuretics (often in combination with vasodilators and/or inotropes depending upon the blood pressure, perfusion, and cardiac function), identifying and correcting the underlying cause (including any arrhythmias), and optimizing overall medical therapy. (see figure Management of Patients With Pulmonary Edema). Management of Patients With Pulmonary Edema MCS = mechanical circulatory support; RRT = renal replacement therapy; SBP = systolic blood pressure. Adapted from McDonagh TA, Metra M, Adamo M, et al: 2021 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure: Developed by the Task Force for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) with the special contribution of the Heart Failure Association (HFA) of the ESC. Morphine has long been used to reduce severe anxiety and the work of breathing but is decreasingly used (except in palliative care) due to observational studies suggesting a poorer outcome with its use (1). Noninvasive ventilatory assistance with bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) is helpful if hypoxia is significant. If carbon dioxide retention is significant or the patient is obtunded, tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are indicated. Specific additional treatment depends on etiology of pulmonary edema: For acute myocardial infarction or another acute coronary syndrome, thrombolysis or direct percutaneous coronary angioplasty with or without stent placement For severe hypertension, an IV vasodilator For supraventricular or ventricular tachycardia, direct-current cardioversion For rapid atrial fibrillation, cardioversion is preferred. To slow the ventricular rate, an IV beta-blocker, IV digoxin, or cautious use of an IV calcium channel blocker In patients with acute myocardial infarction, fluid status before onset of pulmonary edema is usually normal, so diuretics are less useful than in patients with acute decompensation of chronic heart failure and may precipitate hypotension. If systolic blood pressure falls < 100 mm Hg or shock develops, IV dobutamine and an intra-aortic balloon pump (counterpulsation) may be required. Key Points Acute pulmonary edema can result from acute coronary ischemia,
