Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is clotting of blood in a deep vein of an extremity (usually calf or thigh) or the pelvis. DVT is the primary cause of pulmonary embolism. DVT results from conditions that impair venous return, lead to endothelial injury or dysfunction, or cause hypercoagulability. DVT may be asymptomatic or cause pain and swelling in an extremity; pulmonary embolism is an immediate complication. Diagnosis is by history and physical examination and is confirmed by objective testing, typically with duplex ultrasonography. D-Dimer testing is sometimes used when DVT is suspected; a negative result helps to exclude DVT, whereas a positive result is nonspecific and requires additional testing to confirm DVT. Treatment is with anticoagulants. Prognosis is generally good with prompt, adequate treatment. Common long-term complications include venous insufficiency with or without the post-thrombotic syndrome. DVT occurs most commonly in the lower extremities or pelvis (see figure Deep Veins of the Legs). DVT is less common in deep veins of the upper extremities (< 5% of DVT cases) (1). 1/14 Deep Veins of the Legs Lower extremity DVT is much more likely to cause pulmonary embolism (PE), possibly because of the higher clot burden. Approximately 90% of proximal DVTs involve the femoral or popliteal veins and 10% extend more proximally to involve the iliofemoral veins (2). DVT of the distal or calf veins usually involve the posterior tibial or peroneal veins. Distal or calf vein DVT is less likely to be a source of large emboli but can propagate to the proximal thigh veins and from there cause PE. About 50% of patients with DVT have occult PE, and at least 30% of patients with PE have demonstrable DVT (3). Pearls & Pitfalls About 50% of patients with DVT have occult pulmonary emboli. Etiology of Deep Venous Thrombosis Many factors can contribute to DVT (see table Risk Factors for Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism). Cancer is a risk factor for DVT, particularly in older patients and in patients with recurrent thrombosis. The association is strongest for lung, ovarian, gastric, brain or pancreatic cancers where 10 to 15% of patients can develop VTE (1). Occult cancers may be present in patients with apparently idiopathic DVT, but extensive workup of patients for tumors is not recommended unless patients have major risk factors for cancer or symptoms suggestive of an occult cancer. Pathophysiology of Deep Venous Thrombosis Lower extremity DVT most often
