Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


develop postpartum and become infected, causing intermittent fever. Suppurative (septic) thrombophlebitis, a bacterial infection of a superficial peripheral vein, comprises infection and clotting and usually is caused by venous catheterization Symptoms and Signs of Deep Venous Thrombosis DVT may occur in ambulatory patients or as a complication of surgery or major medical illness. Among patients who are hospitalized and at high risk, most deep vein thrombi occur in the small calf veins, are asymptomatic, and may not be detected. When present, symptoms and signs of DVT (eg, vague aching pain, tenderness along the distribution of the veins, edema, erythema) are nonspecific, vary in frequency and severity, and are similar in arms and legs. Dilated collateral superficial veins may become visible or palpable. Calf discomfort elicited by ankle 4/14 dorsiflexion with the knee extended (Homans sign) occasionally occurs with distal leg DVT but is neither sensitive nor specific. Tenderness, swelling of the whole leg, > 3 cm difference in circumference between calves, pitting edema, and collateral superficial veins may be most specific; DVT is likely with a combination of ≥ 3 in the absence of another likely diagnosis (see table Probability of Deep Venous Thrombosis Based on Clinical Factors). Low-grade fever may be present; DVT may be the cause of fever without an obvious source, especially in postoperative patients. Symptoms of pulmonary embolism, if it occurs, may include shortness of breath and pleuritic chest pain. TABLE Probability of Deep Venous Thrombosis Based on Clinical Factors Factors Tenderness along distribution of the veins in calf or thigh Swelling of entire leg Calf swelling (> 3 cm difference in circumference between calves, measured 10 cm below the tibial tuberosity) Pitting edema greater in affected leg Dilated collateral superficial veins Active cancer (treatment ongoing or given within the previous 6 months) Immobilization of lower extremity (eg, due to paralysis, paresis, casting, or recent long-distance travel) Surgery leading to immobility for > 3 days within the past 4 weeks Probability Probability equals the number of factors, subtracting 2 if another diagnosis is as likely as or more likely than deep venous thrombosis. High probability: ≥ 3 points Moderate probability: 1–2 points Low probability: ≤ 0 points Based on data from Anand SS, Wells PS, Hunt D, et al: Does this patient have deep vein thrombosis? Journal of the American Medical Association 279 (14):1094–1099, 1998. Common causes of asymmetric leg swelling that mimic DVT are Soft-tissue
