Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


D, et al: Does this patient have deep vein thrombosis? Journal of the American Medical Association 279 (14):1094–1099, 1998. Common causes of asymmetric leg swelling that mimic DVT are Soft-tissue trauma Cellulitis 5/14 Compression of a pelvic vein Obstruction of a lymphatic vessel in the pelvis Popliteal cyst (Baker cyst) that obstructs venous return Less common causes include abdominal or pelvic tumors that obstruct venous or lymphatic return. Symmetric bilateral leg swelling is the typical result of use of medications that cause dependent edema (eg, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, estrogen, high-dose opioids), venous hypertension (usually due to right heart failure), and hypoalbuminemia; however, such swelling may be asymmetric if venous insufficiency coexists and is worse in one leg. Common causes of calf pain that mimic acute DVT include Venous insufficiency and post-thrombotic syndrome Cellulitis that causes painful erythema of the calf Ruptured popliteal (Baker) cyst (pseudo-DVT), which causes calf swelling, pain, and sometimes bruising in the region of the medial malleolus Partial or complete tears of the calf muscles or tendons Diagnosis of Deep Venous Thrombosis Ultrasonography Sometimes D-dimer testing History and physical examination help determine probability of DVT before testing (see table Probability of Deep Venous Thrombosis Based on Clinical Factors). Diagnosis is typically by ultrasonography with Doppler flow studies (duplex ultrasonography). The need for additional tests (eg, D-dimer testing) and their choice and sequence depend on pretest probability and sometimes ultrasonography results. No single testing protocol is best; one approach is described in the figure One Approach to Testing for Suspected Deep Venous Thrombosis. 6/14 One Approach to Testing for Suspected Deep Venous Thrombosis CLINICAL CALCULATORS DVT Probability: Wells Score System Ultrasonography 7/14 Doppler Ultrasound of a Patient with a Thrombus in Femoral Vein Ultrasonography identifies thrombi by directly visualizing the venous lining and by demonstrating abnormal vein compressibility or, with Doppler flow studies, impaired venous flow. The test is > 90% sensitive and > 95% specific for femoral and popliteal vein thrombosis but is less accurate for iliac or calf vein thrombosis (1). D-Dimer D-Dimer is a byproduct of fibrinolysis; elevated levels suggest recent presence and lysis of thrombi. D- Dimer assays vary in sensitivity and specificity; however, most are sensitive and not specific. A positive test result is nonspecific because levels can be elevated by other conditions (eg, liver disease, trauma, pregnancy, positive rheumatoid factor, inflammation, recent surgery, cancer), and further testing is necessary. Only the
