Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


result is nonspecific because levels can be elevated by other conditions (eg, liver disease, trauma, pregnancy, positive rheumatoid factor, inflammation, recent surgery, cancer), and further testing is necessary. Only the most accurate tests should be used. For example, a highly sensitive test is enzyme- linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), which has a sensitivity of about 95% (2). D-dimer levels also increase with age, which further decreases the specificity in older patients (3). The Pulmonary Embolism Graduated D-dimer (PEGeD) strategy is a diagnostic approach for pulmonary embolism that adjusts for D-dimer levels according to the patient's clinical pretest probability(4): If pretest probability of DVT is low, DVT can generally be excluded in patients with a D- dimer level < 1000 ng/mL(< 5476 nmol/L) on a sensitive test. If pretest probability of DVT is moderate, DVT can be excluded in patients with a normal D-dimer level (ie, < 500 ng/mL) on a sensitive test. Patients with a positive test require additional testing to rule out DVT. If pretest probability of DVT is high, D-dimer testing can be done at the same time as duplex ultrasonography. A positive ultrasound result confirms the diagnosis regardless of the D-dimer level. If ultrasonography does not reveal evidence of DVT, a normal D-dimer level helps exclude DVT. Patients with an elevated D-dimer level should have repeat 8/14 ultrasonography in a few days or additional imaging, such as venography, depending on clinical suspicion. Additional testing If symptoms and signs suggest PE, additional imaging (eg, CT pulmonary angiography or, less often, ventilation/perfusion [V/Q] scanning) is required. Alternative imaging Contrast-enhanced computed tomographic venography and magnetic resonance venography are other imaging modalities rarely used in the diagnosis of DVT. They are generally reserved for cases in which ultrasonography results are negative or indeterminate and the clinical suspicion for DVT remains high. These imaging tests are less well validated for DVT, are more costly, and may be associated with other complications (eg, related to exposure to radiation and contrast agents). Contrast venography was the definitive test for the diagnosis of DVT in the past but has been largely replaced by ultrasonography, which is noninvasive, more readily available, and almost equally accurate for detecting DVT. Determination of cause Patients with confirmed DVT and an obvious cause (eg, immobilization, surgical procedure, leg trauma) need no further testing. Testing to detect hypercoagulability is controversial but is sometimes done in selected patients who have idiopathic (or unprovoked)
