Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


obvious cause (eg, immobilization, surgical procedure, leg trauma) need no further testing. Testing to detect hypercoagulability is controversial but is sometimes done in selected patients who have idiopathic (or unprovoked) DVT or recurrent DVT, in patients who have a personal or family history of other thromboses, and in young patients with no obvious predisposing factors. Some evidence suggests that testing for the presence of hypercoagulability in patients with or without clinical risk factors does not predict DVT recurrence (5, 6, 7) . Screening patients with DVT for cancer has a low yield. Selective testing guided by complete history and physical examination and basic "routine" tests (complete blood count, chest x-ray, urinalysis, liver enzymes, and serum electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen [BUN], creatinine) aimed at detecting cancer is probably adequate. In addition, patients should have any appropriate cancer screening (eg, mammography, colonoscopy) that is due. Treatment of Deep Venous Thrombosis Anticoagulation Sometimes inferior vena cava filter, thrombolytic therapy, or surgery Treatment is aimed primarily at pulmonary embolism prevention and secondarily at symptom relief and prevention of DVT recurrence, chronic venous insufficiency, and post-thrombotic syndrome. Treatment of lower and upper extremity DVT is generally the same. General supportive measures include pain control with analgesics, which may include short (3- to 5-day) courses of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Extended treatment with NSAIDs and aspirin should be avoided because their antiplatelet effects may increase the risk of bleeding complications. In addition, elevation of legs (supported by a pillow or other soft surface to avoid venous compression) is recommended during periods of inactivity. Patients may be as physically active as they can tolerate; there is no evidence that early activity increases risk of clot dislodgement and PE and may help to reduce the risk of the post-thrombotic syndrome. Anticoagulants (For details on medications and their complications, see Medications for Deep Venous Thrombosis) Almost all patients with DVT are treated with anticoagulants (1, 2). Various anticoagulants are suitable for initial therapy, and the choice of agent is influenced by patient comorbidities (eg, renal dysfunction, cancer), preferences, cost, and convenience. Some patients are initially given an injectable heparin (typically low molecular weight) for 5 to 7 days, followed by longer term treatment with an oral agent. Warfarin, if used, is started within 24 hours after the start of the injectable heparin. Although heparin acts rapidly and provides immediate anticoagulation, warfarin takes about 5 days to achieve a
