Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


if used, is started within 24 hours after the start of the injectable heparin. Although heparin acts rapidly and provides immediate anticoagulation, warfarin takes about 5 days to achieve a therapeutic effect; hence, heparin is required for 5 to 7 days. For patients who are to start edoxaban (an oral factor Xa inhibitor) or dabigatran (an oral direct thrombin inhibitor), the oral agent is started after 5 days of injectable heparin. 10/14 Alternatively, anticoagulation may be initiated immediately with selected direct oral anticoagulants (rivaroxaban or apixaban) without first giving an injectable heparin. Starting rivaroxaban or apixaban without heparin is justified based on results of clinical trials. Fondaparinux, a parenteral factor Xa inhibitor, is sometimes substituted for low molecular weight heparin and can also be used to treat acute DVT. For selected patients (eg, with extensive iliofemoral DVT or cancer), continued treatment with a low- molecular-weight heparin rather than switching to an oral agent may be preferred. Inadequate anticoagulation in the first 24 to 48 hours may increase risk of recurrence or of PE. Acute DVT can be treated on an outpatient basis unless severe symptoms require parenteral analgesics, other disorders preclude safe outpatient discharge, or other factors (eg, functional, socioeconomic) might prevent the patient from adhering to prescribed treatments. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filter An IVC filter may help prevent PE in patients with lower extremity DVT who have contraindications to anticoagulant therapy or in patients with recurrent DVT (or emboli) despite adequate anticoagulation. An IVC filter is placed in the inferior vena cava just below the renal veins via catheterization of an internal jugular or femoral vein. Some IVC filters are removable and can be used temporarily (eg, until contraindications to anticoagulation subside or resolve). IVC filters reduce the risk of acute embolic complications but can have longer-term complications (eg, venous collaterals can develop, providing a pathway for emboli to circumvent the filter) There is also an increased risk of recurrent DVT). Also, IVC filters can dislodge or become obstructed by a clot. Thus, patients with recurrent DVT or nonmodifiable risk factors for DVT may still require anticoagulation despite the presence of an IVC filter. A clotted filter may cause bilateral lower extremity venous congestion (including acute phlegmasia cerulea dolens), lower body ischemia, and acute kidney injury. Treatment for a dislodged filter is removal, using angiographic or, if necessary, surgical methods. Despite widespread use of IVC filters, efficacy in
