Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT)
KEYWORDS: dvt, patients, venous, thrombosis, deep, risk, testing, venous thrombosis, factors, treatment, deep venous, extremity, vein, veins, probability


dolens), lower body ischemia, and acute kidney injury. Treatment for a dislodged filter is removal, using angiographic or, if necessary, surgical methods. Despite widespread use of IVC filters, efficacy in preventing PE is understudied and unproven (3). IVC filters should be removed whenever possible. Thrombolytic (fibrinolytic) therapy Thrombolytic medications, which include alteplase, tenecteplase, and streptokinase, lyse clots and may be more effective than anticoagulation alone in selected patients, but the risk of bleeding is higher than with heparin. Consequently, thrombolytics should be considered only in highly selected patients with DVT. Patients who may benefit from thrombolytics include those < 60 years with extensive iliofemoral DVT who have evolving or existing limb ischemia (eg, phlegmasia cerulea dolens) and do not have risk factors for bleeding (4). Catheter-directed thrombolysis has largely replaced systemic administration when used for DVT. Surgery Surgery is rarely needed. However, thrombectomy, fasciotomy, or both are mandatory for phlegmasia alba dolens or phlegmasia cerulea dolens unresponsive to thrombolytics to try to prevent limb- threatening gangrene. Prognosis for Deep Venous Thrombosis Without adequate treatment, lower extremity DVT has a 3% risk of fatal PE (1, 2); death due to upper extremity DVT is very rare. Risk of recurrent DVT is lowest for patients with transient risk factors (eg, surgery, trauma, temporary immobility) and greatest for patients with persistent risk factors (eg, cancer), idiopathic DVT, or incomplete resolution of past DVT (residual thrombus). A normal D-dimer level obtained after anticoagulation is stopped for 3 to 4 weeks may help predict a relatively low risk of DVT or PE recurrence, more so in women than in men. Risk of venous insufficiency is difficult to predict. Risk factors for post-thrombotic syndrome include proximal thrombosis, recurrent ipsilateral DVT, and 2 body mass index (BMI) ≥ 22 kg/m . It is preferable and safer to prevent DVT than to treat it, particularly in patients who are at high risk. The following modalities are used (for a more complete discussion, see DVT Prevention). Prevention of immobility Prophylactic anticoagulation (eg, low molecular weight heparin, fondaparinux, adjusted- dose warfarin, direct oral anticoagulant) Intermittent pneumatic compression Patients who should not receive anticoagulants may benefit from intermittent pneumatic compression devices, elastic stockings, or both. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filters do not prevent DVT but are sometimes placed in an attempt to prevent PE. An IVC filter may help prevent PE in patients with lower extremity DVT who have contraindications to
