Article
KEYWORDS: cdg, patient, proband, sfibroblasts, fibroblasts, deficiency, ci-deficient, patients, reported, oxphos, figure, glc, variants, glycosylation, performed


similar to the controls. These results suggest that the fibroblasts of our patient show overlap with both PGM1-CDG and CI-deficient ofourpatientshowoverlapwithbothPGM1-CDGandCI-deficientfibroblasts,withmost fibroblasts, with most prominent changes in LPC and PI. prominentchangesinLPCandPI. FFiigguurree4 4.. HHeeaattmmaapp sshhoowwiinnggl liippiiddoommiiccssr reessuultltss..P Prroobbaanndd,,P PGGMM11--CCDDGG( (nn= = 22,,t t= = 22)) aanndd CCII--ddeefificciieenntt ((nn= = 22,, tt= = 22)) fifibbrroobbllaassttss wweerree ccoolllleecctteedd,, aanndd tthheeiirr lilippiiddoommiiccss ccoommppoossiittiioonn ccoommppaarreedd ttoo tthhee hheeaalltthhyy ccoonnttrroolsls( (nn= = 22,, tt == 22)).. TThhee ffoolldd cchhaannggee ((FFCC)) ooff tthhee lliippiiddss ccoommppaarreedd ttoo hheeaalltthhyy ccoonnttrroollss iiss iinnddiiccaatteedd bbyy tthheec coololor,rw, whehreerde adrakrekrecro lcoorloinr diincdaticeastleosw leorwaebru anbduanndceananced alingdh tleirghcotelor rc(oyleolrlo (wye)lhloigwh)e rhaigbhuenrd aabnucen.- dance. 4. Discussion 4. DHisecreu,swseiopnre sentthefirstcasewithdualdiagnosisofCDGandLeighsyndromecaused by(likely)pathogenicvariantsinPGM1andNDUFA13(Figure1). Ontheonehand,the Here, we present the first case with dual diagnosis of CDG and Leigh syndrome clinicalpresentationconsistentwithNDUFA13deficiencyinourpatientincludedglobal caused by (likely) pathogenic variants in PGM1 and NDUFA13 (Figure 1). On the one developmentaldelay,seizures,dystrophy,hearingloss,aLeigh-likeMRIpatternandhigh lactatelevelsinbloodandCSF.Ontheotherhand,PGM1-CDGlike-presentationincluded cluded global developmental delay, seizures, dystrophy, hearing loss, a Leigh-like MRI bifiduvula,elevatedTSHandabnormalglycosylationinblood. Inaddition,ourpatient pattern and high lactate levels in blood and CSF. On the other hand, PGM1-CDG like- hadnoeyeabnormalities,whichwerereportedin11/13ofNDUFA13patients,butare presentation included bifid uvula, elevated TSH and abnormal glycosylation in blood. In lesscommoninPGM1-CDG. addition, our patient had no eye abnormalities, which were reported in 11/13 of NDUFA13 Whilethehomozygousc.1108A>TPGM1varianthasnotbeenreportedsofar,ND- patients , but are less common in PGM1-CDG . UFA13variantc.170GA>3waspreviouslyreportedinsixfamilies,ineitheraheterozygous While the homozygous c.1108A>T PGM1 variant has not been reported so far, orhomozygousstate. Thepatientshomozygousforthec.170G>Avariantpresented NDUFA13 variant c.170GA>3 was previously reported in six families, in either a hetero- withcognitiveimpairmentandtendedtohaveslowerdiseaseprogressioncomparedto zygous or homozygous state . The patients homozygous for the c.170G>A variant pre- individualswithotherpathogenicvariants. Theywerestillaliveatthetimeofthepubli- sented with cognitive impairment and tended to have slower disease progression com- cation,withtheiragesrangingfrom2.6to18years. Unfortunately,ourpatientpassed pared to individuals with other pathogenic variants. They were still alive at the time of awayat16yearsofage,whichmightsuggestamoresevereclinicalpresentationcompared the publication, with their ages ranging from 2.6 to 18 years . Unfortunately, our patient to the reported NDUFA13 individuals with the same homozygous variant. There are severalreportsofpediatricdeathinPGM1-CDG,andtheleadingcauseofdeathinthese compared to the reported NDUFA13 individuals with the same homozygous variant. patientswascardiacarrest. However,ourpatientdidnotshowcardiacinvolvement. There are several reports of pediatric death in PGM1-CDG, and the leading cause of death Giventhepatient’smixedclinicalandbiochemicalpresentation,aswellasearlydeath,we in these patients was cardiac arrest . However, our patient did not show cardiac in- hypothesizebothNDUFA13andPGM1variantswerediseasecausing. To confirm the NDUFA13 and PGM1 deficiency and probe the extent of their bio- early death, we hypothesize both NDUFA13 and PGM1 variants were disease causing. chemical consequences in our patient, we turned to metabolic profiling tools such as To confirm the NDUFA13 and PGM1 deficiency and probe the
