Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, critical, guideline, panel, severe, society, abatacept, pemivibart, evidence, recommendation, diseases, infectious, recommendations, care


IDSA GUIDELINES 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America on the Treatment and Management of COVID-19: Pemivibart for Pre-exposure Prophylaxis, Vilobelimab for Critical Illness, and Abatacept or Infliximab for Severe or Critical Illness Adarsh Bhimraj,1,a, Yngve Falck-Ytter,2,3,aLindsey R. Baden,4,5Roger Bedimo,6, Kelly Cawcutt,7Vincent Chi-Chung Cheng,8Kara W. Chew,9, Kathleen Chiotos,10, Eric S. Daar,11, Amy L. Dzierba,12David V. Glidden,13Erica J. Hardy,14Steven Johnson,15Arthur Y. Kim,4,16Jonathan Z. Li,4,5 Christine MacBrayne,17Greg S. Martin,18, Nandita Nadig,19Mari M. Nakamura,20,21Jeffrey C. Pearson,22Laura Riley,23,24, Robert W. Shafer,25 Shmuel Shoham,26, Amy Hirsch Shumaker,2,3Pablo Tebas,27, Phyllis C. Tien,28Jennifer Loveless,29Rebecca L. Morgan,2,30,band Rajesh T. Gandhi4,16,b 3Department of Medicine, VA Northeast Ohio Healthcare System, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; 4Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; 5Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Canada As the first part of several focused updates to the clinical practice guideline on the treatment and management of COVID-19 in adults, children, and pregnant people, developed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the panel presents four new recommendations. These recommendations include pre-exposure prophylaxis for immunocompromised persons and treatment of severe or critical COVID-19. The panel’s recommendations are based upon evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Keywords. COVID-19; pemivibart; abatacept; infliximab; vilobelimab. those presented here. Early in the pandemic, a panel was convened to create and maintain a living guideline for the treatment and management of COVID-19. Over time, the panel has onboarded new Publication Scope The original guideline used a living guideline model and fol- lowed a rapid recommendation approach . The goals of Received 17 July 2025; editorial decision 18 July 2025; published online 4 August 2025 the recent guideline updates were to incorporate contemporary aThese authors contributed equally to the manuscript. evidence for newly prioritized clinical questions. The scope of bThese authors contributed equally to the manuscript. these focused guideline updates includes pre-exposure prophy- 6560 Fannin St, Ste 1512, Houston, TX 77030, USA (). laxis in immunocompromised persons and treatment of severe © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases adults, and pregnant people were reviewed. for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our Four manuscripts and their corresponding supplementary RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further
