Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, critical, guideline, panel, severe, society, abatacept, pemivibart, evidence, recommendation, diseases, infectious, recommendations, care


for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our Four manuscripts and their corresponding supplementary RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information materials comprise the current guideline updates [2–5]. please contact . Additional guideline updates are forthcoming regarding 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i1 Downloaded from by guest on May antivirals, including their use in pediatrics, and baricitinib ver- and guideline development processes are available in the sup- sus tocilizumab for severe or critical COVID-19. plementary materials for each manuscript. METHODS RESULTS: RECOMMENDATIONS AND REMARKS The panel included clinicians with expertise in adult infectious In moderately or severely immunocompromised persons 12 years or older, diseases, pediatric infectious diseases, critical care medicine, should pemivibart compared to no pemivibart be used for pre-exposure pulmonary medicine, maternal-fetal medicine, microbiology, prophylaxis? pharmacology, and biostatistics. Selected reviewers included Recommendation: In moderately or severely immunocompro- clinicians with expertise in infectious diseases and critical care mised individuals 12 years or older at risk of progression to se- medicine. The pemivibart recommendation has been endorsed vere COVID-19, the IDSA guideline panel suggests by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, the Society of pre-exposure prophylaxis with pemivibart when predominant Infectious Diseases Pharmacists, the Society for Healthcare regional variants are susceptible to the agent (conditional rec- Epidemiology of America, and the Society of Critical Care ommendation, low certainty of evidence). Medicine. The abatacept and infliximab recommendations Remarks: have been endorsed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases • The anticipated benefit is likely greatest in people who are the Society, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and the most immunocompromised because they have the highest Society of Critical Care Medicine. The vilobelimab recommen- risk of inadequate immune response and progression to se- dation has been endorsed by the Society of Infectious Diseases vere disease. See Table 1for examples of individuals with vary- Pharmacists, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of ing degrees of immunosuppression. See Figures 1and 2for America, and the Society of Critical Care Medicine. information from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived (FDA) Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized • The anticipated benefit may be lower in patients aged 12 to methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength 17 years, who have less severe COVID-19 outcomes than of recommendation according to the
