Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, critical, guideline, panel, severe, society, abatacept, pemivibart, evidence, recommendation, diseases, infectious, recommendations, care


be lower in patients aged 12 to methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength 17 years, who have less severe COVID-19 outcomes than of recommendation according to the GRADE approach adults, as reflected by lower rates of hospitalization. . Strong recommendations, indicated by “the panel • As the evidence is based on immunobridging* and circulat- action would apply to most people with few exceptions. laboratory data may impact this recommendation. Conditional recommendations, indicated by “the panel sug- • Patients who place a higher value on potential harms, specif- gests,” are made when the suggested course of action would ap- ically, the observed 0.6% risk of anaphylaxis, and a lower val- ply to the majority of people with many exceptions, and shared ue on the uncertain benefits of prevention of severe decision making is important. Details of the systematic review COVID-19 would reasonably decline pemivibart. Table 1. Broad Categorization of Example Immunocompromised Status based on Medical Condition or Immunosuppressive Treatment Thresholds by which this categorization has been determined have been derived from cohort studies beginning in the omicron era of COVID-19. However, this may not be representative of currently evolving variants. The risk of progression to severe COVID-19 is a continuum influenced by various factors, including the degree of immunosuppression. The categorization of risk and the examples provided in the table are illustrative, based on a few studies, and are not exhaustive or a thorough list of all conditions . Risk Category Example Health Condition Example Therapeutics Higher risk • Stem cell transplant <2 years • B-cell depleting agents in past 12 months (eg, rituximab, ofatumumab, immunocompromised • Graft versus host disease, grade 3 or 4 ocrelizumab) patients • Hematological malignancy on therapy • CAR-T therapy in past 12 months • Lung transplant • Abatacept • Fewer than 1% peripheral B-cells assessed in past 6 months Moderate risk • Solid organ transplant other than the lung • Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (eg, ibrutinib, acalabrutinib) immunocompromised • Solid tumor on treatment • High-dose corticosteroids (≥20 mg prednisone or equivalent for patients • Congenital agammaglobulinemia >4 wks) • Graft versus host disease, grade 1 or 2 • Anthracycline derivates • HIV infection with CD4 <200 cells/mm3 • Other severe primary immunodeficiency Lower risk • HIV infection with CD4 >200 cells/mm3 • Anti-TNF immunocompromised • Inflammatory bowel disease • Anti-IL-6 patients • Cirrhosis • Anti-IL-12 and -23 • ESRD • Corticosteroids ≤10 mg
