Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, critical, guideline, panel, severe, society, abatacept, pemivibart, evidence, recommendation, diseases, infectious, recommendations, care


available, the IDSA guideline panel sug- SpO ≤94% on room air, including patients on supplemental gests abatacept rather than no abatacept (conditional recom- oxygen, who are worsening despite treatment with systemic mendation, low certainty of evidence). glucocorticoids. 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i3 Downloaded from by guest on May Figure 2. FDA EUA Criteria for the use of pemivibart for pre-exposure prophylaxis of COVID-19 (Pemivibart FDA EUA) . **Critical illness is defined as patients requiring high-flow Healthcare Epidemiology of America, Society of Critical nasal cannula oxygen/non-invasive ventilation or invasive me- Care Medicine, and Drs. Judith Aberg, Roy Gulick, Annie chanical ventilation or ECMO. Luetkemeyer, and John O’Horo, as well as Drs. Robin Colgrove, Nicolás Cortés-Penfield, Mary Healy, and Sharon In adults hospitalized with critical COVID-19, should vilobelimab Weissman on behalf of the IDSA Standards & Practice compared to no vilobelimab be added to standard care? Guidelines Subcommittee. Recommendation: In hospitalized adults with critical Drs. Adarsh Bhimraj and Rajesh T. Gandhi are the chair and COVID-19 requiring mechanical ventilation or ECMO, the vice chair of the panel, respectively. The Immunocompromised IDSA guideline panel recommends vilobelimab only in the subgroup, under the leadership of Dr. Arthur Kim, led the context of a clinical trial (knowledge gap). development of the pemivibart recommendation and associat- ed remarks. The Hospitalized Patients subgroup, under the RESEARCH NEEDS leadership of Dr. Nandita Nadig, led the development of the abatacept, infliximab, and vilobelimab recommendations. More data on the efficacy of pre-exposure prophylaxis, specif- Remaining panelists assisted with interpretation of data, as ically in vaccinated or previously infected immunocompro- well as drafting, revising, and approving the recommendations mised individuals who have received COVID-19 vaccines, are and manuscript. Drs. Yngve Falck-Ytter, and Rebecca Morgan, needed. Head-to-head comparisons of baricitinib, tocilizumab, methodologists, were responsible for designing and performing abatacept, and infliximab in patients with severe, rapidly pro- the data analyses and leading the panel according to the gressing COVID-19 and critical COVID-19 would be informa- GRADE process. Jennifer Loveless, methodologist, was respon- tive. In patients already receiving systemic corticosteroids, it is sible for project planning and management, including revisions uncertain whether a combination of two or more immuno- to and final approval of the recommendations and manuscript. modulatory agents (ie, baricitinib, tocilizumab, abatacept, in- Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines can- fliximab) offers additional mortality or recovery benefits. not always account for individual variation
