Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, critical, guideline, panel, severe, society, abatacept, pemivibart, evidence, recommendation, diseases, infectious, recommendations, care


manuscript. modulatory agents (ie, baricitinib, tocilizumab, abatacept, in- Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines can- fliximab) offers additional mortality or recovery benefits. not always account for individual variation among patients. Additional studies are needed to assess the efficacy of abatacept, They are assessments of current scientific and clinical informa- infliximab, and vilobelimab when given to patients already re- tion provided as an educational service; are not continually up- ceiving systemic corticosteroids and baricitinib or tocilizumab. dated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted Notes and when it is published or read); should not be considered in- Acknowledgments. The expert panel acknowledges the work clusive of all proper methods of care, or as a statement of the well as Drs. Scott Dryden-Peterson, Emmy Rubin, Alyssa and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with re- Letourneau, and Ann Woolley for creating an early version of spect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow the risk stratification table. The panel also acknowledges the guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate de- following organizations and selected reviewers for their review termination regarding their application to be made by the cli- of the draft manuscripts: Pediatric Infectious Diseases nician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. Society, Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists, Society for While IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, complete, i4 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Bhimraj et al Downloaded from by guest on May and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as is” following panelists have scientific advisory/consultant roles not without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its related to the topic of COVID-19 with indicated companies: R. officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) assume no B. with Shionogi, Merck, and Gilead, E. S. D. with Gilead, D. responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any V. G. with Merck and Gilead, S. S. with Pfizer (concluded), P. liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential T. with Merck, and R. T. G. with Merck. The following panelists damages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reli- have scientific advisory/consultant roles related to COVID-19 ance on the information presented. but not severe/critical COVID-19 with indicated companies: lines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any (concluded), and P. T. with Shionogi. J. C. P. had a scientific
