[ ]
KEYWORDS: cough, reflux, chronic, patients, chronic cough, placebo, studies, syndrome, therapy, gerd, study, results, reflux-cough, cid, symptoms


a day on 4 or more days of the week. NottakinganACEinhibitor Similarly, from the perspective of a primary care Chestradiographisnormalorshowsnothingmorethan population, El-Serag et al9 accessed data from the UK stableinconsequentialscarring Symptomaticasthmahasbeenruledout:coughhas general practice research database and found that notimprovedwithasthmatherapyormethacholine patientswithanewdiagnosisofGERDhadanincreased inhalationchallengeisnegative likelihood (OR, 1.7; CI, 1.4-2.1) of subsequently being UACSduetorhinosinusdiseaseshasbeenruledout: diagnosedwithcoughinthenext12months.Examined first-generationH -antagonisthasbeenusedand fromtheoppositeperspective,across-sectionalsurveyof coughfailedtoimprove,and“silent”sinusitishas beenruledout 4,003 residents of West Yorkshire, England aged 40 to Nonasthmaticeosinophilicbronchitishasbeenruled 49 years found that 12% reported chronic cough and out:properlyperformedinducedsputumanalysis that regurgitation was a strong predictor of cough (OR, studiesarenegative,orcoughhasnotimprovedwith 1.71;99%CI,1.20-2.45).10Otherstudiesofpatientswith inhaled/systemiccorticosteroids chronic cough conclude that reflux is a contributing ACE¼angiotensin-convertingenzyme;GER¼gastroesophagealreflux; factor in 0% to 41% of cases referred to specialty cough UACS¼upperairwaycoughsyndrome. journal.publications.chestnet.org 1343 substantial improvement in cough with therapy for characterized as having a major internal contradiction. GER, and the spectrum of that therapy includes On the one hand, there is strong evidence of biological antireflux surgery, a fundamentally irreversible and plausibilitythatareflux-coughsyndromeexistsandthat potentiallymorbidintervention.Hence,itisdesirableto there is therapeutic efficacy for reflux disease have prospective criteria for reflux-cough patient interventionswhenjudgedretrospectively.Ontheother the approach advocated in the 2006 ACCP cough domain such that attempts by Chang et al16,17 to guideline of predicting reflux-cough syndrome by a establish the efficacy of medical antireflux therapy for clinical profile aimed at excluding other potential suspected reflux-induced cough concluded that there chronic cough causes (Table 1).18 Based on post hoc wasnoefficacy.Kahrilasetal11lookedatthetherapeutic analyses of four before-and-after intervention studies trial data a little differently, attempting to identify along with two small prospective before-and-after subgroups of patients with objective evidence of reflux estimated to be 91% predictive that a patient’s cough there was some indication (albeit not robust) of wouldrespondtoantirefluxtreatment,evenwhenthere therapeutic efficacy. It is from this background that the were no GI symptoms.18 Expert Cough Panel endeavored to update the CHEST evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for chronic As is evident from the preceding discussion, the cough due to reflux in adults. literature on reflux-cough syndrome can be Methods search results were independently evaluated by two reviewers (P. J. K. and R. S. I.) to identify potentially relevant articles. The full ChestPhysicians(CHEST)GuidelineOversightCommitteetoselect reviewers (P. J. K. and R. S. I.) independently reviewed all the Expert Cough Panel Chair and the International Panel of retrieved studies. A third reviewer was available to adjudicate any Experts to perform a systematic review and synthesis of evidence disagreements. and to develop recommendations and practice management suggestions.19 After generating the key clinical questions for this QualityAssessment systematic review, population, intervention,
