[ ]
KEYWORDS: cough, reflux, chronic, patients, chronic cough, placebo, studies, syndrome, therapy, gerd, study, results, reflux-cough, cid, symptoms


perform a systematic review and synthesis of evidence disagreements. and to develop recommendations and practice management suggestions.19 After generating the key clinical questions for this QualityAssessment systematic review, population, intervention, comparison, outcome Included articles underwent methodological assessment. For the (PICO) elements were derived to inform the literature review. The randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quality assessment was carried questions were formulated after polling the existing writing group out with the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool20 if the following criteria for key clinical questions related to chronic cough due to GERD. weremet:(1)studyexcludedothercommoncausesofchroniccough This returned a list of 20 questions that were then synthesized into twoPICO questions that were sufficiently broad to capture most of (asthma, upper airway cough syndrome [UACS]) by adequate workup and (2) included patients both with and without additional the detail from those 20 questions. The resultant PICO questions symptoms of GERD or laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR), or both, or thatformedthebasisofthesubsequentsystematicreviewarestated included patients with and without additional test results suggestive inTable2. of GERD or LPR, or both. For observational studies, quality LiteratureSearch assessmentwasdonewiththeCochraneRiskofBiasToolforcohort studies.21 The methods used for this systematic review conformed to those outlined in the article “Methodologies for the Development of CHEST Guidelines and Expert Panel Reports.”19 Systematic PracticeRecommendations/Suggestions reviews and clinical trials were identified from searches of The findings of this systematic review were used to support electronic databases (Ovid Medline, and EMBASE) commencing the evidence-graded recommendations or suggestions. A structured from the earliest available date until May 2015. A search of the consensus-based Delphi approach was used to provide Cochrane database returned 82 articles, eight of which were expert advice on guidance statements. In this regard, for a sufficiently relevant for full text review; however, none met criteria recommendation or suggestion to be approved by the Expert for inclusion in this review. The reference lists of retrieved articles Cough Panel, 75% of the eligible panel members had to vote, and were examined for additional citations. The search terms used 80% of those voting had to strongly agree or agree with the were (“Gastroesophageal Reflux” [MeSH] OR GERD OR GORD statement.19 Quality assessment also included grading the OR reflux OR gastroesophageal reflux disease OR reflux strengthofrecommendationsbasedon consideration ofthe balance esophagitis OR nonerosive reflux disease OR NERD) AND of benefits to harms, patient values and preferences, and the (“Proton Pump Inhibitors” [MeSH] OR PPI OR omeprazole OR quality of the evidence supporting the recommendation.19 Harms lansoprazole OR pantoprazole
