[ ]
KEYWORDS: cough, reflux, chronic, patients, chronic cough, placebo, studies, syndrome, therapy, gerd, study, results, reflux-cough, cid, symptoms


in a PPI trial selecting Table 3, most of these RCTs focused on patient patients with a “reflux-related cough” defined by populations other than “adult patients with more than symptomsincludingcoughonphonationoronbending an8-weekhistoryofrefractorychroniccough”intended in association with food and eating with or without in PICO question #1; most commonly, these were LPR heartburn.Thosecriteriahavenotbeenvalidated,giving studies. This attribute severely limited the external this an uncertain risk of bias. Although heavy voice use validityofthefindingswhenappliedtotheadultpatient has been implicated as a cough-provoking irritant, populationwithchroniccough.Table5summarizesour phonation stimulates upper esophageal sphincter analysis of external validity considerations, internal contraction, arguing against reflux being the operant validity considerations, and risk of bias for the studies mechanism for that.37 Hence, overall we found no described in Table 3. Note that the limitations of studies(positiveornegative)pertinenttoPICOquestion external and internal validity are such that we could #1 with a low risk of bias. noitacfiitnedI gnineercS ytilibigilE dedulcnI 1,870 records identified through 0 additional records identified database searches via Ovid Medline through other sources (n = 376) Embase (n = 1,494) 1,502 records excluded (n = 541 were excluded on the basis of irrelevant 1,516 records screened titles and 119 on the basis of being relevant to pediatrics, 842 were not relevant to PICO 1) 14 full-text articles 0 full-text articles assessed for eligibility excluded, with reasons 14 studies included in qualitative synthesis Figure1–PreferredReportingItemsforSystematicReviewsandMeta-Analyses(PRISMA)flowdiagramforkeyquestion1:Cantherapyintendedto treatgastroesophagealrefluximproveoreliminatecoughinadultswithrefractorychroniccough?PICO¼population,intervention,comparison, outcome. [ ] 1346 Evidence-BasedMedicine 150#6 CHEST DECEMBER 2016 1,523 records after duplicates removed chronic cough is likely to respond to therapy for regarding the study outcomes: (1) an algorithmic gastroesophageal reflux? approach to patient management resolved the cause of chronic cough in 82% to 100% of instances among Among the 14 studies identified that potentially studies; (2) regardless of approach or extent of addressed the question of clinically profiling patients evaluation, cough variant asthma and UACS due to a withlikelyreflux-coughsyndrome,38-51nonefulfilledall variety of rhinosinus conditions were consistently PICO criteria in that none of the trials were controlled. among the most common causes of chronic cough; and Rather, they all reported on the success of an (3) the reported prevalence of GERD as a cause or uncontrolled diagnostic/therapeutic algorithm for contributingfactortochroniccoughvariedwidelyfrom patients with chronic cough. Consequently, all of them 2% to 86%. Hence, although the message is clear with had a high risk of bias and could not be used to make respect to UACS and cough variant asthma, it is rather practice recommendations. Additionally, it should be murky with respect to GERD.
