Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


the binding of the CD associated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2/DQ8 haplotypes with T-lymphocytes, activating an autoimmune response [1–3]. A lifelong strict gluten-free diet (GFD) is the only available treatment for CD. Adherence to GFD leads to regression of symptoms, normalization of histological and laboratory findings and reduces the risk of CD associated complications . Within the range of gluten-free foods, a distinction must be made between those that are naturally gluten-free and those that are made gluten-free through a process of purification. There are several foods that are naturally gluten-free, such as rice, corn, potatoes and a number of different grains, seeds and legumes. Historically, rice, corn and potatoes have been the first natural substitutes for gluten-containing grains. Today, a number of different grains, including pseudo-cereals, offer increased variety, improved palatability to GFD and are a good source of carbohydrates, protein, dietary fiber, vitamins and polyunsaturated fatty acids . The commercially available gluten-free (GF) products are processed foods purified of gluten. The elimination of this storage protein inevitably alters the macro- and micro-nutrient composition, thus the nutritional value. First, wheat is not only a major source of protein, but also of iron, folates and B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin and niacin); in fact, GF products are often low in these nutrients, as opposed to their gluten containing equivalents [7–9]. The various gluten-free and gluten containing foods are listed in Table 1. Table 1. Gluten-free and gluten containing cereals and other foods. Gluten-Free Cereals Gluten Containing Cereals Cereals and minor cereals Corn Rice Wheat Sorghum Barley Oats * Rye Teff Kamut Millet Malt Pseudo-cereals Triticale Amaranth Quinoa Buckwheat Vegetable foods Bread Vegetables Pasta Fruits Snacks Nuts Biscuits Nutrients 2013, 5 4555 Table 1. Cont. Other plant foods Potatoes All foods produced with any of Tapioca the gluten containing cereals Soybean mentioned above. Numerous Vegetable oils foods available in supermarkets Animal foods and grocery stores, including meat Dairy products products, sweets and beer, Egg contain gluten. Meat Fish * Controversial; see paragraph on oats. 1.1. Macronutrients Studies show that gluten-free products (GFPs) often have a greater carbohydrate and lipid content than their gluten containing equivalents [10–13]. Segura et al. analyzed the nutritional composition of a range of GF breads and found that these are starchy-based foods with a high glycemic index (estimated between 83.3 and 96.1 vs. 71 for white wheat flour bread), with low protein and high fat content . With
