Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


these are starchy-based foods with a high glycemic index (estimated between 83.3 and 96.1 vs. 71 for white wheat flour bread), with low protein and high fat content . With regards to lipid content and composition, Caponio et al. showed that commercially available GF biscuits are richer in saturated fatty acids compared to the gluten containing taken into account, because the limited choice of food products in the diet of children with CD induces a high consumption of packaged GFPs, such as snacks and biscuits. 1.2. Micronutrients and Minerals It has been shown that some commercially available GFPs have a lower content of folates, iron and B vitamins or are not consistently enriched/fortified compared to their gluten containing counterparts [7–9]. Thompson conducted two studies on US commercially available GFPs. The author analyzed the folate, iron and B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin and niacin) composition of these products and compared them with the composition of their gluten containing counterparts, finding that GFPs were significantly lower in folates, iron and B vitamins. 1.3. Dietary Fiber Some studies have reported that GFD is associated with a lower intake of dietary fiber than a standard gluten containing diet . A study conducted in the USA on adults showed that the diet of CD patients on GFD was low in fiber intake . This phenomenon is likely to be related to the composition of many GF foods made with starches and/or refined flours with low content in fiber. In fact, during the refining process, the outer layer of grain containing most of the fiber is removed, leaving only the starchy inner layer. Nutrients 2013, 5 4556 2. Nutritional Imbalances in Children with Celiac Disease Following a GFD Studies conducted in adults and children show that approximately 20%–38% of patients with CD have nutritional complications, such as calorie/protein imbalance, dietary fiber, mineral and vitamin deficiencies [16–19]. These complications may be encountered both at diagnosis and during follow-up, whilst on GFD . At diagnosis, the deficiencies are often secondary to nutrient malabsorption due to mucosal damage. Studies show that the more pronounced the villous atrophy, the greater the nutritional deficiencies, with lower levels of iron, copper, folate, vitamin B-12 and zinc . For CD patients on GFD, the nutritional complications are likely to be caused by the poor nutritional quality of the GFPs mentioned above and by the incorrect alimentary choices of CD patients. The most common nutritional
