Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


0.008). Furthermore, a significant difference in fat intake was observed between the two groups (10.21 + 3.15 g per 100 g of food in CD group vs. 7.46 + 2.91 g/100 g in control group, p = 0.004). 3. Effects of Gluten-Free Diet on Anthropometric Parameters The scientific literature on anthropometric parameters in children with CD on GFD provide contrasting data. On the one hand, there is evidence that good compliance with GFD is associated with a positive effect on anthropometric parameters, including: the reduction of fat and the recovery of lean body mass , normalization of body mass index (BMI) in both previously underweight and overweight subjects and acceleration of linear growth . A study conducted in children with CD and obesity at diagnosis showed a significant reduction in BMI after 12 months of GFD . Another study conducted by Brambilla et al. found a lower frequency of being overweight and of obesity in children with CD, both at diagnosis and during GFD, compared to healthy controls . Even though the frequency of being overweight and of obesity in the CD group increased on GFD, it remained lower than observed in the general population. On the other hand, there are also studies that suggest that GFD may have a negative effect on body composition and anthropometric parameters in subjects with CD . Mariani et al. first reported Nutrients 2013, 5 4558 the high prevalence of being overweight and of obesity in CD adolescents on GFD; the authors found that more than 50% of CD adolescents were overweight during GFD. However, in the latter paper, the authors used a relative body weight >110%, rather than BMI, to define being overweight, probably leading to an overestimation of being overweight. Furthermore, a study conducted by Valletta et al. showed that the frequency of being overweight in children with CD was nearly doubled after one year of GFD . Potential explanations for the undesirable weight gain and obesity observed in these studies are possible overfeeding as the intestinal mucosa heals, consumption of less complex carbohydrates and fiber and more sugars, proteins and saturated fats in GFD. The conflicting data may in part be caused by differences in the timing of anthropometric assessment. Many children with CD, after introduction of GFD, may initially gain excessive weight and only thereafter start to show catch-up growth and normalization of weight. Even though the effect of GFD
