Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


and micro-nutrient point of view. In fact, these foods are considered to have a higher nutritional value in terms of energy provision, lipid composition and vitamin content as opposed to the commercially purified GF products. Within the range of naturally GF foods, it is preferable to consume those rich in iron and folic acid, such as leafy vegetables, legumes, fish and meat. During explanation of naturally GF foods to patients, it is a good approach for healthcare professionals to bear in mind the local food habits and recipes of each country. This may provide tailored dietary advice, improving acceptance and compliance to GFD. Furthermore, increasing awareness on the availability of the local naturally GF foods may help promote their consumption, resulting in a more balanced and economically advantageous diet. Indeed, these aspects should always be addressed during dietary counseling. With regards to the commercially purified GFPs, it is recommended to pay special attention to the labeling and chemical composition. In European countries, the currently accepted definition of GF is the one designed by Codex Alimentarius (the gluten-free certification organization, 2007) . The term “gluten-free” refers only to foods containing less than 20 ppm of gluten. In addition, the claim “very low gluten” is used for foods, such as bread, produced using cereals that have been specially processed to remove most of the gluten and containing less than 30 mg daily. Furthermore, some GFPs are enriched/fortified with vitamins and/or minerals, thus the choice of these products is preferred, to prevent the deficiencies associated with GFD, mentioned above. Clear labeling of GFPs and education of CD patients on how to interpret them is fundamental to helping CD subjects make safer and more informed food choices. 4.4. Pseudo-Cereals and Minor-Cereals Pseudo-cereals, such as amaranth, quinoa and buckwheat, and other minor cereals represent a healthy alternative to frequently used ingredients in gluten-free products. They are a good source of carbohydrates, protein, dietary fiber, vitamins and polyunsaturated fatty acids . In fact, the fiber content in these grains ranges from seven to 10 g/100 g , which is higher compared to those of other plant foods and cereals and approximately the same as the content in wheat (fiber 9.5 g/100 g). Furthermore, they are a valid source of protein, as their content is superior to that of wheat in terms of the quantity and quality of proteins: in particular, lysine, arginine, histidine, methionine and cysteine
