Nutrients 2013, 5, 4553-4565; doi:
KEYWORDS: gfd, nutritional, children, foods, diet, gluten-free, intake, fiber, dietary, content, gluten, gfps, iron, compared, protein


valid source of protein, as their content is superior to that of wheat in terms of the quantity and quality of proteins: in particular, lysine, arginine, histidine, methionine and cysteine can be found in high amounts . Although the lipid content of pseudo-cereals is higher compared to other plant foods, they are characterized by a higher content of unsaturated fatty acids, in particular, α-linolenic acid , beneficial for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. In addition, higher concentrations of folic acid have been found in quinoa (78.1 μg/100 g) and amaranth (102 μg/100 g) with respect to wheat (40 μg/100 g). Furthermore, both amaranth and quinoa are also good sources of riboflavin, vitamin C and vitamin E . In addition, pseudo-cereals permit a wider variety of foods, broadening the choice for CD children when selecting foods. Under the economic point of view, these grains offer a less expensive alternative with respect to standard gluten-free choices; also, this aspect could help increase dietary compliance by reducing the economic burden of the diet . The nutritional advantages of pseudo-cereals are listed in Table 3. Nutrients 2013, 5 4560 Table 3. Nutritional advantages of pseudo-cereals (amaranth, buckwheat and quinoa). Nutritional Characteristics of Amaranth, Buckwheat and Quinoa High fiber content, 7–10 g/100 g, approximately the same as wheat fiber 9.5 g/100 g. High protein content, 10.9%–15.2% of dry mass vs. 11.7% of dry mass in wheat. High quality amino acids: lysine, arginine, histidine, methionine and cysteine. Source of unsaturated fatty acids, in particular, α-linolenic acid. High content of folic acid: quinoa and amaranth, 78.1 µg/100 g and 102 µg/100 g, respectively, vs. 40 µg/100 g in wheat. Source of vitamins: B2, B6, riboflavin, vitamin C and E. Source of minerals: the content is twice as high as in other cereals. 4.5. Oats The inclusion of oats in the GFD has been, for many years, and still is a matter of debate, because it was thought that avenin (the storage protein found in oats) was also toxic to CD patients. Moreover, attention has been focused on the issue of the frequent cross-contamination of oats with gluten-containing grains. Studies have demonstrated that when consumed in moderation, oats free from cross-contamination are well tolerated by most children . Under the nutritional point of view, oats represent a good source of iron, dietary fiber, thiamin and zinc and, in addition, have a good palatability . A study conducted by
