Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


Key laboratory parameters to monitor during treatment include renin concentration (RC) or plasma renin activity (PRA)—which should be maintained within the mid to upper limit of normal levels—as well as serum sodium and potassium levels. An elevated RC or PRA in an asymptomatic, normotensive patient does not typically require dose adjustment. Clinical signs of under-replacement may include salt craving, orthostatic hypotension, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia. Conversely, a suppressed RC or PRA, particularly in the presence of hypertension, edema, hypernatremia, or hypokalemia, may indicate overtreatment and warrant a reduction in the mineralocorticoid dose ( 13 , 15 , 18 , 19 ). One of the challenges in treating PAI in elderly patients is when they have concomitant hypertension. In such cases, the fludrocortisone dose should be reduced by 50%, and the use of ACE inhibitors or ARBs is preferred for uncontrolled hypertension. Thiazide diuretics should be avoided, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) are contraindicated ( 25 ). Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (AAI) in the Elderly Severe glucocorticoid (GC) and/or mineralocorticoid deficiency may result in volume depletion, hypotension, shock, and severe electrolyte disturbances. Although the exact mechanism is unclear, the incidence of AAI increases with age, especially in the seventh decade, due to a higher prevalence of acute or subacute illnesses. Cognitive disorders and social isolation can also contribute by leading to poorer adherence to replacement therapy. Infections, particularly bacterial, are common triggers ( 13 , 26 ). Some of AAI symptoms include generalized weakness, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, pain (abdominal, extremities, back), lightheadedness, syncope, and confusion. Typically, elderly patients present with more subtle symptoms compared to younger people. As a result, diagnosis may be delayed, increasing the risk of hospitalization. Some studies have identified higher admission rates for all forms of AI in patients over the age of 70. Adrenal crisis admission rates specifically increased in males above age 70, but there was no corresponding age-related increase in adrenal crisis admission rates among women. However, primary AI admission rates were higher in females than in males regardless of age ( 27 ). Mortality of acute adrenal insufficiency in the general population is approximately 3–6% ( 25 , 26 , 28 – 30 ). Possible signs include hypotension (SBP less than 100 mmHg), dehydration, shock, altered mental status, and in primary AI, hyperpigmentation. Laboratory abnormalities can reveal hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hypercalcemia, metabolic acidosis, hypoglycemia, altered cellular immunity (neutropenia, eosinophilia, lymphocytosis), and mild normocytic anemia
