Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


≥5 mm in any dimension, and the presence of Cushing syndrome in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension (HTN), or cardiovascular disease. Surgery may also be indicated if there is clinical or biochemical progression. During the first 5 years, annual biochemical monitoring is recommended, including a post–1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (DST) serum cortisol level, serum DHEA-S, and plasma or urinary metanephrines ( 40 ). CUSHING SYNDROME (CS) The incidence of endogenous hypercortisolism is low in the elderly. Adrenal ACTH-independent hypercortisolism is the most common cause in this age group. Less common causes include ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors (EAS), typically due to small-cell lung carcinoma, and ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma ( 42 – 44 ). Regardless of etiology, clinical presentation of hypercortisolism is generally less severe in older (>65 years) populations, with significantly lower BMI and waist circumference, higher prevalence of hypertension and diabetes, fewer psychiatric symptoms, fewer skin manifestations, and less hirsutism and hair loss in females ( 42 ). EAS, though it is characterized by marked hypercortisolism, often presents with more nonspecific symptoms such as weight loss, constitutional symptoms, hypokalemia, hypertension, and immunosuppression. Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is very rare in the elderly, with an incidence of 0.2–2 cases per million. When present, it is more often associated with virilizing features such as hirsutism or baldness, as well as constitutional symptoms ( 15 ). Aging and Diagnostic Testing Precision Dexamethasone suppression test (DST): Aging can affect serum cortisol levels after the 1 mg DST due to the presence of associated comorbidities. In individuals over 65 years of age, false-positive results may occur, often related to factors such as weight loss or sleep deprivation. Additionally, 35–58% of patients with conditions such as depression, schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or alcoholism (particularly during the acute withdrawal phase) may fail to suppress cortisol after the nocturnal DST, leading to false-positive results. In healthy individuals, age, sex, body mass index (BMI), moderate alcohol intake, and smoking do not affect the results of the DST. Salivary cortisol and circadian rhythm: Salivary cortisol has high sensitivity and specificity (∼97%). In healthy individuals, test results are not significantly related to age, BMI, or sleep deprivation. 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC): The sensitivity of UFC in the evaluation of CS is 95–100%, and its specificity is 94–98%. UFC is not altered by age, sex, or BMI ( 45 ). Other testing modalities: Limitations of DST and cortisol analyses have
