Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


CS is 95–100%, and its specificity is 94–98%. UFC is not altered by age, sex, or BMI ( 45 ). Other testing modalities: Limitations of DST and cortisol analyses have led to proposals for new diagnostic modalities for hypercortisolism. Though not available in clinical practice, markers of circadian rhythm disruption, including clock gene expression or immune profiling of mononuclear cells, may someday contribute to assessment of hypercortisolism ( 45 , 46 ). Mild Autonomous Cortisol Secretion (MACS) MACS, also referred to as subclinical Cushing’s, is the most common hormonal abnormality related to adrenal incidentaloma ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Differences Between MACS and Mild Cushing Syndrome (CS) View in own window MACS Mild CS Sex Slightly more prevalent in females More prevalent in females Age at diagnosis Typically >50 years Typically <50 years Diagnosis circumstances Incidental finding Radiological test leading to hormonal evaluation Radiological test leading to hormonal evaluation Cause Usually due to adrenal adenoma Usually due to pituitary adenoma Clinical features One or more characteristics of metabolic syndrome No cushingoid features One or more specific cushingoid features (mild to moderate intensity) Biochemical characteristics Abnormal DST Typically UFC and midnight salivary cortisol are normal ACTH level can be decreased Abnormal DST Normal to slightly elevated UFC. Typically, midnight salivary cortisol is elevated Variable ACTH level Disease course Rarely progresses to overt CS Possible Adrenal Insufficiency after adrenalectomy Tends to progress to overt CS + Adrenal Insufficiency after adrenalectomy MACS is typically diagnosed after an adrenal incidentaloma is detected, or less frequently, a pituitary adenoma. There is an absence of classic Cushingoid features, but the key characteristic is its association with metabolic disturbances such as HTN, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes, weight gain, clinical evidence of atherosclerosis, and osteoporosis with fractures ( 35 – 37 ). More recently, MACS has also been linked to a higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation ( 47 ). MACS is characterized by being ACTH-independent . In individuals over 50 years of age, the most common cause is an adrenal adenoma. Though patients with MACS may have increased 24-hour urine cortisol, a comparison of serum cortisol in patients with vs without MACS over a 24-hour period suggests that MACS may be characterized more by loss in diurnal cortisol variability rather than increase in cumulative cortisol exposure ( 48 ). The specificity and sensitivity of available functional tests vary widely. Results may be influenced by coexisting illnesses—particularly common
