Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


is mild, its persistence can lead to changes associated with premature aging (frailty) and increased mortality. For instance, patients over 65 years of age have demonstrated worse general health indicators compared to those with non-functioning adrenal adenomas ( 35 – 37 ). CONSEQUENCES OF GLUCOCORTICOID TREATMENT IN THE ELDERLY Glucocorticoid therapy is the most common cause of CS in the elderly, as it is frequently prescribed for a variety of medical conditions. In this population, side effects tend to be more pronounced and may exacerbate preexisting comorbidities. The primary adverse effects in elderly patients are neuropsychiatric, including cognitive impairment, memory loss, emotional instability, dysphoria, depression, mania, delirium, confusion, and disorientation. Additionally, glucocorticoid use increases the risk of infections, often presenting with fewer and less specific symptoms. The musculoskeletal system is commonly affected, with complications such as muscle loss, myopathy, decreased bone mineral density, osteoporosis, and an increased risk of fractures. Metabolic side effects include glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and the development or worsening of diabetes mellitus. Prednisone doses exceeding 10 mg/day for more than two weeks significantly increase the risk of HPA axis suppression, potentially leading to adrenal insufficiency, particularly in the context of a concomitant illness. Nevertheless, suppression is variable depending on multiple factors. To minimize adverse effects, it is recommended to use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration, reassess the need for glucocorticoid therapy periodically, and monitor closely for side effects that may require intervention ( 55 ). ADRENOCORTICAL CARCINOMA (ACC) It is a rare malignancy, with an incidence of approximately 1–2 cases per million people per year. It can occur at any age but is most commonly diagnosed between 50 and 70 years of age. The prognosis is generally poor at the time of diagnosis, as local or systemic invasion is often present ( Table 2 ). Patients older than 60 have a significantly worse prognosis than younger patients, regardless of tumor grade/stage/metastases. Older patients are significantly less likely to receive surgery or chemotherapy, but prognosis is worse for older patients even in those who receive treatment ( 56 ). Furthermore, recurrence occurs in more than 60% of cases even after complete surgical resection. However, when diagnosed at an early stage, the disease may follow a more favorable course ( 57 – 59 ). Table 2. Comparison between the 2017 8 th edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system and
