Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


follow a more favorable course ( 57 – 59 ). Table 2. Comparison between the 2017 8 th edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system and the 2015 modified European Network for the Study of Adrenal Tumors (mENSAT) staging system for adrenocortical carcinoma and average 5-year survival. View in own window AJCC mENSAT 5-year survival Stage I T1N0M0 T1N0M0 81% Stage II T2N0M0 T2N0M0 61% Stage III AnyTN1M0 T3-4N0M0 T3-4N0M0 50% Stage IV AnyTanyNM1 13% IVa AnyTN1M0, anyTanyNM1 (≤ 2 organs including N) IVb AnyTanyNM 1 (= 3 organs including N) IVc AnyTanyNM 1 (> 3 organs including N) T 1 : ≤5 cm confined to the adrenal, T 2 : >5 cm confined to the adrenal, T 3 : any size, local soft tissue invasion, T 4 : any size, adjacent organ invasion, or major vein tumor thrombus; N0: absence of positive lymph node, N1: at least one positive lymph node; M0: absence of distant metastases, and M1: presence of distant metastases. Approximately 50–60% of patients exhibit hormone hypersecretion, most commonly involving cortisol and androgens, which may be secreted simultaneously. Less frequently, excess production of estrogens or mineralocorticoids can be observed. In some cases, steroid precursors or estradiol (even in men) may also be produced. It is usually diagnosed: 1) during the evaluation of Cushing’s syndrome, hyperandrogenism, or primary hyperaldosteronism; 2) during the treatment of an abdominal mass with associated symptoms; or 3) in the evaluation of an adrenal incidentaloma. Functional evaluation of ACC involves hormonal determinations and imaging tests: Excess of glucocorticoids (minimum ¾ tests required): 1 mg DST, 24h urinary free cortisol, basal cortisol, and basal ACTH. Sex steroids and steroid precursors: Plasma DHEA-S, 17-OH progesterone, androstenedione testosterone, 17-beta estradiol (for men and postmenopausal women), serum potassium, aldosterone/renin ratio (if HTN or hypokalemia). Pheochromocytoma exclusion: 24hr urinary metanephrines or plasma metanephrines. Imaging: Abdominal CT or MRI and CT Chest, Bone gammagraphy or brain imaging if skeletal or brain MTS are suspected. 18FDG-PET is optional. Adrenal biopsy is contraindicated because cytology cannot differentiate between carcinoma and adenoma and can also cause tumor seeding along the needle path. It is only indicated for the diagnosis of metastasis of an extra-adrenal tumor ( 57 – 59 ). Regarding ACC treatment, surgery is indicated in most of the cases, and mitotane therapy is also used in selected cases. Mitotane inhibits steroidogenesis by blocking the activity of CYP11B1
