Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


). Regarding ACC treatment, surgery is indicated in most of the cases, and mitotane therapy is also used in selected cases. Mitotane inhibits steroidogenesis by blocking the activity of CYP11B1 (11-β-hydroxylase) and cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzymes. It can be considered a form of medical adrenalectomy due to its mitochondrial destruction and induction of adrenocortical cell necrosis. Its main indication is ACC, but it can also be used in ectopic ACTH or CRH secretion syndromes and, rarely, in Cushing’s disease. Mitotane therapy should be initiated immediately after surgery at a dose of 0.5 g twice daily. The dose can be increased to a maximum of 6 g/day (based on patient tolerance) over 4–12 weeks. Mitotane blood levels should be monitored every 2–3 weeks for the first 2–3 months, targeting levels of 14–20 mg/L. After this period, follow-up monitoring should be conducted less frequently. While patients are receiving mitotane, several parameters need to be monitored at each visit, including electrolytes and 24-hour urine free cortisol. Initially, AST, ALT, GGT, and bilirubin should be monitored every four weeks, with the frequency reduced to every eight weeks after six months. Free T4, free T3, TSH, testosterone, complete blood count, and lipid profile should be monitored every 3–4 months. Renin should be assessed every 3–6 months. ACTH should be monitored when glucocorticoid deficiency or excess is suspected. Blood mitotane levels should be checked every 4–6 weeks after reaching a plateau ( 57 – 62 ). Common side effects of mitotane therapy include fatigue, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, rash, diarrhea, lethargy, sedation, confusion, dizziness, ataxia, gynecomastia, arthralgia, leukopenia, prolonged bleeding time, and hematuria. Hepatotoxicity and hypercholesterolemia can also occur. Mitotane therapy results in primary adrenal insufficiency, necessitating chronic treatment with hydrocortisone (20–40 mg/day) or methylprednisolone (5–10 mg/day). Aldosterone deficiency can develop after several months of mitotane therapy and may require fludrocortisone (0.1–0.3 mg/day) as needed. Male hypogonadism is common and may require testosterone replacement; ovarian cysts and occasional central hypothyroidism have also been reported. Mitotane is a potent inducer of CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in important drug interactions. Radical resection via open adrenalectomy is the only potentially curative treatment for ACC, though the average overall survival remains 3–4 years. Surgery is typically considered for Stage I, II, and most Stage III ACC ( 57 – 62 ). Following surgical resection, adjuvant mitotane therapy is the cornerstone of treatment in patients with Stage III or IV ACC, and at
