Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


most Stage III ACC ( 57 – 62 ). Following surgical resection, adjuvant mitotane therapy is the cornerstone of treatment in patients with Stage III or IV ACC, and at any stage if Ki-67 >10%, despite its significant adverse effects. The use of mitotane in Stage I and II patients with Ki-67 <10% is currently under investigation. Mitotane is also indicated in elderly patients with comorbidities that complicate surgical resection. After surgical and medical treatment with mitotane in selected cases, and if the risk is low following incomplete resection, imaging and laboratory monitoring should be performed every 3 months ( 59 , 60 ). If there are signs of recurrence after a disease-free interval (DFI) >12 months post-surgery, evaluation for feasibility of repeat complete resection is warranted. In cases of recurrence with DFI <12 months, unresectable disease, or Stage IV ACC, cytoreductive or debulking surgery may be considered, along with mitotane therapy if not previously initiated. Chemotherapy, adjuvant irradiation, percutaneous ablation, and chemoembolization should be considered on a case-by-case basis. A combination of mitotane, doxorubicin, and cisplatin, with or without local therapy, can be used—especially in cases of rapid progression or previous failure of adjuvant mitotane therapy. Regardless of treatment modality, patients with advanced stages of disease require monitoring every 2 months ( 60 ). Progress in the treatment of ACC is limited due to the rarity of the disease and short patient survival, resulting in a paucity of prospective trials and a low level of evidence. However, several multicenter trials are ongoing, some of which are investigating molecular-targeted therapies in specialized centers. A multidisciplinary approach is essential for managing ACC. Patients should be treated in specialized centers by experienced teams familiar with this rare and aggressive malignancy. Effective control of adrenocortical hormone hypersecretion is critical to reducing associated morbidity ( 57 – 62 ). MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS IN THE ELDERLY In primary aldosteronism, excess aldosterone leads to increased extracellular volume expansion, causing a decrease in circulating PRA. Hypertension occurs due to increased sodium (Na + ) and water (H 2 O) reabsorption in the nephron’s distal tubule. Additionally, there is increased urinary potassium (K + ) excretion, leading to hypokalemia, and increased urinary hydrogen (H + ) and chloride (Cl − ) excretion, resulting in hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. In secondary hyperaldosteronism, decreased intravascular volume and/or increased renin secretion are responsible for the elevated PRA and aldosterone levels. Depending on the
