Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


− ) excretion, resulting in hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. In secondary hyperaldosteronism, decreased intravascular volume and/or increased renin secretion are responsible for the elevated PRA and aldosterone levels. Depending on the presence of hypertension and/or edema, different causes may be involved. Possible causes of secondary hyperaldosteronism with hypertension include: renovascular hypertension (frequently seen in older adults), chronic kidney disease, thiazide diuretics, tumor-related hyperreninism (typically in younger individuals), and malignant hypertension (e.g., nephroangiosclerosis). Secondary hyperaldosteronism may also occur without hypertension and can be associated with edema, as seen in congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, or hypoproteinemia. Other possible causes without edema include salt-wasting nephritis, Bartter syndrome, and renal tubular acidosis. Primary Aldosteronism (PA) in the Elderly 5-10% of all patients with hypertension at any age have primary PA, as do 17-23% of those resistant to multiple drugs ( 63 ). Estimates of global prevalence are as high as 9% ( 64 ); the condition is underdiagnosed and represents a public health problem. There is female preponderance at all ages, and one-third of adenomas harbor two somatic mutations in the KCNJ5 gene, with a marked female predominance. It is not the most common cause of secondary hypertension in the elderly; arteriosclerotic renal artery stenosis is the most common cause, followed by renal failure ( 65 , 66 ). Aldosterone-producing adenomas (APAs) are observed in 30% of PA, are more frequently diagnosed in young people, and are the least common functioning tumor of the adrenal incidentalomas ( 65 ). The most prevalent cause of PA in people over 50 years of age is idiopathic bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (IAH) of the glomerulosa. Diagnosis of IAH is often delayed because it presents less frequently with hypokalemia than aldosteronomas. Subcapsular aldosterone-producing cells harboring APA-associated somatic mutations in genes encoding ion channels have recently been identified as potential transition lesions causing PA ( 67 ). The most common clinical manifestation of PA is difficult-to-control hypertension. Hypokalemia is present in 50% of aldosteronomas but in less than 20% of hyperplasias; precise data in older adults are lacking. Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality by age and sex is increased compared to patients with primary (essential) hypertension of a similar degree of blood pressure elevation. Available data show better cardiovascular outcomes and lower mortality with surgical treatment (when performed earlier) or with spironolactone than with management of hypertension alone ( 68 ). In addition, elevated aldosterone without hypertension may increase or
