Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


and lower mortality with surgical treatment (when performed earlier) or with spironolactone than with management of hypertension alone ( 68 ). In addition, elevated aldosterone without hypertension may increase or worsen common comorbidities in elderly individuals, including myocardial fibrosis, left ventricular hypertrophy, proteinuria, renal failure, increased risk of stroke, and the development of type 2 diabetes ( 68 ). Though it is difficult to prove the causal role of PA in increasing cardiovascular risk, risk reduction with treatment and Mendelian randomization data are both suggestive of causality ( 69 ). According to the 2025 Endocrine Society Guidelines, all patients with hypertension should be screened for PA with plasma aldosterone-to-plasma renin ratio (ARR) ( 70 ). Patients with positive screening, defined by suppressed renin and elevated aldosterone-to-renin ratio (ARR), should be treated with PA-specific therapies. If they are not surgical candidates or if PA is unlikely to lateralize, suggested by normokalemia and high-normal aldosterone levels, they should be treated with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) and do not require adrenal imaging. When patients have high probability of lateralizing disease, a CT adrenal should be obtained to assess for adenomas, followed by AVS for PA lateralization, then adrenalectomy. For patients with intermediate likelihood of lateralizing disease who are surgical candidates, aldosterone suppression testing should be performed to determine if they should be treated with MRAs or proceed to surgical evaluation. Considerations for PA diagnosis in older adults: Conditions for ARR sampling: 1) between 8–10 a.m.; 2) upright for at least 2 h beforehand; 3) seat the patient and draw blood 5–15 min later; and 4) ideally, ensure normal potassium level and do not restrict dietary salt before the test. Plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity (PRA) or plasma renin concentration (PRC) values decrease in older age while ratios increase, but laboratories do not specify normal ranges for this age group. Regardless of age, most younger adults with PA show a plasma aldosterone/PRA ratio ranging from 30 to 50 (ng/dl)/(ng/ml/h) and a plasma aldosterone/PRC ratio greater than 2.2 (ng/dl)/(mCIU/ml). Suspect PA in an older adult if plasma aldosterone is at the upper limit of normal (with low renin). For example, a plasma aldosterone/PRA ratio >20 (ng/dl)/(ng/ml/h) or plasma aldosterone/PRC >2,2 (ng/dl/mcIU/ml) along with plasma aldosterone >15-20 ng/dl should raise suspicion of PA. Suppression of plasma aldosterone after I.V. saline loading is more common in healthy elderly subjects than in younger patients. ​​There are no
