Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


aldosterone >15-20 ng/dl should raise suspicion of PA. Suppression of plasma aldosterone after I.V. saline loading is more common in healthy elderly subjects than in younger patients. ​​There are no age-specific cutoffs for plasma aldosterone/PRA screening in the 2025 Endocrine Society Guidelines ( 70 ). Commonly used drugs can interfere with functional diagnosis. Antihypertensive drugs frequently used in older adults that can interfere with the ARR include: Strong interference (discontinue 4–6 weeks beforehand): Spironolactone, eplerenone, renin inhibitors, amiloride > 5 mg/day. Increase renin: ACE inhibitors, ARBs (also increase plasma aldosterone), and diuretics: Discontinuation not necessary. Primary aldosteronism is highly suspected if DRA or RC is low. Reduce renin and AP secretion: β-blockers, α-2 adrenergic agonists. Usually no effect: Calcium channel antagonists (verapamil), α-1 adrenergic blockers (doxazosin) ( 71 ). Treatment goals with medical management or surgery are to prevent morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension and hypokalemia, as well as cardiovascular and renal damage, and to achieve normalization of blood pressure ( 68 ). MEDICAL MANAGEMENT Spironolactone is a nonselective mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) that is effective in reducing blood pressure, attenuating aldosterone’s effects on target organs, and decreasing left ventricular mass. It is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for PA; despite its side effects, it is both effective and inexpensive. A dose of 50–400 mg/day can be used, which reduces blood pressure by about 25%. Spironolactone should be initiated at 12.5–25 mg every 24 h, with dose titration every 2 weeks. Renal function, potassium, and blood pressure should be monitored after starting maintenance therapy. Higher doses reduce adherence and increase side effects. Common side effects of spironolactone are related to dose-dependent antiandrogenic action (receptor blockade), such as gynecomastia and erectile dysfunction, in men. Gynecomastia after 6 months of therapy occurs in 6.9% of men of any age taking up to 50 mg/day, and in 52% at doses up to 150 mg/day. Its agonist action on the progesterone receptor has no clinical relevance in older women (though in women of reproductive age it may cause menstrual disturbances). Kidney function must be considered in patients taking spironolactone. Monitoring for hyperkalemia is essential, particularly in elderly patients and/or those with stage III renal insufficiency [creatinine clearance (CrCl) < 60 ml/min]. It is contraindicated in stage IV renal insufficiency (CrCl < 30 ml/min) ( 66 , 68 , 72 , 73 ). Eplerenone is a selective MRA, less effective than spironolactone for blood pressure
