Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


in stage IV renal insufficiency (CrCl < 30 ml/min) ( 66 , 68 , 72 , 73 ). Eplerenone is a selective MRA, less effective than spironolactone for blood pressure control. It is about 50% less potent, has a shorter half-life, must be administered twice daily, and is more expensive. However, it does not have the antiandrogenic or progesterone agonist side effects of spironolactone, so can be used as an alternative when spironolactone is not tolerated. Eplerenone should be started at 25 mg every 12 h, with maintenance up to 50 mg every 12 h. Exceeding this dose is not recommended due to the increased risk of hyperkalemia, which should be monitored similar to spironolactone ( 74 ). Amiloride is an alternative antihypertensive therapeutic agent. It acts on ion transport channels in the distal tubule, inhibiting sodium reabsorption and increasing potassium retention. It is less effective than MRAs and does not protect against the direct effects of aldosterone on mineralocorticoid receptors. However, it can be useful in combination with spironolactone to reduce the required dose and minimize side effects; a similar strategy can be applied with hydrochlorothiazide. Other antihypertensive drugs that have not been sufficiently evaluated in PA include calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. While they do not significantly affect aldosterone excess, they are often combined with MRAs to further reduce blood pressure if it remains elevated ( 75 ). Aldosterone synthase inhibitors, such as baxdrostat, are currently being studied for management of resistant hypertension, and may play a role in future PA management ( 76 ). SURGICAL MANAGEMENT In older adults, the increased surgical risk due to comorbidities must be assessed, both for adrenal vein catheterization and for surgery, and life expectancy should be considered when deciding on treatment. If the patient is a surgical candidate and has high likelihood of lateralizing disease, CT adrenal followed by adrenal vein sampling (AVS) should be performed. While AVS remains the standard to assess for lateralization, new PET/CT tracers may soon offer less invasive options to diagnose unilateral PA ( 77 – 81 ). Surgical intervention is indicated when AVS suggests lateralization. Surgery might also be indicated in young patients with primary hyperaldosteronism harboring a unilateral adrenal lesion, obviating the need of AVS ( 68 ). Unilateral laparoscopic adrenalectomy carries a lower risk than open adrenalectomy, can be performed in elderly and frail individuals, and can be performed
