Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


obviating the need of AVS ( 68 ). Unilateral laparoscopic adrenalectomy carries a lower risk than open adrenalectomy, can be performed in elderly and frail individuals, and can be performed for lesions as large as 6-8 cm. Adrenalectomy reduces all-cause mortality and MACE compared to medical management alone in as little as 1 year after surgery ( 82 ). Hypertension is better controlled after surgery in unilateral PA, although complete cure of HTN is achieved in only 30–60% ( 83 – 85 ). Other factors directly associated with persistent hypertension following adrenalectomy include having more than one relative with hypertension; use of ≥ 2 antihypertensive drugs; duration of hypertension (≥ 6 years); female sex; and higher BMI. Older age is also associated with a higher likelihood of persistent hypertension after surgery. New models incorporating these variables can help clinicians predict which patients are most likely to have reductions in antihypertensive requirements after surgery ( 86 ). Maximal improvement or normalization of blood pressure is usually achieved within the first 6 months after adrenalectomy, with further improvement possible during the first year. Before surgery, it is important to normalize potassium and blood pressure with spironolactone and potassium replacement as needed. In the immediate postoperative period, potassium supplements and antihypertensives - including spironolactone - should be discontinued. Short acting antihypertensives may be used if needed. The aldosterone-to-renin ratio (ARR) should be checked, and potassium and creatinine is also monitored. There is a risk of hyperkalemia due to transient hypoaldosteronism (10%); however, it has not been studied whether this is more frequent in elderly patients due to reduced glomerular filtration. The risk of persistent hypoaldosteronism, which may require treatment with fludrocortisone, is low (5%). Predictors of postoperative hyperkalemia include pre- and postoperative reduction in glomerular filtration, as well as the development of postoperative microalbuminuria ( 68 , 83 – 85 ). Newer, less invasive procedures such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA) may eventually be used for treatment, but no randomized controlled trials have yet compared outcomes from RFA vs surgical management ( 87 ). Selective adrenal artery embolization has also been proposed as a possible treatment for non-lateralizing non-adenoma disease, or for patients with unilateral disease who decline surgery, but treatment success has been variable ( 88 , 89 ). PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA IN THE ELDERLY The prevalence of pheochromocytoma in the elderly is probably higher than reported. Of all patients diagnosed with pheochromocytomas, 9-27% of
