Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


variable ( 88 , 89 ). PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA IN THE ELDERLY The prevalence of pheochromocytoma in the elderly is probably higher than reported. Of all patients diagnosed with pheochromocytomas, 9-27% of patients are ≥ 60 years old. The mean age of pheochromocytoma diagnosis is 65 years when found at autopsy and 48 years when diagnosed during life. Most cases are sporadic, but 40% of patients have the disease as part of a familial disorder caused by a gene mutation and often bilateral ( 90 , 91 ). Adrenal tumors account for 85% of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGL), while extra-adrenal tumors in abdomen or pelvis account for 10%. Only 5% of PPGLs are in other sites, such as the head and neck. In elderly patients, pheochromocytoma is less frequently diagnosed, likely due to the lower prevalence of sympathetic hyperactivity symptoms, which has been attributed to baroreceptor dysfunction and reduced responsiveness to catecholamines associated with advanced age. In addition, concomitant diseases (coronary artery disease and cerebrovascular disease) or the use of certain medications (β-blockers) further complicate clinical recognition. Most cases are discovered incidentally during imaging studies (61%), and less often due to symptoms (27%) or mutation-based screening (12%). Older patients are more susceptible to the harmful effects of chronic catecholamine excess, increasing the risk of cardiac complications such as dysrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, myocarditis, and myocardial hypertrophy ( 90 , 91 ). As they also carry higher risk of osteoporosis, risk of catecholamine-mediated bone density loss which improves with surgical resection is another important consideration in older patients ( 92 , 93 ). Clinical scenarios suggesting pheochromocytoma: Family or personal history of pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma (PPGL). Familial syndromes with predisposition to catecholamine-secreting tumors [multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2), neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), or von Hippel–Lindau (VHL) disease]. Adrenal mass on CT or MRI with characteristics consistent with pheochromocytoma. Classic triad of headache, sweating, and tachycardia with or without hypertension. Adrenergic crises, although most such patients do not have a pheochromocytoma. Hypertension at a young age, resistant hypertension, or new-onset/atypical diabetes mellitus (e.g., type 2 diabetes in a lean individual). Hemodynamic lability or pressor response during anesthesia, surgery, angiography, or other invasive procedures. Idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Carney’s triad (gastric stromal tumor and pulmonary chondromas) ( 90 , 91 ). Biochemical Testing Biochemical testing is prompted by clinical suspicion. There are significant institutional and international variations in biochemical diagnosis. Plasma fractionated metanephrines (for
