Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


pulmonary chondromas) ( 90 , 91 ). Biochemical Testing Biochemical testing is prompted by clinical suspicion. There are significant institutional and international variations in biochemical diagnosis. Plasma fractionated metanephrines (for high-risk patients) or 24-hour urinary catecholamines/metanephrines (for low-risk patients) are used. The specificity of plasma metanephrines is 85–89% in young adults (sensitivity 96–100%), which drops to 77% in patients > 60 years. Normal test results effectively rule out pheochromocytoma, while a positive result only indicates a moderate probability of disease. The high false-positive rate (low specificity) can lead to unnecessary imaging studies or surgeries; such procedures should be reserved for cases of high clinical suspicion ( 90 ). Imaging For imaging diagnosis, both high-resolution CT and MRI are used and are equally sensitive (98–100%), with specificity around 70% due to the high prevalence of incidentalomas. Pheochromocytomas can vary in size and may be unilateral or bilateral. On CT, these typically show ≥ 20 Hounsfield units (HU) attenuation. These tumors are highly vascularized and may contain necrosis or calcifications, usually demonstrate delayed contrast washout (<50% after 10 minutes), preferably using low-osmolar contrast, and may show cystic or hemorrhagic changes. On MRI, pheochromocytomas demonstrate T2 hyperintensity. Although MRI is more expensive, it can help distinguish pheochromocytomas from other isointense adrenal masses. In most cases, the correct interpretation of abdominal CT combined with positive biochemical findings provides sufficient evidence for diagnosis. However, in cases of paragangliomas or malignant pheochromocytomas where results are inconclusive, anatomic-functional imaging can be a very useful option. Functional imaging relies on the transport of radiopharmaceuticals via catecholamine transport systems located in cell membranes; the most specific is the norepinephrine transporter (NET), responsible for noradrenaline/dopamine reuptake ( 90 , 94 ). Indications for functional imaging are tumor localization and identification of metastasis and thus malignancy. Techniques: Metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy – I123 (or I131)/CT: Can be complemented with SPECT-CT or SPECT-MRI. Indicated when clinical and biochemical suspicion exists but CT/MRI is negative. Also used to detect multiple tumors in cases of metastasis from a large pheochromocytoma (>10 cm) or for paragangliomas, which are more often multiple and malignant. 18FDG-PET/CT and 68-Ga DOTATATE PET/CT: More sensitive than I123-MIBG, CT, or MRI for detecting metastatic disease. Anatomic-functional imaging includes SPECT/CT, SPECT/MRI, PET/CT, and PET/MRI. Radionuclide therapy is not necessary preoperatively in patients who are under 40 years of age, without a family history, and with small pheochromocytomas (<3 cm) ( 90 , 94
