Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


PET/MRI. Radionuclide therapy is not necessary preoperatively in patients who are under 40 years of age, without a family history, and with small pheochromocytomas (<3 cm) ( 90 , 94 ). Surgical Treatment Laparoscopic Adrenalectomy is indicated for patients with a solitary adrenal pheochromocytoma up to 8–10 cm without radiologic signs of malignancy. It can be performed safely in over 90% of patients. Conversion to open surgery occurs in 5–8% of cases for experienced surgeons, typically due to intraoperative bleeding (as tumors are highly vascularized), injury (risk of hypertensive crisis), or capsular rupture (risk of tumor cell seeding in the retroperitoneum). The adrenal vein should be ligated at the start of the procedure, if possible, to prevent catecholamine release and intraoperative hypertensive crises or hemodynamic instability. Adrenergic blockade is initiated before surgery to prevent adrenergic crisis. Malignant and benign catecholamine-secreting tumors are histologically and biochemically indistinguishable. Malignancy potential is around 10%; the presence of metastases or invasion of adjacent structures are the only valid criteria for malignancy ( 90 , 95 – 97 ). Preoperative Management Although the utility of preoperative preparation in PPGL treatment is debated in all patients due to advances in diagnostics and therapeutics, preoperative preparation remains crucial. The objectives of preoperative management in functioning medullary adrenal tumors are to normalize blood pressure and heart rate, restore effective circulating volume, improve metabolic status, and prevent intraoperative hemodynamic instability. It is important to assess the renal function, exclude catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy and/or dysrhythmias, and ensure normal plasma volume. The pharmacological preparation is typically done for 2–3 weeks, but it can also be done in a shorter period of 4–7 days. α-Adrenergic Blockade is performed using phenoxybenzamine or selective α-1 adrenergic blockers. Combination of selective α-1 blockers with non-selective β-blockers (e.g., labetalol) is not recommended. Phenoxybenzamine remains the drug of choice. It is a non-specific, non-competitive α-blocker with long duration (24 h). The starting dose is 10 mg every 12 h, increasing up to 40 mg every 8 h, or 1 mg/kg/day, until blood pressure and heart rate are normalized. Side effects may include tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, asthenia, miosis, and nasal congestion—the latter indicating adequate adrenergic blockade. A calcium channel blocker can be added if necessary. Among the selective α-1 blockers, the most used is doxazosin; started at 4 mg/day and increasing progressively up to 16 mg/day (average dose 8–16 mg/day). Doxazosin causes less tachycardia and postoperative hypotension, although no
