Physiology and Diseases of the Adrenal Glands in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, primary, adrenalectomy, surgery, treatment, clinical, age, cortisol, elderly, endocrinol, free, hypertension, article


surgery. Some advantages of laparoscopic adrenalectomy compared to open surgery are that it is safer, more effective, and more reproducible. There is lower perioperative morbidity such as pain and blood loss, fewer intraoperative complications, faster recovery and earlier patient mobility, improved cosmetic results, and shorter hospital stay ( 102 - 104 ). Laparoscopic approach is used for most adrenal masses, except malignant or suspicious adrenal masses (adrenocortical carcinoma and malignant pheochromocytoma) or for adrenal masses larger than 10 cm ( 105 - 108 ). Poor candidates for minimally invasive surgery are patients with multiple previous procedures, class 3 obesity, severe cardiac disorders (intracardiac shunts, severe aortic or mitral valve insufficiency, severe heart failure), uncorrected coagulopathy, or resection of metastases in very advanced primary lung or urothelial tumors, as these may be associated with port-site metastases. To select the surgical approach, considerations include the size of adrenal mass, whether it is likely benign or malignant, and if it is functioning or non-functioning. Obesity must be considered in selection of approach, as obesity increases the rate of conversion to open surgery. In addition, experience and preference of the surgeon needs to be considered ( 109 ). Indications for Laparoscopic Adrenal Surgery Benign non-functioning tumors > 4 cm, or < 4 cm if the size increases by more than 1 cm during follow-up. Aldosteronoma (primary aldosteronism). Cortisol-secreting tumor (Cushing’s syndrome). Androgen-secreting tumor (virilizing syndrome). Pheochromocytoma ( 96 , 97 , 110 ). Metastases from non-advanced breast, lung, kidney, or skin tumors ( 111 ). Adrenalectomy Surgical Techniques Conventional open surgery: Transabdominal or retroperitoneal. Laparoscopic surgery: Transabdominal or retroperitoneoscopic. The laparoscopic transabdominal adrenalectomy (also called laparoscopic transperitoneal adrenalectomy) is the most performed laparoscopic technique. Single-Incision laparoscopic adrenalectomy is a recently developed technique using a single-port laparoendoscope, offering a less invasive approach through single abdominal or retroperitoneal access. The single-port device allows the use of three to four instruments simultaneously ( 112 ). This is a highly specialized procedure that requires specific expertise and presents a technical challenge due to loss of triangulation. Oncologic outcomes are comparable to conventional laparoscopic surgery. It is safe and effective for patients with benign adrenal masses. Evolution of minimally invasive technologies: Transabdominal or retroperitoneal robot-assisted adrenalectomy. Single-port surgery: single-access retroperitoneoscopic adrenalectomy ( 98 , 99 ). The indications for the robot-assisted adrenalectomy are the same as for conventional laparoscopic surgery; functional and oncologic outcomes are similar. Some technical modifications
