MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


TTFM and HFUS system is £81,550 per unit, the L15 imaging probe is £8,365 and the TTFM probe is £1,720 (excluding VAT). Standard care is clinical assessment of graft flow using a variety of techniques, which are selected based on surgeon preference. The technology MiraQ cardiac (Medistim) combines transit time flow measurement (TTFM) and high- frequency ultrasound (HFUS) modalities within a single system. Surgical findings can be documented through flow tracing and images provided by the system. It is intended for intraoperative quality assessment of graft blood flow during coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. The system consists of 2 probes. The L15 HFUS imaging probe has a frequency range of 11 MHz to 18 MHz and provides high-resolution images that allow the surgeon to assess morphology, including the cannulation or clamping site of the aorta, and to evaluate the completed bypass anastomosis. The TTFM probe uses transit time technology to accurately measure blood flow intraoperatively. It measures 3 parameters of transit time flow (mean blood flow in ml per minute, pulsatility index and diastolic filling percentage) to assess graft blood flow and check graft patency. A microcomputer with a touchscreen mounted on a moveable trolley is used to control the probes and store their outputs. There is another version available, the MiraQ TTFM system, that does not include HFUS. This version has been evaluated separately in NICE's medical technologies guidance on MiraQ for assessing graft flow during CABG surgery and is not part of this briefing. Innovations The company claims that the L15 imaging probe is designed to improve near-field imaging using HFUS and is applied directly to the cardiac tissue. The company also claims that intraoperative quality assessment and surgical guidance using HFUS is more likely to lead to a positive outcome and decrease the chance for additional surgical reinterventions. Current care pathway Coronary artery disease is a common cause of symptoms, disability and death. It is caused by atherosclerosis, which leads to stenosis or occlusion of the coronary arteries. NICE's guideline on stable angina: management recommends that revascularisation of the blocked coronary arteries using CABG or percutaneous coronary interventions should be considered in people whose symptoms are not satisfactorily controlled by medical treatment. CABG surgery aims to bypass narrowed or blocked segments of the coronary arteries using grafts. Grafts are usually constructed from lengths of the patient's own long saphenous vein or internal mammary artery, although other
