MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


bypass narrowed or blocked segments of the coronary arteries using grafts. Grafts are usually constructed from lengths of the patient's own long saphenous vein or internal mammary artery, although other blood vessels are also used. Cardiac surgeons use a variety of techniques to avoid technical problems during CABG surgery, but assessment of graft flow is usually subjective. Techniques used vary according to the graft used, the surgical technique, and the surgeon's individual preference. They include the surgeon assessing resistance and perfusion beyond a graft by flushing fluid through it before restoring flow, and observing and palpating grafts for pulsation when blood flow has been re-established. The following publications have been identified as relevant to this care pathway: • NICE's guideline on stable angina: management • NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes • European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS) guidelines on myocardial revascularization. Population, setting and intended user The MiraQ cardiac TTFM and HFUS system is intended for use in people with coronary artery disease undergoing CABG surgery. The technology is used by cardiovascular surgeons, with nurses operating the system. It is used in tertiary care during cardiac surgery. The company states that both the surgeon and the operator of the MiraQ cardiac system need to be trained in using the system. The training is provided by the company and is included in the cost of the device. Costs Technology costs • MiraQ cardiac TTFM and HFUS system: £81,550 • unit cost L15 imaging probe: £8,365 • unit cost TTFM probe: £1,720 • annual maintenance costs (based on 10-year lifetime): £2,086. Costs of standard care Standard care is clinical assessment of graft flow using a variety of techniques, which are selected based on surgeon preference. These usually involve minimal or no extra cost. Resource consequences The company states that MiraQ cardiac with TTFM and HFUS is used in 6 NHS trusts. The company claims that using the MiraQ cardiac TTFM and HFUS system reduces postoperative deaths and re-hospitalisations when compared with both CABG surgery alone and CABG surgery with the MiraQ TTFM system. The company states that there are no practical difficulties or changes in facilities and infrastructure associated with adopting MiraQ. It is a standalone system that only needs an electrical output socket. Regulatory information MiraQ cardiac transit time flow measurement and high-frequency ultrasound system is a CE-marked class IIa medical device, and the
