MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


standalone system that only needs an electrical output socket. Regulatory information MiraQ cardiac transit time flow measurement and high-frequency ultrasound system is a CE-marked class IIa medical device, and the probes used with the MiraQ system are CE- marked class III. There is a field safety notice on Medistim ASA: VeriQ, MiraQ. Medistim is aware of incidences when flow measurement channels on Medistim devices have been operating with a significant zero-point offset value. The result is that flow measurements recorded with these channels will indicate that the flow is too high or too low. This might result in worse patient outcomes. Exploration of the issue has shown that this malfunction was caused by electrostatic discharge (ESD) damaging a component in the measurement chain on the Medistim systems, causing an offset from zero. Medistim tests the ESD resistance during compliance testing to ensure the system meets electromedical safety standard requirements. However, the incidences noted above have shown that severe ESD can surpass these requirements. Medistim has therefore further issued updated instructions for use which clarify the importance of routinely performing the probe and system functionality test before use to ensure that they function properly. Equality considerations NICE is committed to promoting equality of opportunity, eliminating unlawful discrimination and fostering good relations between people with particular protected characteristics and others. The MiraQ cardiac transit time flowmetry and high-frequency ultrasound system is intended for people with coronary artery disease who are having coronary artery bypass graft surgery. High blood pressure, high cholesterol, high levels of lipoprotein(a), smoking, physical inactivity, diabetes and being overweight increase the risk of developing coronary heart disease. Older people, people who are male and people of South Asian family origin are also more likely to develop coronary heart disease. Age, disability, sex and race are protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010. Clinical and technical evidence A literature search was carried out for this briefing in accordance with the interim process and methods statement for medtech innovation briefings. This briefing includes the most relevant or best available published evidence relating to the clinical effectiveness of the technology. Further information about how the evidence for this briefing was selected is available on request by contacting mibs@nice.org.uk. Published evidence Four studies are summarised in this briefing, which include a total of 1,134 people. All studies are single-arm studies without a comparator. The evidence consists of 1 multicentre observational registry (Taggart et
