MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


This study is a secondary analysis of Taggart et al. (2020). It suggests that compared with ONCAB, OPCAB procedures resulted in 4 times more changes related to the ascending aorta. An additional limitation to those mentioned above is that the study did not compare CABG procedures with or without the MiraQ cardiac TTFM and HFUS system because of the nature of the study. Wendt et al. (2019) Study size, design and location A prospective study of 65 people undergoing CABG surgery in Germany. Intervention and comparator MiraQ cardiac with TTFM and HFUS, no comparator. Key outcomes A surgical strategy change, based on imaging, was done in 10 procedures (15%). Changes related to the cannulation site (n=3), the target opening site (n=2) and the clamping site (n=1). In 3 cases, imaging was used to identify the left anterior descending artery, and in 1 case the imaging confirmed a calcified vessel and a procedure was done to treat the calcification. In 1 case, the graft was revised. Thirty-day mortality was 0% and no stroke was observed. Strengths and limitations This study suggests that MiraQ TTFM and HFUS was helpful in evaluating the clamping or cannulation site, the potential opening site of the vessel or the completed anastomosis. A limitation is that the main aim of the study was to evaluate MiraQ TTFM and HFUS in relation to postoperative troponin-I release. Kim et al. (2020) Study size, design and location A retrospective observational study of 53 people undergoing CABG in Korea. Intervention and comparator VeriQ C system, no comparator. Key outcomes In total, the quality of 141 distal anastomoses was evaluated, of which 123 with normal TTFM results also had good ultrasound findings. Abnormal TTFM findings, including low flow or high pulsatility index, were found in 18 distal anastomoses. The epicardial ultrasound identified that only 3 of these needed revisions. Revisions were not done for the other 15 distal anastomoses and at 1 year after surgery, all 15 of these were patent. The abnormal TTFM results were false positives for 15 of 18 distal anastomoses (83.3%). Epicardial ultrasound was also used to evaluate 32 target epicardial arteries in 30 people to identify the appropriate anastomosis sites. For 5 anastomoses, the target vessels were changed to adjacent vessels based on the ultrasound findings. The early and 1-year overall graft patency rates were 100% (141 anastomoses) and 96.1% (122 of 127 anastomoses), respectively. The early
