MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


changed to adjacent vessels based on the ultrasound findings. The early and 1-year overall graft patency rates were 100% (141 anastomoses) and 96.1% (122 of 127 anastomoses), respectively. The early mortality rate was 1.9% (1 of 53 people). Overall, postoperative complications included new-onset atrial fibrillation (n=13; 24.5%), respiratory complications (n=3; 5.7%), low cardiac output syndrome (n=2; 3.8%), and acute kidney injury (n=2; 3.8%). Strengths and limitations This study suggests that epicardial ultrasound scanning may be beneficial during CABG surgery to confirm the quality of the surgery and potentially reduce additional procedures. A limitation is that the procedures were done by 1 surgeon. Sustainability The company claims the technology will reduce the use of single-use equipment related to the surgical procedure by reducing the need for repeat vascularisation (repeat CABG or percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI]) and the ionising radiation connected to PCI. Both the TTFM and HFUS probes can be used on multiple patients after cleaning and sterilisation. There is no published evidence to support these claims. Recent and ongoing studies Flow distribution in arterial composite grafts in patients with coronary heart disease undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. ACTRN12622000774729. Status: not yet recruiting. Indication: coronary heart disease leading to coronary artery bypass grafting. Devices: MiraQ TTFM and HFUS. Estimated completion date: not reported. Country: Czech Republic. Expert comments Comments on this technology were invited from clinical experts working in the field and relevant patient organisations. The comments received are individual opinions and do not represent NICE's view. Two out of 3 experts were familiar with or had used this technology before. Level of innovation Two clinical experts commented that the technology has been around for some time, about 20 years. One expert said that other modalities offer the same information but at no extra cost and 1 expert said that MiraQ cardiac is the most user-friendly form that this technology has been presented in. The other expert said that MiraQ cardiac is a useful tool for quality control of anastomotic issues. Two experts described the standard care used in clinical practice, which includes assessment of graft adequacy and flow by: changes in electrocardiogram measurements and haemodynamic parameters, infusing cardioplegia through a conduit during the procedure and palpation of the conduit. Two of the clinical experts stated that the technology would be used in addition to standard care and 1 said that it has the potential to replace standard care. Potential patient
