MiraQ cardiac TTFM with high-frequency probe for assessing graft flow during coronary
KEYWORDS: people, graft, flow, coronary, ttfm, miraq, hfus, technology, cardiac, surgery, artery, study, cabg, miraq cardiac, used


of the clinical experts stated that the technology would be used in addition to standard care and 1 said that it has the potential to replace standard care. Potential patient impact Two experts said that the primary benefit of the technology for patients is providing surgeons with detailed objective information about the graft condition and graft flow. This information can be used to make necessary changes to improve blood flow in the graft and potentially reduce long-term graft failure. One expert also highlighted the ability of the technology to detect the position of deep lying arteries, which prevents the surgeon from making unnecessary dissections during the procedure. This may reduce the risk of bleeding and intraoperative complications. Based on this aspect of detection, 1 expert said that the technology is most appropriate for use in people with known peripheral vascular disease and another expert said that it would provide more benefit in people with calcified vessels or small vessels with a high syntax score. Potential system impact One expert said that the technology has the potential to standardise the methods used in practice, which are currently subjective and not evidence-based. This expert added that the potential to reduce future cardiac events would mean fewer hospital visits, which would free up resource. All of the experts agreed that the technology will initially cost significantly more than standard care. This is because of the cost of purchasing the technology and disposables, training theatre nursing staff and surgeons, and the extra time required to perform flow measurements and ultrasound assessment. One expert felt that the long-term cost impact would be equal to or less than standard care. General comments All 3 experts agreed that the technology would not require any specific changes to facilities and infrastructure, though 2 experts noted that storage space within the operating theatre would be needed. They also agreed that training would be required to achieve competency with the device. One of the experts highlighted that the technology does not automatically record blood pressure during the flow measurement and that this would be useful for retrospective analyses of outcomes. They also said that a small portion of the left internal mammary artery must be prepared for placing the flow probe around the vessel. If this step is not done before the procedure and instead done at the end, this could cause damage to the mammary artery and cause bleeding.
