Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


Three enzymes catalyzing these deiodinations have been identified, called type 1 (D1), type 2 (D2) and type 3 (D3) iodothyronine deiodinases. All three deiodinases have been cloned and characterized in a variety of species. Together, they form a family of homologous selenoproteins which consist of »250-280 amino acids, including an essential selenocysteine residue in the active center. It is remarkable, therefore, that production and metabolism of thyroid hormone are dependent on two trace elements, namely iodine and selenium. D1 is expressed mainly in the liver, the kidneys and the thyroid. In particular the hepatic enzyme is thought to contribute importantly to peripheral T3 production and to be the main site for the clearance of plasma rT3. These processes are mediated by the ORD activity of D1. However, D1 also has IRD activity, especially towards sulfated T4 and T3. Therefore, in addition to the bioactivation of T4 to T3, D1 also catalyzes the degradation of thyroid hormone. An important property distinguishing D1 from the other deiodinases is its sensitivity to inhibition by the anti-thyroid drug propylthiouracil (PTU). The important role of D1 in the peripheral production of plasma T3 has been demonstrated by the marked decrease in plasma T3 levels in T4-substituted athyreotic subjects treated with PTU. D2 has been studied extensively in the central nervous system, the pituitary, brown adipose tissue and skeletal muscle of experimental animals. D2 has only ORD activity and its expression shows adaptive changes in response to alterations in thyroid state, which serves to maintain tissue T3 levels in the face of varying plasma T4 and T3 levels. Cell-specific modulation of D2 enables to adapt to physiological needs. D3 mediates the degradation of thyroid hormone since it has only IRD activity. The brain is the predominant D3-expressing tissue in adult animals, and may thus be the main site for the clearance of plasma T3 and for the production of plasma rT3. However, high D3 activities have been demonstrated in the placenta and the pregnant uterus as well as in different fetal tissues. The high D3 activities at these sites appear to prevent exposure of fetal tissues to high T3 levels, allowing the growth of these tissues. T3 is only required at the differentiation stage of tissue development. Whereas intitial studies focused on the role of the deiodinases in maintaining normal serum T3 concentrations, the paradigm has evolved that these enzymes can locally modify TH bioactivity independent
