Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


development. Whereas intitial studies focused on the role of the deiodinases in maintaining normal serum T3 concentrations, the paradigm has evolved that these enzymes can locally modify TH bioactivity independent of serum TH concentrations. An example is the critical role of D2 and D3 in cochlear development, since Dio2-/- as well as Dio3-/- mice have severe hearing loss. These enzymes prevent too little or too much hormonal stimulation at inappropriate stages in development. At immature stages, D3 limits stimulation by T3. Postnatally, a double switch occurs with a decline in D3 and an increase D2, resulting in a local T3 surge which is independent of serum T3 levels and triggers the onset of auditory function. Clinically, the importance of the deiodinases in the regulation of thyroid hormone bioactivity is apparent when their activity is affected by patho-physiological conditions. Examples of such conditions are iodine insufficiency, thyroidal and non-thyroidal illness and malnutrition. Expression of D1 and D3 is under positive control and that of D2 is under negative control of thyroid hormone. Therefore, the relative contribution of D1 and D2 to peripheral T3 production varies with thyroid state, with D1 prevailing in the hyperthyroid and D2 in the hypothyroid state. The proportions of T3 being produced via D1 or D2 in euthyroid subjects remain to be established. In iodine deficiency, D1-mediated peripheral T3 production decreases but this is in part compensated by an increased thyroidal T3 production, which is mediated by an increased TSH secretion as well as by increased efficiency of D2-mediated T3 production. Simultaneously, neuronal D3 expression decreases thereby prolonging the local half-life of T3. In non-thyroidal illness (NTI) plasma T3 is often decreased and plasma rT3 increased; plasma FT4 is still in the normal range depending on the severity of disease. The changes in plasma T3 and rT3 are explained by a diminished conversion of T4 to T3 and of rT3 to 3,3-T2 by D1 in the liver. Although this may be caused to some extent by decreased D1 expression or cofactor levels, a diminished activity of transporter(s) mediating hepatic uptake of T4 and rT3 appears to be another important mechanism. This also holds for the generation of the low T3 syndrome in malnutrition. In addition to a decreased peripheral T3 production, the low T3 syndrome of NTI may also be caused by stimulated thyroid hormone degradation due to induction of D3 in different tissues. Pathological expression of
