Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


decreased peripheral T3 production, the low T3 syndrome of NTI may also be caused by stimulated thyroid hormone degradation due to induction of D3 in different tissues. Pathological expression of D3 may be so high that this results in a state of consumptive hypothyroidism with low serum (F)T4 and T3 and very high rT3 levels. This has been shown in different patients with hemangiomas which express very high D3 activities. Finally, peripheral production of T3 can be inhibited by a variety of drugs, including PTU, dexamethasone, propranolol, and iodinated compounds such as the radiographic agents iopanoic acid and ipodate and the anti-arrhythmic drug amiodarone. PTU is a specific uncompetitive inhibitor of D1, while iopanoic acid and ipodate are competitive inhibitors not only of D1 but also of D2. In addition, the radiographic agents inhibit hepatic uptake of thyroid hormone. Amiodarone and its metabolite desethylamidarone may also interfere with peripheral thyroid hormone levels by inhibition of deiodinase activities and tissue thyroid hormone transport. Little is known about the mechanisms by which propranolol and dexamethasone inhibit peripheral T3 production. Combinations of these drugs (e.g. PTU, ipodate, dexamethasone and/or propranolol) may be used to acutely decrease plasma T3 levels in patients with severe hyperthyroidism (toxic storm). THYROID HORMONE METABOLISM IN HUMANS In healthy human subjects with an adequate iodine intake, the thyroid gland produces predominantly the prohormone T4 and a small amount of the bioactive thyroid hormone T3. Roughly 80% of T3 is produced by outer ring deiodination (ORD) of T4 in peripheral tissues. The relative contribution of T3 secretion increases in iodine deficiency and other conditions where the thyroid gland is stimulated by TSH or TSH receptor antibodies, since this is associated with increased de novo T3 synthesis and thyroidal expression of both D1 and D2, and thus increased intra-thyroidal T4 to T3 conversion (see below). Nevertheless, there is good agreement that about 1/3 of T4 daily produced (~130 nmol) in normal humans is converted to T3, which corresponds to about 40 nmol and thus 80% of the estimated total daily T3 production of 50 nmol. For recent comprehensive reviews of thyroid hormone metabolism and the role of the iodothyronine deiodinases therein, the reader is referred to (1-5) That most plasma T3 is derived from peripheral conversion of T4 is supported by the fact that normal plasma T3 levels are obtained in athyreotic patients treated with sufficient T4 to achieve high-normal plasma
