Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


is derived from peripheral conversion of T4 is supported by the fact that normal plasma T3 levels are obtained in athyreotic patients treated with sufficient T4 to achieve high-normal plasma (F)T4 levels. Administration of T4 to hypothyroid rats to achieve normal plasma T4 levels results in subnormal plasma T3 levels not only because of the lack of T3 secretion but also because of a decreased T3 production by D1 in peripheral tissues, since this enzyme is under positive control of T3 itself (6). Other studies in hypothyroid rats suggest that optimal restoration of serum and tissue thyroid hormone levels is achieved by the combined administration of specific amounts of T4 and T3 (7). Also initial studies in humans suggested that replacement with a combination of T4 and T3 is better than replacement with T4 alone (8). However, this has not been confirmed in a large number of subsequent studies (reviewed in (9, 10)). A common drawback of these trials testing the possible beneficial effects of adding T3 to the T4 replacement therapy is that regular T3 tablets were used. Due to its short half-life, this results in substantial fluctuations of serum T3 levels. It remains to be investigated if administration of T3 in a slow-release formula which better mimics the continuous thyroidal T3 secretion (11) may improve the outcome of combined T4 and T3 replacement. Furthermore, psychological well-being and preference for L-T4 + L-T3 combination therapy may be influenced by polymorphisms in thyroid hormone pathway genes, specifically in thyroid hormone transporters and deiodinases (12-14). Besides ORD to T3, T4 is converted by inner ring deiodination (IRD) to the metabolite rT3 (Fig. 1), which accounts for about 40% of T4 turnover, while thyroidal secretion of rT3 is negligible. T3 and rT3 undergo further deiodination, predominantly to the common metabolite 3,3'-diiodothyronine (3,3'T2), which is generated by IRD of T3 and by ORD of rT3 (1-5). Thus, ORD is an activating pathway by which the prohormone T4 is converted to active T3, whereas IRD is an inactivating pathway by which T4 and T3 are converted to the metabolites rT3 and 3,3'T2, respectively. Figure 1 Pathways of Thyroid Hormone Metabolism In addition to deiodination, iodothyronines are metabolized by conjugation of the phenolic hydroxyl group with sulfate or glucuronic acid (Fig. 1) (15, 16). Sulfation and glucuronidation are so-called phase II detoxification reactions, the general purpose of which is to increase the water-solubility of the
