Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


with sulfate or glucuronic acid (Fig. 1) (15, 16). Sulfation and glucuronidation are so-called phase II detoxification reactions, the general purpose of which is to increase the water-solubility of the substrates and, thus, to facilitate their biliary and/or urinary clearance. However, iodothyronine sulfate levels are normally very low in plasma, bile and urine, because these conjugates are rapidly degraded by D1, suggesting that sulfate conjugation is a primary step leading to the irreversible inactivation of thyroid hormone (17, 18). Plasma levels and, if investigated, biliary excretion of iodothyronine sulfates are increased by inhibition of D1 activity with PTU or iopanoic acid (IOP), and during fetal development, NTI and fasting (16, 18). Under these conditions, T3 sulfate (T3S) may function as a reservoir of inactive hormone from which active T3 may be recovered by action of tissue sulfatases and bacterial sulfatases in the intestine (15-17). In contrast to the sulfates, iodothyronine glucuronides are rapidly excreted in the bile. However, this is not an irreversible pathway of hormone disposal. After hydrolysis of the glucuronides by bacterial ß-glucuronidases in the intestines, part of the liberated iodothyronines is reabsorbed, resulting in an enterohepatic cycle of iodothyronines (15, 16). Nevertheless, about 20% of daily T4 production appears in the feces, probably through biliary excretion of glucuronide conjugates. Thyronamines (TAMs) are a novel class of iodothyronine-like endogenous signaling compounds (19). Their structure differs from T4 and T3 only with regard to the absence of the carboxylate group of the alanine side chain. THs and TAMs are designated Tx and TxAM, respectively, with “x” indicating the number of iodine atoms per molecule, thus following the same rules for nomenclature (see (20) for an excellent review). So far, only 3-iodothyronamine (3-T1AM) and thyronamine (T0AM) have been detected in vivo using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) (19, 21). 3T1AM and T0AM have been shown to exert acute and dramatic effects on heart rate, body temperature and physical activity, inducing a torpor-like state (19), but also more subtle effects on neurocognitive function (22). The physiological receptor(s) of TAMs has not been identified unambiguously, but despite their structural similarities, iodothyronines and TAMs appear to signal via different receptors. Initial studies suggested that the TAMs mediated their effects via the G-protein coupled trace amine receptor, TAR1 (19). However, the impressive hypothermic response to 3-T1AM administration is maintained in TAAR-1 knockout (23). Whether other members of the TAAR family or other plasma membrane
