Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


trace amine receptor, TAR1 (19). However, the impressive hypothermic response to 3-T1AM administration is maintained in TAAR-1 knockout (23). Whether other members of the TAAR family or other plasma membrane receptors mediate the TAM response remains to be studied. Studies in athyreotic patients provide evidence for extrathyroidal formation of 3-T1AM (24), but the pathways of TAM biosynthesis are still unknown (41). However, it has been shown that iodothyronamines are deiodinated by the different deiodinases (25), which may suggest a role in biosynthesis. Interesting effects of other natural thyroid hormone derivatives have been described as well (26). Triac has significant thyromimetic activity and its affinity for the T3 receptor TRα1 is equal to that of T3 and for the TRβ receptor it is even higher than that of T3 (26). As a consequence, administration of Triac has successfully been used to suppress TSH secretion in patients with resistance to thyroid hormone due to mutations in TRβ (27). Interestingly, it was recently shown that the marine invertebrate Amphioxus expresses a TH receptor which is activated by Triac but not by T3 (28), as well as a non-selenoprotein that deiodinates Triac but not T3 (29). This may suggest that Triac is the primordial TH (29). A different natural TH derivative, 3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine (T2), has been shown to prevent adiposity and body weight gain when administered to rats receiving a high-fat diet (HFD) without the unfavorable side effects that are usually caused by T3 (30, 31). However, the exact biological functions of these iodothyronine, iodothyronamine and iodothyroacetic acid metabolites remain to be established in future studies. Cleavage of the ether bond connecting the inner and outer ring of iodothyronines represents a relatively minor pathway of thyroid hormone disposal (16) and will not be discussed here. In the following sections especially the biochemical aspects of the deiodination and conjugation pathways will be reviewed. DEIODINATION Three iodothyronine deiodinases have been identified, with distinct tissue distributions, catalytic specificities, physiological functions, and regulations (Fig. 2) (1-5). Whereas initial studies focused on the role of the deiodinases in maintaining normal serum T3 concentrations, the paradigm has evolved and it has now clearly been shown in different developmental and clinical conditions that these enzymes can locally modify TH bioactivity independent of serum TH concentrations. This is especially the case for D2 and D3 (see below). Figure 2 Characteristics of the three types iodothyronine deiodinases D1, D2 and D3 have been cloned
