Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


serum TH concentrations. This is especially the case for D2 and D3 (see below). Figure 2 Characteristics of the three types iodothyronine deiodinases D1, D2 and D3 have been cloned in different species, including mammals, frog, chicken and fish. The deduced amino acid sequences of human D1, D2 and D3 are presented in Fig. 3. The deiodinases appear to be homologous proteins, consisting of 249-278 amino acids. A particular lipophilic sequence is present in the N terminal domain of all three deiodinases, which probably represents a membrane-spanning region. The most remarkable feature of all three iodothyronine deiodinase is that they are selenoproteins, i.e. they contain a selenocysteine (Sec) residue in the center of the amino acid sequence (32). In all selenoproteins, Sec is encoded by a UGA triplet which is an opal stop codon because it usually signals termination of translation. However, if the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of the mRNA contains a particular stem loop structure, termed selenocysteine-insertion sequence (SECIS) element, the UGA codon specifies the insertion of Sec (33, 34). Interestingly, it was recently shown that the marine invertebrate Amphioxus expresses a non-selenoprotein that deiodinates Triac but not T3 (29). Figure 3. Alignment of the amino acid sequences of human D1, D2 and D3 U=selenocysteine (Sec) Type I iodothyronine deiodinase (D1) Biochemistry D1 is expressed predominantly by liver parenchymal cells, kidney proximal tubular cells, and thyroid follicular cells. Most evidence points to the localization of D1 in the plasma membrane (35). D1 catalyzes the ORD and/or IRD of a variety of iodothyronine derivatives, although it is most effective in catalyzing the ORD of rT3, while the IRD of both T4 and T3 is strongly facilitated by sulfation of these iodothyronines (17). Therefore, although D1 is thought to be a major source of circulating T3, the enzyme shows particularly high activity towards TR-inactive metabolites such as rT3 and the different sulfo-conjugates. This suggests that D1 plays an important role in the recovery of iodide from inactive compounds for reutilization in thyroidal hormone synthesis (36). In the presence of dithiothreitol (DTT) as the cofactor, D1 displays high Km and Vmax values. Studies of the topography of rat D1 have suggested that the major part of the protein is exposed on the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane (37). Older studies using detergent extracts of rat liver and kidney membranes have suggested that the native enzyme largely exists as a homodimer. This
