Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane (37). Older studies using detergent extracts of rat liver and kidney membranes have suggested that the native enzyme largely exists as a homodimer. This has been confirmed in a number of recent studies utilizing cells transfected with different D1 constructs (2, 38-40). These studies have also demonstrated that amino acids 148-163 constitute the dimerization domain of the D1 protein (DFLVIYIEEAHASDGW in human D1). The D1 gene is located on human chromosome 1p32-33. It consists of four exons, with exon 1 coding for the 5’UTR and amino acids 1-112, exon 2 for amino acids 113-160, exon 3 for amino acids 161-227, and exon 4 for amino acids 228-249 and the 3’UTR, including the SECIS element. The Sec residue in D1 is essential for deiodinase activity since replacement of Sec by Cys results in a 100-fold decrease in catalytic activity, while substitution of Sec by Leu produces an enzymatically inactive protein (42). In addition, D1 is extremely sensitive to inactivation by iodoacetate due to carboxymethylation of a highly reactive residue, probably Sec, in the enzyme active center which is prevented in the presence of substrate (2, 15). Moreover, D1 activity is inhibited by very low concentrations (»10 -8 M) of goldthioglucose (GTG), which is known to form very stable complexes with Sec residues, and this inhibition is also competitive with substrate (43). Therefore, Sec is probably the catalytic center of D1. Two other observations have provided important clues about the possible catalytic mechanism of D1. Firstly, D1 shows ping-pong type reaction kinetics in catalyzing the deiodination of iodothyronines by DTT (2, 15), suggesting that reaction of iodothyronine substrate with D1 produces an enzyme intermediate, from which native enzyme is regenerated by reaction with thiol cofactor (DTT). Secondly, D1 is potently inhibited by PTU, and this inhibition is uncompetitive with substrate and competitive with cofactor, suggesting that PTU and cofactor react with the same enzyme intermediate. Thiouracil derivatives are particularly reactive towards protein sulfenyl iodide (SI) groups, and presumably even more reactive towards selenenyl iodide (SeI) groups, suggesting that such an intermediate is generated in the catalytic cycle of D1. Therefore, the selenolate (Se - ) group of the native enzyme is thought to act as an acceptor of the iodonium (I + ) ion which is substituted in the substrate by a proton, and the SeI intermediate thus generated is reduced back to native enzyme by
