Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


acceptor of the iodonium (I + ) ion which is substituted in the substrate by a proton, and the SeI intermediate thus generated is reduced back to native enzyme by thiols such as DTT or converted into a dead-end complex by PTU (Fig. 4). Figure 4. Putative catalytic mechanism of D1 and inhibition by PTU, IAc and GTG. Unlike the mammalian enzyme, D1 from tilapia was found to be insensitive to PTU inhibition (44). Like all other characterized deiodinases, tilapia D1 also contains a Sec residue in the corresponding position (44). However, two positions downstream from this Sec residue, tilapia D1 features a Pro residue, which is also the case in other fish species and in frog D1. In contrast, all known PTU-sensitive D1 enzymes have a Ser residue at this position. Remarkably, a Pro residue is also present at this position in all known D2 and D3 sequences, which are also PTU-insensitive. Substitution of Pro by Ser in tilapia D1 did not restore PTU sensitivity (44). However, substitution of Pro by Ser in frog D1 (4) as well as in human D2 and D3 not only made these enzymes susceptible to inhibition by PTU but also changed the kinetic mechanism of these enzymes (45). Therefore, in addition to the Sec residue the amino acid two positions downstream plays an important role in the catalytic mechanism of the deiodinases. The lack of PTU inhibition of the tilapia D1Pro>Ser mutant suggests that additional elements of the protein are important for effect of PTU. Pathophysiology D1 activity in liver and kidney is stimulated in hyperthyroidism and decreased in hypothyroidism, representing the regulation of D1 activity by T3 at the transcriptional level (46). T3 response elements (TREs) have been identified in the upstream region of the D1 gene (47, 48). Studies in TR knockout mice have indicated that D1 expression in liver is primarily controlled by the TRb isoform (49). This agrees well with the colocalization of TRb and D1 in the pericentral zone of rat liver (50). In the thyroid, D1 expression is stimulated by T3, TSH and TSH receptor antibodies, where the effects of the latter are mediated by cAMP (51, 52). There is controversy about the contribution of D1 to peripheral T3 production. Different animal models have been studied which may provide a clue about this function of D1. Firstly, rats have been raised on a severely selenium-deficient diet, resulting
