Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


peripheral T3 production. Different animal models have been studied which may provide a clue about this function of D1. Firstly, rats have been raised on a severely selenium-deficient diet, resulting in a dramatic reduction in liver and kidney D1 activity (53). These rats showed a significant decrease in serum T3 and increase in serum T4, compatible with an important role of D1 in peripheral T4 to T3 conversion. Other studies in rats have demonstrated that D2 and D3 activities in other tissues such as brain are much less affected directly by selenium deficiency (54).It should be noted that in mice lacking the plasma Se carrier selenoprotein P (SePP), thyroid hormone metabolism is preferentially maintained indicating that selenoenzymes have a priority in the organism with respect to selenium supply (55). Findings in mice do not support an important function of liver and kidney D1 in peripheral T3 production as suggested by selenium deficiency in rats. C3H mice show a strongly reduced hepatic and renal D1 expression compared with other mouse strains (56-58). Yet, their serum T3 levels are comparable, although the C3H mice show some increase in serum T4 suggesting that an increased T4 production may compensate for the decreased T4 to T3 conversion. Serum rT3 levels are mildly elevated as well in C3H mice. In another mouse model, hepatic synthesis of selenoproteins, including D1, is disabled by inactivation of the Sec-specific tRNA (59). This does not result in any change in circulating thyroid hormone concentrations. Finally, D1 knockout (D1KO) mice have been generated which do not express D1 in any tissue, including thyroid and kidneys (36). These D1KO mice also show normal serum T3 and TSH levels, but like the C3H mice they have elevated serum T4 and rT3 levels as well. However, we should be careful to draw conclusions about the contribution of D1 to serum T3 homeostasis based on these knock-out mouse models, since even mice without any ORD (D1KO/D2KO mice) are able to maintain normal levels of serum T3 (60), pointing towards a major role played by the thyroid gland as well. Although these data in D1KO/D2KO mice suggest that D1 and D2 may not be essential for the maintenance of the serum T3 level, both enzymes do serve important roles in thyroid hormone homeostasis. Fecal excretion of endogenous iodothyronines was greatly increased in D1KO mice, pointing towards an important role in iodide conservation by serving as
