Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


do serve important roles in thyroid hormone homeostasis. Fecal excretion of endogenous iodothyronines was greatly increased in D1KO mice, pointing towards an important role in iodide conservation by serving as a scavenger enzyme in peripheral tissues and the thyroid (36). Similarly, despite normal serum T3 levels in D2KO mice, brain T3 levels as well as the expression of certain T3 responsive genes in the brain was reduced. Many studies have addressed the question about the contribution of a diminished expression of hepatic D1 to the decrease in serum T3 in rats exposed to fasting or NTI. The results of these studies are confounded by the fact that D1 not only produces T3 from T4 but its expression is also stimulated by T3. In fact, D1 expression is a very sensitive indicator of the thyroid state of the liver (61). So far, no patients with mutations in D1 have yet been identified. However, several candidate gene association studies have reported on significant associations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in D1 with reciprocal changes in serum T3 versus T4 and rT3 levels (62-64). Recently, a large genome wide association meta-analysis was conducted for serum FT4 levels, and a single nucleotide polymorphism in DIO1 was one of the five genome wide significant hits (65) strongly suggesting an important role for D1 in peripheral thyroid hormone metabolism in humans as well. Type II iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) Biochemistry D2 is expressed primarily in the brain, the anterior pituitary gland and (rodent) brown adipose tissue (BAT) (1-5). D2 activity has also been shown in human thyroid (66-68) and skeletal muscle (69), while D2 mRNA is also expressed in human heart (70). Localization of D2 mRNA in rat brain by in situ hybridization has indicated that the enzyme is expressed in astrocytes, in particular in tanycytes lining the third ventricles (71). D2 activity is induced in cultured astrocytes by a variety of factors (73-74). Like the other deiodinases, D2 also forms functional homodimers (38, 39, 75). Regarding cellular localization, D2 is largely present in the endoplasmic reticulum (35). D2 has only ORD activity, exhibiting low Km and Vmax values, and a slight preference for T4 over rT3 as the substrate. In contrast to D1, it does not catalyze the deiodination of sulfated iodothyronines. The amount of T3 in D2-expressing tissues is derived to a large extent from local conversion of T4 by this enzyme and to a
