Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


catalyze the deiodination of sulfated iodothyronines. The amount of T3 in D2-expressing tissues is derived to a large extent from local conversion of T4 by this enzyme and to a minor extent from plasma T3. In general, D2 activity is increased in hypothyroidism and decreased in hyperthyroidism. Part of this negative control is explained by substrate-induced inactivation of the enzyme by T4 and rT3 (1-5). Reaction of these substrates with D2 induces the ubiquitination of the enzyme, which facilitates its degradation in the proteasomes. However, active D2 may also be recovered by de-ubiquitination of the modified enzyme. Thus, ubiquitination/de-ubiquitination is an important, dynamic mechanism in the regulation of D2 activity in many tissues, except hypothalamic D2 which is less ubiquitinated (72). For a more detailed discussion of this pathway, the reader is referred to excellent studies and reviews published in this area (38, 76-80). Furthermore, Dio2 is a cAMP-responsive gene and as a consequence the adrenergic/cAMP signaling pathway mediates the transcriptional control of D2 (81).In addition, D2 expression is also importantly regulated by ER stress reducing D2 activity by inhibition of de novo synthesis of the D2 protein (82). Finally, presumably receptor-mediated inhibition of D2 activity by T3 has been demonstrated in pituitary tumor cells (83), and D2 mRNA levels in brain, pituitary and BAT are up-regulated in hypothyroid rats and down-regulated in hyperthyroid animals (84, 85). The central Sec residue plays an important role in the catalysis and turnover of D2. Replacement of this Sec with Cys results in a 1000-fold increase in the Km value of the substrates T4 and rT3, and a 10-fold decrease in turnover number (86, 87). Substitution of Sec by Ala completely inactivates the enzyme. Also the mechanism of substrate-induced D2 degradation is strongly or completely impaired by replacement of Sec by Cys or Ala, respectively (88), suggesting that modification of this Sec residue during catalysis may be an essential step in the inactivation of the enzyme. Interestingly, mammalian and avian D2 also have a second Sec residue near the C-terminus which, however, is not important for catalytic activity (89). The D2 gene is located on human chromosome 14q24.2-q24.3. It consists of 2 exons of 0.7 kb and 6.6 kb, seperated by a 7.4 kb intron (2). The SECIS element in the 3’UTR is separated by ~5 kb from the UGA triplet coding for the catalytic Sec residue, resulting in a poor translation efficiency
