Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


kb intron (2). The SECIS element in the 3’UTR is separated by ~5 kb from the UGA triplet coding for the catalytic Sec residue, resulting in a poor translation efficiency of the D2 mRNA (90). This is even further hampered by the presence of multiple short open reading frames in the 5’UTR of human D2 mRNA (90). Pathophysiology D2 is expressed in human thyroid but not in rat thyroid. Both D2 mRNA and D2 activity in human thyroid are greatly stimulated by TSH and TSH receptor antibodies circulating in patients with Graves’ disease (66, 67). The expression of D2 in human thyroid has been associated with functional TTF-1 binding sites in the 5’ flanking region of the human D2 gene which are lacking in the 5’ flanking region of the rat D2 gene (91). The stimulatory effects of TSH and TSH receptor antibodies on D2 expression in human thyroid are mediated by cAMP, which has been associated with the presence of a cAMP response element (CRE) in the 5’ flanking region of the D2 gene (81, 92). Interestingly, follicular thyroid carcinoma may express high levels of D2, and in case of a large (metastatic) tumor mass this may results in strongly elevated serum T3 levels (93-95). D2 knockout (D2KO) mice have been generated, showing modest phenotypic changes (96). The homozygous D2KO mice have increased serum T4 and increased TSH levels, but normal levels of T3. The combination of increased serum TSH and T4 is in agreement with an important role of D2 in the negative feedback of T4 at the hypothalamus and pituitary level. However, the normal serum T3 suggests that D2 is not essential for maintaining normal serum T3 levels. However, as mentioned above, even D1KO/D2KO mice are able to maintain normal levels of serum T3 (60), pointing towards a major role for the thyroid gland in serum T3 production as well. In skeletal muscle, D2 levels are higher in slow-twitch than fast-twitch mouse skeletal muscle and are increased in hypothyroidism (97). Specific deletion of D2 in skeletal muscle does not have large effects on thyroid hormone signaling or functional outcomes (98,99). In contrast to the marked decrease in hepatic and renal (but not thyroidal) D1 activities, the unexpectedly small effects of Se deficiency on tissue D2 and D3 activities in rats, despite that they all appear to be Sec-containing proteins, may be explained by findings that the selenium
