Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


small effects of Se deficiency on tissue D2 and D3 activities in rats, despite that they all appear to be Sec-containing proteins, may be explained by findings that the selenium state of different tissues varies greatly in Se-deficient animals. In addition, the efficiency of the SECIS element to complex with protein factors, such as SBP2, necessary for the read-through of the UGA codon may vary between different seleno­proteins. This could result in the preferred incorporation of Sec into some seleno­proteins, e.g. deiodinases, over others, e.g. glutathione peroxidase (33). Despite normal serum T3 levels in D2KO mice, brain T3 levels as well as the expression of certain T3 responsive genes in the brain is reduced, again pointing towards the crucial role of D2 in maintaining local T3 concentrations (96, 105). Several other studies point towards a crucial role for D2 (and D3, see below) in regulating local T3 concentrations, and as a consequence it is know well accepted that these deiodinases can regulate thyroid hormone action at the cellular level during development and tissue stress relatively independent of serum T4 and T3 concentrations (3). One of the clearest examples of the role of D2 in development is its role in the inner ear. A sharp increase in D2 activity occurs in mouse cochlea at postnatal days 6-8, which is required for normal cochlear development (100). As a consequence, D2KO mice are deaf underlining the importance of D2 in producing local T3 in the cochlea during a critical period of its development (101). Another example of the important role of D2 in development is the observation that D2KO mice have an impaired embryonic BAT development, and as a consequence a permanent thermogenic defect (102, 103). D2KO mice exhibit an impaired thermogenesis in BAT, leading to hypothermia during cold exposure and a greater susceptibility to diet-induced obesity at thermoneutrality (104). D2 is also essential for maintaining normal local concentrations of T3 in different physiological and pathophysiological situations. D2 has an important role in pituitary and hypothalamic feedback (96). It also plays an essential role for normal myogenesis (106) and in the optimization of bone strength and mineralization (107). Adult D2KO mice have a 50% reduction in bone formation and a generalized increase in skeletal mineralization resulting from a local deficiency of T3 in osteoblasts (101). D2 is also required for the regeneration of skeletal muscle after injury (106), since regeneration after injury is
