Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


skeletal mineralization resulting from a local deficiency of T3 in osteoblasts (101). D2 is also required for the regeneration of skeletal muscle after injury (106), since regeneration after injury is markedly delayed in D2KO mice. The increase in muscle D2 is mediated via FoxO3, thereby locally increasing intracellular T3 concentrations. Muscle D2 expression during critical illness is differentially regulated, probably related to differences in the inflammatory response and type of pathology (108). In humans, skeletal muscle D2 mRNA expression is modulated by fasting and insulin, but not by hypothyroidism (109). Also in lung tissue, D2 activity increases upon injury. In a mouse model of ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), lung D2 activity increased (110). D2KO mice had a greater susceptibility to VILI than WT mice, demonstrated by poorer alveoli integrity and quantified by lung chemokine and cytokine induction. Evidence accumulates that D2 is induced during inflammation (e.g. in macrophages) (198, 199). The neonatal D2 peak in the liver appears relevant for susceptibility to diet-induced steatosis and obesity as shown in hepatocyte-specific D2KO (196). No patients have been identified with mutations in D2. However, patients with homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the SECIS-binding protein SBP2, which is crucial for the synthesis of selenoproteins (111) have abnormal serum thyroid hormone levels: high (F)T4 and rT3, low T3, and somewhat elevated TSH levels. This resembles the changes in thyroid parameters in D2KO mice, although in patients with SBP2 mutations also the expression of functional D1 and D3 is probably affected. As SBP2 deficiency affects many selenoproteins, these patients have a multisystem disorder including growth delay in childhood, hearing loss, enhanced skin sensitivity and infertility (111,112). Whether polymorphisms in D2 are associated with significant changes in serum thyroid hormone levels or other outcomes such as insulin resistance or osteoarthritis are controversial (62, 113-117, 200). Also uncommon D2 variants are not related to serum thyroid hormone levels (201). The Thr92Ala polymorphism has been linked with local changes in a specific transcriptional fingerprint, although the relevance needs to be further studied (202). Type III iodothyronine deiodinase (D3) Biochemistry D3 activity has been detected in a variety of tissues, i.e. brain, skin, liver, intestine, placenta, and the pregnant rat uterus (1-5, 118-120). D3 expression is usually much higher in fetal than in adult tissues. D3 activity is also highly expressed in certain tumors, including hepatocarcinomas, hemangiomas and basal cell carcinomas (121-124, 203) Because of its expression in
