Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


higher in fetal than in adult tissues. D3 activity is also highly expressed in certain tumors, including hepatocarcinomas, hemangiomas and basal cell carcinomas (121-124, 203) Because of its expression in fetal tissues and tumors, D3 has been named an oncofetal protein. The enzyme appears to be located in the plasma membrane in the form of a homodimer (38, 125, 126). D3 has only IRD activity, catalyzing the inactivation of T4 and T3 with intermediate Km and Vmax values (Fig. 2). The expression of D3 in placenta, pregnant uterus, embryonic and fetal tissues may protect developing organs against undue exposure to active thyroid hormone. Also in adult subjects, D3 appears to be an important site for clearance of plasma T3 and production of plasma rT3. In brain and skin, but not in placenta, D3 activity is increased in hyperthyroidism and decreased in hypothyroidism, which in brain is associated with parallel changes in D3 mRNA levels (127). The D3 gene is located on human chromosome 14q32 and consists of a single exon. In all species, D3 is a selenoprotein homologous with the amino acid sequences of D1 and D3, including the essential Sec residue positioned in a strongly conserved region (Fig. 2). It has been shown that D3 expression is predominantly regulated by TRα1 (128), and studies in TRα1-/- mice have demonstrated a reduced clearance rate of TH due to an impaired regulation of D3 (129). The presence of Sec in a strongly conserved region of the proteins strongly suggests the same mechanism of deiodination for the different deiodinases. This seems to be contradicted by the widely different susceptibilities of D1 versus D2 and D3 to the different mechanism-based inhibitors PTU, IAc and GTG (Fig. 2). It also seems to be in conflict with previous findings that, in contrast to the ping-pong kinetics of D1, the other two enzymes appear to follow sequential-type kinetics, suggesting the formation of a ternary enzyme-substrate-cofactor complex during catalysis. The differences in enzyme kinetics and PTU inhibition between the deiodinases are determined by the presence of Ser (D1) or Pro (D2,D3) two positions downstream of Sec, which may somehow influence the reactivity of the catalytic Sec residue (see above). The crystal structure of the catalytic part of D3 suggests a close similarity to 2-Cys peroxiredoxin(s) (Prx) with an important resolving role for Cys239 by forming a selenenyl-sulfide with Sec170 (204). Pathophysiology D3 plays a very important role
