Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


D3 suggests a close similarity to 2-Cys peroxiredoxin(s) (Prx) with an important resolving role for Cys239 by forming a selenenyl-sulfide with Sec170 (204). Pathophysiology D3 plays a very important role in the regulation of local and systemic thyroid hormone bioactivity (1, 123). It has been shown that region-specific expression of D3 in fetal and adult human brain is negatively associated with local tissue T3 levels (130, 131). High expression of D3 in vascular tumors may result in subclinical or even severe hypothyroidism in patients with such tumors, which condition has been termed consumptive hypothyroidism (122, 123, 132). Induction of D3 expression has also been demonstrated in liver and skeletal muscle biopsies from patients who died after severe illness, and D3 activities were correleated to both local and serum rT3 concentrations in these severely sick patients (133-135). Therefore, tissue and circulating iodothyronine levels are regulated not only by changes in the T3-producing deiodinases D1 and D2 but also importantly by reciprocal changes in the T3-degrading deiodinase D3. D3 knockout (D3KO) mice have been generated, showing remarkable neonatal mortality and growth retardation, althought the severity of the phenotype depends on the genetic background (136-138). In addition, they show largely abnormal thyroid hormone levels, dependent on the age of the animals. Compared with wild-type mice, serum T4 is very low in D3KO mice at all ages, T3 is higher in neonatal mice but much lower in older D3KO mice, while TSH varies between very low in younger to low in older knockout mice. This picture represents a state of central hypothyroidism, suggesting that the setpoint of the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis is strongly affected by inactivation of D3, which could be due to overexposure of tissues (e.g. the developing hypothalamus) to T3. This is reminiscent of the reports of congenital central hypothyroidism in newborns from mothers who were hyperthyroid during pregnancy (139). Heterozygous D3KO mice show either almost normal or strongly decreased D3 expression, depending on whether the defective allele is inherited from the mother or the father, respectively, indicating paternal imprinting of the DIO3 gene (136, 205). However, D3 expressed from the maternal D3 allele is important in pancreatic islets to maintain normal glucose homeostasis (206). The DIO3 gene is located in an imprinted region on human chromosome 14 or mouse chromosome 12 which is about 1 Mb in size and comprises the paternally expressed genes DLK1 (delta-like 1) and DIO3 , and a
