Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


region on human chromosome 14 or mouse chromosome 12 which is about 1 Mb in size and comprises the paternally expressed genes DLK1 (delta-like 1) and DIO3 , and a large number of in particular maternally expressed non-coding genes. Both Dlk1 and Dio3 expression are elevated in cultured brown pre-adipocytes and down-regulated during differentiation, suggesting that imprinting might control the dosage of these genes to regulate thermogenesis (140). Interestingly, transgenic animals with partial loss of imprinting of this locus show significant lethality in the third postnatal week, associated with developmental delay and failure to maintain UCP1 expression in BAT (141). This defect is the combined result of prolonged elevated expression of Dlk1, leading to a failure in BAT differentiation and subsequent reduced expression of β-adrenergic receptors, and hypothyroidism due to dysregulation of D3. The important role of hepatic D3 in the regulation of circulating thyroid hormone during development has been investigated in detail in the embryonic chicken (142, 143). These studies have demonstrated that during the last (third) week of incubation there is a gradual increase in plasma T4 levels paralleled by a steady increase in hepatic D1 activity although hepatic D1 mRNA levels do not change much. D3 mRNA and D3 activity show a parallel increase to maximum levels at day 17 of embryonic development, followed by a steep decrease in both parameters in particular immediately before hatching. This is associated with an equally steep increase in plasma T3, strongly suggesting that the latter is importantly and negatively regulated by hepatic D3 activity (142, 143). A study of the ontogeny of hepatic D1 and D3 during human development has indicated similar profiles of deiodinase expression, with substantial and relatively constant D1 activities from mid-gestation onwards, and high D3 activities at mid-gestation declining to very low levels around term (144). Since in rat liver D1 is not expressed until the last days of gestation, while hepatic D3 expression is low at all stages of rat development (118), these results indicate that the embryonic chicken is a better model than the fetal rat for the regulation of hepatic deiodinases during human development. Injection of the chicken embryo with growth hormone or glucocorticoids induces an acute down-regulation of hepatic D3 mRNA levels and D3 activities, suggesting that the D3 mRNA in the embryonic chicken has a very short half-life, and that transcription of the D3 gene is acutely blocked by these treatments
