Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


and D3 activities, suggesting that the D3 mRNA in the embryonic chicken has a very short half-life, and that transcription of the D3 gene is acutely blocked by these treatments (142). If D3 expression in the fetal human liver is also rapidly down-regulated by GH and glucocorticoids remains to be determined. It is likely that the high D3 activities expressed in the fetal liver, in addition to the high D3 activities in the placenta (145, 146) and perhaps the uterus (119), plays an important role in the regulation of fetal circulating T3 levels and protect the fetus against early T3 exposure. In recent years, several studies have addressed the role of D3 in regulating local T3 concentrations. It is now well accepted that D3 plays a crucial role in regulating thyroid hormone action at the cellular level during development, relatively independent of serum T4 and T3 concentrations. During development, D3 is expressed in the immature cochlea before D2 (147). Like D2KO mice, D3KO mice display auditory deficits as well. However, in contrast to the retarded cochlear development in D2KO mice, D3KO mice display an accelerated cochlear differentiation due to premature stimulation of TRb. The additional deletion of TRb converts the accelerated cochlear phenotype in D3KO mice to one of delayed differentiation (147), indicating a protective role for D3 in hearing development. This clearly illustrates how different tissues can auto-regulate their developmental response to thyroid hormone through both D2 and D2. D3 also plays a crucial role in cerebellar development, since D3KO mice display abnormally accelerated cerebellar differentiation and locomotor behavioral defects, suggesting that D3 protects cerebellar tissues from inappropriate, premature stimulation by thyroid hormone (148, 207). This cerebellar phenotype results specifically from inappropriate stimulation of the TRa1 receptor isoform, since the additional deletion of TRa1 reversed the cerebellar phenotype. Also, additional deletion of MCT8 in the D3KO mice ameliorates the phenotype indicating the relevance of MCT8 for intracellular T3 levels (208). Similarly, D3 protects cones to unlimited T3 exposure in the immature mouse retina. As a consequence, approximately 80% of cones are lost through neonatal cell death in D3KO mice (149). Similar results were obtained in zebrafish (209). D3 appears also a critical factor in testis development via influencing local thyroid hormone bioavailability (210). Furthermore, protection against untimed T3 exposure by D3 in pancreatic β-cells during development is essential for normal islet function and glucose homeostasis (150). As a consequence,
