Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


thyroid hormone bioavailability (210). Furthermore, protection against untimed T3 exposure by D3 in pancreatic β-cells during development is essential for normal islet function and glucose homeostasis (150). As a consequence, D3KO mice have impaired insulin secretion in response to glucose stimulation. In contrast to most tissues, D3 expression remains throughout adulthood in human and mouse β-cells. However, whether dysregulation of Dio3 might play a role in different states of impaired insulin secretion remains to be explored in future studies (150). In addition, less fat tissue is seen in D3KO mice, which is mediated through in the leptin-melanocortin system (211). In addition to its crucial role during development, D3 activity is also important in regulating thyroid hormone action at the cellular level in different pathophysiological conditions. Induction of D3 expression has been documented in the hypertrophic or failing heart resulting from pressure overload or myocardial infarction (151-153). Hypoxia-inducible factor 1a (HIF-1a) induces local thyroid hormone inactivation by inducing D3 during hypoxia (152), suggesting a mechanism of down-regulating metabolism during ischemia. In neuronal hypoxia, translocation of D3 to the nucleus is mediated by Hsp-40, thereby facilitating local inactivation of thyroid hormone and reducing ischemia-induced hypoxic brain damage (154). Heterozygous D3KO mice constitute a model of cardiac D3 inactivation in an otherwise systemically euthyroid animal (155). These mice have normal hearts but later develop restrictive cardiomyopathy due to cardiac-specific increase in thyroid hormone signaling. In addition, heterozygous D3KO mice are more vulnerable to isoproterenol, further worsening the restrictive cardiomyopathy and leading to congestive heart failure and increased mortality (155). D3 activity is also induced in liver and muscle of critically ill patients (133-135). See (156) for an excellent overview of the changes in local thyroid hormone metabolism during illness and inflammation. Interestingly, in a mouse model of turpentine-induced tissue inflammation, high D3 expression in invading granulocytes has also been reported (157, 158). Recent studies also documented D3 in human neutrophils (212). Furthermore, D1 decreases and D3 increases are seen in livers of premature and normal aging mice, hinting that changes in deiodinases are mediated via DNA damage and might contribute to the beneficial survival response (213). Several recent studies have demonstrated that local regulation of thyroid hormone action also plays a crucial role in repair mechanisms, for example D3 in liver (159) and brain (160), and D2 and D3 in muscle (106, 214). The reciprocal changes in D2 and D3 are shown in
