Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


in repair mechanisms, for example D3 in liver (159) and brain (160), and D2 and D3 in muscle (106, 214). The reciprocal changes in D2 and D3 are shown in elegant studies demonstrating that D2 is induced to allow proper differentiation after muscle injury, while D3 induction in proliferating muscle cells protects against excessive local thyroid hormone concentrations, preventing apoptosis (106, 214). Furthermore, D2 and D3 activities are regulated by a variety of growth factors and morphogens, which are important mediators of tissue injury repair (161). After a large hepatectomy, ‘stem-like’ cells switch from a quiescent state to a proliferative state. During these processes, many fetal genes are reactivated (162). Among them, D3 activity was increased 10-fold and D3 mRNA expression was increased 3-fold 20 h after partial hepatectomy in rats. No significant effects on D1 and D2 activities or mRNA expression were found after partial hepatectomy in mice (159). This leads to the concept that a coordinated regulation of thyroid hormone action is essential in the control of the tight balance between proliferation and differentiation in the regeneration processes. Induction of D3 expression in the early phases of regeneration may therefore very well correlate with a requirement of increased cellular proliferation in these circumstances (3, 161). The balance between proliferation and differentiation is disturbed in cancer, and D3 is turned on in several malignant cell lines and human cancers (3, 163). D3 activity in these cancers can be very high and may even lead to so-called consumptive hypothyroidism (123, 132, 203) . In basal cell carcinomas, as well as in primary proliferating keratinocytes, Sonic hedgehog (Shh) increases the expression of D3, acting via a conserved Gli2 binding site on the human Dio3 promoter (121, 215). This suggests that Shh may induce local down-regulation of thyroid hormone activity. Interestingly, knockdown of D3 caused a 5-fold reduction in the growth of basal cell carcinoma xenografts in nude mice (121), suggesting that D3 up-regulation provides an advantage for proliferating tumor cells. This appears to be mediated by miR21 that reduces the tumor suppressor gene GRHL3 which in turn increases D3 expression (216). Interestingly, a recent study in papillary thyroid carcinoma demonstrated an association between increased levels of D3 activity and advanced disease (164). However, since only a few tumors over-express D3, D3 expression seems not be a necessary step in tumorigenesis. Sulfation Iodothyronine sulfotransferases Sulfotransferases represent a family of enzymes with a
