Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


(164). However, since only a few tumors over-express D3, D3 expression seems not be a necessary step in tumorigenesis. Sulfation Iodothyronine sulfotransferases Sulfotransferases represent a family of enzymes with a monomer molecular weight of »34 kDa, located in the cytoplasmic fraction of different tissues, in particular liver, kidney, intestine and brain (165). They catalyze the transfer of sulfate from 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) to usually a hydroxyl group of the substrate (165). On the basis of substrate specificity and amino acid sequence homology, mainly two sulfotransferase families have been recognized in human tissues, i.e. the phenol sulfo-transferases (SULT1 family), including estrogen sulfotransferase, and the hydroxysteroid sulfotransferases (SULT2 family) (165). Different phenol sulfotransferases have been identified with significant activity towards iodothyronines. These include human SULT1A1, 1A2, 1A3, 1B1 and 1C2 (Table 1) (166-174). These studies have indicated a large substrate preference of the recombinant enzymes as well as the native enzymes in human liver and kidney for 3,3'T2, the sulfation of which is catalyzed orders of magnitude faster than that of T3 or rT3, while sulfation of T4 is hardly detectable (168). Surprisingly, it has also been demonstrated that human estrogen sulfo-transferase (SULT1E1) is an important isoenzyme for sulfation of thyroid hormone. Although human SULT1E1 shows much higher affinities for estrogens (Km »nM) than for iodothyronines (Km »μM), it is about as efficient as other isoenzymes in sulfating 3,3'T2 and T3, and much more efficient in sulfating rT3 and T4 (169). Human tissues known to express SULT1E1 include liver, uterus, and mammary gland (175). In particular the enzyme expressed in the endometrium may be a significant source for the high levels of iodothyronine sulfates in human fetal plasma (see below). Recently, different human SULTs have also been shown to catalyze the sulfation of iodothyronamines (Table 1) (172). Deiodination of iodothyronine sulfates Although D1 is capable of converting T4 with similar efficiency by ORD to T3 and by IRD to rT3, this is changed dramatically after sulfate conjugation, i.e. IRD of T4S by rat D1 is accelerated »200-fold, whereas ORD of T4S becomes undetectable (Fig. 5) (17). IRD of T3 by rat and human D1 is also markedly stimulated (»40-fold) by sulfation (Fig. 5)(17). As mentioned before, rT3 is by far the preferred D1 substrate; its ORD is not influenced by sulfation, suggesting that the catalytic efficiency of D1 is already optimal with nonsulfated rT3 (17). While sulfation inhibits ORD of T4 and is
