Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


substrate; its ORD is not influenced by sulfation, suggesting that the catalytic efficiency of D1 is already optimal with nonsulfated rT3 (17). While sulfation inhibits ORD of T4 and is without effect on ORD of rT3, it markedly stimulates ORD of 3,3’-T2 (Fig. 5). Thus, sulfation facilitates the IRD of T4 and T3, while it either inhibits (T4), does not affect (rT3) or markedly stimulates (3,3’T2) the ORD of other substrates (17). Figure 5. Efficiency of deiodination of iodothyronines and their sulfates by rat liver D1. *) V max (pmol/min/mg protein)/K m ( µ M) ratio. The mechanism by which sulfation stimulates especially the IRD of different substrates remains unclear. In some cases sulfation primarily effects an increase in Vmax, while in others there is a predominant decrease in apparent Km value. The facilitated deiodination of sulfated iodothyronines by rat liver D1 may be due to interaction of the negatively charged sulfate group with protonated residues in the active center of this basic protein. The effect of sulfation on deiodination of iodothyronines is both conjugation type and deiodinase type-specific since D1 does not catalyze the deiodination of T3 glucuronide, while D2 and D3 do not accept T4S and/or T3S as substrates. Importance of thyroid hormone sulfation Serum concentrations of T4S, T3S, rT3S and 3,3’T2S are low in normal human subjects but they are high in fetal and cord blood, in patients with NTI, and in patients treated with the D1 inhibitor (16, 176). The serum T3S/T3 ratio is also increased in hypothyroid patients (177, 178). High iodothyronine sulfate levels have also been detected in human fetal and neonatal serum and amniotic fluid (16). The high serum iodothyronine sulfate levels during NTI, hypothyroidism and fetal development have been ascribed to a low peripheral D1 activity in these conditions (17, 18). These results are in accordance with studies in rats, showing marked increases in the serum concentration and biliary excretion of iodothyronine sulfates when hepatic and renal D1 activities are decreased by D1 inhibitors or selenium deficiency (17). These changes are not caused by an increased sulfation of iodothyronines but by a decreased clearance of the sulfated iodothyronines by D1. Thus, sulfation is a primary step leading to the irreversible degradation of T4 and T3 by D1. However, if D1 activity is low, inactivation of thyroid hormone by sulfation is reversible due to expression of sulfatases in different tissues and by intestinal
