Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


T4 and T3 by D1. However, if D1 activity is low, inactivation of thyroid hormone by sulfation is reversible due to expression of sulfatases in different tissues and by intestinal bacteria (179). It has been speculated that especially in the fetus T3S has an important function as a reservoir from which active T3 may be released in a tissue-specific and time-dependent manner(17, 180). Wu and coworkers have demonstrated the presence of a 3,3’T2S cross-reacting substance, termed compound W, in the serum and urine of pregnant women (16, 181). Interestingly, compound W is derived from the fetus and its concentration in maternal serum may reflect fetal thyroid state (16, 181). The structure of compound W remains to be identified. Glucuronidation Like sulfation, glucuronidation is a phase II metabolic reaction that increases the water-solubility of endogenous and exogenous compounds to increase their biliary or urinary excretion. Glucuronidation is catalyzed by UDP-glucuronyltransferases (UGTs) that utilize UDP-glucuronic acid (UDPGA) as cofactor. UGTs are localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of predominantly liver, kidney and intestine. Most UGTs are members of the UGT1A and UGT2B families (182). Iodothyronines are also metabolized by glucuronidation, although this appears more important in rodents than in humans (183). Especially in rodents, metabolism of thyroid hormone is accelerated through induction of T4-glucuronidating UGTs by different classes of compounds, including barbiturates, fibrates and PCBs (184-186). This may result in a hypothyroid state as the thyroid gland is not capable of compensating for the increased hormone loss. In humans, thyroid function may be affected by induction of T4 glucuronidation by anti-epileptics, but development of overt hypothyroidism is rare (187). Glucuronidation of T4 and T3 is catalyzed by different members of the UGT1A family (Table 2) (188-191). Usually, this involves the glucuronidation of the hydroxyl group, but human UGT1A3 also catalyzes the glucuronidation of the side-chain carboxyl group, with formation of so-called acyl glucuronides (189). Interestingly, Tetrac and Triac are much more rapidly glucuronidated in human liver than T4 and T3, and this occurs predominantly by acyl glucuronidation (192). Acyl glucuronides are reactive compounds that may form covalent complexes with proteins. It is unknown if this is a significant route for the formation of covalent iodothyronine-protein complexes. INTEGRATED PHYSIOLOGICAL ROLE OF THYROID HORMONE METABOLISM Since most actions of thyroid hormone are initiated by binding of T3 to its nuclear receptors, it is important to consider the role of the processes discussed above in the
