Metabolism of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, thyroid hormone, type, deiodinase, iodothyronine, human, mice, expression, levels, endocrinology, activity, endocrinol, role, serum


Since most actions of thyroid hormone are initiated by binding of T3 to its nuclear receptors, it is important to consider the role of the processes discussed above in the regulation of nuclear T3. There are two sources of intracellular T3, i.e. T3 derived from plasma T3, and T3 produced locally from T4, and the degree to which they contribute to the occupied receptors varies among the different tissues in different physiological and pathophysiological states (1, 3, 5, 76, 98). The liver and kidneys are typical of most tissues in the body in which most of the T3 specifically bound to the T3 receptor is derived directly from plasma. In cerebral cortex, BAT, and anterior pituitary there is a substantial contribution to nuclear T3 from locally produced T3. Local T3 production may be an autocrine process, where T3 is produced in the same cells where it acts, or a paracrine mechanism, where T3 production and action take place in neighboring cells. The latter appears very important for T3 action in the brain, where neurons are the primary target cells for T3 produced by D2 expressed in nearby astrocytes (193-195). D3 plays an additional important role in maintaining intracellular T3 concentrations in these tissues by catalyzing the degradation of T3 in case of excess or by diverting the metabolism of T4 to rT3. Indeed, the adaptations of deiodinase activities in response to changes in thyroid state are thought to serve the purpose of keeping intracellular T3 in the brain constant. Thus, when T4 supply is decreased in hypothyroidism, both D1 and D3 activities are down-regulated, so that relatively more T4 is available for conversion to T3 by D2 in the brain, the activity of which is up-regulated. Opposite changes occur in hyperthyroidism. These adaptations are not only important for the optimal function of the brain in adult life, they are also essential for the development of the brain which is critically dependent on thyroid hormone. Although the adaptations in deiodinase activities during hypo- or hyper­thyroidism go a long way in securing T3 availability in the brain, in severe iodine deficiency they may not fully compensate for the extreme decrease in T4 supply. This may result in severe impairment of neurological development in the child even when plasma T3 levels in the mother are sufficient to maintain a euthyroid state. The critical role of deiodination in regulating local thyroid hormone action is
