Chapter 9: Physical and Metabolic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, age, plasma, plasma glucose, diagnosed, years, appendix, based, diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed, fasting, undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, non-hispanic


9–1 CHAPTER 9 PHYSICAL AND METABOLIC CHARACTERISTICS OF PERSONS WITH DIABETES AND PREDIABETES Andy Menke, PhD, William C. Knowler, MD, DrPH, and Catherine C. Cowie, PhD, MPH Dr. Andy Menke is a Senior Research Analyst at Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD. Dr. William C. Knowler is the Chief of the Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Phoenix, AZ. Dr. Catherine C. Cowie is a Senior Advisor and the Director for Diabetes Epidemiology at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD. SUMMARY This chapter provides a description of physical and metabolic characteristics of persons with diabetes and prediabetes and is based primarily on data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2005–2010. The 2010 American Diabetes Association guidelines were used to define undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes. Among participants with diabetes, mean glycosylated hemo­ globin (A1c) concentrations were highest in those with diagnosed diabetes treated by insulin or oral diabetes medication (7.4%), followed by undiagnosed diabetes defined by A1c or fasting plasma glucose (6.9%), and lowest among those with untreated diagnosed diabetes (6.3%) and undiagnosed diabetes defined by A1c, fasting plasma glucose, or 2-hour plasma glucose (6.3%). Mean fasting plasma glucose concentrations were highest in those with treated diabetes (153 mg/dL) and undiagnosed diabetes defined by A1c or fasting plasma glucose (149 mg/dL) and generally lower among those with untreated diagnosed diabetes (137 mg/dL) and undiagnosed diabetes defined by A1c, fasting plasma glucose, or 2-hour plasma glucose (130 mg/dL). Mean 2-hour plasma glucose concentrations were higher in those with undiagnosed diabetes (243 mg/dL for A1c and fasting plasma glucose definition; 235 mg/dL for A1c, fasting plasma glucose, and 2-hour plasma glucose definition) than in people with untreated diagnosed diabetes (183 mg/dL; 2-hour plasma glucose was not measured in participants with treated diagnosed diabetes). Participants with prediabetes by definition had lower A1c, fasting plasma glucose, and 2-hour plasma glucose concentrations than those with diabetes, and participants with normal glucose regulation had the lowest concentrations. Mean fasting insulin concentrations were generally higher in people with undiagnosed diabetes than in people with diagnosed diabetes (insulin users were excluded). Participants with prediabetes generally had lower fasting insulin concen­ trations than those with undiagnosed diabetes, and those with normal glucose regulation had the lowest fasting insulin concentrations. The prevalence
