Chapter 9: Physical and Metabolic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, age, plasma, plasma glucose, diagnosed, years, appendix, based, diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed, fasting, undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, non-hispanic


excluded). Participants with prediabetes generally had lower fasting insulin concen­ trations than those with undiagnosed diabetes, and those with normal glucose regulation had the lowest fasting insulin concentrations. The prevalence of family history of diabetes was generally highest among people with diagnosed diabetes (69%), followed by undiag­ nosed diabetes (49% for A1c and fasting plasma glucose definition; 45% for A1c, fasting plasma glucose, and 2-hour plasma glucose definition), and was lowest in those with prediabetes (39%) and normal glucose regulation (33%). People with diabetes had higher mean body mass index and systolic blood pressure than people with prediabetes, and those with normal glucose regulation had the lowest means. The relationship between diabetes and cholesterol level differed by age group. Mean levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides were generally higher in people with diabetes age 20–44 years than in people with predi­ abetes or normal glucose regulation. Conversely, mean levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides were generally lower in people with diabetes age 45–64 years than those with prediabetes or normal glucose regulation. The prevalence of C-reactive protein ≥10 mg/L was generally higher among people with diabetes than among people with prediabetes, and people with normal glucose regu­ lation generally had the lowest prevalence. Women with diagnosed diabetes had a higher age-standardized mean number of live births than women who had not been diagnosed with diabetes. Individuals with diagnosed diabetes reported a higher prevalence of fair or poor health than those with prediabetes or normal glucose regulation. Received in final form October 13, 2014. 9–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION This chapter provides a description of physical and metabolic characteristics of adults (age ≥20 years) with diabetes or prediabetes and is based primarily on new analyses of data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition (1). The NHANES is an ongoing cross-sectional, stratified, multistage, probability sample of the U.S. civilian, noninstitutionalized popula­ tion. There were 17,132 participants age ≥20 years in the NHANES 2005–2010. Data were collected during an in-home interview followed by a visit to a mobile examination center. Data collected during the in-home inter­ view included demographic data, family history of diabetes, self-reported health, parity (among women), and medication use including insulin and oral diabetes medications (non-insulin injected medi­ cations were not included). Family history of diabetes was determined with the following question:
