Spotoetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:40
KEYWORDS: influenza, virus, pericardial, effusion, infection, pericarditis, pericardial effusion, etal, influenza virus, syndrome, day, therapy, italy, viral, case


range. Arterial blood gas analysis re- and echocardiogram showed mild pericardial detach- vealed severe hypoxemia with respiratory and metabolic ment on right atrium without sign of compression 2 2 HCO3− 26.6mmol/l). ECG highlighted incomplete right cardiographic features was preserved, with complete bundlebranchblock,whiletrans-thoracicechocardiogram normalization of inflammatory markers (CRP 0,26 showed large circumferential pericardial effusion (25, 23, mg/L) even when treatment was suspended. Fig.1aParasternalshort-axisviewshowinglargepericardialeffusion(30mm):>20mm“eco-freespace”onechocardiogramisindicativeoflarge pericardialeffusion.MV:mitralvalve;PeE:pericardialeffusion.bMildpericardialdetachmentonrightatrium(whitearrow)withoutsignof compressionon1-monthechocardiographicfollow-up(parasternallong-axisview).Ao:aorta;LA:leftatrium;LV:leftventricle;RV:rightventricle Spotoetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:40 Page3of5 onset, in individuals with symptoms onset >48h be- fore presentation with persisting moderate-to-severe illness, in patients requiring hospitalization . Re- sistance to antiviral therapy has not been described for Influenza B virus infections, while occurs re- spectively in 27% and 3% in Influenza A H1N1 and H3N2 infection . severecomplicationsofInfluenzaBvirusinfectionaregen- erally undervalued and rarely reported. In particular, cardio-pulmonary complications are responsible for 0.08% UShospitalizationsandseveralpost-mortemevaluationsof fatal Influenza B virus infection cases highlighted myocar- dial damage . Asymptomatic cardiac involvement oc- curs in 0–53% of cases . Kallen et al. highlighted presence of ECG alterations in about 50% of patients with Influenza , while presence of risk factors (age, preg- nancy, genetic susceptibility, immunocompromised state, andmedicalcomorbidity)areassociatedwithhighmorbid- Fig.2Widespreadbronchialwallthickeningandenlargementof ityandmortality,mostlyforcoronaryarterydisease.In thecardiacsilhouetteonchestX-rayfromlargepericardialeffusion ourpatient,alargepericardialeffusioncausedbyInfluenza B infection was diagnosed. The improvement was reached Discussion introducing neuraminidase (oseltamivir) because the pa- InfluenzaisaviralinfectioncausedbyInfluenzavirusesbe- tient was unresponsive to NSAID and colchicine and poor longing to the Orthomyxoviridae family. They are divided responsive to the following association with metilpredniso- in Influenza A and B virus −responsible for seasonal epi- lone. Interestingly, etiological diagnosis allowed specific demics with 3–5 million severe cases and about 300,000 therapyadministration,makingpericardiocentesissuperflu- deathsperyearontheworld-andInfluenzaCvirus -caus- ous, risk of recurrence lower, and patient management ing, in general, mild disease- . Specifically, Influenza B easier. virus presents two distinct subtypes -Victoria and Yama- Currentliteratureshowssome casesofmyopericarditis gata- circulating in humans and whose transmission can from influenza B virus infection ; to our knowledge, occur through fine particles (aerosol), droplet nuclei, and this is the first case report of reactive pericarditis with- contact. Seasonal influenza may present with both asymp- out myocardial involvement in adult due to Influenza B tomatic and fulminant manifestations, depending on the virus infection. host and virus characteristics . Upper respiratory tract Currently, trisomy 21 is not included in the Groups at symptoms (nose, throat, and bronchi) are the most fre- risk of influenza complications, and has no indication of quent. Pulmonary (primary viral or secondary bacterial primary prophylaxis , despite trisomy 21 was pneumonia, exacerbations of underlying chronic lung dis-
