ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, involvement, systemic, chain, gastrointestinal, light, type, tract, systemic amyloidosis, light chain, median, range, amyloid, patients amyloidosis


life . in the vascular wall of the GI tract. The common clinical manifestations of GI amyloidosis are weight loss, bleeding, esophageal reflux, constipa- Data collection tion, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. As whether some of Of the 24 patients with GI amyloidosis, we collected these symptoms are caused by autonomic dysfunction is data from the medical records about the nature of the occasionally difficult to determine, verification by direct GI symptoms and organ involvement of systemic am- biopsy is needed for the diagnosis of GI amyloidosis . yloidosis including the heart, kidneys, nervous system, The most common site of amyloid deposition identified and others. We reviewed applicable laboratory results by endoscopic biopsy is the small bowel, followed by the of the patients with AL amyloidosis, including serum stomach, colorectum, and esophagus . and urine immunofixation, serum free light chain (FLC) As GI involvement is an uncommon manifestation and bone marrow (BM) biopsy results, the calculated dif- of systemic amyloidosis, few data are available, with the ference between involved and uninvolved serum FLC exception of some case reports of patients with GI am- (dFLC), serum albumin, 24-hour urine protein, serum yloidosis. The purpose of this study was to describe the creatinine, troponin-I (TnI), N-terminal pro-brain natri- and prognosis of patients with pathologically proven GI ulin. The Samsung Medical Center Institutional Review amyloidosis. Board approved this study, and written informed con- sent was obtained from all patients with systemic amy- loidosis regarding use of their medical records. METHODS Statistical analysis Study population Continuous variables are reported as medians and rang- We included patients aged ≥ 18 years who were diag- es. Fisher exact test and the Mann-Whitney U test were nosed with systemic amyloidosis between April 1995 used to compare baseline characteristics of the patients rea. A total of 171 patients with systemic amyloidosis Cumulative survival was assessed by the Kaplan-Meier were identified. To classify the type of amyloid deposi- method followed by the log-rank test to analyze differ- www.kjim.org 497 The Korean Journal of Internal Medicine Vol. 30, No. 4, July 2015 ences in survival curves. Significant variables with p < patients (55.0%), the colon in nine (45.0%), the rectum in 0.1 in a univariate analysis were included in a multivar- seven (35.0%), and the small bowel in one (5.0%). Symp- iate analysis. The Cox proportional hazards regression toms were diarrhea and weight loss in seven patients model was used for
