ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, involvement, systemic, chain, gastrointestinal, light, type, tract, systemic amyloidosis, light chain, median, range, amyloid, patients amyloidosis


systemic amyloidosis), where- sis and comparisons between patients with systemic AL as our results show a considerably higher incidence of amyloidosis with and without GI involvement have not biopsy-proven GI amyloidosis of 15.5% . An en- been reported. doscopic examination is an easily available and inexpen- Kourelis et al. showed that patients with AL am- sive method to identify various GI symptoms for unex- yloidosis and > 10% BMPCs and those with AL amy- plained weight loss or diarrhea in Korea. In addition to loidosis and CRAB have poorer prognoses than those the bias of referral to a single center, the ready access with only AL amyloidosis based on the consensus that to endoscopy may explain the higher incidence of GI AL amyloidosis and hypercalcemia, renal insufficien- involvement in Korean patients with systemic amyloi- cy, anemia, and bone lesions can coexist with multiple dosis. myeloma . However, our patients with AL-PCMM Previous studies have shown that small bowel amy- type amyloidosis had a poorer prognosis in the mul- loid deposits are most commonly found along the en- tivariate analysis compared to those with the AL-only tire GI tract in patients with GI amyloidosis. Cowan et type. Although it was not significantly different, the es- al. showed that almost half of patients with system- timated median OS of patients with AL-CRAB tended to ic GI amyloidosis have small bowel amyloid deposits be shorter than those with the AL-only type. . However, we found a lower incidence (five Furthermore, the multivariate analysis revealed that cases, 20.8%) of patients with GI amyloidosis diagnosed the AL-PCMM type, involvement of three or more or- by small bowel biopsy. The small bowel is rarely in- gans, and > 1,800 pg/mL NT-proBNP are significant spected during endoscopy due to patient distress and prognostic factors, as has been reported previously technical difficulties. Thus, patients with small bowel . The number of organs involved has not been amyloidosis may be detected less frequently. shown to be a prognostic factor; however, our patients The median OS of patients with GI amyloidosis was 8.1 with three or more amyloidosis-involved organs almost months, which was lower than reported previously. The always had heart involvement (86.1%). Because of the 2-year survival rate of patients with systemic AL amyloi- high proportion of patients with heart involvement, the dosis of the GI tract was 84% in one study. However, in number of organs involved could
