ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, involvement, systemic, chain, gastrointestinal, light, type, tract, systemic amyloidosis, light chain, median, range, amyloid, patients amyloidosis


patients with systemic AL amyloi- high proportion of patients with heart involvement, the dosis of the GI tract was 84% in one study. However, in number of organs involved could be a significant prog- our study population heart involvement was more fre- nostic factor. quent, median BMPCs and dFLC levels were increased, The kidney is affected in 50% to 80% of patients with and the proportion of patients who underwent stem cell AL amyloidosis, but our data show that those with GI transplantation was lower compared to previous reports involvement had less frequent renal involvement . . Our patients may thus have had more advanced There may have been selection bias in our study because systemic amyloidosis. it was conducted in a single center. Accordingly, further Furthermore, OS tended to be shorter in patients studies of renal involvement in patients with GI amyloi- with AL amyloidosis with GI involvement than in those dosis should be conducted. without GI involvement. This difference did not reach Several limitations of our study should be mentioned. statistical significance, possibly because only 20 of our First, it is difficult to generalize the results because the cases with systemic AL amyloidosis had GI involvement. data were obtained from a relatively small number of A tendency towards more frequent heart involvement patients in a single center. Second, this was a retrospec- was detected in patients with compared to those without tive study, and data for some laboratory parameters were GI involvement. In addition, those with GI involvement lacking. In particular, TnI was a significant prognostic tended to have higher median levels of NT-proBNP, factor in the univariate analysis, but was excluded from serum β2 microglobulin, BMPCs, and dFLC, which are the multivariate analysis due to insufficient data. Third, known prognostic factors . Patients with GI am- there was selection bias as our center is a tertiary hos- yloidosis seem to have poor outcomes due to involve- pital. Thus, many of the patients had more severe and ment of additional organs and an increased number of advanced-stage disease. The shorter OS likely reflects www.kjim.org 503 The Korean Journal of Internal Medicine Vol. 30, No. 4, July 2015 this selection bias. ment Pharmacol Ther 2008;27:1006-1016. istics and outcomes of patients with biopsy-proven GI protein nomenclature: 2012 recommendations from the amyloidosis. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is the pre- Nomenclature Committee of the International Society of ferred method for confirming GI involvement in pa-
