Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


IDSA GUIDELINES A New Era of Targeted Clinical Guidelines: Launching the IDSA Guidelines Supplement Nabin K. Shrestha,1, Jonathan L. Heald,2Sarah Pahlke,2Genet Demisashi,2and Sharon Weissman3 Keywords. guidelines; PICO; publication model. sents the inauguration of a new publishing model for clinical es. This challenge is made more daunting by the increasing com- practice guidelines developed by the Infectious Diseases plexity of diagnosing, treating, and managing infectious diseases, Society of America (IDSA). As the leading medical society rep- coupled with the explosion of data in the scientific literature and resenting >13 000 infectious disease clinicians and scientists, at the patient bedside. CPGs are meant to improve the appropri- the management of infectious diseases and quality of patient or a lack of guidance exists, by providing recommendations in- care. This new model will allow guideline recommendations formed by the best available evidence. However, the development to reach clinicians in a timely manner. and publication of a CPG is labor-intensive and time-consuming IDSA’s portfolio of guidelines provides recommendations and relies on outdated publication models that are not conducive on the diagnosis, treatment, and management of >50 topics. to producing timely guidelines. Historically, IDSA guidelines were published as large manu- scripts, often comprehensive in scope. Moving forward, IDSA guidelines will be published as small manuscripts, often address- Current Challenges hance dissemination and usability, these guidelines will be methods in place of expert opinion. These methods require Each supplement in this series will collect the guidelines posted crafting testable questions in the Population-Intervention- to the IDSA website since the preceding supplement. This editorial Comparator-Outcome (PICO) or an equivalent format (expo- provides an overview of IDSA’s new publishing model for guide- sure instead of intervention), identification of studies that ad- lines and how guideline manuscripts will now appear in CID un- dress the PICO questions, performing a systematic analysis of der this new model. It also summarizes the rationale for this the identified studies, evaluating the strength of the evidence change, reiterates IDSA’s commitment to producing trustworthy for benefits and harms of the examined intervention or expo- directions of the new publishing model and supplement. that considers factors other than the strength of the evidence (such as cost-benefit considerations, societal values and expec- tations, and unintended consequences). NEED FOR FOCUSED GUIDELINES Traditionally, each CPG has been published in CID after all The current paradigm for development and dissemination of clin- the questions in the guideline have gone through
