Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


FOR FOCUSED GUIDELINES Traditionally, each CPG has been published in CID after all The current paradigm for development and dissemination of clin- the questions in the guideline have gone through this exercise, ical practice guidelines (CPGs) continues to struggle to meet the which is then followed by a peer review course, followed by pas- sage through the production pipeline. The methodologic rigor required of these frameworks is beyond what can be expected of Received 30 July 2024; published online 28 August 2024 most clinicians and researchers, and therefore requires meth- Euclid Avenue / G-21, Cleveland, OH 44195 (). odologists, a scarce resource. Because of all these factors, the © The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases time-consuming, and inexpedient, typically spanning up to for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our several years without an extraordinary commitment of time RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information and resources. This is not conducive to availability of timely please contact . guidelines. Guidelines Supplement Introduction • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • S77 Downloaded from by guest on May Complexities and the Evolving Nature of Infectious Diseases any endorsements to the recommendations, when the recom- The management of infectious diseases has always had to con- mendations were last reviewed and updated, and when the lit- tend with development of antimicrobial resistance with in- erature was last reviewed. creasing antimicrobial use. Climate change has contributed to an expansion of the geographic range of pathogenic microor- Incremental Dissemination ganisms and arthropods responsible for transmission of vector- Individual PICO questions and their resulting recommenda- has facilitated the spread of diseases that were previously geo- as they are completed, rather than bundling all questions relat- graphically restricted and has also created an environment con- ed to a topic into a single, large guideline manuscript. Once the ducive to rapid dissemination of highly contagious diseases. peer review and approval processes have been completed, have increasingly had to address newer pathogens with which dissemination and implementation and forwarded to CID for they have minimal or limited familiarity. Timely CPGs would formal publication in the journal. This will allow for more time- have the potential to help with this challenge. ly dissemination of guideline recommendations. Challenges Faced by Clinicians in Keeping up With Comprehensive CID Supplement Guidelines Twice a
