Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


for more time- have the potential to help with this challenge. ly dissemination of guideline recommendations. Challenges Faced by Clinicians in Keeping up With Comprehensive CID Supplement Guidelines Twice a year, all recommendations posted to the IDSA website Clinicians are faced with increasing demands on their time due not previously published in CID will be published in a supple- to an explosion of data for each patient from expansion of elec- ment to CID. This will serve as the official publication record tronic medical records, cost- and personnel-cutting initiatives for these products. as the healthcare industry has become more corporate, and in- creasing regulatory requirements imposed on healthcare orga- STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF THE NEW nizations that then trickle down to individual healthcare SUPPLEMENT workers. As a result, many clinicians have less and less time IDSA-led guidelines were traditionally published as large, to keep up with traditional publications in journals. Tools multi-PICO manuscripts in regular issues of CID; special supple- that are available at the point of care and relevant reading ma- ments were occasionally used to elevate timely or topically relevant terials that are pithy could help alleviate some of this stress. collections, including the recent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) guidelines supplement . Under the new publishing INTRODUCTION TO THE NEW PUBLICATION MODEL model, IDSA-led guidelines will now be published as concise, To address these limitations, IDSA has chosen to overhaul our single-PICO manuscripts in IDSA guidelines supplements. guideline publication model. IDSA guidelines were traditional- ly published first in CID as the primary dissemination platform Manuscript Format and official publication record, then posted to the IDSA web- Each supplement will contain a collection of targeted guideline site. Under the new publication model, the IDSA website serves manuscripts representing recent additions and updates to the as the primary dissemination platform for point-of-care access, IDSA guidelines portfolio; manuscripts will be specifically for- and the CID supplement will reflect the official publication re- matted for this new model (see Table 1). Independent manu- cord for IDSA-led guidelines. These changes will allow recom- scripts will be published for each PICO question (or a set of mendations to be made available on the IDSA website more closely related PICO questions) and their corresponding rec- quickly and be more easily accessed at the point of care. ommendations (“PICO manuscripts”), and an additional man- uscript will introduce the topically relevant PICO manuscripts Early Online Availability included
