Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


quickly and be more easily accessed at the point of care. ommendations (“PICO manuscripts”), and an additional man- uscript will introduce the topically relevant PICO manuscripts Early Online Availability included within the supplement (“topic manuscript”). The IDSA guidelines will continue to be available through the IDSA website and the IDSA Practice Guidelines mobile appli- Manuscript Collections cation that accesses the relevant content in the IDSA website. Under this new model, recommendations will be published on the The latter is available for both Apple and Android devices. IDSA website incrementally as they are completed. As a biannual The full IDSA guidelines portfolio will be available online. publication, each supplement will therefore present collections of Recommendations and remarks will be presented along with topically relevant PICO manuscripts and their accompanying topic streamlined summaries of the supporting evidence and manuscripts, reflecting the accumulation of recommendations other rationale for the recommendations, considerations for posted to the IDSA website since the preceding supplement (see real-world applicability, and relevant references. The full man- Figure 1). The supplements may also include editorials, letters, uscript, presenting the detailed analysis and additional discus- and other important publications that represent key contributions sion, will be available through hyperlinks. Also shown will be to the IDSA guidelines portfolio. S78 • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • Shrestha et al Downloaded from by guest on May Table 1. Types of Manuscripts Included in the New Publication Modela PICO Manuscript Topic Manuscript Purpose Provide evidence-based recommendations, evidence summaries, Introduce and integrate PICO manuscripts into IDSA guidelines and other rationales for recommendations and considerations for portfolio, including explaining its context within new or existing real-world applicability guideline topics or domains Scope Complete and independent clinical practice guideline manuscripts Summarize PICO manuscripts published within the supplement; provide additional background and contextual information as needed CID submission Submitted immediately to CID on approval to publish Submitted to CID for biannual supplement aTraditional guideline publication models bundle multiple PICO questions and extensive background or contextual information into a single large manuscript. The new publication model unbundles PICO questions and other background and contextual information into collections of independent, focused manuscripts. Figure 1. Comparison of traditional and new publication models. A, Traditional guideline publication models bundle multiple Population-Intervention-Comparator-Outcome (PICO) questions into a single manuscript, typically resulting in delayed dissemination of completed recommendations. Traditional models also use the journal as the primary dissemination platform and the organization website as a
