Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


questions into a single manuscript, typically resulting in delayed dissemination of completed recommendations. Traditional models also use the journal as the primary dissemination platform and the organization website as a secondary platform, further delaying dissemination. B, The new publication model allows the release of completed recommendations to the organization’s website for immediate dissemination, with later publication in the journal supplement. DEVELOPMENT PROCESS aligns with the Council of Medical Specialty Societies Code of Interaction with Companies. Methodology and Conflicts of Interest Management IDSA guidelines will continue to be developed, as described in the IDSA Handbook for Clinical Practice Guidelines Collaborative Efforts Development , using internationally accepted best practices, Guideline development for infectious diseases continues to re- including the National Academy of Medicine standards for quire collaboration and endorsement from many experts and trustworthiness, Cochrane methods for systematic reviews, stakeholders. IDSA will continue partnering with other medical and the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, specialty societies to develop guidelines that are high priority Development, and Evaluations) framework for assessing evi- and impactful to patient care. When these collaborations are dence and making recommendations. led by other societies, guideline development and dissemina- Guideline development will also continue adhering to a rig- tion will follow the protocols of the organization leading the orous conflicts of interest policy and management process that collaboration. When IDSA is responsible for leading the Guidelines Supplement Introduction • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • S79 Downloaded from by guest on May development and publication of a collaborative guideline, the and questions to take up for guideline development, under- PICO questions and their corresponding recommendation standing that a decision to develop a guideline should generally will be published under this new model. be considered a commitment to keeping it updated. Limitation of resources will prevent attention to all guideline topics simul- will need a process to decide which of the selected topics or Improved Accessibility questions should be given priority. It will be important that With more timely dissemination of guidelines and easier avail- such prioritization be done in a transparent and fair manner. ability of guidelines at the point of care, recommendations can be expected to be applied to patient care earlier than would have happened in the past. Prompt online publication of rec- Community Engagement ommendations for individual clinical questions as soon as We encourage the infectious disease community to remain en- they are ready will enhance their potential
