Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: guidelines, idsa, guideline, publication, recommendations, new, supplement, pico, model, cid, manuscripts, dissemination, questions, published, development


online publication of rec- Community Engagement ommendations for individual clinical questions as soon as We encourage the infectious disease community to remain en- they are ready will enhance their potential to have an immedi- gaged in IDSA’s efforts to prioritize, develop, update, and dis- ate impact. seminate these guidelines. Feedback on the usefulness of guideline contents and on the effectiveness of their dissemina- Enhanced Decision Making tion will help with continuously improving the guidelines and The earlier availability of guidelines online and the ability to ac- enhancing their clinical impact. cess them in hand-held devices at the point of care will allow for earlier and more frequent use of guideline recommendations in decision making. Clinical decisions based on the most CONCLUSIONS up-to-date recommendations should lead to improved patient The redesign of our publishing model for CPGs is aligned with outcomes. IDSA’s vision of providing cutting-edge, practical, and accessi- ble clinical guidance. We encourage readers to engage with the Supporting Continuous Learning new supplement, provide feedback, and contribute to its ongo- Ease of guideline access could transform clinical practice into ing development. one where patient care is more often informed by recommen- dations in the latest IDSA guidelines. This should create an environment of continuous learning and professional develop- Notes ment for clinicians. Acknowledgments. The authors thank the efforts of all contributors, re- viewers, and supporters who have made the launch of the supplement pos- sible. Specifically, they thank the Standards and Practice Guidelines FUTURE DIRECTIONS Subcommittee for overseeing the design and development of the new pub- lishing model; Oxford University Press for their steadfast partnership as in- Ongoing Updates and Revisions novators; and, finally, the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) IDSA is committed to maintaining the highest standards for its staff for their work in making this vision a reality, including but not limited guidelines. This will require regularly updating and revising to Loretta Dzanya, Lisa Junker, Lara Kahaleh, Dipleen Kaur, and Jennifer Loveless. guidelines when necessitated by newer studies. The ability to Potential conflicts of interest. The authors: No reported conflicts of in- keep guidelines up to date will require that the overall IDSA terest. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of guideline portfolio is of a manageable size. IDSA will need a Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed. strategy to optimize
