Endoaortic balloon occlusion for cardiac surgery
KEYWORDS: balloon, occlusion, patients, endoaortic balloon, balloon occlusion, endoaortic, case series, case, series, aortic, treated, procedure, treated endoaortic, cardiac, reported


1 Recommendations 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of endoaortic balloon occlusion for cardiac surgery is adequate to support the use of this procedure provided that normal arrangements are in place for consent, audit and clinical governance. 1.2 The procedure should only be carried out by a highly experienced team and with the use of continuous transoesophageal echocardiography. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Endoaortic balloon occlusion is performed to achieve temporary obstruction of the aorta during cardiac surgery, including mitral valve repair or replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting. 2.1.2 Occlusion of the aorta is required in a number of cardiac operations. This is normally achieved by external application of an aortic cross-clamp, either during conventional open surgery or during minimally invasive cardiac procedures. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 This procedure is usually employed during minimally invasive cardiac operations (also known as port-access surgery) that require endovascular aortic occlusion, cardioplegia and left ventricular decompression. 2.2.2 A balloon catheter is inserted through the skin into an artery (normally the femoral artery in the groin) and manipulated towards the aortic root. The balloon at the tip of the catheter is filled with saline to occlude the aorta and prevent blood flow. Various devices can be used for this procedure. 2.2.3 Continuous transoesophageal echocardiographic monitoring is used to detect balloon migration along with other forms of monitoring such as radial arterial pressure monitoring and direct monitoring of the surgical field, as necessary. 2.3 Efficacy Sections 2.3 and 2.4 describe efficacy and safety outcomes which were available in the published literature and which the committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more details, see the overview. 2.3.1 There were no outcomes reported in the literature that related directly to the efficacy of endoaortic balloon occlusion alone. 2.3.2 The specialist advisers considered key efficacy outcomes to include efficiency of cardioprotection, reduced length of hospital stay, duration of cardiac arrest and avoidance of the use of a cross-clamp from outside. 2.4 Safety 2.4.1 In a case series of 306 patients treated with endoaortic balloon occlusion, the 30-day mortality rate was 1% (3 out of 306) and the rate of late deaths (mean follow-up 20 months) was 2% (6 out of 306). A case series comparing 117 patients treated with endoaortic balloon occlusion with 117 matched controls treated with conventional aortic cross-clamping reported one perioperative death
