NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amoxapine, liver, injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver injury, drug, antidepressants, patients, hepatotoxicity, effects, tricyclic, review, induced


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amoxapine. [Updated 2016 Mar 2]. Bookshelf URL: Amoxapine Updated: March 2, 2016. OVERVIEW Introduction Amoxapine is a tetracyclic antidepressant used for relief of symptoms of depression caused by either reactive or psychotic depression. Amoxapine has been associated with a low rate of minor serum aminotransferase elevations during treatment and to very rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Amoxapine (a mox' a peen) is a tetracyclic antidepressant belonging to the dibenzoxapine family, similar but somewhat distinct from classical tricyclic antidepressants. Amoxapine has been shown to be effective in both reactive and neurotic depression as well as in major, endogenous depressive disorders. As with other tricyclic antidepressants, the mechanism of action of amoxapine probably involves interruption of norepinephrine transmission. Amoxapine also blocks histaminic and cholinergic receptors which account for its mild sedative effects. Amoxapine was approved for use in the United States in 1992 and is available in tablets of 25, 50, 100 and 150 mg generically and previously under the brand name Ascendin. Recommended doses are 50 mg two or three times daily initially, increasing based upon efficacy and tolerance and changing to once daily dosing, to as high as 300 mg once daily. Common side effects included drowsiness, dizziness, headache, blurred vision, dry mouth, and tremor. Less common and rare side effects include extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, tardive dyskinesia, suicidal ideation, heart arrhythmias and galactorrhea. Hepatotoxicity Liver test abnormalities occur in a small proportion of patients on long term therapy with amoxapine, but elevations are usually mild, asymptomatic and transient, reversing even with continuation of medication. Instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury without jaundice have been reported due to amoxapine, but have been quite rare. Published cases have been mild, anicteric and asymptomatic. The onset of injury was within 1 to 4 weeks of starting, and the pattern of serum enzyme elevations was hepatocellular. Immunoallergic features and autoantibody formation were not present. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which amoxapine causes serum aminotransferase elevations is not known, but is likely due to production of a toxic intermediate by its metabolism. Amoxapine is metabolized by the liver via the P450 system (predominantly CYP 2D6). 2 LiverTox Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase elevations that occur on amoxapine therapy are usually self-limited
