NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amoxapine, liver, injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver injury, drug, antidepressants, patients, hepatotoxicity, effects, tricyclic, review, induced


Amoxapine is metabolized by the liver via the P450 system (predominantly CYP 2D6). 2 LiverTox Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase elevations that occur on amoxapine therapy are usually self-limited and do not require dose modification or discontinuation of therapy. No instances of acute liver failure or vanishing bile duct syndrome due to amoxapine have been reported. There is no information on cross sensitivity to liver injury between amoxapine and other tricyclic antidepressants, but switching to another class of agents (such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) is probably prudent. Drug Class: Antidepressant Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Tricyclics: Amitriptyline, Clomipramine, Desipramine, Doxepin, Imipramine, Nortriptyline, Protriptyline, Trimipramine PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Amoxapine – Generic, Asendin® DRUG CLASS Antidepressant Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO. MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Amoxapine 14028-44-5 C17-H16-Cl-N3-O ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 02 March 2016 Amoxapine 3 Zimmerman HJ. Tricyclic antidepressants. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 495-8. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; amoxapine is listed as a tricyclic antidepressant with a very low rate of hepatotoxicity). Larrey D, Ripault MP. Hepatotoxicity of psychotropic drugs and drugs of abuse. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 443-62. (Review of antidepressant hepatotoxicity; amoxapine is listed as a tricyclic antidepressant associated with rare hepatocellular injury and latency of 4-18 days). Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman.s the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 12th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 397-416. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Takahashi R, Sakuma A, Hara T, Kazamatsuri H, Mori A, Saito Y, Murasaki M, et al. Comparison of efficacy of amoxapine and imipramine in a multi-clinic double-blind study using the WHO schedule for a standard assessment of patients with depressive disorders. J Int Med Res 1979; 7: 7-18. PubMed PMID: 369926. (Among 122 Japanese patients with depression treated with amoxapine or imipramine for 3-5 weeks, "abnormal laboratory data indicating any serious dysfunction of internal organs were not observed"). Rickels K, Case WG, Werblowsky J, Csanalosi I, Schless A, Weise CC. Amoxapine and imipramine in the treatment of depressed outpatients: a controlled study. Am J Psychiatry 1981; 138: 20-4. PubMed PMID: 7446776. (Among 158 patients with depression treated with amoxapine, imipramine or placebo for 6 weeks,
