Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


addressed further below in this chapter. In the multicenter, international Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) Study, the predicted risk of MI in those PWH without prior MI was highest in those patients who were taking 3 different classes of ART (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), NNRTI, and PI) ( 6 ). Certain types of ART, including the NRTI abacavir, and the PIs darunavir (with ritonavir boosting), indinavir, and lopinavir (with ritonavir boosting), have been associated with a higher risk of adverse cardiovascular events ( 7 , 8 ). (Pharmacokinetic boosting or enhancing of ART is achieved via medications including ritonavir and cobicistat). Most recently, in a large multicenter cohort study of PWH from Europe and Australia, recent integrase strand transfer inhibitor (InSTI) exposure (<6 months) was associated with an increased risk of MI, compared to a lack of InSTI exposure, after accounting for CVD risk factors. After 6 months exposure, however, this elevated risk decreased and was no longer observed after 24 months. This finding requires replication in other cohorts and the potential underlying mechanisms need to be further explored. Also, up to 30% of PWH have hepatitis C co-infection ( 9 ). Individuals with HIV and hepatitis C co-infection are at greater risk of CV disease than individuals with HIV infection alone ( 10 ). One reason for this may include higher levels of inflammatory markers seen in PWH with hepatitis C co-infection, including sICAM-1 and IL-6, that have been associated with CV disease in PWH ( 11 ). In summary, multiple factors, including dyslipidemia, inflammation, diabetes, smoking, hypertension, and central obesity, as well as ART-specific effects, contribute to increased CV disease risk in PWH. HISTORY OF LIPID DISORDERS IN PEOPLE WITH HIV (PWH) HIV infection is associated with dyslipidemia. In the absence of antiretroviral therapy (ART), HIV infection results in lower total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) levels ( Table 2 ) ( 12 ). The decreases in HDL-C and LDL-C can also be seen in other states of infection and/or inflammation ( 13 ). Table 2. The Effect on Lipid Levels in Different Clinical Situations of PWH ( 12 , 14 , 15 ) View in own window Class of ART Effect on TC Effect on LDL-C Effect on HDL-C Effect on TG HIV not on ART Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) No change (v.
