Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


of ART Effect on TC Effect on LDL-C Effect on HDL-C Effect on TG HIV not on ART Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) Decrease (v. pre-seroconversion) No change (v. individuals without HIV) HIV on ART Increase (v. before ART initiation) Increase (v. before ART initiation) No change (v. before ART initiation) Effect can depend on ART type HIV with AIDS Decrease (v. individuals without HIV) Decrease (v. individuals without HIV Decrease (v. individuals without HIV) Increase (v. PWH without AIDS and individuals without HIV) Early studies of lipids in PWH described differences in levels of triglycerides (TG), HDL-C, and LDL-C between individuals with AIDS, individuals with HIV but without AIDS, and control participants. Grunfeld et al found that participants with AIDS had the highest levels of TG compared to participants with HIV and controls. TC and HDL-C were lower in individuals with AIDS and in those with HIV compared to controls, and LDL-C was significantly lower in individuals with AIDS compared to control participants. The high levels of TG in participants with AIDS is secondary to increased hepatic output of VLDL and slower TG clearance ( 14 , 16 ). In a study of lipid level changes pre- and post-HIV seroconversion and pre- and post-ART initiation in 50 men from the Multicenter Cohort AIDS Study, investigators observed mean increases in TC and LDL-C three years after ART initiation, compared to before ART initiation, with a minimal change in HDL. In addition, they found that TC, HDL-C, and LDL-C decreased from pre-seroconversion to the time before initiating ART ( 12 ). These findings demonstrated that ART is associated with an increase in TC and LDL-C in PWH. It is unclear however whether these changes with ART initiation were due to return to heath with reduction of systemic inflammation with virologic suppression or metabolic toxicity of ART. Of note, the majority of men in this study, which was published in 2003, received older generation protease inhibitor (PI) based regimens so the findings may not be as applicable to PWH treated with current ART regimens. In addition, changes in non-traditional lipid markers have been studied in HIV infection. A higher proportion of men with AIDS have been shown to have small, dense LDL, compared to control patients without AIDS ( 17 ). In the Swiss National HIV Cohort, greater pro-atherogenic small dense LDL was directly associated with coronary heart disease events (
