Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


LDL, compared to control patients without AIDS ( 17 ). In the Swiss National HIV Cohort, greater pro-atherogenic small dense LDL was directly associated with coronary heart disease events ( 18 ). In addition to small dense LDL, lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) has also been studied in PWH. In the general population, lipoprotein (Lp(a)) is associated with increased CVD risk ( 19 , 20 ). However, the association between HIV and Lp(a) levels has been equivocal ( 21 , 22 ). Nonetheless, poorly controlled HIV infection is thought to increase the atherogenic effect of allele-specific apolipoprotein(a), which is carried by Lp(a) ( 23 ). Moreover, Lp(a) and pro-atherogenic smaller apo(a) have been associated with greater carotid intima media thickness in women with HIV ( 24 ). As alluded to above, the study and management of lipids in PWH have evolved over the course of the history of HIV infection and can be divided into the following time periods: before ART, early ART, and present-day ART. MONITORING LIPIDS IN PATIENTS WITH HIV CDC, NIH, and HIV Medicine Association of the IDSA guidelines recommend that a fasting or random lipid profile be obtained in PWH at the following time points: at introduction to care, at ART initiation or at the time of change in ART, and then every year, if the previous lipid test results were normal, or every 6 months, if the previous lipid test results were abnormal. If a random lipid panel is outside of the reference range, then the guidelines recommend obtaining a fasting lipid panel ( 25 ). Specialized tests, including Lp(a) or small dense LDL, are not specifically mentioned in the IDSA guidelines. ART EFFECTS ON LIPIDS BY MEDICATION CLASS Background Current IDSA guidelines recommend the following ART regimens: 2 NRTIs plus a 3 rd agent from the following categories, integrase inhibitors (INSTIs), NNRTIs, or PIs with either cobicistat or ritonavir added as pharmacokinetic boosters. An alternative regimen can consist of the INSTI dolutegravir and the NRTI lamivudine. Specific considerations are outlined in detail and accessible on the website aidsinfo.nih.gov ( 26 ). Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs) Tenofovir is an NRTI, and tenofovir-based regimens are among the initial treatments recommended for most PWH by current CDC, NIH, and HIV Medicine Association of the IDSA guidelines ( 27 ). Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF)-based regimens result in elevated plasma levels of tenofovir, which can cause adverse renal and bone effects.
