Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


HIV Medicine Association of the IDSA guidelines ( 27 ). Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF)-based regimens result in elevated plasma levels of tenofovir, which can cause adverse renal and bone effects. On the other hand, tenofovir alafenamide (TAF)-based regimens result in lower plasma levels of tenofovir, but greater intracellular levels of tenofovir-diphosphate than TDF and fewer adverse renal and bone effects. Moreover, TAF results in a more atherogenic lipid profile than TDF ( Table 3 ), and a “statin-like” effect of TDF has been reported. In one study of PWH switching to a TAF-based regimen, investigators observed significant increases in TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, and TG post switch; the mean increase in LDL-C was 9.8 mg/dL ( 28 ). In a safety and efficacy study of 1733 treatment-naïve PWH randomized to either a TDF-based regimen or TAF-based regimen over a 144 week duration, TAF-based regimens increased median levels of TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, and TG, compared to the TDF treatment group (at 144 weeks, median increase in LDL-C of 19 mg/dL in TAF-based treatment group versus 6 mg/dL in TDF-based treatment group, p < 0.001). However, no significant differences in either CV or cerebrovascular events between the treatment groups (2.8% of participants in the TAF group, 3.8% of participants in the TDF group, p = 0.28) was noted ( 29 ). The investigators also found that atherosclerotic CV disease (ASCVD) risk when estimated at week 96 and as calculated using the ACC/AHA 2013 Pooled Cohort equations was similar between the two treatment groups, and no difference was detected in the proportion of participants in each treatment group eligible for high-intensity statin use based on 2013 ACC/AHA guidelines ( 30 ). Thus, despite the more negative effect of TAF-based regimens on lipids compared to TDF-based regimens, studies to date have not shown that there is a difference between the two treatment regimens in cardiovascular outcomes. Table 3. Some Effects of Different Classes of ART on Lipid Levels* View in own window Class of ART Effect on TC Effect on LDL-C Effect on HDL-C Effect on TG NRTIs Increase, no change with lamivudine Increase, no change with lamivudine Increase, no change with lamivudine Increase, no change with lamivudine NNRTIs Increase, except no change with etravirine Increase, except no change with etravirine Increase, except no change with etravirine Increase, except no change with etravirine PIs Increase Increase by most PIs Decrease by low dose ritonavir Increase
