Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


Increase, except no change with etravirine Increase, except no change with etravirine Increase, except no change with etravirine PIs Increase Increase by most PIs Decrease by low dose ritonavir Increase INSTIs No change No change No change No change * This table was adapted from Myerson et al . “Management of lipid disorders in patients living with HIV.” Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 2015, 55( 9 ) 957-974 and Lagathu et al . “Metabolic complications affecting adipose tissue, lipid, and glucose metabolism associated with HIV antiretroviral treatment.” Expert Opin Drug Saf . 2019 Sep;18(9):829-840. Another point of difference between TAF- and TDF-based regimens is the effect of each on weight. In one study of PWH with a mean history of HIV infection of 18 years who switched from a TDF-based regimen to a TAF-based regimen, participants had a significant increase in weight, from 73.8 ± 14.3 kg (mean ± standard deviation) at 12 months before switch to 77.7 ± 42.3 kg at 3 months after switch and 75.5 ± 14.5 kg at 6 months after switch (p < 0.0001 for trend) ( 31 ). Similar findings have been seen in PWH who were ART naïve ( 32 ). The different effects of TAF- and TDF-based regimens on weight should be taken into consideration in the treatment of PWH, as these weight changes may alter CVD risk. As noted previously, the NRTI abacavir has been linked to adverse cardiovascular events. However, studies comparing CVD risk with abacavir to other NRTIs have had equivocal results, and a clear mechanism that would explain such an association has not been presented ( 33 ). Of note, switching to an abacavir-based regimen from a TDF-based regimen has not been associated with a significant change in lipid levels ( 34 ). Another point of interest with regards to NRTIs is the legacy effect of older generation NRTIs on metabolic health, as defined by having ≤ 2 of the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel criteria, including TG > 150 mg/dL and HDL-C < 40 mg/dL. In a study focused on the prevalence of metabolic health in men with HIV in the MACS, both zidovudine and stavudine use were associated with a lower probability of being metabolically healthy, even though very few participants were receiving these medications at the time of assessment ( 35 ). Of note, stavudine, an older generation NRTI, is no longer recommended (
