Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


healthy, even though very few participants were receiving these medications at the time of assessment ( 35 ). Of note, stavudine, an older generation NRTI, is no longer recommended ( 25 ). Protease Inhibitors (PIs) PIs can be divided into older and newer-generation categories. Older-generation PIs include indinavir, saquinavir, and full dose ritonavir, and newer-generation PIs include atazanavir and darunavir ( 36 ). Current guidelines do not recommend indinavir ( 25 ). Newer generation PIs that are part of first-line ART have fewer adverse effects on lipids than older generation PIs ( 37 ). Hypertriglyceridemia is associated with specific PIs ( 38 , 39 ), and in particular, the PI ritonavir has been associated with hyperlipidemia ( 40 ). In a study that compared cholesterol levels among PI-naïve participants and PI-treated participants started on ritonavir, indinavir, or nelfinavir, either alone or in addition to saquinavir, the greatest increases in TC and TG were seen in the ritonavir based treatment group (77.3 ± 11.6 mg/dL (mean ± standard error of mean), p ≤ 0.001 versus change in the PI-naïve group, and 70.8 ± 17.8 mg/dL, p ≤ 0.001 versus change in the PI-naïve group, respectively) ( 41 ). In another study of 415 PWH on a boosted PI regimen and at high risk of CV disease, a switch from taking a boosted PI to the integrase inhibitor (INSTI) dolutegravir (N = 205 participants) resulted in significant decreases in TC (mean change from baseline -8.7% versus 0.7%) and LDL-C (mean change from baseline -7.7% versus 2%) compared to those seen in participants who did not switch (N = 210 participants) ( 42 ). In a 24-week study focusing on the effects of newer generation PIs, including atazanavir and darunavir on lipids, PWH were randomized to the NRTIs TDF/emtricitabine and either ritonavir-boosted atazanavir or ritonavir-boosted darunavir. No significant differences in TC, LDL-C, or HDL-C were observed between the two treatment groups. TG increased in both treatment groups, but there was no significant difference in TG change between the two groups ( 43 ). Similarly, in another study of PWH, the effects of ritonavir-boosted darunavir and ritonavir-boosted atazanavir on TG over 12 weeks were similar ( 44 ). Of note, ritonavir-boosted lopinavir increases in TG more than ritonavir-boosted darunavir ( 45 ) or ritonavir-boosted atazanavir ( 46 ). In summary, newer PIs have less metabolic side effects, but their effects on lipids should be
