Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


TG more than ritonavir-boosted darunavir ( 45 ) or ritonavir-boosted atazanavir ( 46 ). In summary, newer PIs have less metabolic side effects, but their effects on lipids should be considered in the care of PWH with dyslipidemia. Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) The effects of NNRTIs on lipids varies depending on the individual drug. Etravirine has a neutral effect on TC, LDL-C, and TG. Efavirenz increases LDL-C more than rilpivirine and increases TG more than both rilpivirine and nevirapine ( 15 ). However, nevirapine is not a first-line recommended ART in part because of its side effect profile. Switching from nevirapine-based ART to rilpivirine-based ART was shown to result in a mean (95% confidence interval) decrease in TC of -25.9 mg/dL (-19.3 to -32.1 mg/dL) and LDL-C of -13.9 (-8.1 to -19.7 mg/dL) at 24 weeks ( 47 ). The NNRTI, doravirine, has been associated with decreases in LDL-C and non-HDL-C in those switching from a PI-based regimen. With ART initiation, doravrine was associated with fewer lipid changes compared to efavirenz. Integrase Inhibitors (INSTIs) Integrase inhibitors (INSTIs), in particular, bictegravir, dolutegravir and raltegravir, are among the initial ART recommended in ART-naïve PWH, based on their efficacy in lowering viral load and favorable adverse effect profiles ( 15 ). With respect to the effects of individual INSTIs on lipid profiles, in a phase 3 study of PWH randomized to 2 NRTIs and either the INSTI dolutegravir or the INSTI raltegravir, no significant differences in fasting lipid panels were observed between the two groups over the study duration of 48 weeks ( 48 ). The effects of INSTIs on lipids in comparison to other classes of ART has also been studied. In the Surveillance Cohort Long-Term Toxicity Antiretrovirals (SCOLTA), an observational cohort study, 490 PWH on either 2 NRTIs and the NNRTI efavirenz or a ritonavir-boosted PI switched either from efavirenz or a ritonavir-boosted PI to dolutegravir, elvitegravir, or the NNRTI rilpivirine. Among those who switched to an INSTI, a decrease in TC was seen in all groups except in the efavirenz to elvitegravir group, and a decrease in LDL-C was noted in those patients who switched from a ritonavir-boosted PI to elvitegravir (-12 ± 5.6 mg/dL for LDL-C (mean ± standard error). No significant change in TG was noted in any of the participants who switched to an INSTI-based regimen. In summary, the investigators found that switching off of a
