Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


standard error). No significant change in TG was noted in any of the participants who switched to an INSTI-based regimen. In summary, the investigators found that switching off of a ritonavir-boosted PI-based regimen to either dolutegravir, elvitegravir, or rilpivirine improved TC, whereas switching off of a ritonavir-boosted PI-based regimen to rilpivirine improved TG and LDL-C also. Moreover, the switch from efavirenz to rilpivirine improved LDL and TG, compared to switching to an INSTI, although inter-group differences were not significant ( 49 ). With regards to those ART naïve PWH, in the FLAMINGO study of PWH who were ART naïve and randomized to either dolutegravir-based or ritonavir-boosted darunavir-based ART, LDL-C was significantly greater at 96 weeks in the ritonavir-based darunavir-based ART arm compared to the dolutegravir-based ART arm (adjusted mean difference -12.8 mg/dL, 95% CI -17.4 to -8.1 mg/dL). Similarly, TG increased more in the ritonavir-boosted darunavir-based ART group than in the dolutegravir-based ART group ( 50 ). In summary, in ART naïve PWH started on either an INSTI-based or ritonavir-boosted PI based ART, those who received an INSTI-based treatment regimen had lower TG and TC at 96 weeks. Another aspect of metabolic health to consider in patients on integrase inhibitors, in particular, dolutegravir and bictegravir, is their effects on weight. Data from observational and retrospective studies suggests that weight gain is seen in PWH who start or switch to an INSTI ( 51 ). In addition, data from randomized trials also supports this. For example, in the open-label ADVANCE study conducted in South Africa, ART naïve PWH were randomized to either TDF-emtricitabine (or lamivudine)-efavirenz or one of the following: TAF-emtricitabine-dolutegravir or TDF-emtricitabine-dolutegravir. After 48 weeks, absolute weight gain and incident obesity (body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ) was greater in the dolutegravir-based arms (6 kg in the TAF-emtricitabine-dolutegravir group and 3 kg in the TDF-emtricitabine-dolutegravir group compared to 1 kg in the TDF-emtricitabine (or lamivudine)-efavirenz group) ( 52 ). INTSI use has also been associated with incident diabetes mellitus. In an administrative database from the US examining PWH who initiated ART, INSTI use was associated with a 31% increase in incident diabetes compared to non-INSTI use. In the NA_ACCORD study, INSTI initiation was associated with an increased risk of diabetes compared to ART initiation with either a PI or NNRTI-based regimen, an effect which was mediated in part by weight gain. In the treatment of overall metabolic health
