Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


of diabetes compared to ART initiation with either a PI or NNRTI-based regimen, an effect which was mediated in part by weight gain. In the treatment of overall metabolic health of PWH, the effect of INSTIs on weight gain should be kept in mind. Additional Considerations Regarding ART and Dyslipidemia The question of whether one type of ART should be changed to another to avoid negative effects on lipids must take into consideration multiple factors, including compliance with medications, resistance to ART, and additional co-morbidities ( 37 , 53 ). The effects on CVD outcomes of switching from a PI-based ART regimen to an NNRTI- or INSTI-based treatment in PWH with dyslipidemia have not been studied in controlled trials ( 54 ). However, in patients who are receiving PIs and have significant dyslipidemia, a switch to an INSTI or a lipid neutral NNRTI (rilpivirine, etravirine, doravirine) should be considered if equally as efficacious from an HIV control standpoint. In general, older generation PIs should be avoided. MANAGEMENT OF DYSLIPIDEMIA IN PATIENTS WITH HIV CV Risk Calculators in Patients With HIV and Goal LDL-C Because of non-traditional risk factors that place PWH at heightened risk of CV disease, the question of whether risk calculators including the Pooled Cohort equations (PCE) are accurate in PWH has been raised. A 2018 Circulation study compared CV risk calculators, including the Framingham equation for coronary heart disease, the Framingham equation for ASCVD, and the PCE and found that all of these equations underestimated CV outcomes in men with HIV, with suboptimal discrimination ( c statistics 0.68, 0.67, and 0.65, respectively). In other words, these equations may not be able to detect those patients with HIV at high risk of CVD who would benefit from treatment of modifiable risk factors ( 55 ). Risk models specific to PWH were created using the D:A:D Study. In addition to including traditional CV risk factors, the D:A:D models included exposure to specific ART agents, including abacavir, ritonavir-boosted lopinavir, and indinavir ( 56 ). However, in a study that compared 4 CV risk algorithms, including the D:A:D and the PCE, within the ATHENA cohort of PWH in the Netherlands, both the D:A:D and PCE algorithms underestimated CV disease risk in PWH with low baseline CV disease risk, with mean observed:expected ratios of 1.34 and 1.4 ( 57 ). Questions that providers may have include which CV risk equation(s) should be
