Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


PWH with low baseline CV disease risk, with mean observed:expected ratios of 1.34 and 1.4 ( 57 ). Questions that providers may have include which CV risk equation(s) should be used in PWH. A 2019 Scientific Statement from the American Heart Association (AHA) on CV disease in PWH notes that no optimal CV risk calculator exists, although HIV-specific risk factors, including hepatitis C co-infection, a current or nadir CD4 T cell count of < 350 cells/mm 3 , and lipodystrophy, contribute to increased ASCVD risk ( Figure 1 ) ( 37 ). However, the statement does not specify what the goal LDL-C level should be in PWH. For the general population, the 2019 American College of Cardiology/AHA (ACC/AHA) Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease recommend that LDL-C should be lowered by ≥ 50% in those patients at high risk of CV disease (ASCVD risk score ≥ 20%). In those patients with intermediate risk of CV disease (ASCVD risk score of ≥ 7.5 to < 20%), risk enhancers, of which HIV is considered one, should be considered in the decision to start a moderate intensity statin with the goal of lowering LDL by 30-49% ( 58 ). Figure 1. Estimating and Treating Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease (ASCVD) Risk in People with HIV. *In patients on atazanavir/cobicistat, atorvastatin is contraindicated. In patients on darunavir/ritonavir, darunavir/cobicistat, or elvitegravir/cobicistat, the maximum recommended dose of atorvastatin is 20 mg daily. Similarly, atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/cobicistat, the maximum recommended dose of rosuvastatin is 10 mg daily. Statin Initiation Decision Making: When to Start a Statin in Patients With HIV? As noted above, the 2019 ACC/AHA Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease guidelines recognize HIV infection as a risk-enhancing factor for CV disease. As such, for those PWH who are at either borderline or intermediate risk of CV disease, HIV infection should be considered in the patient-provider discussion on statin initiation ( 58 ). The 2019 AHA Scientific Statement on CV disease in PWH also recommends that treatment decisions, such as statin initiation, should be based on an individualized assessment of CV disease risk, taking into account factors including prolonged viremia ( Figure 1 ) ( 37 ). Coronary artery calcium (CAC) may also be useful in determining whether a patient with HIV is at high risk for ASCVD. If CAC > 0, then healthy lifestyle changes and statin treatment are indicated ( 37 ). However, evidence has shown a disconnect
