Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


with HIV is at high risk for ASCVD. If CAC > 0, then healthy lifestyle changes and statin treatment are indicated ( 37 ). However, evidence has shown a disconnect between guidelines regarding CV disease and the practice of these guidelines, specifically in the care of PWH. Agents used in the primary and secondary prevention of CV disease, including statins, aspirin, and antihypertensives, are often under-prescribed in PWH compared to people without HIV ( 59 ). An ongoing study to date that will better inform the patient-provider discussion on statin initiation for primary prevention of CV disease in PWH is the Randomized Trial to Prevent Vascular Events in HIV (REPRIEVE). REPRIEVE is a multisite, international study of PWH on ART, aged 40-75 years at low CVD risk. Participants were randomized to either placebo or pitavastatin 4 mg daily, and the primary outcome is time to major adverse cardiac event. Between March 2015 and March 2019, more than 7000 participants were enrolled, with a median follow-up time planned for 6 years ( 60 ). Considerations to make in the decision to start a statin include the type of ART the patient is taking ( Table 4 ). Several types of ART increase levels of atorvastatin, including ritonavir-boosted lopinavir, darunavir, and atazanavir, atazanavir alone, and cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and darunavir. As such, atorvastatin doses should be adjusted accordingly, and patients should be monitored for any adverse drug effects. Similarly, ritonavir-boosted lopinavir, darunavir, and atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and darunavir increase rosuvastatin levels. Although atazanavir and ritonavir-boosted lopinavir and darunavir affect pitavastatin levels, no dose adjustment of pitavastatin is recommended. A comprehensive list of statin-ART interactions is shown in Table 5 and detailed on the website https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/ (under Drug-Drug Interactions) ( 26 , 61 ). Table 4. Some Statin-ART Interactions* View in own window Statin PIs NRTIs NNRTIs INSTIs Atorvastatin Contraindicated with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir Decrease levels with etravirine No change in levels Rosuvastatin With some PIs, levels increase No change in levels Increase levels with cobicistat-boosted elvitegravir Pitavastatin No interactions with PIs No change in levels No change in levels; no data however with elvitegravir * Reference: https: ​//clinicalinfo ​.hiv.gov/en/guidelines ​/adult-and-adolescent-arv/ ** PIs=protease inhibitors; NRTIs=nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors; NNRTIs=non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors; INSTIs=integrase inhibitors Table 5. Interaction of Antiretroviral Therapy and Statins View in own window Statin Antiretroviral Drug Recommendations Protease Inhibitors Atorvastatin Atazanavir Atazanavir/ritonavir Titrate atorvastatin dose carefully and administer the lowest effective
