Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


needed. Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors All Statins All NRTIs No dose adjustment needed. Integrase Strand Transfer Inhibitors Atorvastatin Bictegravir Dolutegravir Raltegravir No dose adjustment needed. Elvitegravir/cobicistat Titrate statin dose carefully and administer the lowest effective dose while monitoring for adverse events. Do not exceed 20 mg atorvastatin daily. Lovastatin Bictegravir Dolutegravir Raltegravir No dose adjustment needed. Elvitegravir/cobicistat Contraindicated. Pitavastatin Pravastatin Bictegravir Dolutegravir Raltegravir No dose adjustment needed. Elvitegravir/cobicistat No data available for dose recommendation. Rosuvastatin Bictegravir Dolutegravir Raltegravir No dose adjustment needed. Elvitegravir/cobicistat Titrate statin dose carefully and use the lowest effective dose while monitoring for adverse events. Simvastatin Bictegravir Dolutegravir Raltegravir No dose adjustment needed. Elvitegravir/cobicistat Contraindicated. We generally prefer the high potency statins, atorvastatin and rosuvastatin, but will limit the dose if needed depending on the specific antiretroviral medications the patient is receiving and the potential for drug-drug interactions. In patients receiving concomitant PIs, the maximum dose of atorvastatin is 20 mg daily and the maximum dose of rosuvastatin is 10-20 mg daily ( https://clinicalinfo.hiv.gov/en/guidelines/adult-and-adolescent-arv/drug-interactions-between-protease-inhibitors-and-other-drugs?view=full ). If drug-drug interactions are a major concern, pitavastatin, which does not have drug-drug interactions with PIs, is a good alternative. Lifestyle Interventions Lifestyle interventions to improve lipids and CV risk include change in diet, weight loss, and/or exercise. The 2019 ACC/AHA Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease guidelines recommend either ≥ 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercise per week or ≥ 75 minutes of vigorous intensity exercise per week ( 58 ). However, factors associated with decreased activity in PWH include older age, lower CD4 T cell count, and having lipodystrophy ( 62 ). These factors and any other barriers to exercise should be considered when counseling PWH about exercise. The Primary Prevention guidelines also recommend greater intake of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, nuts and fish and less intake of trans fats, sugar sweetened beverages, processed meats, and refined carbohydrates ( 58 ). Studies on diet quality in PWH, however, have demonstrated lower diet quality, as measured by the Healthy Eating Index, in PWH compared to individuals without HIV ( 63 - 65 ). Diet is an important modifiable risk factor in primary prevention ASCVD and should be addressed in the care of PWH. In a study of PWH with a Framingham score > 10% randomized to either intensive lifestyle intervention, which included diet and exercise counseling, or routine care, TC in the participants in the intensive lifestyle arm decreased by −27.1
