Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


score > 10% randomized to either intensive lifestyle intervention, which included diet and exercise counseling, or routine care, TC in the participants in the intensive lifestyle arm decreased by −27.1 mg/dL (p = 0.021) at 36 months, compared to baseline, whereas the change in TC in the routine care arm was not significant. Similarly, at 24 months, LDL-C decreased significantly (p = 0.011) in the treatment arm, compared to the routine care arm ( 66 ). However, a meta-analysis of dietary interventions in PWH demonstrated that dietary intervention did not result in a significant change in TC or LDL-C compared to control, but did result in a significantly lower TG level, with a weighted mean difference (95% confidence interval) of -41 mg/dL (-75 to -6) ( 67 ). Thus, the above data on the effect of lifestyle interventions on specific lipid parameters in PWH are somewhat equivocal, although in general, anti-atherogenic lipid changes were noted with lifestyle interventions. Weight loss improves ASCVD risk factors in patients who are overweight or obese ( 58 ). Especially because the median BMI of ART-naïve PWH has increased over time ( 68 ), weight loss is an important point to address in PWH when discussing ASCVD risk reduction. However, studies in PWH to date have not necessarily demonstrated an improvement in lipids with weight loss. In women with obesity with and without HIV who lost 6-8% weight, no significant changes from baseline in either LDL-C or triglycerides was observed in either group of women ( 69 ). Similar findings were observed in another study ( 70 ). However, other CV benefits were seen, including improved insulin sensitivity ( 69 ). When to Start Non-Statin Agents in Patients With HIV for LDL-C Lowering? EZETIMBE Ezetimibe has been studied as monotherapy for treatment of dyslipidemia in PWH. In PWH with LDL ≥ 130 mg/dL on low-dose pravastatin, the addition of ezetimibe resulted in LDL levels < 130 mg/dL in 62.5% of the participants ( 71 ). In PWH with LDL-C ≥ 130 mg/dL already on statin therapy (stable doses of either fluvastatin, pravastatin, or atorvastatin), ezetimibe has been shown to significantly lower LDL-C (median (interquartile range) percent change -20.8% (-25.4, -10.7), compared to placebo ( 72 ). In a separate study of 43 PWH on either rosuvastatin 10 mg daily and ezetimibe 10 mg daily or rosuvastatin 20 mg daily alone for 12 weeks, Saeedi et
