Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


). In a separate study of 43 PWH on either rosuvastatin 10 mg daily and ezetimibe 10 mg daily or rosuvastatin 20 mg daily alone for 12 weeks, Saeedi et al noted that participants in the two treatment groups had similar levels of LDL-C lowering (-26.3 ± 20.9 mg/dL in the combined treatment group and -18.6 ± 21.3 mg/dL in the rosuvastatin only group). No significant change in HDL-C was noted in either arm, but a significant decrease in TG (mean ± standard deviation -54.9 mg/dL ± 51.4) from baseline was noted in the ezetimibe add-on arm. In terms of adverse drug effects, both treatments were tolerated well ( 73 ). Ezetimibe should be considered in a PWH at higher CVD risk if a statin is not tolerated or as an adjunctive treatment to maximum tolerated doses of statins if the treatment goal has not been achieved (either by % LDL-c reduction or LDL-c > 70 mg/dL). PCSK9 INHIBITORS PCSK9 inhibitors have not been well studied in PWH. However, given the interactions of statins with some ART, PCSK9 inhibitors do appear to be an attractive alternative LDL lowering medication class. In a meta-analysis not restricted to PWH, PCSK9 levels were found to be independently associated with incident CV disease ( 74 ). PCSK9 levels have been studied in PWH, with some studies finding elevated levels in PWH compared to people without HIV ( 75 , 76 ). A cross-sectional study within the Swiss HIV Cohort Study that included PWH ≥ 40 years of age not on statin treatment found that in a multivariate analysis with traditional CV risk factors, low CD4 count (≤ 200 cells/μL) was positively associated with plasma PCSK9 levels ( 77 ). In another study, in individuals with HIV and hepatitis C co-infection, PCSK9 levels were found to be higher and TC, HDL-C, and LDL-C lower, than in uninfected controls or individuals with HIV infection alone, thought to be in part secondary to a greater level of IL-6 negatively impacting hepatic production of lipoproteins. As LDL lowering medications, PCSK9 inhibitors’ use in PWH is beginning to be studied. In one study, “Evolocumab in HIV-Infected Patients With Dyslipidemia: Primary Results of the Randomized, Double-Blind BEIJERINCK Study,” participants were randomized to either placebo or evolocumab for 24 weeks. The primary outcome of this study was change in LDL-C from baseline. Compared to placebo, the treatment decreased LDL-C by 56.9%
