Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


randomized to either placebo or evolocumab for 24 weeks. The primary outcome of this study was change in LDL-C from baseline. Compared to placebo, the treatment decreased LDL-C by 56.9% (95% confidence interval: -61.6% to -52.3%). In addition, evolocumab was found to be safe and was well-tolerated ( 78 ). In an ongoing study, the Effect of PCSK9 Inhibition on Cardiovascular Risk in Treated HIV Infection (EPIC-HIV Study), PWH on ART with either established ASCVD or moderate or high risk for ASCVD will be randomized to either alirocumab or placebo for 52 weeks. Two of the primary outcomes of this study are change in arterial inflammation as measured by FDG PET/CT and change in lipids and lipoproteins ( 79 ). PCSK9 inhibitors should be considered in high-risk CVD patients, especially in those with a previous CVD event, who have not reached LDL-c goals on a statin +/- ezetimibe. To date, no studies have been published on the effects of bempedoic acid or bile acid sequestrants on lipids in PWH. When to Start Non-Statin Agents in Patients With HIV for TG Lowering? BACKGROUND In the general population, the 2018 ACC/AHA Cholesterol Clinical Practice Guidelines note that TG levels from 500 to 999 mg/dL are a risk factor for acute pancreatitis ( 80 ). General population studies have shown a direct association between triglyceride levels and atherosclerotic CVD (ASCVD) ( 81 , 82 ), with some suggesting that certain gene alleles associated with elevated TG may be causal factors in the development of ASCVD ( 83 , 84 ). However, this link is not completely certain ( 85 ). The 2019 AHA Scientific Statement on CV disease in PWH does not note a specific TG goal for PWH. However, studies of PWH treated with non-statin agents have addressed their effects on TG. NIACIN As seen in the general population AIM-HIGH study, the use of niacin in patients on statins with ASCVD and LDL-C < 70 mg/dL did not reduce ASCVD events, despite significant TG lowering ( 86 ). Niacin has been studied in PWH. In one study of PWH on ART with TG levels between 150 to 800 mg/dL, extended-strength niacin was compared to fenofibrate on the primary outcome of endothelial function as measured by brachial artery flow-mediated dilation. Over the 24-week study duration, the decreases in TG and increases in HDL-C were similar between the two treatment groups (for TG, -65
