Lipid Disorders in People with HIV
KEYWORDS: hiv, pwh, risk, pubmed, art, study, dose, disease, patients, ldl-c, levels, treatment, change, free, free article


as measured by brachial artery flow-mediated dilation. Over the 24-week study duration, the decreases in TG and increases in HDL-C were similar between the two treatment groups (for TG, -65 mg/dL (interquartile range -163 to 8 mg/dL) in the niacin group and -54 mg/dL (interquartile range -113 to -1 mg/dL) in the fenofibrate group). Flushing was the most common adverse effect among participants on niacin. No change in endothelial function was observed in either treatment group ( 87 ). Given that the results of AIM-HIGH did not demonstrate a benefit in ASCVD event reduction, we would not recommend the first-line use of niacin for TG lowering. EZETIMIBE In a study by Saeedi et al cited earlier of PWH on either rosuvastatin 10 mg daily and ezetimibe 10 mg daily or rosuvastatin 20 mg daily for 12 weeks, participants in the combined statin-ezetimibe group experienced a significant drop in TG, compared to the other treatment group (-55 mg/dL versus -15 mg/dL, p = 0.03) ( 73 ). Similarly, in the IMPROVE-IT study in which participants from the general population with a history of an acute coronary syndrome were randomized to either simvastatin/ezetimibe or simvastatin/placebo, simvastatin/ezetimibe resulted in a greater reduction in triglycerides (least squares estimate difference in means at 1 year, -14.04 mg/dL (-15.71, -12.37) ( 88 ). However, the American Heart Association guidelines focus on ezetimibe as an LDL-C lowering adjunct to statins, not as a triglyceride lowering agent ( 80 ). FIBRATES The Heart Positive study of 191 PWH on ART participants randomized to one of five treatment groups: usual care, low saturated fat diet and exercise, diet exercise plus fenofibrate, diet and exercise plus niacin, or diet and exercise plus fenofibrate and niacin. Compared to usual care, a combination of fenofibrate, niacin, and diet and exercise significantly decreased TG by 52% over 24 weeks ( 89 ). OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS In a meta-analysis of PWH treated with omega-3-fatty acids, Oliveira et al found that omega-3-fatty acids reduced TG by about 80 mg/dL. However, limitations of the meta-analysis were that the included studies varied with respect to dose of omega-3-fatty acids studied and study duration ( 90 ). Omega-3-fatty acids do not interact with available ART formulations. The current literature does not have any studies on the effect of icosapent ethyl in PWH, although the REDUCE-IT trial, which was conducted in a general population group of participants with either ASCVD
