SexTransmInf1998;74:167–174 167
KEYWORDS: children, sexual, abuse, hpv, infection, etal, sexually, vaginal, abused, syphilis, dna, child, genital, infants, hpv dna


site in children including the rectum and vagina. Currently PCR (Amplicor, Roche Syphilis DiagnosticSystems)isbeingevaluatedforthis ChildrencanbeinfectedwithTreponemapalli- indication in Canada. Preliminary data com- dumeitherinutero(congenitalsyphilis)orina paring culture and EIA with PCR in vaginal manner similar to adults (acquired syphilis). washspecimensfrom35childrenfoundasen- Although congenital syphilis is far more sitivity of 100% and a specificity of 89.7% for commonthanacquiredsyphilistheemphasisis PCR compared with culture.25 PCR was on acquired syphilis. Congenital syphilis is performedretrospectivelyontheculturespeci- transmitted transplacentally from an infected mens.Anotherstudyexamined258specimens mother to her fetus;it is not spread by sexual from males and females, but the anatomical transmission. In contrast, acquired syphilis in sites were not specified (R Peeling, personal children is almost always sexually transmitted communication).Thesensitivityandspecifici- fromabusebyaninfectedadult.29–31Almostall tiesofPCRcomparedwithculturewere66.7% preadolescent children with syphilis have ac- and 99.6%, respectively. All the positive PCR quired syphilis from adults;thus,theepidemi- results were confirmed with another PCR ology of adult syphilis is important in under- reaction targeting the major outer membrane standingsyphilisinchildren.Theepidemiology gene using the original culture specimen.The of both congenital and acquired syphilis in culturepositive,PCRnegativespecimeninthe childrenisreallytheepidemiologyofsyphilisin secondstudywasarectalspecimen.Theinves- adults. Syphilis in adults is usually associated tigators reported that many rectal specimens withlowersocioeconomicstatus,race(black> containedinhibitorsthatcouldnotberemoved hispanic>white),andlivinginanurbanarea. by dilution or phenol chloroform extraction. Syphilitic chancres in extragenital sites may PCRisnotapprovedforrectalspecimensfrom possiblybefromnon-sexualcontact,32butitis adults;themajorreasonisthefrequentoccur- unwise to dismiss sexual abuse as a cause of renceofinhibitorsofDNApolymeraseinfae- transmissionofsyphilis,evenwhenthereisno cal material. This would adversely aVect the specific history of abuse given by the child.31 sensitivityofthetest. Theprevalenceofsyphilisamongchildrensus- False positive results can also occur with pectedofhavingbeensexuallyabusedislower PCR and LCR as a result of amplicon carry- than some other STDs such as gonorrhoea. over.This is minimised with the current com- Theprevalenceofpositiveserologyforsyphilis merciallyavailableassaysbutcanstilloccur.As in six surveys of abused children published described above, there are practically no data from1988totheendof1992rangedfrom0to on the performance of PCR or LCR at these 1.8%.5833Thesenumbersindicatethatsyphilis sitesinchildren.RecentstudiesonuseofPCR isnotverycommonamongchildrenwhohave in cervical specimens in adult women have beenabused,andisseenlessoftenthanitwas reported poor reproducibility with some in the preantibiotic era.29 However, syphilis specimens.26 continues to be a prominent STD among The sensitivity of the nucleic amplification abused children in developing countries. Pan- testsfordetectionofCtrachomatisinurinemay dhi et al34 found evidence of syphilis in 27.6% be an attractive application for children as a of symptomatic abused children referred to a beforetheseassayscouldbeusedforthisindi- India. cation,studiescomparingthesetestswithvagi- Although routine serological testing for nal and urethral cultures from children for C syphilis has been recommended in the evalua- trachomatiswouldneedtobeundertaken. tion of children who are sexually abused, this Chlamydial culture should be isolation in mayinfact,notbedonebymanypractitioners. tissuecultureandconfirmationbymicroscopic Bays and Chadwik35 distributed a question- identification of the characteristic intracyto- naire to
