SexTransmInf1998;74:167–174 167
KEYWORDS: children, sexual, abuse, hpv, infection, etal, sexually, vaginal, abused, syphilis, dna, child, genital, infants, hpv dna


trachomatiswouldneedtobeundertaken. tion of children who are sexually abused, this Chlamydial culture should be isolation in mayinfact,notbedonebymanypractitioners. tissuecultureandconfirmationbymicroscopic Bays and Chadwik35 distributed a question- identification of the characteristic intracyto- naire to medical personnel attending a special plasmicinclusionsafterstainingwithaspecies sessiononchildabuseattheannualmeetingof specific fluorescein conjugated monoclonal theAAPin1986anda3dayseminaronchild antibody.Use of genus specific antibodies can sexual abuse in 1987 in San Diego. They leadtoconfusionwithCpneumoniaeinrespira- received replies from 82 respondents from 24 tory specimens.27 EIAs should not be used for states plus the District of Columbia and culture confirmation as they can cause false Canada.Onlyonethirdoftherespondersrou- positives.20 There is no standardisation or tinely tested all sexually abused children for regulation of chlamydial culture methods at syphilis. The major reasons cited for not this time in the United States and most other routinely testing were trauma and low yield. countries.28 In Canada, approved reference The remaining respondents used a variety of 170 Hammerschlag selective criteria to determine which children 74% of pregnant women had historical, children who were screened in this study was infectionduringpregnancy. 49 cases/100000,which was comparable with Studies of transmission and infection with that of adults living in a high prevalence area. genital HPV types during the neonatal period Most of these children were asymptomatic. have given highly variable results. In 1989, The consequences of undetected, untreated Sedlacekandcolleagues41detectedHPVDNA primarysyphilisinchildrenarenotknown;the by Southern blot in neonatal nasopharyngeal risk may be low, but the consequences are aspirates from 11 of 23 (47.8%) infants born potentially devastating. Almost all will remain byspontaneousvaginaldeliverytowomenwho fluorescent treponemal antibody positive and hadHPVDNApresentintheircervicalscrap- atleastonethirdwilleventuallydevelopsymp- ings. HPV DNA was also detected in the tomaticsecondarysyphilis.Somechildrenwith nasopharyngeal washes of four of 18 (22%) undetected syphilis might be treated later if infants born to HPV negative women. HPV they develop signs of secondary syphilis or if was not detected in two infants of positive they have positive serology after routine women who were delivered by caesarean premarital or prenatal testing. Some may be section. Using similar methods, Fife et al42 treated with antibiotics incidentally for other demonstrated HPV DNA in oral cavity scrap- indications. Although the CDC6 recommends ings and foreskins from five of 11 (45.5%) an 8 week follow up visit for sexually abused newborninfantswhosemotherswereknownto childrenwitharepeatofserologicaltesting,itis have HPV DNA present in the cervix during notknownhowfrequentlythisisactuallydone. pregnancy.A subsequent study by Pakarian et The risk of a sexually abused child acquiring al43 found HPV DNA in 10 (50%) of 20 oral syphilis and ultimately escaping detection and specimens from infants born to
