SexTransmInf1998;74:167–174 167
KEYWORDS: children, sexual, abuse, hpv, infection, etal, sexually, vaginal, abused, syphilis, dna, child, genital, infants, hpv dna


et The risk of a sexually abused child acquiring al43 found HPV DNA in 10 (50%) of 20 oral syphilis and ultimately escaping detection and specimens from infants born to HPV positive treatmentisnotknown. mothers and one (19%) of 11 infants born to BaysandChadwick35suggestedthefollowing negative mothers evaluated at 1 day of age.In minimum criteria for selective testing of contrast, HPV DNA was detected genital sexually abused children for syphilis: (1) specimensobtainedat6weeksofagefromsix children with evidence of STDs; (2) adoles- (30%) of 20 infants born to HPV positive cents; (3) foreign born children; (4) children mothers compared with two (18%) of 11 with a parent, family member, or perpetrator infantsborntonegativemothers.Thefrequent withsyphilis;(5)childrenlivinginareaswitha detection of HPV DNA from infants within a highincidenceofsyphilis. few days of birth may represent transient mucosalcolonisation.Thisissuggestedbythe Humanpapillomavirus,genitalwarts, findings of Pakaraian et al43 where the condylomataacuminata prevalence of HPV DNA among infants born Human papillomavirus (HPV) is probably the topositivemothersdecreasedat6weeksofage. most common viral sexually transmitted dis- Conversely,thehighpresenceofHPVDNAin easeintheUnitedStatestoday.Thereisalarge infants born to negative women suggests asymptomatic reservoir. Reliance on the pres- contamination. ence of visible condylomata greatly underesti- Data on the presence of HPV DNA in chil- mates the prevalence of this infection. Newer dren beyond the neonatal period are also methods for detection of HPV DNA include inconsistent.The results of three such studies dot blot hybridisation, Southern blotting, and found the presence of HPV DNA in children modifications of PCR. HPV DNA has been borntoinfectedmotherstorangefrom1.2%to found in cervices of up to 35% of adolescent 77%.404445 The rate of HPV infection in women,aminorityofthesewomenhaveclini- children born to uninfected women ranged cally apparent warts.3637 Condylomata have from 1% to 50%. The anatomical sites tested beenreportedin1–2%ofabusedchildrenand varied from study to study and included oral, 50% to 75% of cases of genital warts in genital, and rectal specimens. Similarly, the childrenreportedintheliteratureappeartobe duration of follow up also diVered from study the result of abuse.5 Like C trachomatis, HPV to study.Puranen et al44 examined children,4 canbeacquiredperinatally,leadingtojuvenile monthsto11.3yearsofage,buteachchildwas laryngeal papillomatosis and genital warts; sampled only once. Cason et al45 evaluated however, data on the risk of transmission are infantsborntopositiveandnegativewomenat limited. 1 day,6 weeks,and 6 months of age.Watts et The data on the prevalence of genital HPV al40 evaluated the children in their study at among pregnant women are limited. Fife and birth, 6 weeks, and 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 colleagues38 detected HPV DNA in cervical months of age. The high rate of HPV DNA, scrape specimens from 11%
