SexTransmInf1998;74:167–174 167
KEYWORDS: children, sexual, abuse, hpv, infection, etal, sexually, vaginal, abused, syphilis, dna, child, genital, infants, hpv dna


abused or sexually active girls.59–61 Presence of respectively,oforalmucosalscrapingsfrom21 G vaginalis was generally not associated with healthyprepubertalchildrenrecruitedfroman vaginal discharge in these children. Using an urbanpreschoolinSeattle.Theprevalencewas examination of vaginal wash for clue cells and similar to that found in 35 healthy adult men: whiV test, Hammerschlag and colleagues62 17%hadHPV-6and23%hadHPV-16present demonstrated the development of BV in 13% in their mucosal scrapings.There was also no ofsexuallyabusedgirlscomparedwithnoneof 172 Hammerschlag the controls. Ingram et al8 examined vaginal Humanimmunodeficiencyvirus dischargesfrom99childrensuspectedofbeing infection sexually abused, seven had clue cells and/or a Humanimmunodeficiencyvirus(HIV)isnow positivewhiVtest;28%ofthepositivegirlshad the major cause of mortality among young a history of sexual contact. It is still not clear adultsintheUnitedStatestoday.Moreofthese how often BV is a cause of vaginal discharge infections are resulting from heterosexual in children using appropriate diagnostic transmission. As of 1997, over 5000 children methods—specifically, examination of a wet with AIDS under 13 years of age have been mountofvaginalsecretionsorvaginalwashfor reported to the CDC. HIV is predominantly cluecells,whiVtest,orGramstain.Wealsodo transmitted to children from their mothers.64 notknowhowoftenBVisacquiredaftersexual The rates of perinatally acquired infection in assaultinchildren,alsousingtheabovemeth- theUnitedStatesaredecreasing,inpartowing ods. to use of prophylaxis with AZT in pregnant women and infants after delivery. Nearly all casesofHIVacquiredbybloodtransfusionsin the United States occurred before donor Trichomonasvaginalis screening practices were implemented in T vaginalis is a common cause of vaginitis in March 1985. HIV infection can be acquired adults.AlongwithBV,itisoneofthemostfre- aftersexualassault.Sexualabuseasamodeof quentinfectionsacquiredaftersexualassaultin HIV transmission is probably underestimated adult and adolescent women.5657 Perinatal because its occurrence is diYcult to ascertain. infection may occur with infection of the Gutman and colleagues65 reported that 14 vagina,andpresenceoforganismsintheurine, (14.6%) of 96 children with HIV infection especiallywhen“bagged”specimensareexam- being followed at her institution were con- ined.InfectionwithTvaginalisintheseinfants firmed to have been sexually abused. Sexual may persist for up to 1 year if not treated. abusewasdeterminedtobetheonlymeansof Beyond infancy, presence of T vaginalis in a transmission in four of these children. Ap- vaginal specimen is strongly suggestive of proaching the problem from another perspec- sexual abuse. Very limited data are available tive,Gellertetal66foundthatofapproximately abouttheriskofacquiringtrichomoniasisafter 5622 children who had HIV antibody tests sexualabuseinchildren.Inmanystudiesonly obtained during assessment of suspected symptomatic children were tested, usually by sexualabuse,41(0.7%)wereHIVseropositive. examination of wet mounts of vaginal dis- Ofthese41,28werethoughttohaveacquired charge.Diagnosticmethodsusedisanissue,as HIV from the abuse, while 13 had other risk microscopic examination of a wet mount of factorssuchaspossibleperinataltransmission. vaginal fluid is relatively insensitive and has a Themostimportantconfoundingvariablewas significant subjective component. We have all maternal infection. The risk factors for HIV faced the telephone call from the laboratory infectionaresimilartotheriskfactorsforchild reporting that one trichomonad was seen by sexualabuse—drugabuseand/oralcoholismin
