Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


ABSTRACT Glucagon is a peptide hormone secreted from the alpha cells of the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. Hypoglycemia is physiologically the most potent secretory stimulus and the best known action of glucagon is to stimulate glucose production in the liver and thereby to maintain adequate plasma glucose concentrations. However, glucagon is also involved in hepatic lipid and amino acid metabolism and may increase resting energy expenditure. Based on satiety-inducing and food intake-lowering effects of exogenous glucagon, a role for glucagon in the regulation of appetite has also been proposed. This chapter provides an overview of the structure, secretion, degradation and elimination of glucagon, and reviews the actions of glucagon including its role in glucose metabolism and its effects on lipolysis, ketogenesis, energy expenditure, appetite and food intake. Finally, the role of glucagon in the pathophysiology of diabetes, obesity and hepatic steatosis is discussed and emerging glucagon-based therapies for these conditions are outlined. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION Glucagon secreted from pancreatic alpha cells in the islet of Langerhans plays an important role in maintaining glucose homeostasis by stimulating hepatic glucose production ( 1 ). Thus, in contrast to the glucose-depositing nature of insulin action, glucagon acts as a glucose-mobilizing hormone. In line with these opposed actions, high plasma glucose concentrations stimulating insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells, inhibit glucagon secretion whereas low plasma glucose concentrations represent one of the most potent glucagon secretory stimuli. Accordingly, normal plasma glucose concentrations depend largely on the balanced secretion of insulin and glucagon from the pancreatic beta cells and alpha cells, respectively. The hyperglycemic effect of glucagon was described as early as 1922 by Kimball and Murlin who discovered a hyperglycemic factor in pancreatic extracts and called this factor “the gluc ose ago nist”, hence the name glucagon ( 2 ). In the 1950s glucagon was purified and crystallized at Eli Lilly and Co., and shortly after, the amino acid sequence of the peptide was determined ( 3 ). This led to the development of medical use of glucagon for the treatment of severe insulin-induced hypoglycemia ( 4 , 5 ). The development of a radioimmunoassay for the detection of glucagon in 1959 spurred further investigations of glucagon physiology and its role in health and disease ( 6 ). It was discovered that patients with diabetes exhibit increased glucagon levels which led
