Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


1959 spurred further investigations of glucagon physiology and its role in health and disease ( 6 ). It was discovered that patients with diabetes exhibit increased glucagon levels which led to the “bihormonal hypothesis” stating that the combination of hypoinsulinemia and hyperglucagonemia constitutes a central pathophysiological determinant for diabetic hyperglycemia ( 7 ). Since then it has become evident that glucagon not only acts by increasing hepatic glucose production but affects overall energy homeostasis in times of limited energy supply by stimulating lipid and protein catabolism, reducing appetite and food intake and increasing energy expenditure. STRUCTURE AND SYNTHESIS OF GLUCAGON Glucagon is a 29-amino acid peptide hormone predominantly secreted from the alpha cells of the pancreas. It is derived from the precursor proglucagon which can be processed into a number of related peptide hormones ( Fig. 1 ). Proglucagon is expressed in pancreatic islet alpha cells, intestinal enteroendocrine L cells, and to a minor extent in neurons in the brain stem and hypothalamus ( 8 , 9 ). Processing of proglucagon is undertaken by the processing enzymes prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC1/3) and prohormone convertase 2 (PC2), respectively. In the pancreas, PC2 processes proglucagon to glucagon while processing of proglucagon in the intestine and the brain is undertaken by PC1 leading to the formation of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) ( 9 ). Figure 1. Tissue specific processing of proglucagon. In the pancreas proglucagon is processed into glucagon, glicentin-related pancreatic polypeptide (GRPP), intervening peptide 1 (IP1), and major proglucagon fragment (MPGF) by the processing enzyme prohormone convertase 2 (PC2). In the intestine and in the brain proglucagon is processed by prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC1/3) into glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2), oxyntomodulin, intervening peptide 2 (IP2), and glicentin. GLUCAGON SECRETION Glucagon is secreted in response to hypoglycemia, prolonged fasting, exercise and protein-rich meals ( 10 ). Glucagon release is regulated through endocrine and paracrine pathways; by nutritional substances; and by the autonomic nervous system ( 11 ). Glucagon secretion occurs as exocytosis of stored peptide vesicles initiated by secretory stimuli of the alpha cell. Stimulatory regulators of glucagon release include hypoglycemia, amino acids and the gut hormone glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP), whereas hyperglycemia and GLP-1 inhibit glucagon release. Additionally, glucagon release is inhibited in a paracrine fashion by factors like somatostatin, insulin, zinc and possibly amylin. Glucagon may regulate its own secretion indirectly via stimulatory
