Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


inhibit glucagon release. Additionally, glucagon release is inhibited in a paracrine fashion by factors like somatostatin, insulin, zinc and possibly amylin. Glucagon may regulate its own secretion indirectly via stimulatory effect on beta cells to secrete insulin ( 12 , 13 ). In contrast to glucose, non-glucose regulators of glucagon secretion seem to mediate their action through changes in cAMP levels rather than through the calcium-dependent pathway outlined below ( 14 , 15 ). Regulation of Glucagon Secretion by Glucose The most potent regulator of glucagon secretion is circulating glucose. Hypoglycemia stimulates the pancreatic alpha cell to release glucagon and hyperglycemia inhibits glucagon secretion ( Fig. 2 ) ( 11 ). The cellular mechanism behind this glucose-dependent regulation of glucagon secretion involves uptake of glucose by the glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) in the cell membrane of pancreatic alpha cells and subsequent glycolysis which ultimately generates adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the mitochondria of the alpha cell. Thus, the intracellular ATP level in the alpha cell reflects plasma glucose levels. Hypoglycemia and resulting low intracellular ATP levels in the alpha cell close ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K ATP -channels) whereby the efflux of potassium (K + ) is reduced. This causes a depolarization of the cell membrane which, in turn, opens voltage-dependent Ca 2+ channels allowing influx of Ca 2+ . This increases intracellular Ca 2+ levels, the primary trigger for exocytosis of glucagon granules from the alpha cells ( Fig. 2 ). Conversely, increasing circulating glucose levels increase glucose influx to the alpha cell generating an increase in intracellular ATP concentration, which opens K ATP -channels. This leads to a membrane potential that closes voltage-dependent Ca 2+ channels thereby preventing Ca 2+ influx and glucagon secretion ( 12 ). Figure 2. Glucose-dependent glucagon secretion from the alpha cell. During hypoglycemia intracellular glucose concentration falls with a subsequent reduction in glycolysis-generated adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the mitochondria of the cell. This closes ATP-sensitive potassium (K + ) channels and the intracellular K + concentration rises, which depolarizes the cell membrane, thus opening voltage-dependent Ca 2+ channels allowing influx of Ca 2+ . Increase in intracellular Ca 2+ concentration triggers secretion of glucagon through exocytosis. ∆Vm, change in membrane potential (i.e. depolarization of the cell membrane). Glucagon Concentrations in The Circulation In normal physiology, circulating glucagon concentrations are in the picomolar range. In the fasting state with plasma glucose levels around 5 mmol/l, glucagon
