Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


cell membrane). Glucagon Concentrations in The Circulation In normal physiology, circulating glucagon concentrations are in the picomolar range. In the fasting state with plasma glucose levels around 5 mmol/l, glucagon is secreted in basal levels resulting in plasma concentrations below 20 pmol/l ( 16 – 18 ). Basal glucagon secretion balances the effect of basal insulin secretion resulting in a steady-state between glucose uptake and endogenous glucose production in the fasted state; i.e. stable blood glucose concentrations. During exercise or in case of hypoglycemia, circulating glucagon levels may increase dramatically to 3-4 times basal levels increasing the glucagon to insulin ratio ( 12 , 19 , 20 ) ( Fig. 3 ). Figure 3. Glucagon concentrations in response to hypoglycemia, euglycemia, and hyperglycemia. GLUCAGON RECEPTOR SIGNALLING The effects of glucagon are mediated through binding to and activation of the glucagon receptor. The glucagon receptor is a seven transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor ( Fig. 4 ) predominantly expressed in the liver, but also found in varying amounts in the kidneys, heart (controversial), adrenal glands, adipose tissue (controversial), gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas ( 21 ). The main mode of intracellular signaling involves activation of G s and G q . G s activation stimulates adenylyl cyclase which produces cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) that activates protein kinase A (PKA). The activated PKA migrates to the nucleus and activates transcription factors like cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) through phosphorylation. This enables CREB to bind to response elements of target genes resulting in the recruitment of coactivators and ultimately promoting gene expression. Activation of G q by glucagon leads to activation of phospholipase C (PLC) and subsequent increase in inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP 3 ), which signals to enhance release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum. This, in turn, activates downstream signaling cascades including CREB-regulated transcription co-activator (CRTC2) which enhance CREB-dependent gene expression. In addition to the CREB-CRTC2 pathway, glucagon may signal through various other pathways reviewed in detail elsewhere ( 1 , 12 , 22 ). Figure 4. Examples of the two most well-described intracellular pathways involved in glucagon-induced regulation of target gene expression: the PKA and the IP 3 pathways. AC, adenylyl cyclase; CRTC2, CREB-regulated transcription co-activator; CREB, cAMP response element-binding protein; IP 3 , inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate; PIP 2 , phosphatidyl-inositol-4,5-bisphosphate; PKA, protein kinase A; PLC, phospholipase C. DEGRADATION AND ELIMINATION OF GLUCAGON The degradation of glucagon is mainly facilitated by receptor-mediated endocytosis and
