Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


, inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate; PIP 2 , phosphatidyl-inositol-4,5-bisphosphate; PKA, protein kinase A; PLC, phospholipase C. DEGRADATION AND ELIMINATION OF GLUCAGON The degradation of glucagon is mainly facilitated by receptor-mediated endocytosis and proteolysis by the ubiquitous enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase 4 ( 22 , 23 ). Consistent with the relative receptor expression, the liver and kidneys seem to represent the two main organs removing glucagon from the circulation. The circulating half-life of glucagon in plasma is reported to be between four to seven minutes in humans ( 24 , 25 ). GLUCAGON ACTIONS Glucagon Increases Hepatic Glucose Production Glucagon controls plasma glucose concentrations during fasting, exercise and hypoglycemia by increasing hepatic glucose output to the circulation. Specifically, glucagon promotes hepatic conversion of glycogen to glucose (glycogenolysis), stimulates de novo glucose synthesis (gluconeogenesis), and inhibits glucose breakdown (glycolysis) and glycogen formation (glycogenesis) ( Fig. 5 ) ( 26 ). Hepatic glucose production is rapidly enhanced in response to a physiological rise in glucagon; achieved through stimulation of glycogenolysis with minor acute changes in gluconeogenesis ( 27 , 28 ). This ability of glucagon is critical in the life-saving counterregulatory response to severe hypoglycemia. Additionally, it is a key factor in providing adequate circulating glucose for brain function and for working muscle during exercise ( 28 ). During prolonged fasting, glycogen stores are depleted, and gluconeogenesis takes over ( 29 ). The hyperglycemic property of glucagon is enhanced when hepatic glycogen levels are high and diminished when hepatic glycogen levels are low in conditions of fasting or liver diseases like cirrhosis ( 12 ). Figure 5. Regulation of glucose metabolism by glucagon in the liver. Glucagon increases hepatic glucose production by stimulating glycogenolysis and glycogenogenesis (green arrows) while inhibiting glycolysis and glycogenesis (red arrows). Glucagon Stimulates Break-Down of Fatty Acids and Inhibits Lipogenesis in the Liver Glucagon promotes formation of non-carbohydrate energy sources in the form of lipids and ketone bodies. Thereby, glucagon contributes to a stable energy homeostasis during conditions where energy supply is limited (fasting) or in states of increased energy demand (e.g. exercise or cold exposure) ( 12 ). Specifically, in times of energy demand, glucagon enhances break-down of fatty acids to acetyl-coenzyme A molecules (beta-oxidation) in the liver. These intermediates are either reduced to generate ATP in the tricarboxylic acid cycle or converted to ketone bodies (ketogenesis) – a process also stimulated by glucagon. ( 30 – 34 ). Furthermore, glucagon
