Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


either reduced to generate ATP in the tricarboxylic acid cycle or converted to ketone bodies (ketogenesis) – a process also stimulated by glucagon. ( 30 – 34 ). Furthermore, glucagon signaling inhibits de novo lipogenesis by inactivating the enzyme that catalyzes the first step in fatty acid synthesis from other substrates like carbohydrates ( 34 ). Glucagon Promotes Break-Down of Amino Acids During prolonged fasting, glucagon stimulates formation of glucose from amino acids (via gluconeogenesis) by upregulating enzymes involved in the process. However, the rate-limiting step of the process depends on the supply of gluconeogenic amino acids from muscle or dietary intake, a process not controlled by glucagon ( 35 ). In addition to enter gluconeogenesis, amino acids are deaminated to generate ATP in the liver. Glucagon is involved in this process by promoting the conversion of ammonia – a toxic biproduct from deamination – to urea, which is excreted in the urine. Thereby glucagon reduces ammonia levels in the blood ( 36 ). Disruption of glucagon action by inhibition of the glucagon receptor ( 37 ) leads to increased plasma levels of amino acids and pancreatic alpha cell hyperplasia, which in turn, leads to glucagon hypersecretion. This suggests that glucagon and amino acids are linked in a feedback loop between the liver and the pancreatic alpha cells ( 35 ). Glucagon Reduces Food Intake Acute administration of glucagon has been shown to reduce food intake and diminish hunger ( 38 , 39 ). Conversely, preprandial inhibition of glucagon signaling increases food intake in rats ( 40 , 41 ) providing evidence for a role of glucagon in the regulation of appetite. It is somewhat counterintuitive that glucagon should reduce food intake given that glucagon levels are typically elevated upon fasting and decrease upon feeding. Thus, the observed effect upon glucagon administration (in supraphysiological concentrations) could partly be due to cross-reactivity with the GLP-1 receptor (which normally result in suppression of food intake) ( 12 ). The mechanism behind glucagon’s potential appetite-reducing effect is not fully understood but could arise from hepatic metabolic changes induced by glucagon or from glucagon working directly in the central nervous system ( 31 ). Glucagon Increases Energy Expenditure In addition to a potential effect of glucagon on food intake, evidence suggests that glucagon contributes to a negative energy balance by stimulating energy expenditure. In humans, this effect has been observed in studies in which
