Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


of glucagon on food intake, evidence suggests that glucagon contributes to a negative energy balance by stimulating energy expenditure. In humans, this effect has been observed in studies in which glucagon infusion resulted in increases in resting energy expenditure ( 42 – 44 ). However, the effect of endogenous glucagon on resting energy expenditure remains unclear. Also, the exact mechanisms behind the increase in resting energy expenditure elicited by exogenous glucagon remain to be determined. It has been speculated that glucagon activates brown adipose tissue ( 12 ), however this was recently challenged in an in vivo study that found no direct effect of glucagon on brown adipose tissue ( 43 ). Rodent studies indicate that the actions of glucagon to increase energy expenditure might be indirectly mediated partly by fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) as glucagon-induced increase in energy expenditure is abolished in animals with FGF21 receptor deletion ( 45 ). Glucagon May Regulate Heart Rate and Contractility Infusion of high doses of glucagon increases heart rate and cardiac contractility ( 46 ). In fact, infusion of glucagon in pharmacological doses (milligram) is often used in the treatment of acute cardiac depression caused by calcium channel antagonist or beta-blocker overdoses ( 47 ) despite limited evidence ( 48 ). In comparison, glucagon concentrations within the normal physiological range do not appear to affect heart rate or contractility ( 49 ) and any physiological role of endogenous glucagon in the regulation of pulse rate remains questionable. This is supported by studies investigating the effect of glucagon receptor antagonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in which no effect of pulse rate were observed ( 50 ). Nevertheless, whether increased glucagon concentrations have a sustained effect on the heart remains unknow. Of note, most studies use bolus injections of glucagon which cause only a transient increase in heart rate and contractility (potentially reflecting the rapid elimination of glucagon from circulation) ( 48 ). Taken together, it remains uncertain whether glucagon has a place in the treatment of heart failure or hold a cardioprotective effect in healthy subjects. Figure 6. Organ specific actions of glucagon. GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide GLUCAGON PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Glucagon in Type 2 Diabetes Patients with type 2 diabetes exhibit an impaired regulation of glucagon secretion which contributes importantly to diabetic hyperglycemia. Specifically, type 2 diabetes is characterized by elevated levels of glucagon during fasting while suppression of glucagon
