Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


exhibit an impaired regulation of glucagon secretion which contributes importantly to diabetic hyperglycemia. Specifically, type 2 diabetes is characterized by elevated levels of glucagon during fasting while suppression of glucagon in response to oral intake of glucose is impaired or even paradoxically elevated ( Fig. 7 ) ( 16 , 51 , 52 ). The mechanisms behind hyperglucagonemia are not fully understood but is usually explained by a diminished suppressive effect of insulin on alpha cells due to hypoinsulinemia and insulin resistance at the level of the alpha cells ( 53 , 54 ). Interestingly, subjects with type 2 diabetes, who exhibit a hyperglucagonemic response to oral glucose, respond with a normal suppression of glucagon after intravenous glucose administration ( 16 ). This suggests that diabetic hyperglucagonemia may not be explained by alpha cell resistance to glucose and/or insulin. Accordingly, hormones secreted from the gastrointestinal tract may play an important role ( 55 , 56 ). It has recently been confirmed that glucagon can be secreted from extrapancreatic tissue (demonstrated in experiments with totally pancreatectomized subjects) ( 17 ). This supports the notion that postprandial hypersecretion of glucagon in patients with type 2 diabetes might be of extrapancreatic origin. Figure 7. Schematic illustration of plasma glucagon concentrations in patients with type 2 diabetes and in normal physiology (healthy subjects). Type 2 diabetes is characterized by elevated fasting plasma glucagon levels and impaired suppression of plasma glucagon levels in response to oral glucose. Glucagon in Type 1 Diabetes Traditionally type 1 diabetic hyperglycemia has been explained by selective loss of beta cell mass and resulting decrease in insulin secretion. However, emerging evidence indicate that glucagon plays a major role in type 1 diabetes pathophysiology. The glucagon dyssecretion that characterizes patients with type 1 diabetes is associated with two clinical manifestations: Postprandial hyperglucagonemia and impaired glucagon counterregulation to hypoglycemia ( 57 ). Data regarding fasting plasma glucagon concentrations in type 1 diabetes are inconsistent ( 57 , 58 ). Thus, the general notion that glucagon hypersecretion plays a role in type 1 diabetes hyperglycemia is mainly based on elevated postprandial glucagon concentrations ( 57 ). The explanation behind this is unclear, although a common explanation is, that in type 1 diabetes the postprandial increase in plasma glucose is not followed by an increase in insulin secretion from beta cells, which in normal physiology would inhibit glucagon secretion. The absence of that restraining
