Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


postprandial increase in plasma glucose is not followed by an increase in insulin secretion from beta cells, which in normal physiology would inhibit glucagon secretion. The absence of that restraining signal from endogenous insulin could result in an increase in glucagon secretion from alpha cells after a meal ( Fig. 8 ) ( 12 , 57 ). However, like in type 2 diabetes, subjects with type 1 diabetes preserve their ability to suppress glucagon after intravenous glucose administration. This suggest that inappropriate glucagon secretion in type 1 diabetes occurs as a consequence of the oral administration, possible via glucagonotropic signaling from the gut or due to glucagon secretion directly from the gut, rather than as a consequence of dysfunctional alpha cell sensing to hyperglycemia and/or lack of paracrine inhibition by insulin ( 17 , 55 , 59 ). Figure 8. Schematic illustration of plasma glucagon concentrations in patients with type 1 diabetes and in normal physiology (healthy subjects). Type 1 diabetes is characterized by elevated concentrations of glucagon in response to a meal or oral glucose intake. Hypoglycemia is a frequent and feared side effect of insulin therapy in type 1 diabetes and it represents a common barrier in obtaining glycemic control ( 60 ). In normal physiology hypoglycemia is prevented by several mechanisms: 1) Reduced insulin secretion from beta cells diminishing glucose uptake in peripheral tissues; 2) increased glucagon secretion from alpha cells increasing hepatic glucose output; and 3) increased symphathetic neural response and adrenomedullary epinephrine secretion. The latter will stimulate hepatic glucose production and cause clinical symptoms that enables the individual to recognize hypoglycemia and ultimately ingest carbohydrates ( 57 , 61 , 62 ). In type 1 diabetes, insulin-induced hypoglycemia fails to elicit adequate glucagon responses compromising counterregulation to insulin-induced hypoglycemia; a phenomenon which seems to worsen with the duration of type 1 diabetes. This defect likely involves a combination of defective alpha cells and reduced alpha cell mass ( 57 , 63 ). Glucagon in Obesity and Hepatic Steatosis Dysregulated glucagon secretion is not only observed in patients with type 2 diabetes but also in normoglucose-tolerant individuals with obesity ( 64 ) and patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) ( 65 , 66 ). This suggests that dysregulated glucagon secretion may represent hepatic steatosis rather than dysregulated glucose metabolism. Interestingly, fasting hyperglucagonemia seems to relate to circulating amino acids in addition to hepatic fat content
