Glucagon Physiology
KEYWORDS: glucagon, pubmed, glucose, diabetes, secretion, type, type diabetes, hepatic, energy, cell, alpha, levels, insulin, glucagon secretion, effect


suggests that dysregulated glucagon secretion may represent hepatic steatosis rather than dysregulated glucose metabolism. Interestingly, fasting hyperglucagonemia seems to relate to circulating amino acids in addition to hepatic fat content ( 65 ). This hyperaminoacidemia suggests that impairment of amino acid turnover in the liver and ensuing elevations of circulating amino acids constitutes a feedback on the alpha cell to secrete more glucagon with increasing hepatic amino acid turnover and ureagenesis needed for clearance of toxic ammonia from the body. This feedback loop is proposed as “the liver-alpha cell axis” ( 35 , 55 , 65 , 67 ). PERSPECTIVES The implication of hyperglucagonemia in obesity and NAFLD has renewed the scientific interest in actions of glucagon and the role of glucagon in the pathophysiology of these metabolic disorders. Clearly, glucagon may represent a potential target for treatments of obesity and NAFLD. A simple way to restrain the undesirable hyperglycemic effect of glucagon while realizing its actions on lipolysis and energy expenditure could be by co-treating with a glucose-lowering drug. This may be done by mimicking the gut hormone oxyntomodulin which acts as a ligand to both the glucagon and the GLP-1 receptor. Accordingly, treatment with dual glucagon/GLP-1 receptor agonists in subjects with type 2 diabetes and obesity improves glycemic control, reduces body weight ( 68 ) and ameliorates NAFLD ( 69 ). SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS Glucagon is a glucoregulatory peptide hormone that counteracts the actions of insulin by stimulating hepatic glucose production and thereby increases blood glucose levels. Additionally, glucagon mediates several non-glucose metabolic effects of importance for maintaining whole-body energy balance in times of limited nutrient supply. These actions include mobilization of energy resources through hepatic lipolysis and ketogenesis; stimulation of hepatic amino acid turnover (and related ureagenesis). Also, glucagon has been shown to increase energy expenditure and inhibit food intake, but whether endogenous glucagon is involved in the regulation of these processes remains uncertain. Glucagon plays an important role in the pathophysiology of diabetes as elevated glucagon levels observed in these patients stimulate hepatic glucose production, thereby contributing to diabetic hyperglycemia. Investigations of glucagon’s role in non-glucose metabolism and metabolic physiology and pathophysiological processes are ongoing and may reveal new treatment targets based on glucagon actions. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Figure 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 created by adopting templates from Servier Medical Arts, Les Laboratoires Servier (https://smart.servier.com/). Used under Creative Commons License 3.0. REFERENCES 1.
