Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


sequela). weakerstill.ArecentWorldHealthOrganization(WHO)sys- A large number of conceptual frameworks depict path- tematic review indicates how prevalence figures vary hugely ways to adverse maternal and perinatal outcomes (Bale and accordingtothecriteriausedtoidentifycases(Say,Pattinson, others 2003;McCarthy and Maine 1992).Several identify three and Gulmezoglu 2004). Using disease-specific criteria, WHO levels of contributory factors, which are also found in causal foundthatprevalencerangedfrom0.80to8.23percent.Using (b) proximal or intermediate,and (c) physiological or direct. 1.09percent.Finally,usingmanagement-basedcriteria,WHO Table 26.1highlights the risk factors for the focus maternal and found that the range was 0.01 to 2.99 percent.Estimates sug- perinatal conditions. The distal determinants emphasize that gest that for every maternal death, at least 16 or 17 other maternal and perinatal well-being is not just a medical issue. women suffer a life-threatening complication during preg- Improvements throughout the health sector must be comple- nancy or childbirth (Gay and others 2003) and at least 30 mented by attention to wider social, economic, and cultural women are left with long-term disabilities,such as an obstet- factors as well as to reproductive rights . Many ricfistula(UNFPA2003).Theseestimatesmustberegardedas conceptual frameworks also differentiate between the timing of crude approximations, most originating from small-scale interventions: before pregnancy, during pregnancy, during studiesandmostinurgentneedof updatingandverification. labor and delivery,or during the postpartum period.Similarly, Given the varying case fatality rates shown in table 26.1, the a further distinction can be made in terms ofthe timing ofthe fact that the distributional pattern for morbidity (fig- outcome, although from a programmatic perspective, such a ure26.1b)doesnotcompletelymirrortheoneformortalityis temporal focus may lead to fragmented care for women and not surprising. their babies. As concerns mortality in babies, an estimated 5.7 million perinatal deaths occur each year,47 percent as stillbirths and 53percent in the first week oflife (J.Zupan,personal commu- Levels, Trends, and Differentials nication, August 25, 2004). Many of those deaths are linked The latest regional estimates of maternal mortality are for directly with complications experienced by the mothers, and 2000–1 (table 26.2),with most ofthe figures for the developing several studies have shown that the survival prospects for a worldproducedbymodeling(WHO2004b).Morethan99per- baby whose mother dies are generally poor—less than 1 per- cent ofannual maternal deaths occur in the developing world. cent in one study in Bangladesh (Koenig, Fauveau, and At a national level,the magnitude ofthe differential in terms of Wojtyniak 1991).In 2004,neonatal deaths represented 36 per- lifetime risk is almost 500-fold between the highest figure for a cent of all deaths of children under five in developing Maternal and Perinatal Conditions | 505 Table 26.2 Estimates of
