Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


accumulate multiple data basisofcivilregistrationdataandmostlyrestrictedtocountries points. Demographic and health surveys (DHSs) are a key withmaternalmortalityratiosoflessthan100per100,000live sourcefortrackingtrendsininfantandchildmortality.Several births—thus notably excluding South Asia and Sub-Saharan DHSsnowhavedatathatcanbedisaggregatedtoshowneona- Africa.Evenwheredeclinesappeartohaveoccurred,theydidso taldeaths,butonlyafewhaveinformationonstillbirths,and priorto1990.Countrieswithsustainedfallssincethen,suchas the quality of that information is still being assessed. ArgentinaandChina,cannotberegardedasrepresentativeofall InformationfromWHOsuggeststhatearlyneonataldeathrates developing countries.Cause-specific trend data are extremely fellslightly,from28per1,000livebirthsaround1980toabout rare,oftengatheredthroughsmall-scalehospital-basedstudies 25 per 1,000 in 2000,for low- and middle-income countries, 506 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others a. Maternal mortality andtheequivalenttrendforstillbirthsissuggestedtobeadrop from36per1,000deliveriesto22per1,000deliveries(J.Zupan, Other maternal personalcommunication,August25,2004). 22% Hemorrhage Two types of differentials are particularly relevant: geo- 28% graphic (or regional) and socioeconomic.Table 26.2indicates the wide variation in the magnitude of maternal mortality across regions, and a similar difference can be seen between Unsafe abortion countries. In terms of absolute numbers of deaths, just 13 13% countries account for 70 percent of the global total (WHO Sepsis 2004b).2 Caution is again needed, because the poorest coun- 15% Obstructed tries also have the weakest information systems and,therefore, labor Hypertensive have estimates derived solely from modeling. One regression 8% disorders model ,for example,uses independent variables, 14% such as the percentage of deliveries with health professionals b. Maternal morbidity present and the proportion of deaths of women of reproduc- Hemorrhage tive age that are maternal deaths. Those variables are them- Other maternal 18% 22% selves subject to error and likely to be least reliable where information systems are weakest. Geographic differences in maternal mortality within countries are poorly documented, although remote populations are often assumed to suffer the Sepsis 16% highest levels because of poor access to emergency obstetric care.Although this assumption seems logical,few reliable data are available to confirm or refute it,and the possibility ofhigh Unsafe abortion levels of mortality in urban areas linked to unsafe abortion 26% Hypertensive disorders (Thonneau and others 2002) makes the topic of geographic Obstructed 9% differentials a priority for research. labor 9% Until recently,socioeconomic differentials in mortality have tended to be inferred from utilization patterns for prenatal care Source: Mortality: WHO 2004d; Morbidity: Murray and Lopez 1998. and malaria, have been excluded. provide the main data sources in this regard,for both interna- tional and national analyses,and they demonstrate huge differ- Figure 26.1 Medical Causes of Direct Maternal Mortality and Morbidity (percentage distribution) ences between wealth quintiles.A relevant recent development, however, is the familial technique, which can be used to examine socioeconomic differences in maternal mortality using existing survey data (Graham and others 2004).Because
