Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


are clearly associated with still- The former focused on avoidable mortality resulting primarily births and early neonatal deaths,the same differentiating fac- from direct obstetric conditions,whereas the latter considered tors are likely to apply to perinatal outcomes.Indeed,data from population risk assessments and highlighted the contribution many DHSs show large gaps between rich and poor in relation of indirect obstetric problems—especially micronutrient to neonatal mortality,with the greatest average disparity being deficiencies—and the role for preventive strategies.Clearly,the found in Latin American and the Caribbean ( choice between different measures of burden has a crucial worldbank.org/poverty/health/). influence both on the strategic approach to achieving health gains and on the prioritization ofinterventions. Attributable Burden The estimation ofmaternal and perinatal conditions as part of INTERVENTIONS international assessments of the burden of disease has long been controversial,and much has been written about the prob- Given the scope and nature ofthe burden ofmaternal and peri- lems and potential distortions of priorities (AbouZahr 1998; natal conditions,no quick fix is available and,thus,no single Sadana 2001). Some of those criticisms relate to methods of intervention warrants exclusive attention. Rather, clusters or valuation based on disability-adjusted life years (DALYs),espe- packages of interventions need to be considered, and this cially in relation to discounting and the omission ofstillbirths, understanding has long been reflected in maternity services and others to the inaccuracies and selectivity of the base data throughout the world (Milne and others 2004). Even though on the incidence of complications, on case fatalities, and on these clusters can be characterized or differentiated solely on disabilities.Table 26.4 presents DALYs for South Asia and Sub- the basis of content—namely,the component interventions— Saharan Africa for the focus conditions for 2001. Those two regions together account for 74 percent ofthe global burden of a defining factor. maternal conditions and 64 percent of the global burden of perinatal conditions. The significance of the burden of maternal and perinatal Levels and Types of Interventions conditions is clear from two recent global assessments (CMH 2002;WHO 2002).The approaches the two initiatives adopted Box 26.1 presents one example ofa comprehensive strategy for have led to different conclusions about public health priorities. safe motherhood. It illustrates the range of programmatic 508 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others Box 26.1 Components of a Comprehensive Safe Motherhood Strategy The following are part of a comprehensive safe mother- — screening and treatment for syphilis
