Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


as a contributor to the overall fall in the total than whole populations,the need for a continuum of care for fertility rate from 6 to 3 (Cleland and Ali 2004).Nevertheless,a mother and baby in terms of time (before and after delivery), significant unmet need for contraception persists in many place (linking home and health services through an effective developing countries,with high levels of unsafe abortion as a referral chain),and person (the provider ofcare) is important. proxy indicator ofthat need. A variety ofconceptual frameworks emphasize this continuum As regards evidence of the effectiveness of family planning and the dangers of fragmentation. Care to prevent or treat in explicitly reducing maternal mortality or disability, no thevast majority of maternal and perinatal conditions can be 510 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others or equivalent regarded as the essential planning unit for service before and after pregnancy. The focus here is essentially pre- delivery . This system is comparable to the ventive, but with the capacity to detect problems, to manage whereby trained staff members other than doctors provide used for primary care facilities varies from country to country, management ofacute conditions. functionality in relation to maternal and perinatal care, the Home-Based Care. Two topical interventions that fall into the management of complicated abortion), and postpartum care category of home-based care are (a) information, education, (including family planning and postabortion counseling), as and communication and birth preparedness and (b) male well as care ofthe newborn. involvement (for home-based newborn care, see chapter 27). The management of complicated cases is usually discussed Evidence in this cluster of interventions falls predominantly at two levels: basic emergency obstetric care (BEmOC) and into the level C category. comprehensive emergency obstetric care (CEmOC), the dis- tinction being made on the basis of the number of signal or Birth Preparedness Many descriptive studies indicate that essential clinical functions performed.5This distinction forms women, relatives, and other members of the community the basis ofa set ofprocess indicators that the United Nations birth,or the puerperium,and that lack ofrecognition can have The capacity ofhealth centers to provide BEmOC depends on serious consequences for mother and baby (Gay and others the availability of supplies, drugs, infrastructure, and skilled 2003). Health education interventions at prenatal clinics providers.Some ofthe signal functions may not always be per- appear to beless successful at raising awareness and increasing formed
