Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


that presume lack of knowledge as the acknowledged . The poor predictive value of root problem (Portela and Santarelli 2003; Raju and Leonard manyscreeningtoolsformaternalcomplicationsreinforcesthe 2000). importanceofaccesstoemergencyobstetriccareforallwomen Maternal and Perinatal Conditions | 511 danceatalldeliveries.Manyhealthexperts,however,doaccept activemanagementofthethirdstageoflabor,aswellasessen- screening and treatment for syphilis and immunization with tialnewborncare. tetanus toxoid as important prenatal interventions (Bale and Once again, the principal sources of data on levels and others2003).Similarly,thepreventionandtreatmentofanemia trends in coverage of skilled attendants at delivery are the andofmalaria,withprophylaxisorbednets,arewidelyregarded DHSs.The data,however,are based on women’s self-reports of asessentialelementsofroutineprenatalcare.Nutritionalsup- who attended their deliveries,include only live births,and have plementation,however,remainsmorecontroversial. major definitional uncertainties.Some countries,for example, Prenatal care has been assessed not only in terms ofcontent, use terms such as supervised deliveriesand include as attendants but also in relation to alternative models of the number and both auxiliaries and trained traditional birth attendants (see timing of visits (Munjanja, Lindmark, and Nystrom 1996). Bell, Curtis, and Alayon 2003 for a critique of these data).A Strong evidence exists on the cost-effectiveness of a targeted, global analysis of trends in deliveries by skilled attendants four-visit schedule (Villar and others 2001) that includes an showed wide variations in progress across different regions, educational element on the recognition ofdanger signs and the with the latest figures for Sub-Saharan Africa,Asia,and Latin use ofskilled attendance at delivery. America and the Caribbean for 1990–2003 being 48, 59, and The principal sources ofinternational data on levels,trends, 82 percent, respectively (AbouZahr and Wardlaw 2001; and differentials in prenatal care coverage are the DHSs. The WHO2004a).The proportion ofdeliveries with health profes- latest statistics show comparatively high coverage levels sionals present (doctors,midwives,nurses) is one ofthe proxy whenmeasured in terms ofone or more visits—levels average indicators for the MDG on maternal health (Graham and 71 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa—but comparatively little Hussein 2004). It demonstrates not only major differentials improvement between 1990 and 2000.Within countries,wide between countries, but also wide variation in uptake across socioeconomic differentials in uptake are apparent. socioeconomic groups within countries (De Brouwere and Van Lerberghe 2001).Although skilled attendants do not necessar- comes in mother and baby are usually highest during the intra- the DHS data show low levels ofprofessional attendance in the partum period.Even though health expertshave long appreci- community. Promoting skilled attendance is thus essentially ated this fact,prioritization ofthis element ofsafe motherhood advocating for institutionalizing deliveries. is comparatively recent. Much has been written both on this shift in emphasis and on the underlying rationale, as well as Postpartum Care
