Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


Magnesium sulfate and antihypertensives for postpartum eclampsia √ √ Obstructed labor Partograph √ √ Cesarean section √ √ Symphysiotomy √ √ Destructive operation √ √ Antibiotics √ √ Fluid and blood transfusion √ √ Hysterectomy √ √ Abortion Evacuation of retained products of conception √ √ Intravenous antibiotics √ √ Fluid orblood transfusion √ √ Postabortion contraceptive advice √ √ Ectopic pregnancy Proof puncture (culdocentesis) — — Laparotomy and salpingectomy — — Blood transfusion (autotransfusion) √ √ High-risk infant Forceps or vacuum extractiond √ √ Corticosteroids for preterm labor — √ Antiretrovirals for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV — √ Antibiotics for premature rupture of membranes — √ Source:Authors. —(cid:1)not available. a. The base package includes the four-visit schedule recommended by WHO (Villar and others 2001). b. The base package includes the provision of obstetric first aid (intravenous or intramuscular antibiotics and oxytocics).The enhanced package includes the availability of a doctor, and thus the full range d. Forceps or vacuum delivery can also be used for several other conditions, such as prolonged labor (not obstructed), fetal distress, preterm birth, aftercoming head of breech, and preeclampsia to speed up delivery. 516 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others The base case for our CEA model assumes the following: resources. We have assumed that increases in care can be achieved without major capital investments and that human • basic technical content for the prenatal care package resources are not in short supply;therefore,more could be used • prenatal care coverage for 50 percent ofpregnancies (with given wage rates) as required for increased activity and • only obstetric first aid (two signal functions) available in enhanced coverage. health centers Table 26.7 summarizes the findings of the CEA in terms of • 20 percent of women with severe complications accessing incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for the six pri- secondary care mary comparisons between the base scenario and alternative • 50 percent of those severe cases receiving the CEmOC that intervention packages for a population of1 million.Table 26.8 they need. gives details of total costs,deaths averted,life years saved,and DALYs averted.Table 26.9 shows the findings ofthe sensitivity The different assumptions regarding quality of care and analysis in terms of how the ICERs change when different coverage can be combined in many different ways,yielding a assumptions (see annex 26.A) are made with respect to effec- large number
