Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


a facility’s fix. Moreover, we did not model these more comprehensive capacity to respond to obstetric emergencies,it is necessary to options as perfect but unrealistic scenarios. We also still have the skills and supplies to deal with trauma, give blood allowed for 30 percent of pregnant women not attending pre- transfusions and anesthesia, and have a functional operating natal care,50 percent ofsevere complications at a primary level theatre.”Thus,initiatives in safe motherhood could be an entry ondary care not receiving the emergency treatment they need. Finally,a note ofcaution is warranted on the interpretation ofthe CEA results.First,our model has necessarily used a num- LESSONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ber ofassumptions for which data are extremely limited,and it sitivity analysis.Second,many comparisons are possible from the reduced burden that may be achieved by implementing our model, but we have selected only six. Thus, we may not selected packages of interventions. Such implementation 522 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others assumes,first,that decision makers accept the evidence and are tohospitalsandfinancialbarrierstoaccessonthepartof the tem environment exists within which the requisite scale and The financing of prenatal and delivery care services at an quality ofcare can be effectively delivered.These factors are not adequate and sustainable level is a subject of much debate peculiar to safe motherhood, but they undoubtedly help and uncertainty, given the difficulty of distinguishing these explain the significant gap between evidence and action that elements from broader health expenditure categories (De many argue is one of the main obstacles to progress (Godlee Brouwere and Van Lerberghe 2001). Given the low level of and others 2004;Villar and others 2001).The gains from bridg- overall per capita expenditure on health in developing ing this gap would be significant:the MDGs for child survival countries—estimated at US$13 in 2002 for the poorest 49 and maternal health might become more than mere rhetoric countries (Bale and others 2003)—attaining our base interven- for poor regions if intervention packages of the scope and tion package (costing approximately US$0.41 per capita in nature described here were implemented. The most cost- South Asia and US$0.60 in Sub-Saharan Africa) does not effective ofthe packages averted nearly 50 percent more direct sound unrealistic at current resource levels (see table 26.8,and maternal deaths than the base package. This gain would be divide by base population of1 million people). encouraging, but the prospects for achieving it by 2015 are Theeffectsof healthsectorreforms,particularlydecentral-
