Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


26.8,and maternal deaths than the base package. This gain would be divide by base population of1 million people). encouraging, but the prospects for achieving it by 2015 are Theeffectsof healthsectorreforms,particularlydecentral- weak (Johansson and Stewart 2002). izationofmanagementandbudgetholding,appeartobemixed At the macro level,a supportive policy environment clearly in terms of increasing resource flows into maternity services, system implies a reduction in the disequilibrium between the and Van Lerberghe 2001), and negative effects through demand and supply sides , with particular the exacerbation of inequities (Russell and Gilson 1997). attention to three interrelated issues: access, quality, and Effectivemanagementdecisionsonfinance,access,andquality finance. The CEA reported in this chapter emphasizes the require information, an essential ingredient for stimulating potential benefits to mother and baby of improved access to action. To allocate scarce resources where they are likely to be achieved by a variety ofmechanisms but clearly require both interventionstrategies,identifythescopeforimprovementand demand- and supply-side interventions. implementchanges,andclosetheloopbyevaluatingeffectsand On the supply side,this chapter has shown that improved cost-effectiveness(Lawn,McCarthy,andRoss2001). quality of care at both the primary and the secondary levels Even though the challenges that the poorest countries face encompassing technical, infrastructural, and human resource todayclearlydifferinmanyrespectsfromthosethatdeveloped dimensions (Pittrof,Campbell,and Filippi 2002) is a particu- or transition countries experienced in the past, six historical larly cost-effective option.The widespread call for all women to lessons provide particularly relevant insights. First, examples deliver with skilled attendance immediately raises major ques- aboundofsupportivepolicycontextsandindividualchampions developing world faces an acute shortage,as well as an unequal as thosereportedbyDeBrouwereandVanLerberghe(2001). geographic distribution,ofhealth professionals. Second,historicaldataontheuptakeof prenatalcaredemon- Our CEA assumes that redistributing human resources stratethatcommunity-basedprovidersandadvocatesplayeda within countries will accommodate the increased uptake of crucialrole.Third,theroleofvariousprofessionalsandprofes- care by women, although the most effective mechanisms for sional bodies has not always been positive, particularly as achieving this goal, such as incentives, use of nonphysicians, regardsthe“war”betweenadvocatesforhomeandinstitutional and increased private sector involvement, have not yet been deliveries(KoblinskyandCampbell2003).Moreover,goodhis- established (De Brouwere and Van Lerberghe 2001). What is toricalevidenceindicatesthatexcessiveratesofforcepsdeliver- clear,however,istheimportanceoftheinterplaybetweensup- ies and other interventions were significant contributors to ply and demand, with the supply of quality care stimulating maternal mortality in countries such as the United Kingdom demandforcareandviceversa.Qualitycareincludesaneffec- and the United States . Fourth, primary-level tive referral system (Murray and others 2001) to ensure the care depends on an effective referral system being in place to required match between the various levels of care different maintaintheconfidenceofbothwomenandproviders(Loudon womenandtheirbabiesneedatdifferenttimes. Fifth, to reduce the burden of maternal and perinatal financial resources to support transportation, communica- access for the poorest groups and guarantee service quality tions, and
