Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, maternal, perinatal, health, conditions, level, mortality, interventions, countries, quality, maternal perinatal, dna, ofthe, perinatal conditions, delivery


these interpretations. Greaterclarityandconsensusareneededonthescopeofthis The modeling in this chapter is,therefore,based on imper- importantburdencategoryandtheimplicationsof signifi- fect knowledge and needs to be supplemented with data from and stillbirths. Practical assessment tools are needed to tentative insights into programmatic options that may repre- enablemeta-analysisandothermodelingapproachestosys- sent the optimal use of resources in South Asia and Sub- tematicallyfactorindataconstraints.Hugegapsinknowl- Saharan Africa.In this context,three issues deserve emphasis. edge exist with regard to the levels and consequences of First,for intervention packages to achieve the degree of cost- maternalmorbidity(Say,Pattinson,andGulmezoglu2004), effectiveness shown here, improvements are needed across maternal complications, and the levels of mortality. Most to be addressed.Second,crucial entry points to this system can ofthosegapsrequiresignificantdevelopmentsinrelationto be achieved at the primary level,particularly through prenatal availablemeasurementtoolsandinpoorcountries’capacity care.The effect ofincreasing the volume ofwomen in contact to use them as part of routine health surveillance. These with these services is likely to manifest itself in an increased improvementsnotonlyareneededtoinformfutureCEAbut proportionofdeliverieswithskilledattendanceandofdeliveries alsohavewiderimplicationsforglobalhealthmonitoring. in which women obtain access to emergency obstetric care. • Implementingchange.Inadditiontoevidenceonthecontent Finally, the quality of these services is crucial, and even with ofinterventionstrategies,assessmentsofhowtoimplement only 50 percent uptake ofcare,benefits can still be achieved in changesareurgentlyneeded.Alimitationofouranalysisis terms of overall DALYs averted and of reduced maternal and that,eventhoughthemodelmaybeareasonablerepresen- perinatal mortality. tationof theresourceandhealthconsequencesof different Initiatives to improve the quality of care, particularly at a intervention packages, the way to achieve the required primary level,thus appear to be cost-effective options for the 524 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Wendy J. Graham, John Cairns, Sohinee Bhattacharya, and others poorest regions of the world.Overall those findings appear to perinatal complications. About 2 percent of mothers are strategy that is close to the client and boosts community confi- cent for premature rupture ofmembranes. tionsreceivingcomprehensiveemergencyobstetriccarevaries widely,from3percentinCameroonto75percentinSriLanka ANNEX 26.A: CEA MODEL ASSUMPTIONS (Averting Maternal Death and Disability Working Group on Indicators 2003). The scenarios considered in this chapter We assumed that there are four primary-level health facilities assumethateither20or50percentofwomenwithseriouscom- of pregnancies and births from the crude birth rate for each gencyobstetriccarethattheyneed,dependingonwhichinter- region.We assumed that pregnant mothers attending for rou- ventionpackageisbeingconsidered.Forthesensitivityanalysis, tine prenatal care are equally distributed between the five facil- weusedlowvaluesof30,50,60,and70percentandhighvalues ities and that each facility provides similar routine prenatal and of70,80,90,and95percent.Weassumedthatambulancesare delivery care. Routine prenatal care is assumed to comprise available,sothatwhentheproportionof motherswithsevere four visits—except for mothers with complications,who make complications reaching secondary care is increased,the addi- six visits.Mothers with complications are referred to the dis- tionalcostsareonlytheadditionaldrivertimeandtheincreased trict hospital after their first visit ifthey cannot be treated at the costsofrunningandmaintainingthevehicle. health center.We assumed
