Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


ABSTRACT Endocrine hypertension belongs to the group of secondary forms of hypertension and mostly is caused by disorders of the adrenal gland. There are also nonadrenal endocrine conditions that can lead to hypertension secondary to hormonal imbalance and this chapter reviews how to best identify patients with and test for such disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please see our FREE on line web-book, www.endotext.org . INTRODUCTION Hypertension (HTN) is a preventable contributor to disease and death in humans. HTN is commonly defined as a blood pressure (BP) ≥140/90 mm Hg for adults ≥18 years old based on the mean of ≥2 properly measured seated BP readings on each of 2 or more office visits. The overall prevalence of HTN among U.S. adults has not changed appreciably since 2009-2010, affecting ~29.1% of the population (1). The majority of patients with HTN (82.8%) are aware of their HTN and taking medication to lower it (75.7%), although BP control (<140/90 mm Hg) is suboptimal (51.9%) (1). Other studies have demonstrated BP control in < 1 in 3 patients (2, 3). The prevalence of resistant HTN varies from 34-53% in different large studies: ALLHAT (34%), NHANES (53%) or Framingham Heart Study (48%) (4). Control to <140/90 mm Hg has been a matter of debate over the past decade. Recently, a large randomized trial of intensive versus standard BP control (SPRINT) among patients at high risk for cardiovascular events but without diabetes mellitus, showed that targeting a systolic BP <120 mm Hg, as compared with <140 mm Hg, resulted in lower rates of fatal and nonfatal major cardiovascular events and death from any cause (5). However, significantly higher rates of some adverse events, including hypotension and kidney injury were observed in the intensive-treatment group (5). In another study, the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE)-3 trial randomly assigned 12,705 participants at intermediate risk who did not have cardiovascular disease to rosuvastatin or placebo and to candesartan plus hydrochlorothiazide or placebo, and showed that there was a clear benefit of antihypertensive therapy in persons with a systolic BP of ≥140 mm Hg but no benefit on cardiovascular events (as a composite) in those with an initial systolic BP of <140 mm Hg (6). SPRINT and (HOPE)-3 have implications for antihypertensive therapy and the cutoff of BP target in general. The exact prevalence of resistant HTN is unknown, but likely increasing as older
