Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


to control HTN, controlled or uncontrolled resistant HTN with ≥3, ≥4, or ≥5 drugs, pseudo-resistant HTN, and apparent and true resistant HTN (16), are among the many others used in the literature. Common terminologies used in clinical practice are: Resistant HTN : The diagnosis of resistant HTN should by definition rely on the inability of a well-constructed antihypertensive regimen to control BP (16). The American Heart Association defines resistant HTN as BP that remains above goal in spite of full doses of at least 3 antihypertensive medications, including a diuretic (17). This definition identifies patients who are at high risk of having reversible causes of HTN, such as primary aldosteronism. The definition also includes patients whose BP is controlled but require 4 or more medications to do so (“controlled resistant HTN”) and pseudo-resistant HTN. A lower cutoff for the diagnosis of resistant HTN (<130/80 mm Hg) could be used in patients with diabetes mellitus or kidney disease (i.e., with a creatinine level of >1.5 mg per deciliter [133 μmol per liter] or urinary protein excretion of >300 mg/24-hour period), despite adherence to treatment with full doses of at least 3 antihypertensive medications, including a diuretic (18). Pseudo-resistant HTN : This should defined as an 'apparent' lack of BP control in spite of full doses of at least 3 antihypertensive medications, including a diuretic. Masked HTN : This is defined as a normal BP in the office (<140/90 mm Hg), but an elevated BP out of the office (ambulatory daytime BP or home BP >135/85 mmHg) (19). Higher prevalence of masked HTN with poor cardiovascular score was found in both untreated subjects and treated hypertensives (20). White-coat HTN: This is defined as subjects with office BP ≥140/90 mm Hg and a 24-hour BP <130/80 mm Hg (21). Refractory HTN: This is defined as BP that remained uncontrolled in spite of maximal medical therapy after ≥3 visits to a hypertension clinic within a minimum 6-month follow-up period (22). Isolated systolic HTN: This is defined as a systolic BP >140 mm Hg and diastolic BP <90 mm Hg, which is predominantly present in elderly patients, although not uncommonly in young and middle-aged adults (23). Malignant/accelerated HTN: This is characterized by HTN with multi-organ involvement appearing over a short period of time, from a few weeks to a few months. Sustained HTN: This is defined as BP >150/100 mm Hg on each of three
