Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


involvement appearing over a short period of time, from a few weeks to a few months. Sustained HTN: This is defined as BP >150/100 mm Hg on each of three measurements obtained on different days without antihypertensive therapy, necessating screening for secondary causes, including primary aldosteronism (24). Several factors may induce episodes of resistance to therapy in treated hypertensive patients. Common factors include poor adherence to drug therapy, periodic changes in dietary factors (e.g.: high sodium intake, high alcohol consumption, natural licorice [glycyrrhiza glabra]), rapid weight gain, periodic changes in concomitant drugs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents [NSAIDs], selective COX-2 inhibitors, sympathomimetic agents [decongestants, diet pills, and cocaine], stimulants), weight loss medications, herbal compounds (e.g.: arnica, bitter orange, ephedra, ginkgo, and ginseng), and secondary forms of HTN (16). The causes of HTN are broadly divided into primary (essential, due to an unclear etiology) and secondary. Secondary forms refer to an underlying, potentially correctable diagnosis, and are listed in Table 3 . Approximately 10-20% of adults with HTN have a secondary form, although there is compelling evidence that the figure is likely higher (25). The prevalence of secondary forms of HTN is dependent on age, co-existing comorbidities, such as atherosclerosis, and the criteria used for screening. One study found the prevalence of secondary HTN was 10.2%, divided into renovascular HTN (3.1%), primary aldosteronism (1.4%), Cushing syndrome (0.5%), pheochromocytoma (0.3%), primary hypothyroidism (3.0%) and chronic kidney disease (defined as a serum creatinine > 2.0 mg/dl) (1.8%) (26). The presence of atherosclerosis significantly increased the prevalence of renovascular HTN (9.5%) and chronic kidney disease (8.0%) (26). Table 3 Common and rare causes of Endocrine Hypertension View in own window Common causes Rare causes · Renal vascular hypertension · Primary aldosteronism · Hypothyroidism · Thyrotoxicosis · Hypercalcemia · Pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma · Cushing Syndrome · CAH: 11β-hydroxylase deficiency · CAH: 17α-hydroxylase deficiency · Familial hyperaldosteornism (e.g.: Type 1: Glucocorticoid-Remediable Aldosteronism) · Apparent mineralocorticoid excess · Liddle syndrome · Pseudohypaldosteronism Type 1 · Pseudohypaldosteronism Type 2 · Glucocorticoid Resistance syndrome · Growth hormone excess · Neuroendocrine tumors (“Carcinoid”) · Medullary thyroid cancer · Geller syndrome Abbreviations: CAH, congenital adrenal hyperplasia. CLINICAL FINDINGS AND OTHER CLUES TO IDENTIFY PATIENTS WITH ENDOCRINE HYPERTENSION Several physical examination findings may point to the etiology for secondary forms of HTN. Table 4 provides a specific description of the clinical presentation of endocrine conditions related to HTN. Symptoms such as flushing and sweating
