Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


or diffuse atherosclerosis · Unilateral small kidney (≤9 cm), or a difference in renal size of more than 1.5 cm that have no other explanation • Age/sex (young women <30 years old, think FMD, older men, think ARAS) • Sudden onset of severe HTN (≥160/100 mm Hg) after the age of 55 years • Elevation of serum creatinine ≥30% after administration of ACEi or ARB • Malignant HTN • Abdominal bruit (86% of cases) Abbreviations: ACEi, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; ARAS, atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis; ARB, angiotensin II receptor blocker; CAD, coronary artery disease; FMD, fibromuscular dysplasia; HTN, hypertension. The suggested work-up for RVH/RAS greatly depends on the degree of clinical suspicion. In general, a low index of suspicion does not require work-up. However, it is important to note that RVH is underdiagnosed and may be asymptomatic for several years. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Guidelines (35) for screening of RVH/RAS recommends an invasive work-up when a corrective procedure is intended to be employed for clinically significant RVH. Individuals with moderate suspicion of RVH/RAS should undergo screening and confirmatory testing (see Figure 1 ). The gold standard test for screening of RVS is renal arteriography. Noninvasive tests for diagnosing of RVH with a good sensitivity and specificity are Gadolinium enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), computed tomography angiography (CTA) and duplex ultrasonography. In presence of a positive screening test, renal arteriogram would help confirm the diagnosis and localize the site of the stenotic renal blood vessel. A schematic screening/diagnostic approach based on the degree of probability of clinical suspicion is described in Figure 1 . Plasma renin activity (PRA) as a screening test in patients with suspected RVH is underappreciated. PRA are within reference range in ~50% of patients with RVH while, conversely, increased levels may be found in ≤10% of patients with primary HTN (36-38). RVH leads to a low-pressure state within the afferent renal arterioles at the site of renin secretion, resulting in a log-unit (>10-fold) increase in plasma renin. Although no studies to date have evaluated the overall sensitivity and specificity of plasma renin as a diagnostic test in patients with RVH, the recognition of a plasma renin that is many-fold higher than the normal range, after accounting for false positives such as antihypertensive therapy, may be useful, particularly if the diagnosis was not appreciated on imaging (37). The sensitivity and specificity (39-47) of various tests in
