Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


accounting for false positives such as antihypertensive therapy, may be useful, particularly if the diagnosis was not appreciated on imaging (37). The sensitivity and specificity (39-47) of various tests in the workup of RVH/RAS are outlined in Table 6 . Figure 1 Flow chart for the diagnostic work-up of RVH. View in own window Table 6. Tests used in the diagnosis of RVH Test Sensitivity % Specificity % Renal artery angiography 100 100 Intra-arterial digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) 94 97 Carbon dioxide digital angiography 83 99 Computed tomography angiography (CTA) 91 93 Gadolinium enhanced Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) 96-100 71-96 Duplex ultrasonography 85 92 Captopril renography 57-94 44-98 Captopril test 15-68 76-93 The gold standard for confirming the diagnosis of RAS is a renal angiogram . Renal angiogram, intravenous subtraction angiography, intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA), or carbon dioxide angiography are imaging tests used in the diagnosis of RVH. Conventional aortography and intra-arterial digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) are considered the best tests offering high-quality radiographic images of the renal artery. Both, intra-arterial DSA (use less iodinated contrast ~25 mL) and carbon dioxide angiography are recommended in patients with deranged renal function. Intravenous DSA has a lower sensitivity and specificity compared with DSA and is falling out of favor. As an invasive procedure renal angiogram carry the risk of infections, cholesterol emboli and contrast-induced nephropathy. Computed tomography angiography is a first line screening modality of RVH. Single breath-hold image detection and multidetector (MDCT) imaging have consistently improved the image acquisition and resolution with a better visualization of proximal/distal renal arteries. Spiral CT scan with angiography uses small amounts of IV iodinated contrast and is less invasive than arteriography. The use of iodinated compounds in subjects with poor renal function can result in contrast induced nephropathy. In patients with kidney failure the accuracy of this technique is impaired. Contrast allergies, anaphylaxis, and radiation exposure have to be considered in selected patients. Gadolinium-enhanced MRA has one of the highest diagnostic performances for the detection of RAS among the non-invasive tests for RAS. The method is sensitive for imaging of proximal renal arteries but is suboptimal for significant distal lesions, accessory renal arteries and FMD (45). The use of 3-D gadolinium-enhanced MR (GEMR) imaging has improved the sensitivity and specificity of the method (>90%). Although MRA is considered as a first line investigation in patients with RVH, there are contraindications that limit its use
