Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


has improved the sensitivity and specificity of the method (>90%). Although MRA is considered as a first line investigation in patients with RVH, there are contraindications that limit its use in certain groups of patients: history of claustrophobia, metallic implant (pacemaker, surgical clips on vascular aneurysms), and pregnancy. The administration of gadolinium during MR imaging has caused nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in cases with acute/or chronic kidney disease and eGFR <30 mL/min (48, 49). Duplex ultrasound is used as a screening test or for detection of recurrent stenosis of renal arteries in patients who underwent angioplasty/surgery. However, it is less sensitive in obese patients and the results are operator dependent (47). Using B-mode imaging/Doppler the operator can visualize main renal arteries and assess intrarenal pressures and velocities. Peak systolic velocity (>200 cm/sec.), renal-aortic ratio (≥3.5) and acceleration index (> .07 sec) are used to evaluate the presence of absence of a renal stenosis of >60% and end diastolic renal artery velocity of >150 cm/s for a stenosis of ≥80% (41, 44, 45). Captopril renography is a noninvasive test to assess renal function. The administration of captopril orally (25-50 mg) 1 hour before the isotope injection increases the sensitivity of this test. Glomerular filtration can be estimated by measuring the excretion of Tc99m DTPA, Tc99m MAG3 or OIH (41, 46, 50). The test is considered positive (especially in unilateral RAS) when there is decreased relative uptake of the isotope with one kidney accounting for <40% of the total eGFR or a delayed peak uptake of the isotope of ≥10-11 minutes (50, 51). Limitation of the method include: creatinine ≥2 mg/dL and bilateral RAS. Captopril test is used as a screening test. ~50% of patients with RVH have an increased PRA. PRA is measured before and 2 hours after oral administration of captopril 25 mg in seated position. Patients with RVH/RAS respond by increasing PRA >12 ng/ml/hr with an absolute increase >10 ng/ml/hr. Some antihypertensive therapy (ACEi, β-blockers, diuretics) should be stopped before testing. This method has a decreased sensitivity and specificity when compared with captopril renography, duplex ultrasound, CTA and MRA. Cushing Syndrome Endogenous Cushing syndrome (CS) is characterized by a constellation of signs and symptoms due to prolonged and high exposure of a variety of tissues to glucocorticoids. The incidence of endogenous CS is ~2-3 cases per 1 million inhabitants per year (52, 53). Endogenous CS is broadly divided into ACTH-dependent
