Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


of a variety of tissues to glucocorticoids. The incidence of endogenous CS is ~2-3 cases per 1 million inhabitants per year (52, 53). Endogenous CS is broadly divided into ACTH-dependent (~85% pituitary adenoma [Cushing disease], <5% ectopic ACTH secretion (54)) or ACTH-independent (~10-15% adrenal overproduction of glucocorticoids from an adrenocortical adenoma, hyperplasia or carcinoma). ACTH-independent causes of CS are classified on the basis of their radiographic and biochemical characteristics as being either functional or nonfunctional and benign or malignant. Approximately 75–90% of ACTH-independent causes of CS are due to unilateral and benign cortisol-producing adenomas, with the remaining majority due to bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasias (BAH) (55, 56). BAH are divided into micronodular (<1 cm in diameter), macrocronodular (>1cm in diameter) or non-nodular. Briefly, the micronodular subtypes are usually diagnosed in children and young adults, and are either pigmented (primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease [c-PPNAD]) as seen in familial cases in the context of Carney complex, or isolated (i-PPNAD) when nonsyndromic, and not pigmented (iMAD; isolated massive adrenocortical disease). The macronodular subtypes, which are usually diagnosed in adults > 50 years old, may be sporadic or familial. Primary bilateral macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (PBMAH) was first described in 1964 (57), and was previously called massive macronodular adrenocortical disease (MMAD), bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (BMAH), or ACTH-independent macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (AIMAH) (58). PBMAH may be syndromic, as seen with mutations in ARMC5 , APC , MEN1 , FH and the Carney triad, Carney-Stratakis syndrome, and hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (55, 58-61). Other subtypes of macronodular PBMAH include primary bimorphic adrenocortical disease (PBAD), as seen in McCune-Albright syndrome, and lesions with G-protein-coupled receptors that produce excess cortisol only in response to certain endogenous factors (e.g.: gastrointestinal inhibitory polypeptide, GIP), as seen with food-dependent Cushing syndrome (FDCS). CS is associated with HTN in ~80% of adult cases and ~50% of children (62-65); CS is more likely if the onset of HTN (among other signs or symptoms) is at a younger age. Several clinical features should be considered when evaluating individuals for the presence of this CS (62-64): Patients with features very suggestive of hypercortisolism: Abnormal fat distribution, particularly in the supraclavicular, dorsocervical and temporal fossae Facial rounding with plethora Proximal myopathy Easy bruising Wide (>1 cm) purple striae Decreased growth rate with weight gain in children Menstrual irregularities Patients with unusual features for their age group: HTN in young individuals or resistant to therapy Adrenal incidentalomas
