Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


purple striae Decreased growth rate with weight gain in children Menstrual irregularities Patients with unusual features for their age group: HTN in young individuals or resistant to therapy Adrenal incidentalomas Metabolic syndrome X Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism Spontaneous fracture in a young individual Kidney stones Cyclicity in symptoms Hypokalemia Peripheral edema Psychiatric comorbidities Obesity Impaired short term memory Female balding Type 2 diabetes Unusual infections Clinical characteristics of CS vary based on the duration and cyclicity of high cortisol level exposure. When cortisol levels are mildly/or intermittently increased (cyclical), clinicians face a diagnostic challenge. It is important to distinguish these symptoms/signs in order of their frequency: increased fatigue (sensitivity ~100%), generalized obesity (sensitivity ~51-90%), round face (sensitivity ~88-92%), plethora (sensitivity ~78-94%), HTN (sensitivity ~74-90%), weakness, especially of proximal muscles (sensitivity ~56-90%), thinness and fragility of skin (sensitivity ~84%), and hirsutism (sensitivity ~64-84%) (62, 65). Facial plethora is also one of the earliest described clinical features of CS (27, 66). Common screening/diagnostic tests: The initial screening test for CS should be based on the suitability for a given patient (see Figure 2 ). The tests recommended by the Clinical Practice Guidelines of the Endocrine Society (65) are: late-night salivary cortisol (LNSC, two measurements), 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test (ODST), urine free cortisol (UFC; at least two measurements) and the longer low-dose DST (LLDST, 2 mg/d for 48 hours). A random serum cortisol or plasma ACTH levels, 8-mg DST, urinary 17-ketosteroids or the insulin tolerance test should not be used to screen for CS. Screening for aberrant expression of GPCRs in adrenocortical tumors and hyperplasia could be considered (67) in a select group of patients. The clinician should be aware of any current or recent use of oral, skin creams, rectal, inhaled, topical, herbal or injected glucocorticoids before biochemical testing to avoid false positives. Assays differ widely in their accuracy, and should be chosen on the basis of their performance. Thus, knowledge of assay variability, functional limit of detection, precision and normal ranges should be carefully assessed to assist in the interpretation of the test results. Antibody-based immunoassays (RIA and ELISA) can cross-react with cortisol metabolites and synthetic glucocorticoids while structurally based assays (HPLC and LC-MS/MS) do not pose this problem and are the method of choice for detection of cortisol and/or other metabolites. Late night salivary cortisol (LNSC) - Patient with CS have an impaired diurnal variation of cortisol. The loss of circadian
