Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


method of choice for detection of cortisol and/or other metabolites. Late night salivary cortisol (LNSC) - Patient with CS have an impaired diurnal variation of cortisol. The loss of circadian rhythm with absence of a late-night cortisol nadir is a consistent biochemical abnormality in patients with CS (65, 68, 69). Since biologically active free cortisol in the blood is in equilibrium with cortisol in the saliva, then measurement of a late night salivary cortisol (LNSC) level by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) can be employed as a screening test for CS. 0.5 mL (minimum 0.2 mL) of saliva is necessary for the test. Basic instructions for collection includes: no food, smoking (ideally avoided on the day of testing), chewing tobacco/licorice (contains the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 inhibitor glycyrrhizic acid) or fluids for 30 minutes to 1 hour prior to collection; avoid any activity that can cause gums to bleed, including brushing and flossing of teeth, or stress; the saliva should be collected 10 minutes after rinsing the mouth with water; the swab is placed under the tongue until well saturated approximately one minute; the specimen can be placed in room air for up to 5 days, and refrigerated for 7 days. Two saliva samples on two separate evenings between 2300 and 2400 hours should be collected because the hypercortisolism of CS can be variable, and this strategy increases confidence in the test results. Levels at midnight ≤0.09 mcg/dL (see questdiagnostics.com) are considered normal. The timing of the collection should be adjusted to the time of sleeping for shift workers or those with variable bedtimes. One study found that in men ≥60 years, 20% of all participants and 40% of diabetic hypertensive subjects had at least one elevated LNSC (70), which questions its utility as a screening test in this age group. LNSC is useful in detection early recurrence from CS in the postoperative period where urinary free cortisol and morning cortisol levels may be normal. If there is a normal diurnal rhythm (i.e. an appropriately low LNSC), then remission is likely (62, 64, 65). LNSC yields a 92–100% sensitivity and a 93–100% specificity for the diagnosis of CS (65). 1-mg Overnight Dexamethasone Suppression Test (ODST) - Patients with CS fail to suppress ACTH secretion from the pituitary gland when low doses of the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone are given. This test entails administration of 1mg of dexamethasone at 2300 hours the
