Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


to suppress ACTH secretion from the pituitary gland when low doses of the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone are given. This test entails administration of 1mg of dexamethasone at 2300 hours the night before a morning (0800 hours) blood sample for serum cortisol is drawn, simultaneously with a dexamethasone level (if feasible) to ensure adequate plasma concentrations [>5.6 nmol/L (0.22 μg/dL)] (71). Variable absorption and metabolism of dexamethasone may influence the result of both the 1-mg ODST and the longer low-dose DST (LDDST; 2 mg/d for 48 h). Patients should avoid eating or drinking for 12 hours before the morning blood test. Drugs such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, rifampicin, and alcohol induce hepatic enzymatic clearance of dexamethasone, mediated through CYP3A4, thereby reducing the plasma dexamethasone concentrations leading to false positives (65). Dexamethasone clearance may be reduced in patients with liver and/or kidney failure. Interpretation of the serum cortisol has many caveats. The serum cortisol assay measures total cortisol, which is not an adequate representation of the biologically relevant free cortisol levels in conditions that cause cortisol binding globulin (CBG) deficiency (e.g.: nephrotic syndrome, cirrhosis, critical illness, postoperative period, CBG deficiency or malnourished states) or excess (e.g.: obesity, pregnancy, oral contraceptives, and estrogen therapy). False-positives for ODST are seen in 50% of women taking oral contraceptives, and should be withdrawn for 6 weeks before testing or retesting (72). Certain conditions associated with abnormal cortisol levels need to be excluded: alcoholism, major depression, stress, thyrotoxicosis, poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, pregnancy or kidney failure. Morning cortisol levels >1.8 mcg/dL (50 nmol/L) are considered positive (65). If an increased specificity (95-100%) is sought, the longer LDDST (2 mg/d for 48 h) could be employed (73), or a higher serum cortisol threshold for the 1mg ODST is used (74). This is particularly useful in the evaluation of adrenal incidentalomas where a cutoff of >5 mcg/dL (137.95 nmol/L) increases specificity for the detection of autonomous cortisol secretion (75). Fast-acetylators of dexamethasone may have a false positive test with the 1 mg ODST, which can be overcome with the longer LDDST. DST is not the screening test of choice in pregnancy, epilepsy, and cyclic CS. DST is the test of choice in renal failure and in the evaluation of an adrenal incidentaloma for autonomous cortisol secretion (so called mild or subclinical CS). Urine Free Cortisol (UFC) - Unlike serum cortisol, UFC provides an integrated assessment of cortisol secretion that
