Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


an adrenal incidentaloma for autonomous cortisol secretion (so called mild or subclinical CS). Urine Free Cortisol (UFC) - Unlike serum cortisol, UFC provides an integrated assessment of cortisol secretion that is not bound to CBG over a 24-hour period. Therefore, UFC is not affected by conditions and medications that alter CBG. Two UFC samples should be collected, with the first morning void discarded so that the collection begins with an empty bladder, up to and including the first morning void on the second day (65). Patients should not drink excessive amounts of fluid and to avoid the use of any glucocorticoid preparations. Because the hypercortisolism of CS can be variable, at least two collections should be performed, which increases confidence in the test results (65). Values above the upper limit of normal for the particular assay is considered positive, provided the creatinine shows that the collection is complete and that the urine volume is not excessive (>5L) (65). Pseudo-Cushing syndrome is associated with false positive UFC’s and should be considered on the differential. UFC appears to be less sensitive than the 1 mg DST or LNSC for the identification of autonomous cortisol secretion in the setting of an adrenal incidentaloma (65). Upper limits of normal are much lower with HPLC or LC-MS/MS than in antibody-based assays (as low as 40% of the value measured by RIA) (76). Plasma ACTH - A serum ACTH level could help narrow the differential diagnosis of hypercortisolemia (ACTH-dependent vs. independent) after the diagnosis has been established. Immunochemiluminometric assays detect intact ACTH; 1.5 ml frozen EDTA plasma (0.3 ml minimum) is collected between 7:00-10:00 a.m., transferred on ice, and centrifuged immediately after collection to separate plasma from cells. The reference range for 3-17 years is 9-57 pg/mL, and ≥18 years is 6-50 pg/mL (see questdiagnostics.com ). Elevated levels are seen in ectopic ACTH and Cushing’s disease, unless cyclicity is present, while suppressed levels are seen in ACTH-independent causes, such as CS due to adrenocortical tumors and hyperplasia. An ectopic ACTH-secreting pheochromocytoma from the adrenal glands is an exception to the rule. False-positives are not uncommon, and could be from errors in sample transfer and processing, assay interference (e.g.: 5 mg/day of biotin or presence of monoclonal mouse antibodies), and stress. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation test - This test is useful for differentiating between ACTH-dependent from ACTH-independent CS. Human and ovine CRH are commercially available and are
