Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


mouse antibodies), and stress. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation test - This test is useful for differentiating between ACTH-dependent from ACTH-independent CS. Human and ovine CRH are commercially available and are given intravenously (bolus) at a dose of 1 µg/kg body weight. ACTH and cortisol levels are measured before (-5, 0 minutes) and after (15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 minutes) the administration of CRH. Some studies suggested that the measurements of ACTH and cortisol before and after 15, 30 minutes and 45, 60 minutes, respectively, are sufficient to diagnose patients with ACTH-dependent CS (77, 78). A rise in cortisol >20% and ACTH >35% in comparison with baseline levels is diagnostic for Cushing disease, with a sensitivity of 93% and a specificity of 100% (77). Inferior petrosal sinus sampling (IPSS) - Inferior petrosal sinus ACTH sampling after CRH stimulation is the best method available for the intra-pituitary localization of microadenomas causing Cushing’s disease. This test also helps distinguish Cushing’s disease from ectopic ACTH secretion, provided that the appropriate technique of blood sampling is used meticulously (79). Bilateral IPSS and simultaneous peripheral ACTH sampling at baseline, 3 and 10 minutes after intravenous administration of ovine CRH (1 µg/kg) is performed, and baseline and/or stimulated IPS-to-peripheral ACTH ratios are calculated. A post-IPS-to-peripheral ACTH ratio >2 is sufficient for diagnosing Cushing’s disease (80). In about 70-80% of the cases, a ratio of greater than 1.4 between the right and left inferior petrosal sinuses confirms the presence of a microadenoma (79, 81, 82). Anomalous venous drainage, abnormal venous anatomy, and lack of expertise can lead to false-negative IPSS results and thereby disease misclassification. Prolactin measurement during IPSS can improve diagnostic accuracy and decrease false negative results (83). Imaging modalities in Cushing syndrome: Pituitary MRI pre- and post-gadolinium enhancement - MRI is the modality of choice in the evaluation of the pituitary gland and surrounding tissues. MRI provides excellent anatomical tissue discrimination without exposure to ionizing radiation. Sagittal and coronal planes are considered the most accurate in evaluating the anatomy of the pituitary gland and other CNS structures. When Cushing disease is suspected, contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is recommended. T 1 -weighted (T 1 W) sequences and/or spoiled gradient recalled acquisition (SPGR) techniques provide the best images of the sella. 95% of microadenomas appear hypointense with no post-gadolinium enhancement in relation with normal surrounding tissues on T 1 W sequences (84-86). Only ~60-80% of
