Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


the best images of the sella. 95% of microadenomas appear hypointense with no post-gadolinium enhancement in relation with normal surrounding tissues on T 1 W sequences (84-86). Only ~60-80% of pituitary adenomas are detected and ~10% of healthy individuals have abnormal findings (incidentalomas) on MRI (87). Diffuse hyperplasia of ACTH-producing cells and small microadenomas may not be seen on conventional or enhanced MRIs. Other techniques (IPSS or integrated 18F-FDG PET/CT) may be employed to increase the odds of disease detection. Dynamic MRI may further increase the detection rate of pituitary microadenomas at the expense of specificity. High-resolution chest, neck, and/or abdominal CT - This technique may detect tumors in ectopic or adrenocortical areas. Small lesions (<1 cm) could be missed (bronchial carcinoids, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors). The sensitivity is lower than MRI (~50%) (88). Nuclear imaging - These techniques include 111 In-pentetreotide (OCT), 131 I /123I -metaiodobenzylguanidine, 18 F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), 18 F-fluorodopa-PET (F-DOPA-PET), 68 Ga-DOTATATE-PET/CT or 68 Ga-DOTATOC-PET/CT scan (68Gallium-SSTR-PET/CT), which may be used in select cases, primarily for the detection of ectopic ACTH tumors, which express surface receptors for somatostatin. These scans improve the sensitivity of conventional radiology when tumor site identification is difficult (89). 68Gallium-SSTR-PET/CT likely offers the highest sensitivity (89). One study found that cortisol-producing adenomas had a higher average FDG-PET SUVmax of 5.9 compared to nonfunctioning masses (average SUVmax 4.2) and aldosterone-producing adenoma (SUVmax 3.2), and an SUVmax cut-off of 5.33 had 50.0% sensitivity and 81.8% specificity in localizing a cortisol-producing adenoma (90). Thus, FDG-PET may aid in the characterization and prioritization of adrenocortical nodules for surgery, particularly in the setting of bilateral adrenocortical masses. Figure 2 General diagnostic approach of Cushing syndrome (62, 65, 91) Primary Aldosteronism (PA) Primary aldosteronism (PA) refers to a group of disorders that produce aldosterone in an unregulated fashion, leading to HTN, sodium retention, suppression of plasma renin, and increased potassium excretion (± hypokalemia) (24, 92). The causes of PA are bilateral nodular or non-nodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (BAH; ~60%), aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA; ~30%), familial hyperaldosteronism (FH; ~2-6%), primary bilateral macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (PBMAH; <1%), adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC; < 1%), and ectopic aldosterone production (extremely rare). PA due to an aldosterone-producing adenoma is also known as Conn’s syndrome, in recognition of Dr Jerome Conn (93). The 2016 Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines (24) recognizes PA as a public health issue (94), advocating for universal screening. This is particularly important, as
