Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


of Dr Jerome Conn (93). The 2016 Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines (24) recognizes PA as a public health issue (94), advocating for universal screening. This is particularly important, as the incidence of PA is likely higher than traditional assumptions, estimated to affect >10% of hypertensives, both in general and in specialty settings (24, 95-98). The current guidelines have modified their screening approach, to recommend screening ~50% (99) of patients with HTN (see Table 7 ). Table 7 Patients at Increased Risk of Developing Primary Aldosteronism · Sustained BP >150/100 mm Hg on each of three measurements obtained on different days · Hypertension (>140/90 mm Hg) resistant to three conventional antihypertensive drugs (including a diuretic) · Controlled BP (<140/90 mm Hg) on four or more antihypertensive drugs · Hypertension and spontaneous or diuretic-induced hypokalemia · Hypertension and adrenal incidentaloma* · Hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome · Hypertension and a family history of early onset hypertension · Hypertension and cerebrovascular accident at a young age (<40 years) · All hypertensive first-degree relatives of patients with primary aldosteronism *An asymptomatic adrenal mass detected on imaging not performed for suspected adrenal disease Screening tests for Primary Aldosteronism: The following factors should be considered before screening patients for PA. Medications, advanced age, dietary sodium/potassium, and hypokalemia may affect the screening tests. Presence of kidney disease, RVH, malignant HTN or pregnancy should be ruled out to avoid false-positives or negatives. In pregnancy, increases in plasma progesterone or other steroids competitively inhibit the effects of excess aldosterone on its receptor, and may cause remission of PA (100). Lack of uniformity in screening criteria exist due to variability in screening protocols, assay methods, and individual factors, including medication use, age, sex, and presence of kidney disease (24). Although HTN and hypokalemia are suggestive of PA, the majority of patients are normokalemic (24, 98). However, an uncorrected hypokalemia may lead to a false negative screen for PA. PA is screened with the plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) to plasma renin activity (PRA) ratio (ARR). ARR is an easy, inexpensive, rapid and accurate means of screening for PA (96). After the patient has been up for at least 2 hours and seated for 5 (up to 15) minutes, a midmorning sample for PAC and PRA is collected and maintained at room temperature. The best correlation between PRA and PAC is achieved with low sodium intake, while the patient is
