Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


midmorning sample for PAC and PRA is collected and maintained at room temperature. The best correlation between PRA and PAC is achieved with low sodium intake, while the patient is in upright position. Although substantial variability in cutoff values for ARR exists, a minimum PAC of 15 ng/dL (410 pmol/L) and PRA of <1 ng/mL/h are used as screening criteria, with the most commonly adopted cutoff values for ARR is 30 (in conventional units; 90% sensitivity and 91% specificity). In the 2016 Guidelines (24), the need for further confirmatory testing in the setting of spontaneous hypokalemia, PRA below detection levels plus PAC >20 ng/dL (550 pmol/L), is not needed. However, ~ 36% of patients with PA have a PAC <15 ng/dL (101). PAC and PRA are influenced by salt intake. Disproportionate elevation of PAC in relation to 24-hour urinary sodium excretion is usually seen in patients with PA. Suppressed PRA, for the level of the preceding day 24-hour urinary sodium excretion, is suggestive of PA. Individuals with PA tend to have a higher BP and lower serum potassium levels while on a high-sodium diet. A sodium restriction neutralized these differences (102). Thus, optimal screening for PA should occur under conditions of high sodium, as sodium restriction can significantly raise PRA, normalize ARR, and result in false interpretation of PA screening, particularly in the milder phenotypes of PA, where PRA is not as suppressed (103). It is important to note that a suppressed PRA does not differentiate between PA and low renin essential HTN or other secondary forms of HTN. In addition, other diseases such as excess mineralocorticoids other than aldosterone, apparent mineralocorticoid excess, and Liddle syndrome are associated with suppression of PRA. There are situations where ARR may produce false negative or positive results. A quarter of patients with essential HTN have low or suppressed PRA, which may affect the interpretation of ARR. Drugs that interfere with renin or aldosterone measurements should be stopped at least two weeks prior to screening. The most common drugs that should be avoided during the screening process are: adrenergic blockers, central α-2 agonists (e.g.: clonidine and α-methyldopa), NSAIDs, K-wasting diuretics, K-sparing diuretics, ACEi, ARBs, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, and renin inhibitors. Drugs that have no/or limited influence on ARR are α-adrenergic blocker (prazosin, doxazosin, terazosin), hydralazine, verapamil, fosinopril, and atenolol. Mineralocorticoid antagonists (e.g. eplerenone and spironolactone) raise PAC and PRA, and should be withdrawn
