Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


no/or limited influence on ARR are α-adrenergic blocker (prazosin, doxazosin, terazosin), hydralazine, verapamil, fosinopril, and atenolol. Mineralocorticoid antagonists (e.g. eplerenone and spironolactone) raise PAC and PRA, and should be withdrawn for at least 4-6 weeks, or longer, prior to testing (104). β-blockers lower PRA (105, 106) and produce false positive results (104). Calcium channel blockers could lower PAC, increase PRA (107), and produce false negative results (104), masking the diagnosis of PA (108). Similarly, ACEi and ARBs could produce false negative results through raising PRA (104, 109). Alpha-blockers and α-methyldopa when used for a short time during the work up of PA may not affect screening. The use of statin therapy among hypertensive and diabetic subjects was associated with lower aldosterone secretion in response to angiotensin II and a low-sodium diet (110). The 2016 Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines on PA (24) advocate for testing with interfering medications particularly in severe cases (111), to avoid delay in diagnosis, with the caveat that testing should be repeated if the results are inconclusive or difficult to interpret. The lower limit of detection varies among different PRA assays and can have a dramatic effect on ARR. Since ARR is highly dependent on plasma renin, false positive PRA could be expected when PAC is low. Although PRA is convenient for estimating the biological activity of the renin system, it does not necessarily reflect its actual concentration. A direct renin concentration (DRC; mU/L, conversion factor from PRA to DRC is 12) is an alternative test that can confirm a low renin state. This could be particularly useful in low-renin HTN, as observed in African Americans (112). DRC and PRA are poorly correlated in the range where PRA is <1 ng/mL/h. The post captopril ARR enhances the accuracy for diagnosing PA (98). A ratio greater than 35 has sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 67-91%, respectively, compared with 95.4% and 28.3%, respectively, at baseline in patients with PA (98). This test appears to be as sensitive as salt loading in confirming a diagnosis of PA (113). This test is performed by administering 25 mg of captopril orally, taken 2 hours before sampling (114). Recently, a new overnight diagnostic test was developed to simplify screening for PA. The test consisted of the fludrocortisone-dexamethasone suppression test (FDST) and the new overnight diagnostic test (DCVT) using a combination of dexamethasone, captopril and valsartan (115). The estimated sensitivity and specificity
