Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


The test consisted of the fludrocortisone-dexamethasone suppression test (FDST) and the new overnight diagnostic test (DCVT) using a combination of dexamethasone, captopril and valsartan (115). The estimated sensitivity and specificity were 91 and 100%, respectively, for the post-FDST ARR, whereas 98% and 89% and 100% and 82% for the post-DCVT ARR and post-DCVT autonomous aldosterone secretion, respectively, with selected cutoffs of 0.32 and 3 ng/dL, respectively (115). The diagnosis of PA was confirmed in 44/45 (98%) using this non-laborious approach. Prior evidence from observational and intervention studies suggested a modifiable relationship between the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and parathyroid hormone levels in humans (116). Recent evidence suggests that higher serum aldosterone concentration is associated with higher serum parathyroid hormone concentration, which is decreased with the use of RAAS inhibitors (117). This relationship does not alter the current screening recommendations for PA. Confirmatory Tests for Primary Aldosteronism: The 2016 Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines on PA (24) recommends that patients with a positive ARR undergo one or more confirmatory tests to definitively confirm or exclude the diagnosis of PA. However, in the setting of spontaneous hypokalemia, PRA below detection levels, and PAC >20 ng/dL (550 pmol/L), proceeding directly to subtype classification with confirmatory testing is warranted. The following tests are used to confirm PA: Oral sodium loading test - 24h urinary excretion of aldosterone is measured after 3 days of high salt intake (>200 meq/day, ~ 6 g/day). 24 hour urinary sodium and creatinine should be measured simultaneously to ensure high sodium intake and adequacy of urine collection. Failure of high salt to suppress urinary aldosterone excretion to <11 µg/24 hours is diagnostic for PA. This test has a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 93% for PA (113, 118). Fludrocortisone suppression test - This test is performed by administering fludrocortisone 0.1 mg orally every 6 hours or 0.2 mg orally every 12 hours and sodium chloride >200 mmol orally/day for 4 days. Failure to suppress upright PAC to <5 ng/dL by day 4 confirms the diagnosis of PA. Upright PRA should be suppressed to <1 ng/ml/h on day 4 of the test. Since hypokalemia inhibits aldosterone secretion, potassium chloride supplement should be given to keep plasma potassium levels close to or in the normal range. This test is considered the most sensitive test to diagnose PA. Saline suppression test - This test is performed by measuring PAC in the supine position
