Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


in the normal range. This test is considered the most sensitive test to diagnose PA. Saline suppression test - This test is performed by measuring PAC in the supine position after intravenous administration of 500 mL/hour of 0.9% sodium chloride for 4 hours. Failure to suppress PAC <10 ng/dL at the end of this test confirms the diagnosis of PA (119, 120). This test is easy to perform on an outpatient basis. Both the fludrocortisone and saline suppression tests are contraindicated in patients with severe HTN, congestive heart failure, advanced kidney disease, cardiac arrhythmia, or severe hypokalemia. Captopril challenge test - This test is performed by administering 25-50 mg captopril orally in the seated or standing position for at least 1 hour. PAC and PRA are measured before and 1 hour after administration of captopril. If PAC >12 ng/dL or ARR >26, the test is considered positive (121). Differentiating Between Aldosterone-Producing Adenoma (APA) and Bilateral Adrenal Hyperplasia (BAH) Changes in PAC on upright posture - Patients with APA show no change or reduction in PAC on upright posture, unlike patients with BAH. This test is performed by measuring PAC in the supine position and after 4 hours of upright posture. ~ 70% of patients with BAH respond by increasing PAC by at least 50%. Bilateral adrenal venous sampling (AVS) - When surgical treatment is feasible and desired by the patient, an experienced radiologist should use AVS to differentiate between APA and BAH (24). Younger patients (<35 years old) with spontaneous hypokalemia, marked aldosterone excess, and unilateral adrenocortical lesions may not need AVS before proceeding to unilateral adrenalectomy (24). PAC and cortisol levels are measured in the inferior vena cava (IVC) and right and adrenal veins before and serially after intravenous injection of synthetic ACTH, cosyntropin 0.25 mg. ACTH stimulation improves cortisol gradients and aldosterone secretion, resulting in a reduction in the proportion of nondiagnostic studies (122). Moreover, ACTH stimulation significantly reduces bilateral aldosterone suppression (aldosterone/cortisol (A/C) ratios in the adrenal veins are bilaterally lower than that in the inferior vena cava) with a single AVS procedure (123). The purpose of measuring plasma cortisol is to confirm the site of the sampling catheter, by correcting for differences in dilution of adrenal with non-adrenal venous blood when assessing for lateralization. Plasma cortisol levels are much higher in adrenal veins than IVC. However, simultaneous autonomous overproduction of cortisol and aldosterone is increasingly recognized,
