Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


with non-adrenal venous blood when assessing for lateralization. Plasma cortisol levels are much higher in adrenal veins than IVC. However, simultaneous autonomous overproduction of cortisol and aldosterone is increasingly recognized, particularly in BAH, and unilateral cortisol overproduction with contralateral suppression could confound the interpretation of AVS results. Thus, measuring plasma free metanephrine during AVS to calculate lateralization ratios may circumvent this problem (124, 125). Basal combined ratio during AVS carries the best sensitivity for the detection of AVS selectivity at all cutoff values (126).ACTH stimulation acutely stimulates aldosterone secretion and will help magnify the differences in PAC levels between the two adrenal glands. The A/C ratio of the involved to contralateral side provides the best diagnostic accuracy for determining if one adrenal is responsible for increased aldosterone production. With determination of bilateral selective samples, ratios (A/C on involved side)/(A/C of IVC) ≥1.1, or of (A/C involved side)/(A/C opposite side) ≥2 provide the best compromise of sensitivity and false positive rates for lateralization of the etiology of PA (127). Contralateral suppression, defined as A/C (adrenal) ≤ A/C (peripheral) on the unaffected side, combined with a ratio ≥2 times peripheral on the affected side, correlates with good BP and biochemical outcomes from surgery, and could be used as a factor in deciding whether to offer surgery for treatment of PA (128). Moreover, in patients with PA, where the lateralization index is <4 on AVS, contralateral suppression of aldosterone is an accurate predictor of a unilateral source of aldosterone excess (129). Basal aldosterone contralateral suppression could predict residual hyperplasia and post-operative outcomes (130).In patients without the right AVS due to issues related to canulation or nonselective, a multinomial regression modeling can detect lateralization of aldosterone secretion in most patients and could eliminate the need for repeat AVS (131). Current evidence supports the use of LC-MS/MS-based steroid profiling during AVS to achieve higher aldosterone lateralization ratios in patients with APAs than immunoassay (132). Moreover, LC-MS/MS enables multiple measures for discriminating unilateral from bilateral aldosterone excess, with potential use of peripheral plasma for subtype classification (132). Unilateral adrenalectomy is beneficial in patients with a unilateral source of hyperaldosteronism and/or in some patients with apparent bilateral PA (133). Patients with PA that undergo unilateral adrenalectomy enjoy a higher quality of life scores than their medically treated counterparts (134). To identify the likelihood of complete resolution of HTN without further need of lifelong antihypertensive therapy following unilateral
