Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


may never develop HTN. Some patients may develop benign adrenocortical tumors (178). GRA should be suspected in patients with early-onset HTN (<20 years) in the setting of a suppressed PRA, a family history of PA, or early cerebral hemorrhage (<40 years) from intracranial aneurysms or hemorrhagic strokes (179). FH-II (7p22) represents the most common form of FH that typically affects adults. FH-II is characterized by PA due to BAH, APA, or both, which is not glucocorticoid remediable (180). FH-II is clinically indistinguishable from sporadic PA. The mutations that cause FH-II are unknown, but linkage analysis has mapped them to chromosome 7p22 (181-185). FH-III is due to a gain-of-function heterozygous germline mutation in KCNJ5 (11q2) that increase constitutive and angiotensin II-induced aldosterone synthesis. FH-III presents earlier, in childhood , with severe HTN and metabolic derangements. In FH-III, KCNJ5 is aberrantly co-expressed with CYP11B2 and in some cells with CYP11B1 , which likely explains the abnormally high secretion rate of the hybrid steroid, 18-oxocortisol (186). Recently, germline mutations in ARMC5 (16p11.2) have been implicated in PA. One study identified germline mutations across the entire ARMC5 gene in 39.3% of patients with APA (187). In addition to the germline mutations, a second somatic variant was required in AMRC5 to mediate tumorigenesis leading to polyclonal adrenocortical nodularity (60, 61, 188). Interestingly, all mutant APA’ s affected patients of African Americans decent (187), which may explain their increased predisposition to PA and/or HTN. These findings suggest that ARMC5 plays an important role in the development of APA or other adrenocortical tumors, and may represent a new subtype of FH. Recently, germline mutations in CACNA1D , which codes for an L-type calcium channel, have been found in two cases with a syndrome of PA, seizures, and neurologic abnormalities (189, 190). A recent exome sequencing study identified a recurrent gain of function germline mutation in CACNA1H (a T-type calcium channel), in 5 unrelated families with early-onset PA and HTN (189, 191). These findings suggest that mutations in calcium channels play an important role in the development of PA, and may represent a new subtype of FH. The 2016 Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guidelines (24) recommends screening for GRA in patients diagnosed with PA and: Onset of HTN <20 years of age A family history of PA Strokes or other early cerebrovascular complications at <40 years of age Screening could begin at puberty and then at every 5
