Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


<20 years of age A family history of PA Strokes or other early cerebrovascular complications at <40 years of age Screening could begin at puberty and then at every 5 years interval but its utility needs further confirmation. Most patients with a clear diagnosis of GRA are severely hypertensive (177, 192). The biochemical profile of individuals with GRA is represented in Table 8 . Table 8 Laboratory confirmation of Glucocorticoid-Remediable Aldosteronism View in own window Disease Laboratory profile GRA · Hypokalemia (not always present), high urinary potassium · Suppressed PRA · PAC or urinary aldosterone is normal or mildly elevated · ARR >30. Plasma aldosterone fails to rise or falls during 2 hour of upright posture following overnight recumbency (193, 194) · Elevated 24 hour urinary and plasma levels of 18-oxocortisol and 18-hydroxycortisol (195). Increased urinary 18-hydroxycortisol/total cortisol metabolites ratio. 18-oxocortisol is 20-30 higher in GRA than APA (196, 197) · PAC <4 ng/dL after suppression with dexamethasone 0.5 mg PO every 6h for 2-4 days (LDDST) is diagnostic for GRA (197). However, some patients may fail to suppress. Aldosterone is markedly elevated in response to ACTH administration (198-200). Other studies have found some patients with PA but without the chimeric gene and suppression of PAC with dexamethasone treatment so that this test may be interpreted with caution in patients with possible GRA (201) · Genetic testing using long PCR-based methods for detecting the hybrid GRA gene (11β-hydroxylase gene/aldosterone synthase gene) is the gold standard test for diagnosis (100% sensitivity and specificity) (174, 202) Some considerations have to be made regarding the biochemical profile of GRA: PRA level is non-specific since ~20% of patients with essential HTN have a low or suppressed renin The degree of HTN, hypokalemia, urinary 18-oxocortisol and 18-hydroxycortisol, suppressed PRA or elevated PAC cannot be used to identify patients with GRA as they lack specificity (occurring in the other subtypes of PA) (132) The 1 mg ODST may result in false positives while the LDDST test could produce false negative results Dexamethasone may also suppress aldosterone in patients with APA. However, since aldosterone secretion is autonomous, DST fails to suppress to very low levels Although LDDST is highly sensitive and specific (>90%) for GRA, some patients may show initial suppression only to rise again by day 4 of treatment or fail to suppress PAC to <4 ng/dL (197) The major drawback of LDDST is the need
