Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


24 hours prior to testing, and the blood sample should be drawn in lavender or green-top tube, transferred on ice, and then stored at -80°C until analyzed (206, 215). During testing, the patient should not be ill or under significant stress or strenuous physical activity. Table 9 Sensitivity and specificity of biochemical tests for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma (217) View in own window Test Sensitivity (%) Specificity (%) Plasma free metanephrines 99 89 Plasma catecholamines 84 81 Urine fractionated metanephrines 97 69 Urine catecholamines 86 88 Urine total metanephrines 77 93 Urine vanillylmandelic acid 64 95 The highest diagnostic sensitivity for plasma free metanephrines is reached if the collection is performed in the supine position after an overnight fast and while the patient is recumbent in a quiet room for at least 20-30 minutes, and interpreted using the upper limit of the age-adjusted reference interval (206, 215, 222). If supine fasting sampling is performed, then the majority of patients with PPGLs can be recognized (215, 223). In centers where the supine position is not possible, then urinary fractionated metanephrines should be used for screening. A negative test result for plasma free metanephrines while seated is as effective for ruling out PPGL as negative results while supine (222). Measurement of seated serum metanephrines above the upper limit of the seated reference range has a diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of 93% and 90%, respectively (224). However, this approach can lead to a 5.7-fold increase in false-positives (223), necessitating repeat sampling. Levels of fractionated metanephrines within the reference range usually exclude PPGLs (225), while equivocal results, which is seen in ~25% of all patients with PPGLs, require additional tests. Functional PPGL in patients with MEN2 and NF1 are characterized by increases in plasma free metanephrine, indicating epinephrine production, while VHL patients have increases in normetanephrine (indicating norepinephrine production) (226). Elevations in methoxytyramine (indicating dopamine production) are seen in ~70% of patients with SDHB and SDHD mutations (226). Exceptions for false-negative fractionated metanephrines exist, including PPGLs that are <1 cm in size, those that produce only dopamine (e.g. head and neck PPGLs), or those that are biochemically silent. True- from False-positive Elevations of Fractionated Metanephrines Levels of fractionated metanephrines >3 fold above the upper limit of the age-adjusted reference interval are rarely false-positives (227). The clonidine-suppression test is useful in distinguishing between true- from false-positive elevations in screening tests (228): 0.3 mg/70 kg
