Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


upper limit of the age-adjusted reference interval are rarely false-positives (227). The clonidine-suppression test is useful in distinguishing between true- from false-positive elevations in screening tests (228): 0.3 mg/70 kg body weight of clonidine hydrochloride is given orally, and plasma normetanephrine is measured at baseline and 3-hours after administration. A decrease in levels by >40%, or below the assay’s upper reference limit, suggests sympathetic activation, with a diagnostic specificity of 100% and a sensitivity of 87% in ruling out PPGLs with borderline elevations (227). Sensitivity increases to ~95% for elevations above borderline values (227). It is important to note that this test can only be used for PPGLs that secrete either norepinephrine or normetanephrine (229). The glucagon stimulation test should not be used in clinical practice given its insufficient diagnostic sensitivity for PPGL and potential to induce crisis (206, 230). There is insufficient evidence to use urine fractionated metanephrines and serum/plasma chromogranin A in conjunction for evaluation of borderline elevations in screening tests (231, 232). Plasma norepinephrine and dopamine can be increased up to 3-fold in patients on hemodialysis without PPGL (233). Plasma free metanephrines and catecholamines are 2-3 fold higher in patients with renal failure compared with other groups (healthy normotensives, hypertensives and patients with VHL). However, plasma free metanephrines are relatively independent of renal function and are the test of choice in the diagnosis of PPGL among patients with renal failure (233) or those in the intensive-care unit. Urinary and plasma fractionated metanephrines have the highest sensitivity to diagnose PPGL in pregnancy (234). In preparation for screening, discontinuation of all medications and substances that could interfere with the results should be performed (235) ( see Figure 4 . ). The following medications raise fractionated metanephrines and catecholamines: tricyclic antidepressants, selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors > selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, cocaine, and α or β-blockers. The following medications have less or little influence on biochemical screening and can be continued during screening: selective α1-adrenoceptor blockers, diuretics, ACEi, and ARBs. The following medications may cause a direct analytical interference with the assays (not observed with LC-MS/MS), and should be withdrawn 5 days before testing: acetaminophen, labetalol, sotalol, buspirone, α-methyldopa, and 5-aminosalicylic acid (mesalamine, and its prodrug, sulfasalazine). Withdrawal from the following can markedly elevate plasma or urinary fractionated metanephrines or catecholamines: sedatives, opioids, benzodiazepines, alcohol and smoking. Figure 4 Mechanisms of Pharmacologic Interference with Catecholamines and Metanephrines (235).
