Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


from the following can markedly elevate plasma or urinary fractionated metanephrines or catecholamines: sedatives, opioids, benzodiazepines, alcohol and smoking. Figure 4 Mechanisms of Pharmacologic Interference with Catecholamines and Metanephrines (235). Monoamine oxidase- (MAO), dihydroxyphenylglycol- (DHPG), DOPA- dihydroxyphenylalanine. Adapted from Neary et al. (235) Imaging Modalities useful in the Evaluation of PPGL CT and MRI - CT with contrast is very sensitive (88-100%) for localization of PPGLs that are >5 mm in diameter (236, 237). As with MRI, CT provides excellent topographical resolution but lacks specificity. PPGLs are homogeneous or heterogeneous, necrotic with some calcifications, solid, or cystic on CT. Most (>85%) PPGLs have an unenhanced attenuation of >10 HU on CT (154), although occasionally could have >60% washout on delayed imaging (238). A high signal intensity on T2-weighted MRI, referred to as a bright signal, is characteristic of PPGLs (239). The Endocrine Society Guidelines (206) recommend a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis as the first radiographic test in evaluating PPGL, and is the preferred initial test in detecting lung metastasis. MRI is preferred in patients with metastatic PPGLs, for detection of skull base and neck paragangliomas, in patients with surgical clips causing artifacts when using CT, in patients with an allergy to CT contrast, and in patients in whom radiation exposure should be limited (children, pregnant women, patients with known germline mutations, and those with recent excessive radiation exposure) (206). Functional imaging - 123 I-metaidobenzylguandine ( 123 I-MIBG) has a sensitivity and specificity of ~ 85% for pheochromocytomas and ~ 70% for paragangliomas, and is recommended as a functional imaging modality in patients with metastatic PPGLs detected by other imaging modalities when radiotherapy using 131 I-MIBG is planned (206). Extra-adrenal and small adrenal pheochromocytomas are more likely to be under detected by 123 I-MIBG and produce false negative results (240). Preparation with sodium perchlorate or potassium iodide is necessary 2 days before and 1 week after 131 I-MIBG therapy to protect the thyroid gland (241). Some drugs that interfere with MIBG uptake such as labetalol, reserpine, digoxin, ACEi, various antidepressants/antipsychotics, and some of the sympathomimetics should be withdrawn 3-10 days before treatment (242). ~50% of normal adrenal glands demonstrate physiological uptake of 123 I-MIBG, which may lead to false positives (243). 18 F-FDA PET/CT is the preferred technique for the evaluation of patients with metastatic PPGLs. However, 68 Ga-DOTA(0)-Tyr(3)-octreotate ( 68 Ga-DOTATATE), a PET radiopharmaceutical with both high
