Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


condition results in glucocorticoid and sex steroid deficiency, and impairs both adrenal and gonadal function. Certain ethnicities are at higher risk of 17α-hydroxylase deficiency, including Canadian Mennonites and Dutch Frieslanders, suggesting a founder effect (253). Biochemical features are ↑DOC, ↓11-deoxycortisol, ↓↓ aldosterone, ↓renin , ↓K, ↓plasma 17-OHP, and ↓testosterone. The accumulation of the mineralocorticoid precursors corticosterone and DOC exert glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid activity respectively and lead to HTN with hypokalemia. Adrenal insufficiency is not a characteristic feature of this condition. The classic presentation of the severe form is a phenotypic female (46,XX or 46,XY) with HTN and absence of secondary sexual characteristics (254). In the partial form, 46,XY patients may present with undervirilization and present as infants with ambiguous genitalia. Diagnosis of this autosomal recessive condition is suggested by delayed puberty, absent secondary sexual characteristics or amenorrhea combined with the typical biochemical findings (254). Genetic testing for mutations in the CYP17A1 gene confirms the condition. See Tables 9-11 for laboratory tests and ratios provided by questdiagnostics.com . Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess The enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11βHSD2) is highly expressed in the kidneys where it metabolizes cortisol to cortisone to prevent the mineralocorticoid receptor (MCR) from inappropriate activation by cortisol (248, 255). Apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) is an AR condition that leads to reduced enzymatic activity of 11βHSD2 due to loss-of-function mutations or epigenetic changes in the HSD11B2 gene (256-258). The deficient gene alters the inactivation of cortisol in the target renal cells leading to activation of MCR, which leads to renal Na retention, severe hypokalemia from kaliuresis and HTN. The severity of HTN correlates with the degree of loss of enzymatic activity (259, 260). Clinical presentation of AME may include growth retardation, short stature, HTN, and hypokalemia that can lead to diabetes insipidus (261). The typical presentation of AME includes childhood-onset HTN with hypokalemia, suppressed renin, very low to undetectable aldosterone levels (hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism) and metabolic alkalosis. Heterozygotes usually develop HTN later in life , without the phenotypic characteristics of AME (262). The biochemical diagnosis can be made by profiling of urinary steroid metabolites, which shows decreased cortisol inactivation, with the urinary tetrahydrocortisol and tetrahydrocortisone ratio (THF + 5αTHF)/THE and nearly absent urinary free cortisone (259, 263). AME is responsive to low sodium diet and spironolactone therapy (259). Genetic testing for AME-associated loss-of-function mutations in HSD11B2 confirms the diagnosis. See Tables 9-11 for laboratory tests and ratios provided by
