Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


responsive to low sodium diet and spironolactone therapy (259). Genetic testing for AME-associated loss-of-function mutations in HSD11B2 confirms the diagnosis. See Tables 9-11 for laboratory tests and ratios provided by questdiagnostics.com . Liddle Syndrome (Pseudohyperaldosteronism) Liddle syndrome is a rare AD form of early-onset monogenic HTN with a prevalence of 1.52% in young hypertensives (264). The condition is caused by gain-of-function mutations in the genes (16p13) encoding β ( SCNN1B ) and γ ( SCNN1G ) subunits of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) (265-267). ENac is rate limiting for Na absorption in the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron comprising the late distal convoluted tubule, the connecting tubule, and the entire collecting duct (268, 269). As a consequence, increased renal Na reabsorption with subsequent volume expansion and kaliuresis leads to severe HTN, hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis (267). The typical biochemical profile is ↓K, ↑urinary K, ↓PRA, and suppressed aldosterone levels (hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism). HTN usually responds to a combination of salt restriction (<100 mmol/day) and amiloride or triamterene therapy. Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism may present in the elderly population and mimic the biochemical patterns of Liddle syndrome (270). However, true Liddle syndrome may be underappreciated and undiagnosed in adults (271). Genetic testing can identify the disease mutations (266, 267). Screening of Liddle syndrome should be encouraged in young hypertensives, particularly those with early penetrance, hypokalemia, and low renin levels after exclusion of common secondary causes (264). See Tables 9-11 for laboratory tests and ratios provided by questdiagnostics.com . Pseudohypoaldosteronism Type 2 Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 (PHA-2), or Gordon syndrome, is an AD condition that is caused by loss-of-function mutations in WNK1 or WNK4 , which are part of a family of serine-threonine protein kinases. Mutations in WNK1 or WNK4 lead to an increased activity of the NaCl cotransporter in the distal tubule and consequently Na and fluid retention. More recently, mutations in the KLHL3 , CUL3 , and SPAK genes have been linked to Gordon syndrome (272, 273). Clinical features of patients with this syndrome include short stature, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, normal aldosterone levels and severe HTN. Biochemical profile includes ↑↑K, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, normal or ↓aldosterone, ↓PRA, ↓serum HCO3 (variable in children), and hypercalciuria (occasionally). The condition is confirmed by sequencing of WNK1 or WNK4 , or the other rare genes implicated. See Tables 9-11 for laboratory tests and ratios provided by questdiagnostics.com . Pseudohypoaldosteronism Type 1 Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA-1) is a rare AR form
