Testing for Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, htn, adrenal, test, clinical, aldosterone, plasma, syndrome, primary, diagnosis, cortisol, aldosteronism, journal, endocrinol


vial and request form Aldosterone · Draw upright blood half an hour after patient sits up; results vary with sodium excretion, electrolytic balance and posture (standing or recumbent) Aldosterone/Plasma Renin Activity Ratio (ARR) · Do not refrigerate the specimen; refrigeration causes falsely-high PRA results. · Samples are collected in the morning after the patient has been out of bed for ≥ 2 hours and after sitting 5 -15 minutes. · Dietary salt intake should not be restricted, and potassium should be normalized if possible. · The patient can continue therapy with verapamil, hydralazine, prazosin hydrochloride, doxazosin mesylate, and terazosin hydrochloride during testing CAH panel 1: 11-β Hydroxylase deficiency CAH panel 3: Aldosterone synthase deficiency CAH panel 4 (females): 17-α Hydroxylase deficiency CAH panel 8 (males): 17-α Hydroxylase deficiency · Early morning specimen preferred (age, sex and time of specimen collection need to be specified) Catecholamines fractioned, 24-hour urine · Urine must be collected with 25 mL 6 N Hydrochloric Acid. · It is advisable for the patients to be off medications 3 days prior to the test and avoid coffee, alcohol, tea, tobacco and strenuous exercise Catecholamines fractioned, plasma · Collect in a pre-chilled vacutainer · Centrifuge in a refrigerated centrifuge within 30 minutes of collection · Separate plasma and freeze immediately · Avoid coffee, alcohol, tea, tobacco and strenuous exercise · Overnight fasting is necessary Cortisol free, 24-hour urine · No preservatives preferred. However 25 mL 6 N hydrochloric acid or 10 g boric acid may be used 11-Deoxycortisol · Early morning specimen preferred (age, sex and time of specimen collection need to be specified) Metanephrines, Fractionated plasma · Patient must refrain from using acetaminophen for 48 hours before testing. · Patient must refrain from using caffeine, medications, and tobacco, and from drinking coffee, tea or alcoholic beverages, for at least 4 hours before testing. Plasma renin activity (PRA) · Collect and transport at room temperature. Centrifuge and freeze the plasma immediately. Tetrahydroaldosterone 24-hour urine · Refrigerate during collection. · No use for preservatives * Available from Quest Diagnostics ( www.questdiagnostics.com ) Table 11 The laboratory testing protocols for rare causes of endocrine hypertension View in own window Disease Laboratory testing * Genetic testing CAH: 17α-OH deficiency · ↑DOC, ↓11-deoxycortisol, ↓↓ aldosterone, ↓PRA, ↓K, ↓plasma 17-OHP, ↓testosterone, · ↑urinary100*THDOC/(THE+THF+5αTHF) and(THA+THB+5αTHB)/(THE+THF+5αTF) CYP17A1 CAH: 11ß-OH deficiency · Hypokalemia (variable), ↓PRA, ↓↓ aldosterone, (the degree of hyporeninemia may vary widely), ↓cortisol, ↑ACTH,
