Heart block
KEYWORDS: heart, block, causes, underlying, underlying causes, heart block, node, blocks, nodal, electrical, types, risk, congenital, disease, people


Overview Heart block is defined as impaired or abnormal conduction of electrical impulses in the heart. With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads across the heart from the upper (atria) to the lower chambers (ventricles). As it travels, the signal causes the heart to contract and pump blood. This process repeats with each new heartbeat. Heart block occurs if the electrical signal is slowed or disrupted as it moves from the upper to the lower chambers of the heart. This abnormality can occur in the heart muscle (myocardium) or in the specialized electrical conduction system of the heart. Classification A heart block can be a blockage at any level of the electrical conduction system of the heart: • SA Nodal Block: Blocks that occur within the sinoatrial node (SA node) are described as SA nodal blocks. • AV Nodal Block: Blocks that occur within the atrioventricular node (AV node) are described as AV nodal blocks. • Infra-Hisian Block: Blocks that occur below the AV node are known as Infra-Hisian blocks (named after the bundle of His). • Bundle Branch Block: Blocks that occur within the left or right bundle branches are known as bundle branch blocks. • Hemiblock: Blocks that occur within the fascicles of the left bundle branch are known as hemiblocks. Clinically speaking, most of the important heart blocks are AV nodal blocks and Infra-Hisian blocks. Types of SA nodal blocks The SA nodal blocks rarely give symptoms. This is because if an individual had complete block at this level of the conduction system (which is uncommon), the secondary pacemaker of the heart would be at the AV node, which would fire at 40 to 60 beats a minute, which is enough to retain consciousness in the resting state. Types of SA nodal blocks include: • SA node Wenckebach (Mobitz type I)[1] • SA node Mobitz type II • SA node exit block In addition to the above blocks, the SA node can be suppressed by any other arrhythmia that reaches it. This includes retrograde conduction from the ventricles, ectopic atrial beats, atrial fibrillation, and atrial flutter. The difference between SA node block and SA node suppression is that in SA node block an electrical impulse is generated by the SA node that doesn't make the atria contract. In SA node suppression, on the other hand, the SA node doesn't generate an electrical impulse because it is reset
