Heart block
KEYWORDS: heart, block, causes, underlying, underlying causes, heart block, node, blocks, nodal, electrical, types, risk, congenital, disease, people


by the SA node that doesn't make the atria contract. In SA node suppression, on the other hand, the SA node doesn't generate an electrical impulse because it is reset by the electrical impulse that enters the SA node. Types of AV nodal blocks There are four basic types of AV nodal block: • First degree AV block • Second degree AV block • Type 1 second degree AV block (Mobitz I) (also known as Wenckebach phenomenon) • Third degree AV block (Complete heart block) Types of infrahisian block Infrahisian block describes block of the distal conduction system. Types of infrahisian block include: • Type 2 second degree heart block (Mobitz II) • Left bundle branch block • Left anterior fascicular block • Left posterior fascicular block • Right bundle branch block Of these types of infrahisian block, Mobitz II heart block is considered most important because of the possible progression to complete heart block. Pathophysiology Damage to the heart muscle and its electrical system by diseases, surgery, or medicines can cause acquired heart block. Heart block can be either congenital or acquired. Acquired heart block is more common than congenital heart block. Risk Factors The risk factors for congenital and acquired heart block are different. Congenital Heart Block • If a pregnant woman has an autoimmune disease, such as lupus, her fetus is at risk for heart block. • Autoimmune diseases can cause the body to make proteins called antibodies that can cross the placenta. (The placenta is the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mother's womb.) These antibodies may damage the baby's heart and lead to congenital heart block. 2/5 • Congenital heart defects also may result in congenital heart block. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Most of the time, doctors don't know what causes these defects. • Heredity may play a role in certain heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect may be more likely than other people to have a child with the condition. Acquired Heart Block • Acquired heart block can occur in people of any age. However, most types of the disorder are more common in older people. This is because many of the risk factors are more common in older people. • People who have a history of heart disease or heart attacks are more likely to have
