Orexigenic Hormone Ghrelin Attenuates Local and Remote
KEYWORDS: ghrelin, gut, animals, fig, reperfusion, ischemia, vehicle, injury, sham, intestinal, organ, levels, nerve, inflammatory, treatment


receptor. Ghrelin was Discussion originally reported to induce growth hormone release through GutI/Rinjuryisaseriousconditioninintensivecarepatients. pituitary GHSR-1a stimulation . However, a largebody Activation of immune cells adjacent to the huge endothelial cell of evidence has indicated other physiological functions of ghrelin Figure10.AlterationsinserumlevelsofTNF-a(A)andlactate(B),intestinalMPOactivities(C),andintestinalmucosalpermeability (D) to fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran with a molecular weight of 4000Da (FD4) in sham-operated animals (Sham) and ischemia/reperfusionanimalstreatedwithintracerebroventricular(ICV)injectionofnormalsaline(Vehicle)orghrelin(Ghrelin)at 1.5hafterthecompletionoftreatment(i.e.,2hafterreperfusion).Dataarepresentedasmeans6SE(n=6)andcomparedbyone-way ANOVAandStudent-Newman-Keulstest:*P,0.05versusShamgroup;#P,0.05versusVehiclegroup. doi: PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 5 April2008 | Volume 3 | Issue 4 | e2026 GhrelinandGutI/RInjury mediated by the central and peripheral ghrelin receptors . and reduces organ injury through the rapid activation of the GHSR-1a is found in the brain stem, pituitary, hypothalamus, cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. In this regard, ghrelin heart,bloodvessels, lungs,stomach,pancreas,intestines,kidneys, may be the therapeutic agent in various inflammatory disorders and adipose tissue [20–22]. The wide distribution of GHSR-1a such as sepsis, hemorrhagic shock, and inflammatory bowel suggests multiple paracrine, autocrine and endocrine roles of diseasecharacterizedbyanoverwhelminginflammatoryresponse. ghrelin [20–23]. It has been linked to the regulation of pituitary hormone secretion, feeding, energy homeostasis, gastrointestinal Materials and Methods function, and cardiovascular and immune system . Since administration of a specific ghrelin receptor antagonist Animal model of gut ischemia/reperfusion increases proinflammatory cytokine release in normal animals Male Sprague-Dawley rats (275–325g) were housed in a ,theacuteghrelindeficiencyaftergutI/Rmaycontribute temperature-controlled room on a 12-h light/dark cycle and fed to local and systemic inflammatory derangements under such a standard Purina rat chow diet. Prior to the induction of conditions. The result, that the ghrelin receptor antagonist ischemia, rats were fasted overnight but allowed water ad libitum. worsens gut I/R-induced organ injury and mortality, further Rats were anesthetized withisoflurane inhalation andtheventral confirmstheimportantroleofghrelindeficiencyingutI/Rinjury. neck, abdomen and groin were shaved and washed with 10% Our current results also show that ghrelin administration povidone iodine. A catheter (PE-50 tubing) was placed in the inhibits proinflammatory cytokine release, reduces neutrophil femoralveinaftercarefullyseparatingthefemoralnerveandblood infiltration, ameliorates intestinal barrier dysfunction, attenuates vessels. A 2-cm midline abdominal incision was performed. A organ injury, and improves survival after gut I/R. However, microvascular clip was placed across the superior mesenteric ghrelin’s direct effect on inflammatory cytokine release from artery (SMA) for 90min. The microvascular clip was then macrophages is negligible . It has been reported that ghrelin removed to allow reperfusion, and the animals were randomly activates the vagus nerve and vagal blockade abolishes ghrelin- assigned to various groups. Sham animals (i.e., control animals) inducedfeedingandgrowthhormonesecretion.Thecurrent underwentthesamesurgicalprocedure withtheexceptionofthe study also indicates that the protection of ghrelin after gut I/R SMA
