Orexigenic Hormone Ghrelin Attenuates Local and Remote
KEYWORDS: ghrelin, gut, animals, fig, reperfusion, ischemia, vehicle, injury, sham, intestinal, organ, levels, nerve, inflammatory, treatment


nerve and vagal blockade abolishes ghrelin- assigned to various groups. Sham animals (i.e., control animals) inducedfeedingandgrowthhormonesecretion.Thecurrent underwentthesamesurgicalprocedure withtheexceptionofthe study also indicates that the protection of ghrelin after gut I/R SMA clamping. All experiments were performed in accordance effects. Ghrelin can cross the blood-brain barrier [29–31]. Since experimental animals. This project was approved by the ICVinjectionofghrelinisalsoprotectiveaftergutI/R,itappears Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the Feinstein thatthestimulatoryeffectofghrelinonthevagusnerveismainly Institute forMedical Research. mediated via the central nervous system. This is not surprising, because ghrelin receptors are expressed at a high density in the Intravenous administration of ghrelin brain.Stimulationofthevagusnervecanrapidlyattenuate Immediately after removing the microvascular clip, ghrelin systemicinflammatoryresponsesthroughinhibitingtheactivation (12 nmol/kg BW, Phoenix Pharmaceuticals, Belmont, CA), or of macrophages and endothelial cells. This physiological mecha- vehicle(1-mlnormalsaline)wasadministeredintravenouslyovera nism, termed ‘the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway’, can periodof30minthroughapump(HarvardApparatus,Holliston, reflexively monitor and adjust the inflammatory response to MA).Animalswerethenanesthetizedat2hafterreperfusion(i.e., preventexcessiveinflammation.Thispathwayhasmajorimplica- 1.5 h after the completion of treatment) or sham operation for tionsinimmunology;however,theendogenousmolecule(s)forthe collection ofblood andtissuesamples. regulationofthispathwayremainsunknown.Ourcurrentfindings strongly suggest that ghrelin may be the circulating mediator for Determinationofplasmalevelsofghrelin,TNF-aandIL-6 thelink between thevagusnerveand theimmunesystem. Plasmalevelsofghrelin,TNF-aandIL-6werequantifiedusing An underlying defect in the activity of the cholinergic anti- anenzyme-linkedimmunosorbentassay(ELISA)kitspecificallyfor inflammatory pathway may trigger an overwhelming and self- ghrelin(LincoResearch,Inc,St.Charles,MO),ratTNF-aorIL-6 destructive immune response to an otherwise innocuous immu- (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA). The assay was carried out nological stimulus and thus contribute to disease pathogenesis according totheinstructions providedby themanufacturer. . Abundant evidence points to the concept that complex behaviororiginatinginhigherbraincenterscandirectlyinfluence Granulocyte myeloperoxidase assessment outflow through the vagus nerve. Sudden death, increased Neutrophil accumulation within the gut and lung tissue was morbidity and mortality following cardiac surgery in hostile or estimatedusingtheMPOactivityassayaswedescribedpreviously depressed patients, and increased death rates in patients with . sepsis or organ failure can be linkedclinically to decreased vagus nerveactivity[34–38].Althoughitisnotcurrentlyknownwhether Water content determination and histological vagus nerve activity in the heart correlates with the activation of examination the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway, there have been reports of decreased cardiac vagus nerve activity in diseases Gutandlungedemawereestimatedbycomparingtissuewater observationsimplicateasignificantcorrelationbetweendecreased 48h. Gut and lung water content was calculated as % instantaneousheartratevariabilityandincreasedmorbidityand/ H 2 O=(12dry wt/wet wt) 6 100%. The morphological alter- or mortality in sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, sarcoidosis, ations in the gut and lungs were examined by hematoxylin and inflammatory bowel diseases, and trauma [39–42]. Thus, eosin(H-E) staining. decreased circulating levels of ghrelin after gut I/R may impair theefficacyofthecholinergicanti-inflammatorypathway,thereby Determination of intestinal mucosal permeability leadingtothehyper-inflammatorystateandsubsequentlocaland Intestinal barrier function was assessed by measuring translo- remote organ injuries. These findings also suggest that adminis- cationofthefluorescenttracer,fluoresceinisothiocyanatedextran trationofghrelinaftergutI/Rattenuatesexcessiveinflammation
