HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Published in final edited form as: Clin Nutr. 2019 April ; 38(2): 485–521. doi:. ESPEN Guideline on Clinical Nutrition in Liver Disease Mathias Plautha,*, William Bernalb, Srinivasan Dasarathyc, Manuela Merlid, Lindsay D. Planke, Tatjana Schützf, Stephan C. Bischoffg Abstract This update of evidence-based guidelines (GL) aims to translate current evidence and expert opinion into recommendations for multidisciplinary teams responsible for the optimal nutritional and metabolic management of adult patients with liver disease. The GL was commissioned and financially supported by ESPEN. Members of the guideline group were selected by ESPEN. questions according to the PICO format. The evidence was evaluated and used to develop clinical recommendations implementing the SIGN method. A total of 85 recommendations were made for the nutritional and metabolic management of patients with acute liver failure, severe alcoholic steatohepatitis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, liver cirrhosis, liver surgery and transplantation as well as nutrition associated liver injury distinct from fatty liver disease. The recommendations are preceded by statements covering current knowledge of the underlying pathophysiology and pathobiochemistry as well as pertinent methods for the assessment of nutritional status and body composition. *Corresponding author: Mathias Plauth. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. Conflict of interest Practice Committee, and the ESPEN executive. All expert members have declared their individual conflicts of interest according to the rules of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). If potential conflicts were indicated, they were reviewed by the ESPEN guideline officers and, in cases of doubts, by the ESPEN executive. None of the expert panel had to be excluded from the working group or from co-authorship because of serious conflicts. The conflict of interest forms are stored at the ESPEN guideline office and can be reviewed by ESPEN members with legitimate interest upon request to the ESPEN executive. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Keywords Malnutrition; sarcopenia; acute liver failure; fatty liver disease;
