HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


reviewed by ESPEN members with legitimate interest upon request to the ESPEN executive. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Keywords Malnutrition; sarcopenia; acute liver failure; fatty liver disease; alcoholic steatohepatitis; cirrhosis; transplantation; surgery Introduction The prognostic and therapeutic role of nutritional issues in the management of patients with liver disease has been known for long (1) and therefore, nutritional status was one of the variables in the original prognostic score devised by Child and Turcotte (2). Since publication of the first ESPEN guidelines (GL) on nutrition in liver disease (3) and the subsequent updates (4, 5) a considerable body of new evidence has accumulated necessitating an update of the GL. In the past twenty years new methods for the assessment of nutritional status and the recognition of the prognostic role of sarcopenia are just two among many other major achievements which are covered in the updated ESPEN GL that is based on the current ESPEN guideline methodology (6). In recognition of the increasing disease burden from non-alcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) the current GL hold a new chapter addressing the nutritional management of arising from nutrition associated liver injury (NALI) distinct from NAFL / NASH. In the current guidelines’ working group experts from three global regions (Europe, America, Australasia) could base their work on the current GL of the German Society for Nutritional Medicine (7) implementing the identical methodology. The aim of the current GL is to translate current evidence and expert opinion into recommendations for multidisciplinary teams responsible for the optimal metabolic management of patients with liver disease. Target population This GL is aimed to address clinically relevant issues in the nutritional and metabolic management of adult patients with liver disease. Target users This GL is intended to be used by health care providers involved in the care of patients with liver disease, e.g. medical specialists involved in the management of liver disease, family physicians, pharmacists, nurses, dieticians, nutritionists, as well as by medical leaders and administrators of liver units. Methodology General methodology This guideline was developed in accordance with the standard operating procedure for ESPEN guidelines and consensus papers (6). It based in part on the German guideline extended by an international expert group consisting of five physicians (MP, WB, SD, MM, SCB), one physicist (LP) and one nutrition scientist (TS). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript
