HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


group consisting of five physicians (MP, WB, SD, MM, SCB), one physicist (LP) and one nutrition scientist (TS). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Based on the standard operating procedures for ESPEN guidelines and consensus papers, the first development step of this guideline was the formulation of so-called PICO questions to address specific patient groups or problems, interventions, compare different therapies and be outcome-related (6). Originally, 59 PICO were created and split into seven main chapters “General”, “Acute Liver Failure”, “Alcoholic Steatohepatitis”, “Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis”, “Cirrhosis”, “Transplantation and Surgery” and “Nutrition Associated Liver Injury”. To answer these PICO questions, a literature search was performed to identify suitable meta-analyses, systematic reviews and primary studies (for details see below, “search strategy”). The PICO questions were allocated to subgroups/experts for further working. The group met 2016 in Ljubljana, Slovenia, for one meeting on November 24 and 25, on occasion of the EASL Monothematic Conference Nutrition in Liver Disease on November 25 and 26, 2016. Finally, 106 recommendations and statements were created. To grade the literature, the grading system of the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) (8) was used. The allocation of studies to the different levels of evidence is shown in Table 1. The working group added commentaries to the recommendations to explain and support the basis of the recommendations. The grades of recommendation were decided according to the levels of evidence assigned (Table 2). In some cases, a downgrading from the recommendation grades generated based on the levels of evidence according to Table 1 and 2 was necessary, e. g. due to the lack of quality of primary studies included into a meta-analysis. Such cases are described in the commentaries accompanying the respective recommendations. The wording of the recommendations reflects the grades of recommendations: Level A is indicated by “shall”, level B by “should” and level 0 by “can/may”. The good practice points (GPP) are based on experts’ opinions due to the lack of studies. For the GPP recommendations, the wording can be chosen deliberately. If applicable, the recommendations were assigned to the outcome models according to Koller et al. 2013 (9), see Table 3. Between 17th February and 23rd March 2017, an online voting on the recommendations was performed using the guideline-services.com platform. Members of ESPEN guideline projects and of the ESPEN council (country representatives) were invited to vote and
