HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


is a controlled trial or a systematic review • paper is a meta-analysis After the screening described above, 122 relevant articles were detected. Additional references from studies cited in guidelines, SLRs or (R)CTs were also included, if they did not appear in the original list. After 18 months 49 relevant new articles were retrieved. Articles were allocated to PICO questions by the group member in charge of the appropriate chapter: acute liver failure (WB), alcoholic steatohepatitis (JK, SD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (MP, TS), liver cirrhosis (MM), transplantation and surgery (LP), nutrition associated liver disease (MP). 1 General 1.1 In adults, what is the effect of liver disease on a. nutritional status, b. energy metabolism, c. substrate metabolism? Statement 1—In patients with cirrhosis, a high prevalence of malnutrition, protein depletion and trace element deficiency should be anticipated. (BM) Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: In liver cirrhosis (LC), the prevalence and severity of mixed type protein 20 % in patients with well compensated disease to more than 60 % in patients with advanced cirrhosis (11–13) Etiology of liver disease per se does not seem to influence the prevalence and degree of malnutrition and protein depletion (11, 13, 14) and the higher prevalence and more profound degree of malnutrition in alcoholics likely result from additional factors including unhealthy life style and socio-economic deprivation. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Body composition of cirrhotics is altered profoundly and characterized by protein depletion and accumulation of total body water which may be manifest even in patients with Child- Pugh class A early-stage disease (14–16). This is paralleled by sodium retention and is thus seldom associated with hyper-natremia. Depletion of potassium, magnesium, phosphate and other intracellular minerals frequently occurs. Deficiency in water soluble vitamins, mainly group B vitamins, is common in cirrhosis, especially that of alcoholic origin (17, 18). Deficiency in fat soluble vitamins has been observed in cholestasis-related steatorrhea, bile salt deficiency, and in alcoholics (19, 20). In LC, malnutrition is associated with a higher prevalence of ascites and hepatorenal 21–23). In several descriptive studies, higher rates of morbidity (24–29) and mortality (27, 29–34) are reported in patients with preoperative malnutrition and/or sarcopenia who undergo transplantation for end-stage chronic liver disease. Statement 2—In acute liver failure (ALF), due to subtotal loss of hepatocellular function and ensuing multi-organ failure, a severe derangement of carbohydrate,
