HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


who undergo transplantation for end-stage chronic liver disease. Statement 2—In acute liver failure (ALF), due to subtotal loss of hepatocellular function and ensuing multi-organ failure, a severe derangement of carbohydrate, protein and lipid metabolism should be anticipated characterized by impaired hepatic glucose production and lactate clearance as well as protein catabolism associated with hyper-aminoacidemia and hyper-ammonemia. (BM) Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: The plasma levels of amino acids are raised 3- to 4-fold in ALF. The amino acid pattern is characterized by a decrease in branched chain amino acids (BCAA) and an increase in tryptophan and aromatic as well as sulphur-containing amino acids (35–37). In with severe sepsis there is splanchnic bed uptake (35). Hypoglycemia is an ominous feature of ALF and is thought to result from (a) a depletion in hepatic glycogen, (b) impaired gluconeogenesis due to loss of hepatocytes, and (c) hyper-insulinemia due to increased secretion and reduced degradation (38–40). In ALF, the splanchnic tissues show alteration from net glucose release to net glucose uptake (35). These changes are accompanied by impaired glucose tolerance, characterized by a 50 % decrease in whole body glucose elimination rate, severely decreased (to 15 % of controls) insulin sensitivity, and increased glucagon blood levels (40). In contrast to observations in patients with sepsis, in ALF the splanchnic tissues do not extract but rather release free fatty acids and ketogenesis is reduced (41). Statement 3—In LC, a stage dependent progressive impairment of carbohydrate, protein and lipid metabolism characterized by hepatic glycogen depletion, impaired non-oxidative glucose metabolism and reduced albumin synthetic rate should be anticipated (BM). Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: In LC in the post absorptive state, glucose oxidation rate is reduced and hepatic glucose production rate is low despite increased gluconeogenesis due to a depletion Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of hepatic glycogen (42). Thus, after an overnight fast metabolic conditions are similar to that in prolonged starvation in healthy individuals (43). Insulin resistance affects skeletal muscle metabolism: glucose uptake and non-oxidative glucose disposal such as glycogen synthesis are reduced, while glucose oxidation and lactate production are normal after glucose provision (44, 45). The extent to which glucose deposition as glycogen is impaired just in skeletal muscle or in both muscle and liver is not known (46, 47). Some 15–37 % of patients develop overt diabetes which
