HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


glucose deposition as glycogen is impaired just in skeletal muscle or in both muscle and liver is not known (46, 47). Some 15–37 % of patients develop overt diabetes which is associated with an unfavorable prognosis (48, 49). The utilization of oxidative fuels is characterized by an increased rate of lipid oxidation in the fasting state and the frequent occurrence of insulin resistance (even in Child-Pugh class A patients) (43, 50–53). After a meal, the suppression of lipid oxidation is not uniformly impaired (54, 55). Plasma clearance and lipid oxidation rates are not reduced and thus, the net capacity to utilize exogenous fat does not seem to be impaired (56, 57). Plasma levels of essential and polyunsaturated fatty acids are decreased in cirrhosis and this reduction correlates with nutritional status and severity of liver disease (58, 59). In overweight or obese patients with NAFLD both hepatic and whole-body fat oxidation rates were found reduced under basal conditions and following exercise compared to lean controls (NAFLD 34.1 kg/m2; controls 23.4 kg/m2) (60). The ability to oxidize fat in basal conditions was inversely related to histological findings including severity of steatosis and disease activity. In LC, normal or increased protein turnover due to increased protein breakdown and/or reduced protein synthesis have been observed (61). Non-abstinent LC patients have higher leucine flux and non-oxidative disposal than abstinent LC patients or controls indicating a catabolic effect of alcohol (62). Albumin but not fibrinogen synthesis rates correlate with cirrhotics are apparently capable of efficient nitrogen retention and significant formation of lean body mass from increased protein intake during oral refeeding (65). Statement 4—In ALF, alcoholic hepatitis (ASH) and cirrhosis, resting energy expenditure (REE) is usually increased; patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) have a normal REE (BM). Consensus (90 % agreement) Commentary: In ALF patients, measurement of energy expenditure is not performed as a standard procedure (66). However, studies using indirect calorimetry showed an increase in REE by 18 % or 30 %, respectively, in comparison with healthy controls (67, 68). Therefore, in terms of REE, patients with ALF are not different from critically ill patients with other etiologies. In ASH patients, the relationship between measured and predicted REE was not different from healthy individuals (69, 70) or patients with LC (71). However, when related to their reduced muscle mass REE in ASH patients was up to 55 % higher than that in healthy
