HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


the predicted value in 18 % of the patients (53, 80, 81). In LC hyper-metabolism was associated with reduced event-free survival and unfavorable outcome after transplantation (31, 80) and seems to regress with improvement of body composition (82). As a less expensive, valid and rapid method hand-held calorimetry has been proposed (83). Hand-held calorimeters only measuring oxygen consumption and calculating energy expenditure assuming a respiratory quotient of 0.85 are more accurate than predictive equations for determining REE (84). Recommendation 2—Patients with chronic liver disease and a sedentary lifestyle should receive a total energy supply of 1.3 x REE. (BM) Grade of recommendation B - Consensus (81 % agreement) Commentary: Estimates of total energy expenditure (32 kcal×kg−1×d−1) indicate that the 24 hours energy requirement of LC patients amounts to about 1.3 x measured REE (24 kcal×kg−1×d−1) (65, 85). Diet-induced thermogenesis (55, 86) and the energy cost of defined physical activity in stable cirrhosis patients (86–88) also show no deviation from values obtained in healthy individuals. However, the level of spontaneous physical activity is Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript considerably lower in patients with LC. It is likely that the increased energy requirement in advanced illness is balanced by diminished physical activity reflecting the poor physical condition (88, 89). In cirrhotics without ascites, the actual body weight should be used for the calculation of the basal metabolic rate. In patients with ascites the ideal weight according to body height should be used, despite the report from a series of ten patients with LC of whom only four were completely evaluated (90) in which it was suggested that ascites mass should not be omitted when calculating energy expenditure. Liver transplant patients on average have similar energy requirements as the majority of patients undergoing major abdominal surgery (91). In general, non-protein energy provision of 1.3 x REE is sufficient (92, 93). In a longitudinal study, postoperative hyper-metabolism peaked on day 10 after the transplantation at 124 % of the predicted basal metabolic rate (94). By six to twelve months after transplantation there was no longer a difference between the measured and predicted basal metabolic rate (77, 94). 1.3 In adults with liver disease, what is the effect of liver transplantation (LT) on a. nutritional status, b. energy metabolism, c. substrate metabolism? Statement 5—After LT for LC, prolonged incomplete recovery of total
