HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


liver disease, what is the effect of liver transplantation (LT) on a. nutritional status, b. energy metabolism, c. substrate metabolism? Statement 5—After LT for LC, prolonged incomplete recovery of total body nitrogen status should be anticipated. (BM) Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Plank and coworkers reported a loss of 1.0 kg of total body protein (equivalent to 5.0 kg of skeletal muscle) mainly from skeletal muscle immediately after surgery and this loss was not replenished twelve months thereafter (94). In a study using total body potassium counting with follow-up for 24 months after LT, an initial postoperative loss but no subsequent gain in body cell mass was observed (95). As a functional equivalent, Selberg and coworkers (45, 96) demonstrated that glucose uptake and non-oxidative glucose disposal by skeletal muscle had not normalized up to twelve months and longer after LT. Unsurprisingly, respiratory muscle function had not returned to normal up to one year after transplantation (94). Statement 6—After LT, the risk of developing sarcopenic obesity and metabolic syndrome should be taken into account and nutritional rehabilitation should aim for an earlier and faster recovery of total body protein and muscle function (BM). Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: After transplantation, many patients become obese and develop metabolic syndrome (97). Body composition analyses 50 and 93 months after liver or kidney transplantation respectively, show that despite good graft function, there is a disproportionate increase in fat mass and a persistence of sarcopenia (94, 98, 99) and impaired glucose disposal by skeletal muscle (45, 96). These findings show that organ transplantation alone does not normalize the metabolic dysfunction in these patients (99). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Whilst on the transplant wait list LC patients suffer from fatigue (100), a stage dependent loss of quality of life and exercise capacity (101), and exhibit a very low activity level (102) and a progressive loss of muscle mass (see recommendation 5). Participants in a structured 12-week exercise protocol had an improvement in 6-min walk distance and quality of life not improve to a normal level (100, 104, 105). However, transplant recipients participating in a structured exercise and nutrition protocol had a significantly better gain in VO max and quality of life (106). 1.4 In adults with liver disease what is the effect of nutritional status on the prognosis of a.
