HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


muscle alone to define sarcopenia or measure muscle loss (167, 168). In order to obviate costly and invasive radiologic imaging ultrasound-based protocols for the assessment of muscle mass have been proposed (169) and await further validation. In LC patients on the transplant wait list, impaired muscle function in terms of 6-min walk distance, grip strength and the short physical performance battery but not loss of muscle mass in terms of CT derived skeletal muscle index was associated with increased mortality (170, 171). In LC patients, frailty experienced as a functional decline in grip strength, gait speed, chair stands or short physical performance battery has been shown associated with increased risk for complications requiring hospitalization (172) or death on the wait list or delisting (173, 174). In LC patients, there is a profound reduction in exercise capacity and this reduction is only moderately ameliorated after transplantation as reviewed in detail by Williams & McKenna (105). LC patients with a VO max < 60 % of normal had a 50 % one-year survival when transplanted (30, 32). Actively exercising transplant recipients, however, can restore their VO max to normal (175). 2 Acute Liver Failure Preliminary Remarks: ALF typically affects young adults and develops in the absence of pre-existing chronic liver disease. Its rapidity of development is such that most patients will not have evidence of malnutrition at time of illness onset, though nutritional compromise may develop during the period of acute illness severity, resolution and recovery. Its rarity, severity and rapid trajectory is such that few clinical trials of any sort – including those of nutritional interventions – have occurred. Therapeutic interventions are thus mainly based upon clinical observation in patients with ALF, and extrapolation from other critical illness. Despite this lack of an evidence base, outcome for patients with ALF have improved markedly over recent years suggesting that the approaches adopted do have clinical merit (176). Two European surveys of nutritional practice have been published and suggest a general commonality of approach, though detail may vary (66, 177). Measures to stabilize Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript metabolism and vital functions, support hepatic regeneration and prevent or treat brain edema are taken as of central importance. Nutritional therapy has three principal objectives: • Ensuring the adequate provision of energy, by giving glucose, lipid, vitamins and trace elements. • Ensuring
