HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


edema are taken as of central importance. Nutritional therapy has three principal objectives: • Ensuring the adequate provision of energy, by giving glucose, lipid, vitamins and trace elements. • Ensuring optimal rates of protein synthesis by providing an adequate intake of protein or amino acids, respectively. • Avoiding metabolic complications of nutritional therapy though ensuring euglycemia and prevention of hyper-ammonemia and hyper-triglyceridemia. 2.1 In ALF patients, when is nutritional therapy indicated / contraindicated to support recovery from ALF? Recommendation 6—In malnourished ALF patients enteral nutrition (EN) and/or parenteral nutrition (PN) should be initiated promptly, as in other critically ill patients. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (96 % agreement) Recommendation 7—ALF patients without malnutrition should be provided with nutritional support (preferentially EN) when they are considered unlikely to resume normal oral nutrition within the next five to seven days, as in other critical Illness. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (96 % agreement) Recommendation 8—In patients with severe hyper-acute disease with hepatic encephalopathy and highly elevated arterial ammonia who are at risk of cerebral edema, nutritional protein support can be deferred for 24–48 hours until hyper-ammonemia is controlled. When protein administration is commenced, arterial ammonia should be monitored to ensure no pathological elevation occurs. (BM) Grade of Recommendation GPP – Consensus (90 % agreement) Commentary to recommendations 6–8: In general, decisions on when to initiate nutrition support and which route to use are made in accordance with the recommendations for nutrition support in other intensive care unit (ICU) patient groups. Three subtypes of ALF can be classified according to their clinical course. In ‘hyper-acute’ liver failure the onset of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) occurs within seven days of the onset of jaundice and patients most often recover promptly with medical therapy alone or after transplantation or die soon after illness onset. Due to the short duration of illness in most patients nutrition support is thought to play a relatively minor role: prognosis is more favorable in this subtype. In ‘acute’ liver failure the interval between onset of HE after the patient became jaundiced is eight days to 28 days and in ‘sub-acute’ liver failure this interval is between 29 to 72 days. In these latter two subtypes of ALF early nutrition support is more often necessary. There are no data on the optimal methods to assess nutritional status in patients with ALF. It seems likely that as in critical
