HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


early nutrition support is more often necessary. There are no data on the optimal methods to assess nutritional status in patients with ALF. It seems likely that as in critical illness, cirrhosis or acute alcoholic steatohepatitis, simple Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript bedside tools such as SGA or anthropometry are adequate for identifying patients with malnutrition (5). Patients with hyper-acute ALF and elevated and sustained arterial ammonia levels (>150 µMol/l) may be at increased risk of cerebral edema and development of intracranial hypertension (178, 179). In this specific setting where there may be short-lived but profound impairment of hepatic function, protein administration may further elevate ammonia levels and increase risk of cerebral edema. Its delivery may be deferred for a short period only (24– 48 hours) as liver function improves and when begun, arterial ammonia should be monitored. 2.2 In ALF patients, which are the conditions to safely use oral nutrition to achieve adequate nutrient supply? Recommendation 9—Patients suffering from only mild HE can be fed orally as long as cough and swallow reflexes are intact. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Recommendation 10—In patients with mild HE oral nutritional supplements (ONS) should be used when feeding goals cannot be attained by oral nutrition alone. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Consensus (85 % agreement) Commentary to recommendations 9 and 10: There are no data from controlled clinical trials in ALF to inform these recommendations. They are based on clinical practice to use normal physiologic modes of feeding as long as they are functional and to resort to EN and/or PN only as second- or third-line options. Close monitoring of oral intake is required to ensure that patients are able to maintain adequate volitional intake. In all sub-types of ALF risk of HE progression with loss of airway control and aspiration exists, and close clinical monitoring of HE level is required. 2.3 In ALF patients who cannot be fed orally, what is the evidence to prefer EN over PN to achieve better survival and/or less complications? Statement 11—Current clinical practice adopted in many European liver units demonstrates the safety and feasibility of EN in ALF patients. Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Recommendation 11—ALF patients who cannot be fed orally should receive EN via nasogastric / nasojejunal tube. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus
