HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


ALF patients. Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Recommendation 11—ALF patients who cannot be fed orally should receive EN via nasogastric / nasojejunal tube. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Recommendation 12—EN should be performed by starting with low doses independent of the grade of HE. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Consensus (80 % agreement) Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Commentary to statement 11, recommendations 11 and 12: According to ESICM guidelines (180) low dose EN should be started when acute, immediately life-threatening metabolic derangements are controlled with or without liver support strategies, independent on grade of encephalopathy. Arterial ammonia levels should be monitored. Recommendation 13—PN should be used as second line treatment in patients who cannot be fed adequately by oral and/or EN Grade of Recommendation GPP – Consensus (90 % agreement) Commentary: There is no trial evidence in patients with ALF to inform these recommendations, and the practice adopted mirrors that in other forms of liver disease and critical illness. In the majority of patients with ALF it is practical and safe to use EN, and formulas can be delivered in amounts comparable to other critical illness. As documented above (Recommendation 8 and comments) a small subgroup of hyper-acute patients may be at transient risk of worsening hyper-ammonemia at high protein loads and thus may be intolerant of full dose EN in the early phase of their illness. In other critically ill patients who require nutrition support therapy, PN carries no clear advantage over EN and may increase infectious complications: the same may be the case in ALF (181). 2.4 In ALF patients on EN, what is the evidence to use specialized formula compared to standard formula to achieve a. better survival, b. less complications, c. improve metabolism? Recommendation 14—Standard enteral formulas can be given, as there are no data regarding the value of a disease specific composition. Grade of Recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: There are no published studies comparing enteral formulas in patients with ALF. In other critically ill patients, avoidance of the use of all specialty formulas is advised in those in a medical ICU setting, and disease specific formulas in the surgical ICU. There is no evidence that the use of EN enriched with BCAA improves patient outcomes compared to standard whole-protein formulations in
