HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


setting, and disease specific formulas in the surgical ICU. There is no evidence that the use of EN enriched with BCAA improves patient outcomes compared to standard whole-protein formulations in other critically ill patients with liver disease, and they are seldom used in the care of ALF patients (177, 181). 3 Alcoholic Steatohepatitis 3.1 In patients with severe ASH, when is nutrition therapy indicated in order to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 15—Nutrition therapy should be offered to all patients with severe ASH who cannot meet requirements by spontaneous food intake in order to improve survival, infection rate, liver function and resolution of encephalopathy. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Commentary: Consistent data have shown that malnutrition, defined by a number of measurement tools, is prevalent in the majority (50–100%) of patients with severe ASH (111, 112, 143, 182). Presence of malnutrition is an independent predictor of mortality and adversely affects response to corticosteroids and oxandrolone only in moderate but not severe ASH (111, 183, 184). In severe ASH, reduced caloric intake is associated with higher mortality and higher complication rates. Oral intake is decreased in these patients and therefore supplementation is necessary to maintain adequate calorie and protein intake. Nutritional supplementation in multiple randomized studies to maintain required caloric intake lowers the incidence of infection and facilitates more rapid resolution of HE and improvement in liver function. Overall survival advantage of nutritional supplementation has been reported in some studies, but systematic reviews/meta-analyses have not shown a survival benefit. In the most recent multicenter study, irrespective of treatment, lower calorie intake is significantly reduced even in the abstinent ASH patients, and increased caloric intake improves outcomes (111, 186), but there are no randomized controlled trials directly comparing supplemental nutrition alone and ad lib oral intake only that support improved survival for additional nutrition. Whether the reduced caloric intake results in or contributes to the higher mortality in those patients achieving only a lower caloric intake or whether the reduction in spontaneous intake is an outcome of underlying necroinflammatory responses that contribute to higher mortality is not known and should be part of future evaluations. 3.2
