HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


or whether the reduction in spontaneous intake is an outcome of underlying necroinflammatory responses that contribute to higher mortality is not known and should be part of future evaluations. 3.2 In patients with severe ASH, can nutrition therapy by means of ONS with/without nutrition counselling when compared to spontaneous ad lib eating a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 16—ONS should be used when patients with severe ASH cannot meet their caloric requirements through normal food in order to improve survival (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: In patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis, oral intake is consistently reduced (111, 112, 143, 182). When the treatments are consistent in the groups, supplemental lib oral dietary intake (187–189). Enteral or supplemental feeding has been evaluated in severe alcoholic hepatitis, but no mortality benefit has been consistently reported. In the VA studies, a survival advantage to supplemental nutrition was reported in patients with malnutrition. In a meta-analysis of 13 randomized controlled trials, that included both ASH and patients with jaundiced alcoholic cirrhosis who may have had ASH, random effects analysis showed a reduction in mortality with supplemental nutrition. However, whether specifically, oral nutritional support will provide such a benefit cannot be stated with certainty. It must also be noted that in the same meta-analysis, a sequential analysis of the same data did not validate the improvement in mortality. A Cochrane review that included alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver disease concluded that any supplemental nutritional intervention did not influence mortality. Interestingly, there did not seem to be a benefit in alcoholic liver disease compared to other forms of liver disease. The confounding effects of Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript including non-alcoholic patients and those with cirrhosis on the interpretation need to be taken into consideration. Finally, another meta-analysis of hospitalized patients with alcoholic liver disease, the majority of whom had ASH, showed no mortality benefit on pooled analysis. However, these data are to be tempered by consistent reports that caloric intake <21.5 kcal·kg−1·d−1 was associated with higher mortality (114), there is strong consensus among experts that nutritional supplementation in those patients with poor oral intake should be offered and may provide a survival advantage(189). Recommendation 17—Patients
