HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


higher mortality (114), there is strong consensus among experts that nutritional supplementation in those patients with poor oral intake should be offered and may provide a survival advantage(189). Recommendation 17—Patients should be fed orally as long as cough and swallow reflexes are intact, and energy and protein goal intakes can be achieved. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Supplemental feeding in patients with severe ASH is based on nearly universal data that these patients have poor oral intake, lower calorie and protein intake that contribute to mortality and morbidity (111, 112, 143, 182). Therefore, there is compelling rationale to provide sufficient nutrition. However, when adequate oral intake was achieved, there seems to be no specific advantage to the route of administration. In fact, PN was associated with higher risk of complications including infection (190). There are also advantages to oral feeding of regular diet over EN or PN on gut mucosal integrity and more recent data on maintenance of protective gut microbiome, both of which provide benefits in terms of infection rates that may affect mortality. 3.3 In patients with severe ASH, can nutrition therapy by means of EN when compared to spontaneous ad lib eating a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 18—EN should be used when patients with severe ASH cannot meet their caloric requirements through normal food and/or ONS in order to improve survival and infectious morbidity. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: When caloric intake is reduced, mortality is higher in severe ASH (114). Supplementing extra calories does not improve survival in most randomized studies but in patients with malnutrition, a survival advantage was reported in the VA studies. Similarly, in one meta-analysis, random effects analysis showed a survival advantage and lower infection rates (189). Despite a number of negative studies, the consensus among experts is that in patients with severe ASH who cannot take adequate calories orally, supplemental nutrition may provide a survival advantage, especially in the group with moderate malnutrition (111). Infection resolution was better with supplemental nutrition, but it is not known if occurrence of new infection is lower. Given that in the non-alcoholic patients with liver disease, poor oral intake and malnutrition are associated with greater risk of infection, one may consider
