HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


occurrence of new infection is lower. Given that in the non-alcoholic patients with liver disease, poor oral intake and malnutrition are associated with greater risk of infection, one may consider that improved oral intake may lower the risk of infection in severe ASH even though data supporting this contention have not been published. Progression to cirrhosis has not been Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript evaluated but a histological study on nutritional supplementation showed that abstinence was the major factor that resulted in histological improvement in ASH. 3.4 In patients with severe ASH, can nutrition therapy by means of PN when compared to spontaneous ad lib eating a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 19—PN shall be commenced immediately in moderately or severely malnourished patients with severe ASH who cannot be nourished sufficiently by oral and/or enteral route. Grade of recommendation GPP - Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Malnourished patients with severe ASH have worse clinical outcomes in terms of one- and six-month survival, infection rates, HE and laboratory parameters (111, 143, 182). Lower calorie intake is associated with increased rates of liver related complications including infection, ascites, HE and jaundice. A number of publications including randomized controlled trials show that nutritional supplementation with amino acid mixtures or calories lowers infection rates and resolution of HE but the beneficial effects on survival was only reported in patients with moderate ASH but not in severe ASH (183, 184, 186, 188, 189, 191). In severe ASH, malnutrition, specifically measures of muscle loss, are associated with increased mortality, infection and HE (187–189). PN can include amino acids and/or glucose infusion, peripheral or central PN to support dietary intakes in patients whose oral intake is insufficient. Eight studies have evaluated different parenteral supplements, mostly amino acid or glucose infusion, seven of which were randomized in ASH (183, 184, 186, 192–197). One study showed a survival advantage of intravenous amino acids but this has never been reproduced in any other study (186). There is limited data on the impact of nutritional intervention alone on hepatic histology in severe ASH. No studies have evaluated progression to cirrhosis, but intravenous amino acids alone or together with glucose were associated with a greater resolution of
