HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


alone on hepatic histology in severe ASH. No studies have evaluated progression to cirrhosis, but intravenous amino acids alone or together with glucose were associated with a greater resolution of fatty infiltration (188) or of Mallory hyaline (196). The improvement or reversal of Mallory hyaline may predict a lower rate of progression. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses also suggest that nutritional supplementation improves rates of resolution of HE (188, 189). Spontaneous ad lib eating was associated with reduced intake in both the US VA studies and non-VA studies (111, 112, 143, 182, 185, 194). As discussed earlier and based on published literature, poor oral intake is associated with adverse outcomes. Additionally, patients with moderate and severe ASH are hyper- metabolic when REE is corrected for urinary creatinine as a measure of lean body mass and protein intake orally, PN needs to be started as soon as possible. A previous report has also shown better survival with supplemental EN, but such stratified results have not been reported with PN (111). Hence, there is sufficient rationale to start PN in patients with severe ASH who do not take adequate intake orally. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 20—PN should be considered in patients with unprotected airways and HE when cough and swallow reflexes are compromised or EN is contraindicated or impracticable. Grade of recommendation GPP – Majority agreement (72% agreement) Commentary: There is no direct evidence evaluating the role of PN in the subgroup of patients with HE and/or unprotected airways with impaired protective reflexes (4, 187–190, 199, 200). Even though the use of PN in encephalopathic or critically ill patients with believe in the use of PN for ASH (199). 3.5 In patients with severe ASH, can disease specific nutrition protocols regarding quantity and/or composition of protein/amino acids when compared to no such protocols a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 21—For ONS or EN in patients with severe ASH standard formulas should be used, preferably formulas with high energy density (≥1.5 kcal·ml−1). Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: There are no direct studies evaluating specific nutrition protocols in randomized trials in severe ASH. Such protocols include the use of BCAA mixtures, vegetable protein
