HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: There are no direct studies evaluating specific nutrition protocols in randomized trials in severe ASH. Such protocols include the use of BCAA mixtures, vegetable protein diets, immunonutrition with arginine supplementation. Published data only evaluate intravenous amino acids, commercial parenteral solutions, or intravenous glucose that do not show a mortality benefit in critically ill patients (201). Immunonutrition was reported to provide no specific therapeutic advantage in a randomized controlled trial in patients undergoing LT (202). In severe ASH, there are no controlled trials showing a benefit of specially composed formula over a standard formula (195, 203, 204). Use of high calorie density supplements can lower fluid administration in patients on fluid restriction. These supplements also lower the duration over which they are administered. 3.6 In patients with severe ASH, can disease specific nutrition protocols regarding quantity and/or composition of micronutrients when compared to no such protocols a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Statement 12—In patients with severe ASH trace element and vitamin deficiency should be anticipated. Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: There are a number of observational studies that show micronutrient deficiencies in patients with alcohol use disorders and alcoholic liver disease and very limited studies in ASH (135, 183, 184, 201, 205–210). Due to poor oral intake preceding the acute illness, micronutrient deficiency should be expected and replaced in patients with severe ASH. Whether all patients should have malnutrition risk screening or whether there Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript should be universal replacement of micronutrients cannot be answered based on evidence. Based on the frequency of deficiency in B vitamins, zinc and vitamin D, replacement of these may be beneficial. It is not known if correcting deficiency can prevent infection or mortality but given the strong evidence for adverse consequences of micronutrient deficiency, one should consider replacement if deficiency is known or determined. However, micronutrient deficiencies are frequent in patients with alcohol use disorders and thiamine supplementation is used routinely in clinical practice to prevent Wernicke’s encephalopathy and Korsakoff psychosis. There are very limited randomized trials in patients with alcoholic liver disease but none in severe ASH. Since patients with severe ASH have poor dietary intake and micronutrient deficiency can affect
