HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


are very limited randomized trials in patients with alcoholic liver disease but none in severe ASH. Since patients with severe ASH have poor dietary intake and micronutrient deficiency can affect immune and gut mucosal function, it is reasonable to replace micronutrients. Oral administration of multivitamin and zinc preparations is reasonable in severe ASH because deficiency is frequent and empiric oral supplementation is less expensive than laboratory measurements to establish deficiency before replacing individual micronutrients. A recent study suggested that in patients at risk for Wernicke’s encephalopathy, thiamin rather than a mixed formulary of micronutrients be administered (208). Similar data do not exist for other vitamin or zinc deficiencies in human ASH. The cost of measuring micronutrient deficiencies vs. that of the replacement should be considered in making this decision. Some micronutrient and vitamin excesses may be injurious when administered in the long-term. If long-term supplementation is planned, then consideration for measuring serum concentrations may be of value. Recommendation 22—Water soluble and fat-soluble vitamins as well as electrolytes and trace elements shall be administered daily from the beginning of PN in order to cover requirements. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: In patients with severe ASH, given the nearly universal reduction in dietary intake, there is a high prevalence of micronutrient deficiency that have adverse effects on physiological responses to stress and infection. Hence, vitamins and trace elements shall be given to provide at least the recommended daily amounts. In this high-risk patient group, it seems prudent to administer a first dose of thiamine before commencing PN in order to prevent Wernicke’s encephalopathy or refeeding syndrome. Replacement should be considered in all patients on PN even though deficiency may not have been documented. Since PN is likely to be short term, the risk of adverse events due to long term vitamin and micronutrient replacement is low even without quantifying serum concentrations (211–213). Specific vitamins, including vitamin A, D and K should be administered along with thiamine, folate and pyridoxine to correct deficiency. 3.7 In patients with severe ASH, how should nutrition therapy by means of ONS with/ without nutritional counselling be delivered in order to a. reduce the risk of comorbidity Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis,
