HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 23—Individualized nutrition counselling should be used in order to improve food intake. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary There are no studies to evaluate the benefit for individualized nutritional therapy compared to ad lib feeding or nutritional supplementation with 30–35 kcal·kg−1·d−1 and 1.2–1.5 g·kg −1·d−1 of protein. However, given the suggestions for restriction of sodium, fluid and other substrates depending on comorbid conditions like renal failure or diabetes mellitus, an individualized, structured nutritional program is likely to be of greater benefit than ad lib feeding. Recommendation 24—ONS shall be used as first line therapy when feeding goals cannot be attained by oral nutrition alone and should be given as a late evening or nocturnal supplement. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Reduced oral intake is associated with higher mortality and nutritional supplementation is likely to result in more rapid resolution of HE and elevated serum bilirubin and lower infection risk, and severe ASH is also a hyper-metabolic state. These data support the use of adequate calorie and protein intake by supplementation. Whether alcoholic hepatitis is a state of accelerated starvation akin to cirrhosis has not been directly reported, metabolomic studies and metabolic cart studies suggest hyper-metabolism, accelerated lipolysis and accelerated starvation physiology in ASH (198, 214, 215). Since compelling data for a late evening snack have been reported in LC including alcoholic cirrhosis (216), it is reasonable to extend these data to support the use of a late evening or nocturnal supplements to reduce the duration of starvation. 3.8 In patients with severe ASH, how should nutrition therapy by means of EN be delivered in order to a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 25—EN can be used in severe ASH to ensure adequate energy and protein intake without increasing the risk of HE. (BM) Grade of recommendation 0 – Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: EN has proved successful in providing patients with alcoholic cirrhosis (191) or cirrhosis with HE grade I-III (217) with adequate nutrition. In one study ten patients received a BCAA-enriched solution amounting to
