HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


proved successful in providing patients with alcoholic cirrhosis (191) or cirrhosis with HE grade I-III (217) with adequate nutrition. In one study ten patients received a BCAA-enriched solution amounting to 70 g protein per day and their mental state improved (217). In another study 16 patients were given 1.5 g·kg−1·d−1 protein using a casein based enteral formula (191). Likewise, in 136 patients of the VA trials low protein intake was associated with worsening HE while patients with a higher protein intake showed improved mental state (218). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 26—EN should be used in severe ASH, because EN has been shown to be as effective as steroids alone and, in survivors of the first four weeks, to be associated with a lower mortality rate in the following year (BM). Grade of recommendation B – Consensus (85% agreement) Commentary: An initial randomized study comparing steroids alone with total EN showed no difference in mortality on an intention to treat analysis but earlier mortality in steroid treated subjects (185). Even though mortality in the patients with HE was similar in the EN and steroid treated arms, whether the resolution of HE was different was not reported(185). Other studies on EN also reported no survival benefit but EN resulted in greater improvement in HE and reduction in bilirubin (191). A more recent study compared EN or conventional nutrition in patients with severe ASH all of whom received steroids. No difference in mortality was observed at six months. Daily caloric intake of <21.5 kcal·kg−1·d −1 was associated with higher mortality at one and six months and higher risk of infection and a trend towards higher risk of hepatorenal syndrome without a significant impact on HE (114). Even though the benefit of steroids in severe ASH has been questioned (219), a randomized controlled trial showed that mortality in severe ASH with total EN was similar to that of severe ASH treated with steroids during 28 days. However, patients on EN died sooner and those on steroids died later during treatment for 28 days. Longer-term follow up showed a greater mortality in the steroid treated group related to infection (185). The authors concluded that a synergistic effect of steroids and EN in severe ASH needed to be evaluated. In a recent study, specifically comparing EN with steroids and conventional nutrition
