HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


The authors concluded that a synergistic effect of steroids and EN in severe ASH needed to be evaluated. In a recent study, specifically comparing EN with steroids and conventional nutrition with steroids showed no survival benefit of EN over steroids (114). However, lower caloric intake did increase mortality in both groups suggesting that EN may provide a survival advantage early in ASH (114, 185). 3.9 In patients with severe ASH, how should nutrition therapy by means of PN be delivered in order to a. reduce the risk of comorbidity (e.g. infection, HE, multi-organ failure), b. improve liver function, c. improve ASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce mortality? Recommendation 27—Patients with severe ASH who can be fed sufficiently either by oral or enteral route but who have to abstain from food temporarily (including nocturnal fasting!) for more than twelve hours, should be given i. v. glucose at 2–3 g·kg−1·d−1. When this fasting period lasts longer than 72 hours total PN is required. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: In cirrhotics after an overnight fast, glycogen stores are depleted, and metabolic conditions are similar to prolonged starvation in healthy individuals. It has been shown that a late evening carbohydrate snack or nocturnal feeding of ONS was associated with improved protein metabolism in cirrhotic patients (220–223). There is no corresponding data in patients with severe ASH, but it seems safe to assume that there is a similar depletion in glycogen with all its consequences on protein metabolism in severe Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ASH patients as well. Therefore, we recommend avoiding fasting patients with severe ASH for more than twelve hours and timely institute the infusion of glucose or peripheral hypocaloric PN. There is no data to determine the type or rate of administration of PN in patients with severe ASH. Parenteral amino acids have been shown to result in more rapid resolution of fatty infiltration (194) and alcoholic hyaline (196). Standard PN in patients who need such an intervention is recommended but mortality is not likely to be improved based on the majority of published data. Recommendation 28—In patients with severe ASH, PN should be delivered like in other critically ill patients. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Even though there are no randomized trials comparing different
