HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript analysis (240). A less invasive procedure, endoscopic placement of a duodeno-jejunal bypass liner for six months, resulted in 10.9% weight loss accompanied by a decrease in liver enzymes (241). Recommendation 30—In overweight / obese NASH patients, intensive life style intervention leading to weight loss in conjunction with increased physical activity shall be used as first-line treatment. (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Life style change resulting in moderate weight loss (<5 %) was shown to improve hepatic fat accumulation as detected by 1H-MRS only when hypocaloric diet and exercise but not when hypocaloric diet alone were implemented (242, 243). Life style change resulting in weight loss of 5–10 % was shown to improve histology when hypocaloric diet and exercise were implemented (229, 234, 237, 244, 245). Subgroup analyses indicate that the extent of weight loss seems to be correlated with the extent of histological improvement. Profound improvement of steatosis, inflammation and ballooning was observed already when weight loss > 7–9 % was achieved (229, 237, 245) while only a weight loss > 10% was associated with improvement in fibrosis (234). In a systematic trial, shifting energy balance to the same degree by either reduced intake alone or a lesser caloric restriction combined with increased energy expenditure (exercise) yielded the same weight loss (−10 %) and the same improvement in hepatic fat, ALT and insulin sensitivity (246). Available data indicate also, that each of the two interventions alone is effective when the other variable - either weight or daily physical activity - is kept constant. Non-invasive measurements using 1H-MR-spectroscopy convincingly demonstrate a reduction of intrahepatic and visceral triglycerides in subjects just exercising without losing weight (247– 249) or following intensive lifestyle intervention by moderate caloric restriction and exercise (250). Conversely, weight loss by either a low carb or a low-fat diet in subjects maintaining their sedentary lifestyle was associated with a substantial loss of intrahepatic lipid (235). NAFLD patients have a low level of physical activity and, when they have diabetes mellitus, they perform at the lowest quartile of physical activity and moderate-vigorous physical activity (251). Readiness for behavior changes, however, is low in overweight/obese patients with NAFLD with only 10% actively working on or preparing to change (252). 4.2 In normal weight patients with NAFL / NASH, what are the aims of nutritional therapy? Recommendation 31—In
