HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


NAFLD with only 10% actively working on or preparing to change (252). 4.2 In normal weight patients with NAFL / NASH, what are the aims of nutritional therapy? Recommendation 31—In normal weight NAFL / NASH patients, increased physical activity to improve insulin resistance and steatosis can be recommended. (BM) Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: For the small proportion of normal weight NAFL / NASH patients no recommendations can be made on the basis of intervention trials. Since exercise alone has been shown to improve hepatic fat content and insulin resistance in overweight / obese NAFL /NASH patients (247–249, 253) it seems plausible to recommend exercise in normal Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript weight individuals for the improvement of steatosis and insulin resistance. Likewise, a reduction in the consumption of fructose sweetened soft drinks should be considered. 4.3 For overweight / obese patients with NAFL / NASH, which oral diet (low energy, low carb, low fat) when compared to a normal oral diet can be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 32—Overweight and obese NAFL / NASH patients shall follow a weight reducing diet to reduce the risk of comorbidity and to improve liver enzymes and histology (necroinflammation). (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Recommendation 33—In order to achieve weight loss, a hypocaloric diet shall be followed according to current obesity guidelines irrespective of the macronutrient composition. (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (93 % agreement) Commentary to recommendations 32 and 33: In general, nutrition counseling of overweight and obese NAFLD patients should be done in accordance with current guidelines for the dietary management of obesity (254–256). As outlined above, weight reduction and lifestyle interventions reduce hepatic steatosis and liver injury. As yet, there is no robust evidence supporting a particular composition of hypocaloric diet unique for use in NAFL / outcomes at three to four cups a day. Patients with chronic liver disease seem to benefit most (257). The authors of this umbrella review of meta-analyses correctly point out that robust randomized controlled trials are needed to understand whether the observed associations are causal (257). In a
