HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


(257). The authors of this umbrella review of meta-analyses correctly point out that robust randomized controlled trials are needed to understand whether the observed associations are causal (257). In a multi-center randomized study, very-low-calorie diets were effective and safe in reducing body weight and improving NAFLD within twelve weeks (258). Likewise, a low- calorie diet was effective in achieving weight loss of at least 5 % and improvement of NAFLD (246, 250, 259). Data from two trials suggest that the restriction of dietary carbohydrate was more effective than overall caloric restriction in short-term weight loss (two weeks) and in hepatic triglyceride reduction (260, 261) while Kirk et al. reported the same decrease in intrahepatic lipid after 11 weeks on either a low or a high carbohydrate diet (262). Moreover, another trial showed the same beneficial effects regardless of whether the diet was low fat or a low carb (235). Two trials report beneficial effects of a diet low in saturated fat (263, 264). In a prospective study in obese diabetics comparing isocaloric diets high in animal or plant protein a decrease in intrahepatic fat (by MR spectroscopy) and insulin resistance (by hyper-insulinemic euglycemic clamp) was observed after 6 weeks (265); in the study period BMI decreased significantly, too. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript It has been hypothesized that the rising prevalence of obesity in the last four decades was related to an increased consumption of dietary fructose and high-fructose corn syrup as a sweetener in soft drinks and other foods (266, 267). Increased fructose consumption as well as hepatic fructokinase and fatty acid synthase mRNA have been observed in NAFLD patients when compared to controls (268). High fructose consumption may increase the risk of NASH and advanced fibrosis, although the association may be confounded by excess calorie intake or by unhealthy lifestyles and sedentary behavior, which are more common in NAFLD (120, 269). The authors of recent meta-analyses summarize, however, that the available evidence was not sufficiently robust to draw conclusions regarding NAFLD promoting effects specific to fructose when consumed as ingredient of a normocaloric diet (270, 271). Likewise, in a double-blind trial, a hyper-caloric diet but not fructose when compared to isocaloric glucose was associated with an increase in hepatic lipid and ALT levels in overweight men (272). 4.4 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can
