HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


not fructose when compared to isocaloric glucose was associated with an increase in hepatic lipid and ALT levels in overweight men (272). 4.4 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can a Mediterranean diet when compared to a western type diet be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 34—A Mediterranean diet should be advised to improve steatosis and insulin sensitivity. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Seven interventional (273–279) and five observational (280–284) studies are available suggesting that a Mediterranean diet (MEDD) has beneficial effects on body weight, insulin sensitivity and hepatic steatosis and fibrosis, but without clear evidence in respect of preventing the appearance of NAFLD (120, 285, 286). There is, however, a solid body of clinical evidence supporting the beneficial effect of MEDD in terms of lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease and the development of diabetes, conditions that share common etiological factors with NAFLD, like insulin resistance and obesity (287). Higher adherence to the MEDD is not associated with lower likelihood of having NAFLD, but it is associated with less degree of insulin resistance and less severe liver disease among patients with NAFLD (282). Even without weight loss, MEDD reduces liver steatosis and improves insulin sensitivity in an insulin-resistant population with NAFLD, compared to current dietary advice (277). Using whole-body MRI, the investigators of the CENTRAL trial (288) found that the MEDD, rich in unsaturated fats and low in carbohydrates, is superior to the low-fat diet in mobilizing specific ectopic fat depots as hepatic, cardiac, and pancreatic fats. In an analysis of participants in the Framingham Heart Study, increasing diet quality as assessed by Mediterranean Diet Score is associated with less liver fat accumulation and reduced risk for new-onset NAFLD (289). In addition, the authors found that an improved diet is particularly important for individuals with a high genetic risk for NAFLD. The investigators of the MEDINA trial demonstrated in a cohort of patients with NALFD that MEDD independent of Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript weight loss can result in significant benefits in liver fat and insulin sensitivity and that these changes are sustained at twelve months (290). 4.5 For patients with
