HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


Manuscript Author Manuscript weight loss can result in significant benefits in liver fat and insulin sensitivity and that these changes are sustained at twelve months (290). 4.5 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can life style intervention by physical exercise and/or reduced/cut alcohol consumption when compared to no life style intervention be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 35—NAFL / NASH patients shall be advised to exercise in order to reduce hepatic fat content, but there are no data regarding the efficacy of exercise in improving necroinflammation. (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Non-invasive measurements using 1H-MR-spectroscopy convincingly demonstrate a reduction of intrahepatic and visceral triglycerides in subjects just exercising without losing weight (247–249). Three months of resistance training improved the hepatorenal-ultrasound index (HRI) as a readout of hepatic steatosis but did not affect liver enzymes, serum triglycerides or HOMA-IR (253). Recommending exercise appears worthwhile and effective in motivated patients offering a veritable option for the management of lean NAFLD patients in whom large weight loss cannot be recommended. To date there are no data on the effect of exercise alone on histological NASH features ballooning, inflammation and most notably fibrosis. Recommendation 36—NAFL / NASH patients shall be encouraged to abstain from alcohol in order reduce risk for comorbidity and to improve liver biochemistry and histology. (BM). Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Addressing the questions of whether there is a continuous dose-response pattern or a threshold value or an effect of gender or end-points (morbidity vs mortality) of alcohol use Rehm and coworkers analyzed 17 studies in their systematic review and meta- analysis (291). From their findings they conclude that there is a threshold for morbidity from cirrhosis but not for mortality regardless of gender. Once there are any signs of liver disease of any etiology they propose to abstain due to the higher relative risks for any consumption associated with mortality (291). Furthermore, in NAFL / NASH risks may be aggravated by interaction with drugs taken in association with entities of metabolic syndrome. At variance to the general population, alcohol use may not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with NAFLD (292). These findings were not included in
