HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


of metabolic syndrome. At variance to the general population, alcohol use may not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with NAFLD (292). These findings were not included in the AASLD/AG (121) and EASL/EASD/EASO (120) guidelines recommending only to abstain from heavy amounts of alcohol. Until evidence from intervention studies is available it seems unjustified to suggest 4.6 For celiac disease patients with NAFL / NASH, can a gluten free diet when compared to a normal diet be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 37—Patients with celiac disease and NAFLD / NASH should follow a gluten free diet to improve liver enzymes and histology, and to prevent progression to cirrhosis, in addition to improving intestinal pathology. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (96 % agreement) Commentary: Celiac disease is a model condition for studying the close interaction between gut and liver (293). Liver injury in celiac disease ranges from mildly elevated transaminases, NAFLD and (rarely) cirrhosis (294–298). Elevation of transaminases has been reported in 40% of adults and in 54% of children at the time of diagnosis of celiac disease and, conversely, celiac disease is present in about 9% of patients with chronic unexplained elevation of transaminases (295, 299, 300). Celiac disease is twice as common in patients with cirrhosis than in the general population (301). Celiac disease patients are at increased risk of liver disease prior to or subsequent to the diagnosis of celiac disease (294). According to a systematic analysis (302) the hazard ratio for NAFL / NASH is 2.8 (95% CI 2.0–3.8) in celiac disease patients with and even higher in the subgroup of children (HR 4.6; 95% CI 2.3–0.1). There are several reports on improvement or even normalization of transaminases with response rates up to 75% - 100% (303) upon institution of a gluten free diet (304–310). A case series from Finland reported on four patients with serious liver disease referred to the transplantation center in whom celiac disease was diagnosed during the evaluation. All patients responded to the gluten free diet and in two diet compliant patient’s liver disease resolved completely (311). Of five US patients with
