HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


disease was diagnosed during the evaluation. All patients responded to the gluten free diet and in two diet compliant patient’s liver disease resolved completely (311). Of five US patients with LC and celiac disease ALT, AST and bilirubin improved in the four diet compliant patients; MELD score worsened in one patient with NASH cirrhosis but improved in the remaining three (301). There is an association between celiac disease and autoimmune liver disease (autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cholangitis) and gluten restriction seems to have a role to reduce the risk of complications (malabsorption, osteoporosis, malignancy) in this group of patients (295, 303). 4.7 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can vitamin E supplementation when compared to no such supplementation be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 38—Vitamin E (800 IU α-tocopherol daily) should be prescribed to non-diabetic adults with histologically confirmed NASH aiming for improvement of liver enzymes and histology. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: The efficacy of Vitamin E as an anti-oxidant to ameliorate biochemical and/or histological abnormalities of NASH has been investigated in a number of trials (245, 312–321). There is, however, a great heterogeneity among these trials regarding study power, entry criteria, dosage of vitamin E, formulations of vitamin E used, additional use of Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript other anti-oxidants or other drugs and histologic data to assess outcomes. Despite these limitations, the following conclusions can be drawn regarding adults with NASH (120, 121): 1. the use of vitamin E is associated with an improvement of liver enzymes (decrease in ALT, AST), 2. trials evaluating NASH features in paired liver biopsies show improvement in steatosis, inflammation, and ballooning and resolution of steatohepatitis in patients treated with vitamin E when compared to controls, and 3. vitamin E has limited or no effect on hepatic fibrosis. In the largest RCT (PIVENS trial) the predefined primary endpoint was achieved in a significantly greater number of participants receiving oral vitamin E (800 IU·d −1 for two years) compared to placebo (42% vs. 19%, p<0.001, number needed to treat =4.4) (319). Re-analysis of the PIVENS trial showed that ALT responses were more frequent in the
