HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


for two years) compared to placebo (42% vs. 19%, p<0.001, number needed to treat =4.4) (319). Re-analysis of the PIVENS trial showed that ALT responses were more frequent in the vitamin E recipients and were associated with the NAFLD Activity Score (NAS), but not fibrosis scores (322). Interestingly, vitamin E had an added effect on the improvement of ALT, NAS, and fibrosis scores obtained by weight loss > 2.0 kg (322). The authors of a meta-analysis of 19 trials (135 967 participants) studying a variety of populations in whom the presence or absence of NASH was not specifically addressed came to the conclusion that vitamin E dosage > 400 IU·d−1 was associated with an increased risk for all-cause mortality and should be avoided (323). This issue is also discussed in the in the light of more recent findings (121).The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group’s meta-analysis of 20 randomized trials (1 225 participants) studying the effect of anti-oxidant supplements in patients with liver disease of various etiology included 15 trials supplementing vitamin E (324). The authors found no significant treatment effect of antioxidants on all-cause mortality or liver-related mortality. In another meta-analysis no beneficial effect of anti- oxidant treatment on liver biochemistry and histology was reported (325). In their meta- analysis Ji et al. report an effect of vitamin E on ALT and AST in NASH but not in NAFLD (326). Of the two large and well controlled trials in NASH patients with neither diabetes nor cirrhosis the abstract of the PIVENS trial was included in one meta-analysis only (325) and the TONIC trial (317) in none. 4.8 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can supplementation with anti-oxidants when compared to no such supplementation be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 39—Until further data regarding their efficacy are available, antioxidants (e.g. vitamin C, resveratrol, anthocyanin, bayberries) cannot be recommended to treat NAFL / NASH. (BM) Grade of recommendation 0 – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: In twelve overweight/obese men with NAFLD, oral resveratrol (3000 mg) for eight weeks had no effect on insulin resistance, steatosis, abdominal fat distribution and plasma lipids or antioxidant activity. ALT and AST levels, however, increased significantly in the resveratrol group (327). In a randomized controlled trial, 2 × 150 mg
