HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


abdominal fat distribution and plasma lipids or antioxidant activity. ALT and AST levels, however, increased significantly in the resveratrol group (327). In a randomized controlled trial, 2 × 150 mg resveratrol p. o. for three months was found to improve AST, ALT, LDL and total cholesterol, HOMA-IR Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and inflammation mediators in 30 normal weight men with NAFLD on ultrasound (328). One 500 mg capsule of resveratrol together with lifestyle intervention was more effective than lifestyle intervention alone in overweight patients regarding improvement in ALT, inflammatory cytokines and hepatic steatosis; this randomized controlled trial obviously was published in duplicate (329, 330). Bayberry juice containing high levels of polyphenols had no effect on anthropometric measures and HOMA-IR in Chines normal weight patients with NAFLD on ultrasound (331). In a randomized controlled pilot trial, the flavonoid anthocyanin (320 mg p. o. for twelve weeks) decreased ALT and the 2-hour loading glucose level (332). Oral coenzymeQ10 supplementation was reported to reduce waist circumference, serum AST levels and blood total anti-oxidant capacity (333). In NAFLD patients, a vitamin C intake below the recommended daily allowance has been reported in epidemiological studies, suggesting an association between dietary habits, disease and vitamin C deficiency. The presently available RCTs have not found an effect of vitamin C superior to that of placebo. Thus, the role of vitamin C in NAFLD should be investigated in future adequately controlled RCTs (334). Abnormally low choline levels have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PN associated liver disease of which some morphological features resemble NAFLD/NASH (335). A secondary analysis of food questionnaires from 664 participants of three NASH Clinical Research Network trials showed that in postmenopausal women a decreased choline intake was associated with increased fibrosis (336). Along this line, data from the Shanghai Women’s and Men’s Health Study suggest that higher dietary choline intake may be associated with a lower risk of NAFLD (337). On the other hand, a close relation between plasma free choline levels and the grade of liver steatosis and fibrosis has been observed in NASH (338). There is no data from choline intervention trials. Compared to placebo, oral supplementation of L-carnitine (1 g b.i.d. for 24 weeks) was effective in reducing TNF-α and CRP and in improving liver function, glucose plasma level, lipid profile, HOMA-IR, and histological manifestations of
