HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


of L-carnitine (1 g b.i.d. for 24 weeks) was effective in reducing TNF-α and CRP and in improving liver function, glucose plasma level, lipid profile, HOMA-IR, and histological manifestations of NASH (339). In diabetic NAFLD patients, oral carnitine-orotate (3 × 824 mg for twelve weeks) was associated with significant improvement in ALT, hepatic steatosis and HbA1c in a double-blind placebo- controlled trial (340). These are preliminary results and, therefore L-carnitine cannot be recommended yet. 4.9 For patients with NAFL / NASH, can supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids when compared to no such supplementation be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 40—Until further data regarding their efficacy are available, omega-3- fatty acids cannot be recommended to treat NAFL / NASH. (BM) Grade of recommendation 0 – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Fish oil has the potential to maintain proper insulin signaling in the brain, ameliorate NAFLD and decrease the risk to metabolic syndrome suggesting that adequate levels of omega-3 fatty acids in the diet can attenuate or neutralize the metabolic challenges imposed by Western lifestyle (341). In patients with just NAFLD, there was a trend towards improvement in liver fat in those treated with 4 g of omega-3 fatty acids (342). A multi-center trial comparing two dose regimens of ethyl-eicosapentanoic acid (1.800 mg/d or 2.700 mg/d) with placebo found no effect on liver enzymes, insulin resistance, adiponectin, keratin 18, C-reactive protein, hyaluronic acid and liver histology in 243 patients with biopsy proven NASH (343). In a smaller controlled trial, 3 g of omega-3 fatty acids improved hepatic fat content but failed to improve NASH by 2 points (344). In a trial comparing the effect of 4 g of omega-3 fatty acids and dapagliflozin alone or in combination only the combination was more effective than placebo in lowering intrahepatic lipid (345). In 20 children paired biopsies showed improved histological NAFLD score after 18 months on docosahexaenoic acid (346). The authors of a systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that in NAFLD patients omega-3 fatty acids reduce liver fat, but the optimal dose had not been determined and better controlled trials were needed (347). In a recent systematic
