HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


concluded that in NAFLD patients omega-3 fatty acids reduce liver fat, but the optimal dose had not been determined and better controlled trials were needed (347). In a recent systematic review, however, the authors conclude that marine n-3 PUFAs are likely to be an important tool for NAFLD treatment but further studies are required to confirm this (348). In twelve of the seventeen published human studies the supplementation with n-3 PUFAs was accompanied by a decrease in liver fat and/or other markers of NAFLD. Five studies, including the largest study (343) were negative. The authors of another meta-analysis concluded that omega-3 LC-PUFAs are useful in the dietary management of patients with NAFLD but are ineffective on histologic findings in NASH patients (349). 4.10 For patients with NAFL / NASH, are there other nutrition supplements which can be recommended to a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Recommendation 41—Nutritional supplements containing selected probiotics or synbiotics can be used to improve liver enzymes in NAFL / NASH patients. (BM) Grade of recommendation 0 – Consensus (89 % agreement) Commentary: A systematic review identified nine full text papers of randomized clinical trials evaluating probiotics, prebiotics or synbiotics in the treatment of adult NAFLD of which six were excluded due to methodological deficits (350). A double blind randomized Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript controlled trial in 30 biopsy proven NAFLD patients showed a significant but very modest decrease in ALT, AST, and gGT after three months of treatment with the probiotic but not with placebo (351). A comparison of probiotics versus standard care showed a decrease of intrahepatic triglycerides (MR spectroscopy) and of serum AST in the ten patients of the probiotic group (352). In patients with biopsy proven NASH, Bifidobacterium longum with fructo-oligosaccharides and lifestyle modification for 24 weeks, when compared to lifestyle modification alone, reduced AST levels, markers of inflammation, HOMA-IR, serum endotoxin, and NASH histology in both groups but more so in the symbiotic group (353). In a randomized, double- randomized to take twice daily for 28 weeks either a synbiotic or a placebo capsule in addition to lifestyle modification. In the synbiotic group, blood levels of ALT, AST, gGT, CRP and inflammatory cytokines decreased
