HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


for 28 weeks either a synbiotic or a placebo capsule in addition to lifestyle modification. In the synbiotic group, blood levels of ALT, AST, gGT, CRP and inflammatory cytokines decreased to a greater degree than in the placebo group (354). The daily consumption of 300 g (8 weeks) of a probiotic containing yoghurt was reported to improve liver enzymes in NAFLD patients compared to conventional yoghurt (355). 4.11 In patients with NAFL / NASH, when is nutritional therapy using EN and/or PN indicated to prevent/reduce mortality and morbidity due to malnutrition (e.g. sarcopenic obesity)? Recommendation 42—EN or PN shall be administered in NAFL / NASH patients during severe intercurrent illness, when oral nutrition alone is inadequate or impossible or contraindicated. Grade of recommendation GPP- Strong consensus (96 % agreement) 4.12 In normal weight / overweight patients with NAFL / NASH, in which dosage should energy / protein / nutrition supplements by EN and/or PN be given to a. preserve lean body mass, b. protect from or improve sarcopenia, c. reduce inflammation, d. improve morbidity, e. improve mortality? Recommendation 43—In NAFL / NASH patients with a BMI < 30 kg/m2 EN and/or PN should be done as recommended for ASH patients (see recommendations 18, 19, 20, 25, 27, 28). Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary to recommendations 42 and 43: There is no data from formal trials of nutrition therapy addressing these questions. An analysis using the database from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey found 12% of NAFLD subjects to be sarcopenic and, interestingly, their BMI was significantly higher than that of non-sarcopenic individuals (356). Also, sarcopenia was consistently associated with significant liver fibrosis. Based on the many reports on the prognostic role of poor food consumption in hospitalized patients in general and patients with ASH or LC in particular experts recommend nutrition support also in NAFLD/NASH patients who cannot achieve an adequate food intake while Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript they are suffering from severe intercurrent illness. Also, in this patient group, malnutrition risk screening and appropriate nutritional assessment are highly encouraged. 4.13 In obese patients with NAFL / NASH, in which dosage should energy / protein / nutrition supplements by EN and/or PN be given to a. preserve lean body mass, b. protect from or improve sarcopenia, c.
