HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


NASH, in which dosage should energy / protein / nutrition supplements by EN and/or PN be given to a. preserve lean body mass, b. protect from or improve sarcopenia, c. reduce inflammation, d. improve morbidity, e. improve mortality? Recommendation 44—Obese NAFL / NASH patients with intercurrent illness should be given EN and/or PN with a target energy intake of 25 kcal▪kg−1 IBW▪d−1 and an increased target protein intake of 2.0–2.5 g▪kg−1 IBW▪d−1. Grade of recommendation GPP – Majority agreement (71 % agreement) Commentary: An increasing number (30–35 %) of adult ICU patients are obese and at least 5 % are morbidly obese (357). Nutrition support of such patients is challenging and one of the most difficult aspects in clinical nutrition. Obesity has an impact on the incidence and severity of comorbidities and patient outcome. According to ASPEN guidelines such patients should be cared for according to the basic principles of critical care nutrition aiming for a high protein intake (2.0–2.5 g▪kg−1 IBW▪d−1 ) for the preservation of lean body mass but a hypocaloric regimen (25 kcal▪kg−1 IBW▪d−1) aiming for the reduction of fat mass and insulin resistance (358). A recent NutritionDay analysis reveals that current practice of nutrition in participating ICUs by far fails to achieve the ASPEN targets (359). No recommendation specific for nutrition support of obese ICU patients is made in the current ESICM guidelines on early EN (180). Among the consensus group, agreement on this recommendation was limited due to the weak evidence available. Facing the increasing number of obese NAFL / NASH patients, however, the reference to the ASPEN critical care guideline was considered appropriate. 4.14 In overweight / obese patients with NAFL / NASH, under which conditions is bariatric surgery indicated / contraindicated to achieve weight reduction? Recommendation 45—In otherwise eligible obese NAFL / NASH patients without cirrhosis, after weight reduction diets and intensive lifestyle interventions have failed, bariatric surgery should be proposed. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: Lifestyle intervention, although effective in some patients, is not sufficient to achieve long-term weight loss and resolution of NASH. It is estimated that only 10% of patients who commit to a lifestyle intervention lose more than 10% of their weight, even when the intervention involves a multidisciplinary approach (360). Currently, no drug treatment has been shown effective, but many compounds are under investigation. Bariatric surgery is a potential treatment option
