HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


even when the intervention involves a multidisciplinary approach (360). Currently, no drug treatment has been shown effective, but many compounds are under investigation. Bariatric surgery is a potential treatment option in NAFLD, in particularly its progressive form NASH. Indeed, the majority of obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery are obese and have associated NAFLD (121). There are no systematic randomized controlled trials that evaluated any bariatric surgical procedure to specifically treat NAFLD or NASH. In a Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript systematic review and meta-analysis of 15 studies reporting on 766 paired liver biopsies showed that the pooled proportion of patients with improvement or resolution in steatosis was 92%, in steatohepatitis was 81%, in fibrosis was 66% and for complete resolution of NASH was 70% (239). These findings are corroborated by the Lille data from France (231). Using a state-transition model, Klebanoff et al (361) aimed to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of surgery or intensive lifestyle intervention to manage NASH. Both interventions increased QALYs compared to no intervention. Surgery was both effective and cost-effective for obese patients with NASH, regardless of fibrosis stage F0-F3. In overweight patients, surgery increased QALYs for all patients regardless of fibrosis stage, but it was cost-effective only for patients with F3 fibrosis. In one series, cirrhosis was diagnosed intraoperatively in 4% and fibrosis in 37% of patients undergoing bariatric surgery (362). Perioperative mortality of bariatric surgery is lower in patients without cirrhosis compared to patients with compensated or decompensated cirrhosis (0.3% vs 0.9% and 16.3%) (363). The joint European guidelines of EASL, EASD and EASO state that in patients unresponsive to lifestyle changes and pharmacotherapy, bariatric surgery is an option for reducing weight and metabolic complications, with stable results in the long-term results (120). 4.15 In obese patients with NAFL / NASH, can bariatric surgery when compared to weight losing diet with / without counselling a. reduce the risk for comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular, diabetes), b. improve liver enzymes, c. improve NASH histology, d. slow progression to cirrhosis, e. reduce the incidence of HCC, f. reduce mortality? Statement 13—In obese NAFL / NASH patients, the efficacy of bariatric surgery regarding weight reduction and improvement in hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation including fibrosis as well as insulin resistance should be considered. (BM) Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: The effect of bariatric surgery on liver
