HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


improvement in hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation including fibrosis as well as insulin resistance should be considered. (BM) Strong consensus (100 % agreement) Commentary: The effect of bariatric surgery on liver histology in paired biopsies has been reported in 16 studies (226–228, 231, 232, 364–374). Clearly, the profound weight loss achieved by this approach has the potential to resolve NASH in up to 80–100% and improve fibrosis substantially, the latter being the most relevant outcome regarding patient survival (225). Also, insulin sensitivity is improved, and a considerable proportion of diabetic patients needs no more antidiabetic treatment. As to the type of bariatric surgery, a greater efficacy of gastric bypass when compared to gastric banding should be considered regarding the improvement in liver pathology as well as insulin resistance (227). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5 Cirrhosis 5.1 In cirrhotic patients, should specific nutritional counselling when compared to no nutritional counseling be used to improve patients’ outcome and/or survival? Recommendation 46—Specific nutritional counselling should be implemented in cirrhotic patients using a multidisciplinary team to improve patients’ long-term outcome/ survival. (BM) Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 47: Multidisciplinary nutrition care should include monitoring of nutritional status and provide guidance for achieving nutritional goals. (BM) Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (95% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 46 and 47: Nutrition therapy should be included in the management of LC patients. Specific nutrition counseling has the potential to alter patients’ behavior and should include patients’ education about the benefit of a healthy diet adapted to the clinical condition and addressing specific concerns. When nutrition prescriptions need to be changed in response to the severity of the disease nutrition counseling can facilitate how to deal with these changes. A small monocentric retrospective study showed a survival benefit when LC patients received specialized nutrition counseling as compared to no counseling (375). The authors also reported that counseling involving a multidisciplinary team including physicians, nurses, pharmacists and dieticians was associated with better survival than counseling by just one profession (375). 5.2 In cirrhotic patients, can nutritional intervention (either oral, EN or PN) when compared to no such intervention ameliorate outcome and survival? Recommendation 48—In cirrhotic patients, nutritional intervention (either oral, EN or PN) shall be implemented according to current guidelines for non-cirrhotic patients. (BM) Grade of recommendation A –
