HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


outcome and survival? Recommendation 48—In cirrhotic patients, nutritional intervention (either oral, EN or PN) shall be implemented according to current guidelines for non-cirrhotic patients. (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Consensus (89% agreement) Recommendation 49—In cirrhotic patients, nutritional intervention (either oral or EN or PN) should be recommended for potential clinical benefit without an increase in adverse events. Grade of recommendation GPP– Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 48 and 49: In principle, the differential indications for oral nutrition, EN or PN in LC patients are not different from those covered in guidelines for non-cirrhotic patients. It should be noted, however, that LC patients typically exhibit hepatic glycogen depletion and resort to protein catabolism for gluconeogenesis much earlier than non-cirrhotic patients, i.e. as early as after an over-night fast (see chapter general). Therefore, the timely institution of nutrition is of prime importance to provide metabolic fuel and substrate for protein anabolism. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript As commented in detail regarding recommendations 58–64 a number of studies on nutrition therapy in LC patients showed improved clinical outcome including survival. Recent meta-analyses, however, fail to confirm a survival benefit (187–189, 376). Methodologically, these meta-analyses suffer from various flaws like mixing LC and ASH or including trials with just three days of nutrition or excluding pertinent trials for no obvious reason. 5.3 In cirrhotic patients, is an increased energy regimen always indicated vs a normal energy regimen to meet energy need? Recommendation 50—Cirrhotic patients in conditions of increased energy expenditure (i. e. acute complications, refractory ascites) or malnutrition, should ingest an increased amount of energy. (BM) Grade of recommendation GPP– Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 51—In cirrhotic patients, an increased energy intake is not recommended in overweight or obese patients. (BM) Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 50 and 51: In general, energy requirements in compensated LC patients are not higher than in healthy individuals (see statement 4 and recommendation 2). Moreover, LC patients have a decreased physical activity level (83, 97) and thus a decreased energy expenditure due to physical activity. Cirrhotic patients during the natural course of the disease tend to spontaneously decrease their dietary intake (89, 191). This is of special relevance in the subgroup (up to 35 % of LC patients) of hyper- metabolic LC patients (33, 80,
