HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


to spontaneously decrease their dietary intake (89, 191). This is of special relevance in the subgroup (up to 35 % of LC patients) of hyper- metabolic LC patients (33, 80, 81) or in those with advanced cirrhosis with complications when energy expenditure may be increased. Therefore, measurement of energy expenditure is recommended whenever possible (see recommendation 1). Oral, enteral or parenteral nutrition have been utilized in short and long term studies in decompensated and/or malnourished cirrhotic patients with some advantages either in morbidity or in mortality (191). The proportion of overweight or obese LC patients has increased even in cohorts on the wait list for transplantation (102, 170, 377). In chronic liver disease, obesity has been identified proposed to promote portal hypertension. Portal hypertension could be ameliorated by lifestyle intervention for 16 weeks using hypocaloric diet and increased exercise in LC patients (380). Therefore, an increased energy intake is not recommended in obese cirrhotic patients. 5.4 In all cirrhotic patients, is increased as compared to normal protein assumption/ intake always needed to face increased protein turnover and catabolism? Recommendation 52—Non-malnourished patients with compensated cirrhosis should ingest 1.2 g▪kg−1▪d−1 protein. (BM) Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 53—To replenish malnourished and/or sarcopenic cirrhotic patients the amount of 1.5 g▪kg−1▪d−1 protein should be ingested. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 52 and 53: LC patients can effectively accrete protein but require an increased amount of protein to achieve nitrogen balance (65). In a small study protein requirements were found to be elevated in eight cirrhotic patients and the authors recommend to always supply 60 g of protein per day in these patients (222). No trials or intervention studies are available for well-nourished compensated cirrhotic patients. Malnourished and sarcopenic cirrhotic patients experience protein depletion both due to elevated total body protein breakdown and decreased protein synthesis in muscle (14, 381– 384). Increased protein intake is generally well tolerated and safe in cirrhotic patients and ameliorates protein anabolism as shown in previous studies. (65, 222). Adequate refeeding was able to induce a significant increase of protein synthesis in a small group of carefully followed malnourished cirrhotic patients (385). Sarcopenic cirrhotic patients, including those with sarcopenic obesity, may need a higher protein intake in conjunction with
