HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


protein synthesis in a small group of carefully followed malnourished cirrhotic patients (385). Sarcopenic cirrhotic patients, including those with sarcopenic obesity, may need a higher protein intake in conjunction with exercise to accomplish muscle replenishment. In intervention studies implementing high protein intakes improvement in arm muscle circumference, handgrip strength and albumin was observed (151, 386–389). An improvement in total body protein status was observed, when ONS were consumed nocturnally (223) extending previous observations of a beneficial effect of a late evening carbohydrate or protein snack in LC patients (220–222). 5.5 In cirrhotic patients with HE, is protein restriction indicated to ameliorate HE? Recommendation 54—Protein intake should not be restricted in cirrhotic patients with HE as it increases protein catabolism. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: A very select subgroup of LC patients, termed protein intolerant, develop encephalopathy on a normal protein intake (390, 391) but this seems to be a historical phenomenon, as such patients are rarely encountered nowadays. Based on a number of trials it was suggested that protein restriction may not be mandatory for the prevention of HE (191, 218, 385, 392). As shown in a RCT by Cordoba et al (393) protein restriction has no advantage on the clinical course of acute HE and may increase protein catabolism. After this study the dogma of prescribing protein restriction for LC patients with HE was definitively abandoned, and all efforts were focused on achieving an adequate protein intake in these patients. 5.6 In cirrhotic patients, is micronutrient supplementation always needed to correct alterations? Recommendation 55—In cirrhotic patients, micronutrients should be administered to treat confirmed or clinically suspected deficiency. (BM) Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Patients with cirrhosis may present deficiencies in water-soluble vitamins, particularly thiamine, and lipid soluble vitamins such as vitamin D (394, 395). There are no reports which systematically evaluate the requirement of micronutrients in LC. Like in other conditions, the administration of micronutrients has no proven therapeutic effect apart from the prevention or correction of deficiency states. Zinc and vitamin A supplements by improving dysgeusia may indirectly improve food intake and nutritional state (396, 397). Zinc and selenium deficiency have been observed in patients with alcoholic as well as non-alcoholic liver disease (398–400). An impressive association between HE
