HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


food intake and nutritional state (396, 397). Zinc and selenium deficiency have been observed in patients with alcoholic as well as non-alcoholic liver disease (398–400). An impressive association between HE and zinc deficiency has been described in case reports (401, 402). Randomized controlled trials, however, showed no therapeutic effect of oral zinc supplementation on HE (403–405). Oral zinc supplementation can increase urea production capacity when previously subnormal plasma levels are normalized (406). In a pragmatic approach, liberal supplementation is recommended in the first two weeks of nutritional support, because the laboratory diagnosis of a specific trace element or vitamin deficiency may be costlier and would delay commencing supplementation. Due to the high prevalence of malnutrition LC patients are at risk for developing refeeding syndrome and thiamine deficiency. 5.7 In obese patients with cirrhosis, can a program of weight reduction ameliorate outcome and survival? Recommendation 56—In obese patients with cirrhosis lifestyle intervention aiming for beneficial effects of weight reduction, which include reduced portal hypertension, should be implemented. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: In a recent multicenter uncontrolled study (380), the response to hypocaloric normonitrogenous diet an 60 min/wk. of supervised physical activity for 16 weeks was evaluated in 50 overweight/obese (BMI ≥26 kg/m2) patients with compensated cirrhosis. This lifestyle intervention significantly decreased body weight (average, −5.0 ± 4.0 kg). These patients also achieved a significant decrease in portal hypertension as assessed by hepatic venous pressure gradient. No data were reported for other outcomes. If confirmed, these results strongly support lifestyle intervention in obese cirrhotic patients. 5.8 In cirrhotic patients with malnutrition and/or sarcopenia, can quantitative and qualitative modification of the oral diet and pattern of food intake ameliorate nutritional status, muscle mass, outcome, survival? Recommendation 57—Oral diet of cirrhotic patients with malnutrition and muscle depletion should provide 30–35 kcal▪kg−1▪d−1 and 1.5 g protein▪kg−1▪d−1. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 58—Periods of starvation should be kept short by consuming three to five meals a day and a late evening snack should be recommended to improve total body protein status. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 59—In cirrhotic patients who are protein “intolerant”, vegetable proteins or BCAA (0.25 g·kg−1·d−1) should be used by oral route to facilitate adequate protein
