HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 59—In cirrhotic patients who are protein “intolerant”, vegetable proteins or BCAA (0.25 g·kg−1·d−1) should be used by oral route to facilitate adequate protein intake. (BM). Grade of recommendation B – Consensus (89% agreement) Recommendation 60—Long-term oral BCAA supplements (0.25 g·kg−1·d−1) should be prescribed in patients with advanced cirrhosis in order to improve event-free survival or quality of life (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Consensus (89% agreement) Recommendation 61—When prescribing a low sodium (unpalatable) diet the increased risk of even lower food consumption should be balanced against its moderate advantage in the treatment of ascites. (BM). Care should be taken to avoid compromising the palatability of the diet after sodium reduction. Grade of recommendation GPP – Consensus (78 % agreement) Commentary to recommendations 57–61: Based on available published data, patients should have an energy intake of 30–35 kcal·kg−1·d−1 and a protein intake of 1.2–1.5 g·kg−1·d −1. Excluding trials using BCAA-enriched ONS a meta-analysis found a reduced mortality in a subgroup analysis (376). After successful treatment of portal hypertension by transjugular intrahepatic stent-shunt (TIPS), LC patients on normal food (according to ESPEN recommendations) were able to improve their body composition (82, 407). In a well conducted prospective trial measuring total body nitrogen the nocturnal administration of ONS has been shown to be more effective in improving total body protein status than daytime ONS (223). Previously, a late evening carbohydrate snack has been shown to improve protein metabolism in LC (220, 221, 408). In their systematic review Tsien and coworkers (216) showed that a late evening snack improved nitrogen balance, irrespective of the composition or type of formulation used. They conclude that shortening periods without food by late evening snack is a promising concept to reverse anabolic resistance and sarcopenia of cirrhosis. In the very rare case of a “protein intolerant” LC patient developing encephalopathy when ingesting normal amounts of mixed protein, a vegetable protein diet may be beneficial. A number of reviews have addressed this issue (409–411) but there is no data from randomized controlled trials comparing isocaloric and isonitrogenous regimens. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript One study (412) was uncontrolled and in a more recent study nutritional therapy using a vegetable protein diet was compared to no therapy (413). There are no data available from trials comparing a standard enteral
