HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


of mild to moderate ascites. In a series of 26 cases, however, two deaths occurred as a direct consequence of PEG insertion (433). It should be kept in mind that in LC portal hypertension can lead to an increased number of enlarged gastric vessels that may become the source of significant hemorrhage when injured during PEG insertion. 5.10 In cirrhotic patients with malnutrition and muscle depletion, can PN ameliorate nutritional status, muscle mass, outcome, survival? Recommendation 65—PN should be used in cirrhotic patients in whom oral and/or EN are ineffective or not feasible. (BM) Grade of recommendation B - Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: The indication for PN in LC patients who cannot be fed orally or by EN is in keeping with recommendations in non-cirrhotic patients (4, 200). Care should be taken to avoid infections of the intravenous lines as these patients are more prone to infection and sepsis. Two aspects specific to cirrhosis should be mentioned. In LC, infused lipids are cleared from plasma and oxidized at rates similar to that in healthy individuals (56, 57). In infants and children fish oil containing emulsions appear to be associated with a lower risk of cholestasis and liver injury (see chapter 7). At present, there are no clinical outcome data showing a benefit of such emulsions in adult LC patients. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Regarding the composition of amino acid solutions, a standard solution can be used in patients with compensated LC. Specific “hepatic formula” amino acid solutions aimed at the correction of the plasma amino acid imbalance are complete amino acid solutions high in BCAA (35–45 %) but low in tryptophan, aromatic and sulfur-containing amino acids and have been developed for LC patients with overt HE (434–436). The efficacy of BCAA or BCAA-enriched solutions has been investigated in seven controlled but very heterogeneous trials (437–443), the results of which are contradictory. Meta-analyses of these studies showed an improvement in mental state by the BCAA-enriched solutions, but no definite benefit in survival (421, 444). It is important to reiterate that in LC patients, episodes of HE are precipitated by serious and life-threatening complications such as infection or hemorrhage, which are stronger determinants of survival than HE, and therefore it is not surprising that BCAA-based PN failed to improve short term survival. Recently, it has been demonstrated
