HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


or hemorrhage, which are stronger determinants of survival than HE, and therefore it is not surprising that BCAA-based PN failed to improve short term survival. Recently, it has been demonstrated that, due to the absence of isoleucine from hemoglobin, blood is a protein source of low biologic value leading to BCAA antagonism after upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (445). This antagonism leads to hyperammonemia, but HE could potentially be overcome by the infusion of isoleucine alone (446). Isoleucine solutions for i. v. infusions, however, are not commercially available. Special hepatic formula amino acid solutions (see above) contain high amounts of isoleucine in addition to other BCAAs, leucine and valine. 6 Transplantation and Surgery 6.1 In patients with chronic liver disease / LC scheduled for surgery, when is preoperative nutrition therapy indicated / contraindicated compared to no preoperative nutrition therapy in order to a. achieve better survival, b. reduce complication rate? Recommendation 66—LC patients scheduled for elective surgery or listed for transplantation should be screened and assessed for malnutrition timely in order to treat malnutrition prior to surgery and thereby improve body protein status. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 67—In the immediate preoperative period LC patients should be managed according to the ERAS approach in order to prevent unnecessary starvation. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 67 and 68: In malnourished LC patients, the risk of postoperative morbidity and mortality is increased after abdominal surgery (447, 448). Numerous descriptive studies have shown higher morbidity and mortality in LC patients with protein malnutrition when such patients undergo LT (25–27, 31, 117, 449–451). Recently, sarcopenia and frailty have been shown to carry an increased risk of morbidity and mortality on the waiting list and after transplantation (24, 29, 34, 157, 163–165, 170–172, 174, 377, 414). Patients on the wait are at risk due to an inadequately low food intake (452) and those consuming a low protein diet (< 0.8 g▪kg−1▪d−1) have an increased wait-list mortality (453). Data from a pilot study suggest that preoperative nutrition support improves total body protein status and reduces postoperative infection rates (454) but there are no Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript controlled trials showing that preoperative nutritional intervention improves clinical outcome. Liver glycogen is depleted in LC patients and therefore it is advisable to take
