HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the presence and extent of ascites seem to increase with the degree of obesity and the subtraction of the amount of ascitic fluid removed can be used to calculate “dry BMI” (126, 459). Some investigators found that severe obesity was associated with increased morbidity and mortality even when patients were classified according to “dry BMI” (126) while others found the amount of ascites and not BMI to increase mortality risk (459) or did not address this issue (127). Also, in chronic liver disease obesity is an independent risk factor for worse 6.3 Preoperatively in patients with chronic liver disease / cirrhosis, can specialized nutrition protocols when compared to no specialized nutrition protocols a. reduce postoperative mortality and morbidity, b. maintain or improve nutritional status? 6.4 Preoperatively in patients with chronic liver disease / cirrhosis, can special components (e.g. BCAA, omega-3 FA) of the nutrition solution when compared to a standard nutrition solution a. reduce postoperative mortality and morbidity, b. maintain or improve nutritional status? Recommendation 72—In adults, for preoperative nutrition standard nutrition regimens shall be used, since specialized regimens (e. g. BCAA-enriched, immune-enhancing diets) were not superior to standard regimens regarding morbidity or mortality. (BM) Grade of recommendation A – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 73—In children awaiting transplantation, BCAA-enriched formulas should be used in order to improve body cell mass. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (93% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 72 and 73: Nutritional counselling plus ONS and nutritional counselling alone were equally effective in LC patients awaiting transplantation (388). In a controlled randomized trial in LC patients undergoing transplantation there was no advantage irrespective of whether a special immune-enhancing ONS or a standard ONS was used for preoperative nutrition support (202). The use of probiotics, however, from listing until transplantation was associated with fewer infections and a more rapid decrease of ALT, AST and lower bilirubin levels postoperatively when compared to controls in a randomized controlled trial (460). Non-randomized studies by Kaido and colleagues showed fewer postoperative infections in transplanted patients who received preoperative BCAA- enriched ONS (461, 462). A retrospective analysis indicated reduced postoperative bacteremia in LT recipients receiving oral BCAA supplementation (463). Pediatric transplant patients with predominantly cholestatic liver disease had improved body cell mass if they received BCAA-enriched formulas (464). 6.5 Postoperatively in patients with chronic liver disease
