HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


BCAA supplementation (463). Pediatric transplant patients with predominantly cholestatic liver disease had improved body cell mass if they received BCAA-enriched formulas (464). 6.5 Postoperatively in patients with chronic liver disease / cirrhosis, when is nutritional therapy using - oral nutrition and/or EN and/or PN indicated / contraindicated when Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript compared to no nutrition therapy in order to a. reduce mortality, b. reduce morbidity / co- Recommendation 74—After LT, normal food and/or EN should be initiated within 12–24 hours postoperatively to reduce infection rate. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 75—After scheduled surgery, chronic liver disease patients should be managed according to the ERAS protocol. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 76—PN should be preferred to no feeding in order to reduce complication rates and length of mechanical ventilation and length of stay in ICU, when oral nutrition or EN is impossible or not practicable. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Consensus (86% agreement) Recommendation 77—PN should be used in patients with unprotected airways and HE when cough and swallow reflexes are compromised or EN is contraindicated or impracticable. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Recommendation 78—After the acute postoperative phase an energy intake of 30–35 kcal▪kg−1▪d−1 (126–147 kJ▪kg−1▪d−1) and a protein intake of 1.2–1.5 g▪kg−1▪d−1 should be aimed for. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 74–78: After transplantation, postoperative PN is superior to the infusion of fluid and electrolytes in reducing time on the ventilator and length of stay in ICU (465). EN started as early as twelve hours after the operation is associated with a lower rate of infections than no artificial nutrition support (466). In a direct comparison between PN and early EN, both strategies proved to be equally effective with regard to the maintenance of nutritional state (467). Postoperatively there is a considerable nitrogen loss and patients remain in negative nitrogen balance for a prolonged period (92, 94, 202) necessitating an increase in the provision of protein or amino acids. Protein or amino acid intakes of 1.2–1.5 g kg−1 d−1 have been reported (92, 465). After non-transplant abdominal surgery LC patients have a reduced rate of complications and improved nitrogen economy if they receive nutritional support instead of just fluid and electrolytes
