HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


– Majority agreement (79% agreement) Commentary to recommendations 80 and 81: Perioperative administration of pre-and probiotics (Lactobacillus spp. and other lactic acid metabolizing bacteria) compared to prebiotics was associated with a reduction in infectious complications (472). A recent meta- analysis (480) which included that study and two further randomized trials using a single Lactobacillus sp. (471) and two Lactobacillus spp. plus Bifidobacterium sp. (470) showed reduced infection rate with pre-and probiotics. A recent meta-analysis (420) also showed that oral/enteral BCAA compared with isonitrogenous controls are beneficial for HE in LC. To date, the question of whether Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript BCAA-enriched formulas or other special components of the nutrition solution can prevent sarcopenic obesity in long-term survivors of LT has not been addressed in studies. 6.8 In adult organ donors, can specific nutrition regimens (e.g. glutamine, arginine) a. reduce / prevent ischemia / reperfusion injury, b. improve graft function, c. reduce postoperative mortality and morbidity? Recommendation 82—No recommendations can be made regarding donor or organ conditioning by use of specific nutrition regimens, such as i. v. glutamine or arginine, with the object of minimizing ischemia/reperfusion damage. Grade of recommendation GPP – Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Animal data indicate that the balanced nutrition of a brain dead liver donor, using moderate amounts of carbohydrate, lipid (long-chain fatty acids and possibly fish oil) and amino acids, is associated with improved function of the transplanted organ (481). The value of donor or organ conditioning which aims to reduce ischemia/reperfusion damage in humans by provision of high doses of arginine or glutamine is currently unknown. 7 Nutrition Associated Liver Injury (NALI) 7.1 In adults / children, can malnutrition cause liver injury associated with a. biochemical signs of hepatocyte lesion, b. impaired liver function, c. abnormal liver histology, d. chronic liver disease? Statement 14—Malnutrition can impair the whole spectrum of hepatic metabolic functions. Malnutrition alone can cause severe fatty liver but is not known to cause chronic liver disease. Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Severe malnutrition in children can cause fatty liver (482–484) which in general is fully reversible upon refeeding (483). In children with kwashiorkor, there seems to be a maladaptation associated with less efficient breakdown of fat and oxidation of fatty acids (485, 486) compared to children with marasmus. An impairment of fatty acid removal from the liver
