HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


a maladaptation associated with less efficient breakdown of fat and oxidation of fatty acids (485, 486) compared to children with marasmus. An impairment of fatty acid removal from the liver could not be observed(485). Malnutrition impairs specific hepatic functions like phase-I xenobiotic metabolism (85, 487, 488), galactose elimination capacity (85) or plasma levels of C-reactive protein in infected children (489, 490). In nutritional intervention trials in cirrhotic patients, quantitative liver function tests improved more, or more rapidly in treatment groups. Measures of liver function included antipyrine (183, 184) and aminopyrine (192) as well as galactose elimination capacity (183, 184, 196, 491). It is unknown, whether fatty liver of malnutrition can progress to chronic liver disease. Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 7.2 In adults / children, can overnutrition cause liver injury associated with a. biochemical signs of hepatocyte lesion, b. impaired liver function, c. abnormal liver histology, d. chronic liver disease? Statement 15—Overnutrition can cause NAFLD or NASH which is a precursor condition for LC. Recommendations for the nutritional management of this condition are given in the section on NAFLD and NASH of these guidelines. Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: The evidence available is reviewed in chapter 4 “NASH”. 7.3 In adults / children, can artificial nutrition (EN, PN) cause liver injury associated with a. biochemical signs of hepatocyte lesion, b. impaired liver function, c. abnormal liver histology, d. chronic liver disease? Statement 16—In infants and children, PN can cause cholestasis, therefore named parenteral nutrition-associated cholestasis (PNAC) (BM) Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: Due to the different features of PNAC in newborns and infants and parenteral nutrition associated liver disease (PNALD) in adults, as an exception PNAC is addressed as an exception in these guidelines on nutrition in adult liver patients. Intestinal failure is the indication for long-term PN in many patients, particularly in infants and neonates and obviously, a clear distinction between intestinal failure vs. PN in the pathogenesis of ensuing liver injury is challenging in this population (492, 493). The beneficial effect of specialized nutrition protocols limiting the amount of lipid infused in neonates and infants as well as in adults point to the pathogenic role of PN in the development of cholestasis (see recommendations 84 and 85). A second independent factor causing liver damage is the extent of loss of intestinal mass as shown in
