HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


of PN in the development of cholestasis (see recommendations 84 and 85). A second independent factor causing liver damage is the extent of loss of intestinal mass as shown in the seminal paper by Stanko and colleagues showing an association between liver injury and extent of gut resection but not PN (494). Such intestinal failure associated liver disease (IFALD) and PNALD are difficult to separate in the individual patient and occur in up to 60 % of infants and up to 85 % of neonates who require long-term PN for intestinal failure (492, 495). Whereas adults are more likely to develop steatosis only, infants and neonates are more susceptible to hepatocellular injury or cholestasis, probably due to immature bile metabolism and transport (496). This is reflected in the term PNAC that is frequently used in the pediatric literature for this condition (497), whereas the term PNALD has been used in both adult and pediatric patients (493, 498, 499). In infants and neonates, mortality is high, up to 40 %, and PNAC has become a major indication for pediatric LT (497). In adults, the incidence of advanced IFALD/PNALD ranges from 0 % - 50 % and mortality ranges from 0 % - 22 % (492) progressive IFALD/PNALD is an accepted indication for a timely life- saving small bowel transplantation (500). Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Statement 17—In adults, it is difficult to differentiate between the role of the underlying condition (extensive small bowel resection, sepsis) and that of PN in the pathogenesis of PNALD. (BM). Strong consensus (100% agreement) Commentary: Cholestatic liver injury occurs in 50 % of patients on long-term home PN (501). In 1985, Bowyer and colleagues (502) described steatohepatitis in nine out of 60 patients on long-term PN. Liver injury persisted for a median of 15 months (8 to 95) and progressed to cirrhosis in three patients. In their seminal paper Stanko and colleagues (494) studied adults who had been on PN for one year. They found normal liver enzymes in those who had no or only modest loss of intestine while 4/6 patients with massive loss of intestine developed progressive cholestasis and steatohepatitis four to ten months after the initiation of PN. Their observation demonstrated that liver injury can occur not only as a sequel of PN – termed PNALD – but also by
