HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


to ten months after the initiation of PN. Their observation demonstrated that liver injury can occur not only as a sequel of PN – termed PNALD – but also by intestinal failure – termed IFALD. In clinical practice a clear distinction between IFALD or PNALD more often than not is difficult (492). Grau and colleagues analyzed the association of liver disease and PN in 756 ICU patients on PN and/or EN (503). They showed that the patients who developed liver injury had a characteristic profile in the way that they had a higher multiple organ dysfunction score on admission, they were septic, and they were treated with total PN. In adults, IFALD/PNALD is related to female gender, age, length of time on PN, total caloric intake, and lipid or glucose overload (495, 504). The pathogenesis of IFALD/ PNALD is thought to be multifactorial including factors like disturbance of enterohepatic bile acid cycling, systemic infection, bacterial overgrowth, absence of enteral nutrients and composition of PN (492, 495, 498). Both lack and excess of specific components of PN are being discussed as causal for PNALD. The fatty acid composition of lipid emulsions (501) as well as choline deficiency (505), and manganese toxicity (495, 498) have been linked to the occurrence of hepatic steatosis and cholestasis in adults and children. 7.4 In adults / children, can specialized nutrition protocols when compared to no such protocols improve/prevent a. biochemical signs of hepatocyte lesion, b. impaired liver function, c. abnormal liver histology, d. chronic liver disease? Recommendation 83—In infants, children and adults, specialized nutrition protocols making optimal use of EN should be implemented. (BM) Grade of recommendation B – Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: In infants and neonates, a number of reports suggest that the institution of specialized nutrition protocols is beneficial in achieving intestinal rehabilitation. Such protocols aim at limiting the infusion of soy-bean based lipid (506–510) and maximizing oral and enteral stimulation (507–510) and administering cyclic PN (507, 508, 511). A retrospective study showed that the implementation of feeding guidelines resulted in decreased times without nutrition, shorter duration of PN support, and significantly fewer infants developed PNALD after guideline implementation (512). In a multiple-variable Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript analysis septic episodes (odds ratio 3.23), days of lipid >2.5 g·kg−1·d−1 (odds ratio 1.04), and 60 days of maximal lipid (odds
