HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, liver, recommendation, manuscript author, disease, agreement, consensus, nutrition, protein, consensus agreement, strong, mortality


to liver injury and in this view PNAC may be seen as a component of PNALD. Both, the ASPEN guidelines paper on PNALD (493) and the ESPGHAN position paper on intestinal failure (524) conclude that currently there is no sound evidence favoring a specific lipid emulsion and that soy-bean based lipid infusion should be limited in hyper- bilirubinemia. Despite promising observations, the role of fish-oil emulsions needs to be established in randomized controlled trials. The authors of the ASPEN guideline delineate four questions to be answered (493): 1. Will a long-term reduction in soy-based fat emulsion dose to ≤ 1.0 g·kg−1·d−1 result in adequate growth and neurological development, and will essential fatty acid deficiency be prevented? 2. Is a fish-oil emulsion more effective than an equivalently dosed soy-based emulsion at preventing PNALD, promoting neurological development? 3. What is the incidence of essential fatty acid deficiency if the low dose is given over a long duration, and how should essential fatty acid deficiency be tracked in these individuals? 4. Is SMOF given at conventional lipid doses effective at preventing the development of PNALD while optimizing growth and development over the long term? Recommendation 85—In adults with suspected PNALD, lipid emulsions with a reduced n6/n3 ratio can be used. (BM) Grade of recommendation 0 – Strong consensus (92% agreement) Commentary: In adults, less data is available regarding the effect of modifying quantity and/or composition of parenteral lipid on the course of PNALD. Limiting soy-bean based lipid to ≤ 1.0 g·kg−1·d−1 has been suggested also in adults (527). The exchange of soy-bean Clin Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript based lipid by a 100 % fish-oil emulsion has been reported effective in two cases of PNALD (540, 541). In a series of 15 patients, the addition of a fish-oil emulsion to a soy-bean based lipid emulsion was associated with reversal of biopsy proven PNALD (542). In one case, the use of a fish-oil emulsion together with an olive-oil based PN regimen was associated with a reduction in liver steatosis and inflammation (543). Taken together, more data are needed before the routine use of fish-oil containing fat emulsions can be recommended for the treatment of PNALD (492). Acknowledgement The authors express their gratitude to Anna Schweinlin for expert assistance in this guideline project. We also thank Cees Smit for his participation as patient
