Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


ABSTRACT Viruses are one of the simplest pathogenic organisms infecting the human body. Association between viral infections and endocrine system is complex and has not been fully studied. Viral infections can induce several physiological changes in the human endocrine system, resulting in cytokine mediated activation of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis to increase cortisol production, thus modulating the immune response. Further, many viral infections impact different endocrine organs, either by direct viral invasion or by systemic or local inflammation resulting in transient or permanent endocrinopathies; both hyper and hypofunction of endocrine organs may ensue. Viruses can encode production of specific viral proteins that have structural and functional homology to human hormones. Since endocrine hormones have immunoregulatory functions, endocrinopathies may alter the susceptibility of human body for viral infections. Recently the pandemic causing SARS 2 CoV infection has been shown to affect multiple endocrine organs through a variety of mechanisms, highlighting the significance of viral infection related endocrinopathies in morbidity and mortality. With improving understanding of viruses and their role in the human endocrine system, further research on this field would be required to explore new targets for prevention and treatment of endocrinopathies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The endocrine system plays a vital role in homeostasis and immunity. Hormones modulate host defenses by strengthening or weakening the body’s immune system, being one of the key determinants of susceptibility of humans for infections. On the other hand, infective agents through different mechanisms may affect endocrine organs, causing endocrinopathies. Viruses are the most abundant form of life on earth, estimate at 10 quintillion (10 31 ) ( 1 , 2 ). They are obligate parasites with single or double-stranded DNA or RNA, infecting a variety of hosts; bacteria, algae, fungi, plants, insects, and vertebrates. Viral infections are common among humans, resulting in diseases which may extend into epidemics. The literature is evolving on viral agents being important pathogens in endocrine disorders. Knowledge about the interplay between viruses and the human endocrine system would expand the understanding of acute and chronic effects of viral disease on the human body. HUMANS VIROME The role of viruses in the human body is diverse. Many viruses have been identified to play an essential part in the human microbiome, with an estimate of 380 trillion viral particles inhabiting the human body. This human virome consists of: 1.
