Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


have been identified to play an essential part in the human microbiome, with an estimate of 380 trillion viral particles inhabiting the human body. This human virome consists of: 1. Human Endogenous Retroviruses (HERV): These viruses are integrated viral genomic material which consists of 8% of the total human genome ( 1 , 3 ). As they are incorporated into the human genome, they are transmitted vertically to offspring. The function of the HERV in the human genome is not known. However, transcription of these genes may produce proteins, which may alter the function of regulatory genes and elicit an immune response (autoimmune diseases) or cell growth (cancers) in the host ( 4 , 5 ). 2. Bacteriophages: These viruses inhabit their bacterial hosts, mainly in the human gut in addition to the skin and oral cavity ( 6 , 7 ). Mostly they show a symbiotic relationship with their host. They may promote health or disease by phage-mediated lysis of pathogenic or commensal bacteria triggered by external factors, thereby controlling bacterial populations and promoting evolutionary advantages to host bacteria (e.g., antibiotic resistance through the transfer of genetic material) 3. Eukaryotic viruses: These viruses infect human cells often resulting in symptomatic diseases or may exist in an asymptomatic carrier state ( 8 ). PATHOGENESIS OF VIRAL INFECTIONS IN HUMANS Being an obligate parasite, viruses need to enter the human cell in order to replicate and complete its life cycle. The first step of viral entry into a host cell involves recognition and binding to host cell specific receptors by viral surface proteins (fusion proteins/ spikes). This specificity determines the host range for a particular virus (e.g. HIV viral surface protein, gp120 specifically interact only with CD4, CCR5, and CXCR4 molecules on T lymphocytes) ( 9 ). Subsequent events are conformational change of fusion proteins and subsequent entry into the cell through endocytosis (e.g. Adenovirus), cell membrane fusion (e.g. HIV) or direct cell to cell contact (virological synapses e.g. HTLV1) ( 10 ). Once the viral DNA or RNA material is inside the host cell, they are incorporated into the host genome and replication of the viral genome and/or transcription of specific proteins will occur. The replicated viral genome gets assembled with viral proteins to produce an increased number of viral particles (virions), which will be released from the infected cell by cell lysis or budding from the host cell. Some
