Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


with viral proteins to produce an increased number of viral particles (virions), which will be released from the infected cell by cell lysis or budding from the host cell. Some viruses undergo a lysogenic cycle where the viral genome is incorporated into a specific location in the host chromosome. This viral genome is known as provirus and mostly remain non-functional within host cells until being activated at some point when the provirus gives rise to active virus which would lead to the cellular death, necrosis, or apoptosis of the host cell ( 9 ). Many changes occur in the infected cell and its surrounding tissues leading to immune modulations. Direct cellular damage could occur in the infected host cell by viral proliferation/replication. Proteins encoded by the viral genome can also modulate cellular functions and cause damage to the infected cell ( 11 ). Further, the virus itself and infected tissues trigger the innate immune system through cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12, TNF-α, IFN-α/β, TGF-β), complements, and natural killer cells ( 12 , 13 ). The resultant immune response can cause inflammation or subsequent damage to the infected cell which may further progress to inflammation and damage of nearby uninfected cells ( 11 , 14 ). Virus induced tissue inflammation increases the production of systemic mediators of inflammation, which may induce a systemic inflammatory condition in the host, affecting many other organs (( 11 , 15 ). Subsequently adaptive immunity develops where the host develops cell mediated immunity (to control disease) and humoral immunity with antibodies (to prevent reinfection) against specific viruses ( 12 ). VIRUS INDUCED ALTERATIONS IN THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM Virus induced changes of endocrine cells and organs can occur in several ways ( 11 ). 1. Activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis indirectly as a result of systemic viral infection and inflammation. 2. Damage to specific endocrine cells by direct viral infection of the cell (through stages of the viral cell cycle). 3. Damage to specific endocrine cells by viral proteins produced within the cell as a result of viral replication within the cell. 4. Damage of virus infected endocrine organs by inflammation through activation of an immune reaction (innate and cell mediated). 5. Damage of uninfected endocrine organs through the systemic immune response as a result of the immune reaction to the viral infection. 6. Damage of uninfected endocrine organs through autoimmune mechanisms/cross reaction of antibodies. 7.
