Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


organs through the systemic immune response as a result of the immune reaction to the viral infection. 6. Damage of uninfected endocrine organs through autoimmune mechanisms/cross reaction of antibodies. 7. Viral gene products may induce an alteration of hormonal activity/ production by endocrine cells. Pituitary Gland HPA AXIS RESPONSE TO VIRAL INFECTIONS Any virus which causes systemic viremia and inflammation may stimulate the HPA axis to release cortisol through early innate proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-α) and late acquired T cell cytokines (INF-ϒ and IL-2) during an acute viral infection ( 16 ). These mediators act on the CRH producing cells of the hypothalamus, corticotrophs in the anterior pituitary as well as on the adrenal cortex to increase glucocorticoids during the illness. Cytokines (IL-1, -2, -4, -7, -8, TNFα and INF-α) are responsible for the expression of glucocorticoid receptors on lymphocytes and neutrophils, enhancing the immune reaction ( 17 ). While the stress hormones norepinephrine and epinephrine mobilize immune cells into the blood stream, epinephrine and cortisol are responsible for enhancing differentiation of specific immune cells and directing the cells to the tissues where they are needed ( 18 - 20 ). On the other hand, elevations in glucocorticoids negatively regulate the immune system to reduce the further production of cytokines (e.g., HSV-1, MCMV, influenza,) and promote switching of cellular immunity to humoral immunity, thus protecting the body from an overactive immune response ( 16 ). The extent of viral induced glucocorticoid production is specific to the virus and the immune response stimulated by the virus; thus, in infections like LCMV clone E350 where no significant inflammation occurs, glucocorticoid production is minimal ( 21 ). However, mouse models with corneal inoculation of HSV-1 virus have shown that even without significant viremia, brainstem infection of HSV-1 can alter the HPA axis stress response through central mediated pathways ( 22 ). ANTERIOR PITUITARY DYSFUNCTION Hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction due to infections remain underestimated ( 23 ). Isolated or multiple anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies had been identified during acute viral illnesses of the central nervous system, especially following viral meningo-encephalitis ( 24 , 25 ). Pituitary dysfunction mainly involves corticotrophin deficiency and hyperprolactinemia and to a lesser extent gonadotrophin, growth hormone, or thyrotrophin deficiencies ( 24 - 27 ). The prevalence of individual deficiencies following viral infections vary among studies. Patterns of hormonal deficiencies following CNS infections depend on the type of causative agent,
