Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


( 24 - 27 ). The prevalence of individual deficiencies following viral infections vary among studies. Patterns of hormonal deficiencies following CNS infections depend on the type of causative agent, the localization of the infection, as well as with the severity of the disease ( 24 ). Partial or complete deficiency of specific hormones may occur depending on the degree of damage ( 28 ). The main mechanisms involved in hypopituitarism with examples are shown in Table 1 . Table 1. Virus Induced Changes in Pituitary Function View in own window Outcome Mechanism Hormone Examples Ref HPA activation Cytokines T cell mediated Cortisol Any virus causing significant inflammation ( 11 , 16 ) Hypopituitarism Hypothalamic involvement CRH, GHRH, TRH, GnRH CMV, VZV, HIV, SARS ( 29 - 32 ) Hypophysitis by direct viral infiltration ACTH, TSH, GH, LH, FSH HSV-1/2, HIV, Hanta, SARS ( 29 , 32 - 36 ) Ischemia/infarction causing apoplexy ACTH, TSH, GH, LH, FSH Hanta, Influenza A ( 33 , 37 ) Hemorrhage to pituitary (Later empty Sella) GH, ACTH, TSH, LH, FSH, Hanta, VZV ( 28 , 38 - 40 ) Antibody mediated hypophysitis ACTH, GH, FSH, LH SARS-COVID 19, Rubella ( 41 , 42 ) Mechanism not identified Coxsackie B5, Influenza A, ( 24 , 43 , 44 ) Hyperprolactinemia Dopaminergic stress response Prolactin ( 52 , 53 ) SIADH Damage to hypothalamic/ stalk / posterior pituitary cells ADH HSV-1, EBV ( 45 - 47 ) Diabetes insipidus Direct viral invasion ADH Hanta, CMV, HSV, Coxackie B1 ( 48 - 51 ) Hypophysitis can occur either early in the acute phase of the infection or at a later stage as a sequela of a CNS infection ( 24 , 25 ). A proportion of patients who have deficiencies in anterior pituitary hormones during the acute phase of a viral infection recover hormonal function, typically within 1 year, indicating the transient nature of the damage in a subset of patients ( 25 , 29 ). Delayed development of pituitary insufficiency can remain asymptomatic or present with vague symptoms. The deficiencies in such case will remain permanent, needing life-long hormonal replacement. If not for a high degree of suspicion, hypopituitarism can be misdiagnosed as the post-encephalic syndrome ( 23 ). Acute viral infections can cause hyperprolactinemia in response to elevated cytokines IL-1, IL-2 and IL-6, which stimulate prolactin production ( 52 ). Further, certain viral infections
