Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


syndrome ( 23 ). Acute viral infections can cause hyperprolactinemia in response to elevated cytokines IL-1, IL-2 and IL-6, which stimulate prolactin production ( 52 ). Further, certain viral infections (e.g., HIV) directly reduce the dopaminergic tone increasing prolactin levels ( 53 ). Macrophages, monocytes, lymphocytes, and natural killer cells possess prolactin receptors. Prolactin binding to these receptors activates downstream signaling pathways that will stimulate immune cell proliferation, differentiation, and survival ( 52 ). Prolactin also antagonizes the immunosuppressive effects of TNF-α and TGF-β ( 54 ). Therefore, elevated prolactin acts as an immunomodulator during acute infections. Although rare, CNS viral infections may also present as an emergency with pituitary apoplexy, precipitating ischemia or bleeding in a normal pituitary gland or a pituitary tumor ( 33 , 37 , 38 , 40 ). Some patients present with the empty sella syndrome following initial hemorrhagic insult to the pituitary, mostly with anterior pituitary hormonal deficiencies. POSTERIOR PITUITARY DYSFUNCTION SIADH is a well-known complication of infections, particularly CNS viral infections with HSV and tick-born infections ( 55 , 56 ). The possible mechanism is cytokines released during inflammation, especially IL-6, causing non-osmotic release of vasopressin from the posterior pituitary ( 57 ). The presence and severity of hyponatremia depends on the infective agent, severity of the infection, and infected foci. Hyponatremia portends a worse prognosis ( 45 ). Direct viral destruction of ADH and oxytocin producing neurons in the hypothalamus, pituitary stork, or posterior pituitary would result in central diabetes insipidus ( 49 ). It is usually associated with anterior pituitary hormone deficiency and is described mainly in immunocompromised patients with encephalitis ( 49 , 58 , 59 ). Thyroid Gland Systemic viral infections may result in alterations of thyroid functions, giving rise to the “Sick Euthyroid syndrome”, “non-thyroidal illness syndrome”, or “Low T3 syndrome”( 60 ). This is characterized by decreased levels of serum T3 and sometimes thyroxine (T4), without an increased secretion of TSH. Mechanisms involved are elevated circulating cytokines, cortisol, and free fatty acids influencing deactivation of deiodinase-1 enzyme (reduces T4 to T3 conversion), activation of deiodinase-3 enzyme (increased conversion of T3 to rT3), down regulation of hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis resulting in normal or low TSH levels despite low T3 levels, and changes in thyroid binding proteins ( 61 ). Direct viral invasion of the thyroid gland with subsequent cytotoxic T-cell mediated inflammation of the gland results in infiltration of
