Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


levels, and changes in thyroid binding proteins ( 61 ). Direct viral invasion of the thyroid gland with subsequent cytotoxic T-cell mediated inflammation of the gland results in infiltration of thyroid follicles with disruption of the basement membrane leading to subacute thyroiditis and the release of thyroid hormones ( 62 ). Presence of viral material had been identified in diseased thyroid glands in certain patients (e.g., mumps) while others show viral IgG antibodies / rise in titers (Mumps, Coxsackie, adeno and influenza) ( 63 , 64 ). However, elevated antibodies to common respiratory tract viruses may be an anamnestic response due to the inflammatory process ( 65 ). Epidemiological data has shown subacute thyroiditis during outbreaks of viral infections and seasonal clustering when viral infections are also commonly seen ( 66 ). Viruses triggering the immune response leading to the development of autoimmune thyroid diseases like Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Grave’s disease has been suggested ( 67 , 68 ). Possible mechanism include ( 69 ); Molecular mimicry: recognizing an epitope on an external antigen TLR activation by virus and heat-shock protein effects Enhanced thyroid expression of human leukocyte antigen molecules The above mechanisms could facilitate the development of antigen-specific adaptive immunity, causing autoimmune thyroiditis ( 68 , 70 ). In Grave’s disease, significant homology had been identified in HIV-1 induced viral Nef-protein and the human TSH receptor, raising the possibility of T cell activation through a viral antigen acting as an autoantigen ( 71 ). Further, EBV infection results in over-expression of HLA antigens, predisposing to immune mediated mechanisms of Grave’s disease ( 72 ). Elevated levels of TBG had been observed in patients with HIV in both stable and ill patients ( 36 ). The mechanism of this finding is unknown but care should be taken in interpreting total T4/T3 levels in patients with HIV. Table 2. Virus Induced Diseases of the Thyroid Gland View in own window Outcome Mechanism Hormone Example Ref Sick euthyroid syndrome Deactivation of deiodiase-1 (through cytokine mediated inflammation) Low T3 Normal or low T4/TSH Any virus causing significant inflammation ( 32 , 61 ) Activation of deiodinase-3 Down regulation of HPT axis Changes in circulating proteins Subacute thyroiditis Direct viral invasion Hyperthyroidism followed by hypothyroidism (mostly reversible within 12 months) Mumps, Coxsackie, adeno, influenza, SARS ( 63 , 64 , 73 ) Autoimmune hypothyroidism Development of adaptive immune system through: Molecular mimicry TLR activation
