Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


varicella-zoster virus), systemic inflammation, or immunomodulation ( 88 ). Although the incidence of diabetes following acute pancreatitis is as high as 23% ( 89 ), the incidence following viral pancreatitis had not been studied. Virus induced autoimmunity appears to be the main mechanism for viral induced type 1 diabetes. However, the role of viruses seems to be more complex. Certain virus infections induce upregulation of MHC class I on β cells, thereby enhancing recognition of β cells by autoreactive CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes, thus inducing autoimmunity ( 90 ). However, some virus strains (LCMV, CVB) reduce the incidence or delay the onset of type 1 diabetes, probably through a TLR mediated mechanism ( 90 ). Whether inductive or protective autoimmunity depends on several factors; level of infection (more severe infections enhance diabetes while low-replicating strains of the same infection seem protective), genetic predisposition, presence of other detrimental environmental triggering factors like viruses, and direct β-cell toxins ( 91 ). Adding to the complexity, research on the intestinal virome has shown that certain changes in the intestinal virome precede autoimmunity, especially in developing type 1 diabetes in genetically susceptible people ( 92 ). To-date, literature support viral infection (e.g. enterovirus, influenza virus, cytomegalovirus, mumps, rubella, rotavirus, and coxsackie virus) mediated autoimmune destruction of beta-cells through molecular mimicry or activating cross-reactive T cells as one of the potential mechanisms for the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes ( 93 ). Adrenal Glands Primary adrenal insufficiency is a well-known consequence of certain viral infections. Common pathological mechanisms are direct viral invasion causing adrenalitis, adrenal hypofunction due to immunological impact from systemic inflammatory response, and viral-induced autoimmune destruction of the adrenal gland ( 94 ). Although less frequent, adrenal glands can be infected in early HSV-1 and -2 infections irrespective of the immune status of the host, with the adrenal gland having the highest number of viral particles of any organ ( 95 ). SARS-COVID 19 virus also affects the adrenals by direct cytopathic effects by the virus or due to the systemic inflammatory response ( 96 ). Antibody mediated adrenal insufficiency is also seen in SARS viral infection by producing molecular mimics to ACTH. Antibodies to the viral peptides bind both viral protein and host ACTH, may destroy ACTH or reduce the functionality of the hormone, thus reducing the ability of ACTH to induce cortisol production ( 97 ). More severe forms of adrenal
