Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


host ACTH, may destroy ACTH or reduce the functionality of the hormone, thus reducing the ability of ACTH to induce cortisol production ( 97 ). More severe forms of adrenal disruption (usually bilateral) are seen in less common fulminant viral infections; H5N1 avian influenza causing multifocal necrosis of adrenal cells ( 98 ), filoviruses (e.g. Ebola) giving rise to liquefaction of the adrenals ( 99 ). Further, immunosuppression has been identified as a predisposing factor for severe adrenal infections. Echoviruses serotypes 6 and 11 which cause lethal disseminated intravascular coagulation in children can affect the adrenals with hemorrhagic necrosis ( 100 ). CMV adrenalitis had been reported in more than half of the patients with AIDS, with or without evidence of CMV viremia ( 101 , 102 ). Adrenal glands are the most commonly affected endocrine organ by HIV infection ( 103 , 104 ). Early stages of HIV result in a rise in cortisol secretion, as an adaptive response to a stressor. In some patients, this rise in cortisol levels may precipitate reactivation of EBV. During the latter stages, adrenal ‘burnout’, direct viral infection, co-infection by opportunistic microbes (viral – CMV, bacterial, fungal), anti-adrenal cell antibodies (unique to HIV infection), and increased peripheral cortisol resistance may lead to progression to overt adrenal failure ( 105 - 107 ). An autopsy series has shown the adrenal gland to be pathologically compromised in 99.2% of cases of patients with AIDS, highlighting the degree of damage in immunocompromised state ( 108 ). Some adrenal neoplasms have a viral etiological relationship, particularly in HIV infected people; EBV associated lymphoma of the adrenal gland and AIDS-associated neoplasms (e.g. Kaposi sarcoma from HHV-8, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma) ( 109 ). Gonads TESTES Viruses are well known to cause orchitis, both unilateral and bilateral, as a consequence of a systemic viral infection. Mumps virus is the commonest viral infection affecting the testes, being the most common complication of mumps in post-pubertal men ( 110 ). Virus attacks the testicular tissues, leading to an innate immune response, inflammation, and perivascular intestinal lymphocyte infiltration. Resultant swelling exert pressure on intratesticular tissues and leads to testicular atrophy ( 111 , 112 ). In addition to having varying degrees of hypogonadism, viral infection leads to subfertility; transient changes in sperm count, mobility, and morphology of fertility in unilateral disease while 30 – 87% having infertility due to oligo-asthenospermia in bilateral disease (
