Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


infection leads to subfertility; transient changes in sperm count, mobility, and morphology of fertility in unilateral disease while 30 – 87% having infertility due to oligo-asthenospermia in bilateral disease ( 113 ). Other viruses have also been identified to cause direct testicular damage including coxsackievirus, varicella, echovirus, Hep E, Zika virus, and cytomegalovirus, leading to varying degree of testicular damage but to a lesser extent than mumps virus ( 114 - 116 ). Certain viruses have also been detected in semen (e.g., Zika, Ebola, HIV, Hep B, Herpes and SARS-COV) and within spermatozoa (e.g., HIV, Hep B and Zika) of infected patients ( 117 , 118 ). Although some of these could contribute to vertical transmission as well as affect fertility, the role of the viruses needs to be clarified with further research ( 119 , 120 ). HIV infects the testis early during the course of the disease, targeting testicular leucocytes and germ cells, but is not associated with any apparent morphological changes ( 121 ). Viral infection of the germ cells is important in vertical transmission of the disease. Further, HIV-2 and SIV but not HIV-1 are known to damage Leydig cells and reduce testosterone levels ( 122 ). HIV/AIDS also make the testes more susceptible for opportunistic infections like CMV, EBV and TB ( 123 ). Some evidence has emerged for an oncogenic effect of HIV and EBV infection on human testis but further research is needed ( 124 ). Although viral orchitis induces humoral immune response and result in anti-sperm antibodies, their causal link to subfertility or hypogonadism is unclear ( 110 , 125 ). OVARIES Viruses affect ovaries through similar mechanisms as the testes; direct invasion and innate immune mediated oophoritis, resulting in changes in estrogen/progesterone to cause varying degrees of hypogonadism as well as affect fertility ( 126 , 127 ). Mumps, Zika, HIV, and CMV viruses have been documented in the literature as common viral culprits affecting the ovaries and the clinical manifestations range from being silent infections to oophoritis resulting in premature menopause ( 126 - 128 ). Further, some viruses (e.g. CMV) had been implicated in ovarian carcinogenesis but further studies need to clarify the exact causal effect and pathogenesis ( 129 ). Viral Protein Mediated Modulation of Hormone System New insights have shown that the viral genomes can produce viral peptide sequences that possess homology with human hormones, growth factors,
