Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


129 ). Viral Protein Mediated Modulation of Hormone System New insights have shown that the viral genomes can produce viral peptide sequences that possess homology with human hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. Such viruses may affect human physiology not by infecting and damaging tissues nor by eliciting immune responses but by producing molecules which mimic the action of functional molecules. Recent research pointed out that viruses belonging to Iridoviridae family, which commonly infect fish, but have been also identified in the human virome (blood and feces), produce viral insulin like peptide (VILP), which has homology to human insulin/ IGF-1 ( 130 ). These VILPs could compete with endogenous ligands, stimulate or impair post receptor signaling in an autocrine, paracrine, and endocrine basis. They bind to human receptors and stimulate downstream signaling, increase glucose uptake by adipocytes in vitro and in vivo, and stimulate cell proliferation and growth, but less potently than human insulin/IGF-1 (130-132). The role of VILPs are not fully understood and further research is needed to explore the links between VILP and T1DM, insulin resistance, and certain neoplastic growths in association with viral infections. Other “viral hormones” have also been identified, with structural and/or functional homology to human hormones including IGF-1 and IGF-2, endothelin-1 (ET1), endothelin-2, TGF-β1 and TGF-β2, fibroblast growth factors 19 and 21, inhibin, adiponectin, resistin, adipsin, and irisin in various viruses ( 132 ). However, their exact role in altering human physiology in a beneficial or harmful manner is yet to be identified. Certain virus genome encoded proteins may alter the human genomic expression of particular hormones. A classic example is HTLV-1 infected cells producing PTHrP causing hypercalcemia by trans-activation of the PTHrP gene through the TAX viral gene product ( 133 ). Certain viral products act at the cellular receptor/post receptor level, resulting in alterations of intracellular hormonal signaling pathways. HIV-1 related Vpr and Tat protein may induce hypersensitivity of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) resulting in lipodystrophy and insulin resistance ( 134 ). A similar mechanism is suggested for Paget’s disease, where there is a possible mumps viral peptide (Nucleocapsid transcript) induced hypersensitivity of osteoclastic receptors to vitamin D ( 135 ). Inactivation of hormone receptor / post receptor signaling may be seen with some viruses; RSV protein miR-29a down regulates GR receptors ( 136 ); poxvirus MCV MC013L protein induces inhibition of glucocorticoid nuclear receptor transactivation ( 137 ), and E1A protein produced
