Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


some viruses; RSV protein miR-29a down regulates GR receptors ( 136 ); poxvirus MCV MC013L protein induces inhibition of glucocorticoid nuclear receptor transactivation ( 137 ), and E1A protein produced by Adenovirus blocks the action of glucocorticoids on transcription activity genes ( 138 ) resulting in resistance to glucocorticoids. As illustrated by the above examples, viral encoded proteins may affect the human endocrine system through alteration of endocrine signaling systems. VIRAL INFECTIONS AS A COMPLICATION OF ENDOCRINE DISEASES HPA Axis Patients with untreated or undertreated adrenal insufficiency are at a higher risk of infections as well as 5-fold higher mortality from infection compared to the normal population ( 139 , 140 ). Impaired innate immune function, especially with lower natural killer cells among patients with adrenal insufficiency has the potential to make them more susceptible to invading pathogens and cause a higher rate of death following viral infections ( 141 - 143 ). On the other hand, among patients with undiagnosed glucocorticoid deficiency, the initial HPA axis response to increase the level of glucocorticoids in response to the immune mediators will be altered, hence appropriate shaping of the downstream immune response will not take place. This may result in overactive immune response to the viral infections, affecting mortality and morbidity. Replacement regimes which restore physiological glucocorticoid secretion patterns have been shown to reduce susceptibility to infections as well as to improve mortality among patients with adrenal insufficiency ( 144 ). Therefore, appropriate steroid treatment regimens should be employed in patients with deficiencies in the HPA axis depending on their clinical state (Doubling steroid dose in mild viral infections, up to 200mg/24-hours hydrocortisone in moderate-severe viral infections) ( 145 ). Stress induced hypercortisolemia and elevated epinephrine levels, which occur as a physiological mechanism, could mediate latent viral reactivation (HSV, EBV, VZV) through IL-6 mediated pathways, precipitating viral infections ( 146 - 148 ). However, the level of stress may also determine the threshold for reactivation (e.g. low stress levels precipitating VZV, high stress levels precipitate an increase in HSV-1 DNA load) ( 148 ). Viral infections have an increased prevalence and more severe disease course among patients who are immunosuppressed compared to the general population ( 149 ). Cushing’s syndrome or over treatment with steroids impair immune function and are considered as an immunocompromised state with high susceptibility for severe viral infections. Further, the high glucocorticoid levels may mask the initial
