Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


over treatment with steroids impair immune function and are considered as an immunocompromised state with high susceptibility for severe viral infections. Further, the high glucocorticoid levels may mask the initial symptoms of viral infection, delaying medical treatment and would lead to a clinical course which is more difficult to predict than in the normal population ( 150 , 151 ). In addition, concordant viral infection may precipitate adrenal crisis in patients on glucocorticoid replacement therapy, which adds to the increased mortality from viral illness ( 139 ). Pituitary HYPOPITUITARISM Several anterior pituitary hormones have immunoregulatory roles ( 152 ). GH, PRL, TSH, and gonadotrophins show stimulatory effects on immune cells while gonadal steroids tend to suppress immune mechanisms ( 153 - 156 ). Patients with multiple deficiencies of anterior pituitary hormones would therefore have variable alterations in their immune systems and show an increased susceptibility for infections and an increased tendency to develop serious infections ( 157 ). HYPERPROLACTINEMIA Elevated prolactin levels act as immunomodulators and enhance the host innate and adaptive immune system. Thus, prolactin may protect the host from viral infections as well as help in containing viral infections ( 52 - 54 ). Thyroid Gland Thyroidal diseases have not been shown to increase the susceptibility to viral infections. Parathyroid Glands HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Several in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated the immunomodulatory effect of parathyroid hormone. PTH receptors had been identified on cells involved in immune pathways, including neutrophils and B and T lymphocytes ( 158 ). In patients with CKD and secondary hyperparathyroidism, elevated PTH has been shown to affect immune cells causing impaired migration, reduced phagocytic and bactericidal activity, and inhibited granulocyte chemotaxis ( 159 , 160 ). T and B lymphocyte proliferation and antibody production are also affected by PTH. Thus, PTH may reduce the host response to viral infections and increase the susceptibility for severe viral infections ( 159 ). Gonads Gender had been one of the key epidemiological factors determining the prevalence and intensity of human viral infections, with men tending to be more susceptible ( 161 ). It was shown that females mount a stronger innate and adaptive immune response than males, giving rise to the above differences ( 162 ). Rodent studies had demonstrated that in addition to the influence of the sex chromosomes on immune cells, sex hormones also account for this difference through their effects on the immune
