Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


Rodent studies had demonstrated that in addition to the influence of the sex chromosomes on immune cells, sex hormones also account for this difference through their effects on the immune systems by influencing cell signaling pathways resulting in differential production of cytokines / chemokines and also enhancing T-cell populations and adaptive immune systems through receptors on immune cells ( 163 - 165 ). Low testosterone levels negatively impact the outcome of certain viral infections. Low levels seen in elderly men and in young men with hypogonadism result in higher morbidity and a worse clinical course following certain viral infections (e.g. Influenza) and antibody response is reduced compared to young healthy males ( 166 ). Furthermore, treatment with testosterone has been shown to reduce mortality and improve disease course in both young and elderly males with hypogonadism ( 166 ). These changes were mainly due to alterations in the immune response by testosterone receptor mediated leukocyte contraction to limit inflammation (monocytes, CD8+ T cells, degranulation and reduced cytokine production) rather than limiting viral replication ( 165 , 167 ). Estrogen acts as a potent anti-inflammatory hormone that reduces the severity of viral infections such as the influenza virus. Estrogen alters the production of chemokines, target organ recruitment of neutrophils, and cytokine responses of virus-specific CD8 T cells to protect against severe influenza ( 168 ). Estrogen shows bipotential effects; small or cyclical amounts enhancing proinflammatory cytokine responses and high or sustained circulating levels reducing production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines ( 169 ). Female hypogonadism in the form of natural menopause or pathological hypogonadism in young women has been shown to increase susceptibility for viral infections while the use of hormonal replacement therapy or estrogen replacement has reduced viral infections and hospital admissions ( 170 ). Diabetes Chronic hyperglycemia is known to be associated with altered innate immune response with reduced chemotaxis, phagocytosis, killing by polymorphonuclear cells and monocytes/macrophages, a reduced response of T cells, reduced neutrophil function, and varying disorders of humoral immunity ( 171 ). These defects in immune response predisposes patients with diabetes, especially individuals with poor glycemic control, to different viral infections as well as results in a more severe disease ( 172 ). Respiratory viruses like influenza are known to affect patients with diabetes commonly and have a sixfold higher risk of hospitalization compared to non-diabetics ( 173 ). Further, SARS-CoV-2 virus also tends to result
