Infections in Endocrinology: Viruses
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viral, free, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, infections, article pubmed, infection, virus, immune, human, journal, viral infections


influenza are known to affect patients with diabetes commonly and have a sixfold higher risk of hospitalization compared to non-diabetics ( 173 ). Further, SARS-CoV-2 virus also tends to result in more severe infections in patients with poorly controlled diabetes ( 174 ). ENDOCRINE PARAMETERS AS MARKERS OF SEVERE VIRAL INFECTION Severe systemic viral infections tend to cause changes in thyroid profile, which is known as Non-Thyroidal Illness (NTI)/ Sick Euthyroid syndrome. Classic changes in the thyroid profile are low T3 and normal/low TSH and fT4 levels. Low T3 levels and the presence of NTI has been associated with severe viral infections and poor outcomes in several viral infections (e.g., CNS viral infections, SARS-Cov-2) ( 60 , 175 ). Among many other markers of disease severity, low serum calcium level is also a predictor for severe disease and worse clinical outcome among patients with Dengue and SARS-COV-2 infections ( 82 , 176 , 177 ). The above markers could be used in addition to the usual clinical parameters for assessment and prediction of disease severity and prognosis. COVID-19 AND THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus has spread across the globe rapidly since the end of 2019 (Corona virus disease 2019; COVID-19), causing an unprecedented pandemic with significant mortality and morbidity. Because of the novelty of the disease, the possible impact on the endocrine system is not fully understood. However, emerging evidence support that COVID-19 has significant effects on the endocrine system. Additionally, patients with certain endocrinopathies face a worse outcome from COVID-19 infections. SARS-CoV-2 virus uses the host angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as the receptor for fusion and entry into human cells in order to complete its life cycle ( 178 ). Lung is the principal target of COVID-19 virus due to an abundancy of ACE2 receptors and is responsible for the main symptoms of the disease but many endocrine organs (hypothalamus, pituitary, thyroid, pancreas, adrenals, gonads) also express ACE2 receptors abundantly and this predisposes viral entry into endocrine organs and subsequent viral induced changes ( 179 , 180 ). Possible pathogenic mechanisms are direct viral entry and destruction of cells, inflammation induced cellular dysfunction, and immune/antibody mediated hormonal dysfunction. COVID-19 and Endocrinopathies Data on the impact of COVID-19 infections on endocrine organs are emerging. Previous SARS viral infection outbreaks have revealed a spectrum of endocrinopathies which span from asymptomatic disease to gross hypofunction of
