Endovascular closure of atrial septal defect
KEYWORDS: defect, septal, atrial septal, atrial, procedure, patients, septal defect, device, closure, cardiac, atrium, endovascular, right, stroke, usually


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of endovascular closure of atrial septal defect appears adequate to support the use of this procedure provided that the normal arrangements are in place for consent, audit and clinical governance. 1.2 The procedure should be performed in units where there are arrangements for cardiac surgical support in the event of complications. 1.3 The National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research runs the UK Central Cardiac Audit Database (UKCCAD) and clinicians are encouraged to enter all patients into this database. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 An atrial septal defect is the persistence of a hole (the foramen ovale) in the wall (septum) between the right atrium and left atrium of the heart. The foramen ovale usually closes spontaneously after birth; an atrial septal defect is present when this closure does not occur. In the most common type, called an ostium secundum atrial septal defect, the septum between the atria fails to form properly during foetal development, resulting in a permanent hole. An atrial septal defect allows blood to flow from the left atrium to the right atrium, thereby increasing the flow of blood to the lungs. This is known as a shunt. Patients with atrial septal defects are usually asymptomatic through infancy and childhood. Symptoms such as exertional dyspnoea, fatigue, palpitations and syncope can occur and increasing age carries a higher risk of stroke. Some patients may develop congestive heart failure. 2.1.2 Not all atrial septal defects require treatment, but it is generally agreed that larger defects and those associated with either symptoms or significant enlargement of the heart should be closed electively. Conventional surgery for atrial septal defect is performed through an incision in the front of the chest. After establishing cardiopulmonary bypass, the right atrium is opened to gain access to the interatrial septum. The defect is then repaired using a patch or stitches. Patients usually stay in hospital for several days after the operation. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Endovascular closure of an atrial septal defect involves making a small incision in the groin to introduce a guidewire and delivery sheath into the femoral vein. An occluder device is then introduced through the delivery sheath on a semi-rigid cable and expanded within the atrial septal defect to close it. Echocardiography and fluoroscopic guidance are used to determine the size and position of the defect and to place
