Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide. Statement 2 Adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Statement 3 Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Statement 4 Adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Statement 5 Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Statement 6 Adults with acute heart failure have a follow-up clinical assessment by a member of the community- or hospital-based specialist heart failure team within 2 weeks of hospital discharge. Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 1: Single measurement of natriuretic peptide Quality statement Adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide. Rationale Natriuretic peptide testing (B-type natriuretic peptide [BNP] or N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide [NT-proBNP]) is an important tool for rapidly assessing adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure. It can be used to rule out a diagnosis of heart failure or to see if further investigation with echocardiography is needed. It can save time and distress for the adult presenting with new suspected acute heart failure. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure who have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide. Acute heart failure (QS103) Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide. Denominator – the number of presentations of adults to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit
