Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


of adults to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Proportion of hospitals that use appropriate assay thresholds of plasma BNP less than 100 ng/litre and plasma NT-proBNP less than 300 ng/litre. Numerator – the number in the denominator that use appropriate assay thresholds of plasma BNP less than 100 ng/litre and plasma NT-proBNP less than 300 ng/litre. Denominator – the number of hospitals in England to which people may present with suspected acute heart failure. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Mortality rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Length of stay. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. c) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Acute heart failure (QS103) What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that adults presenting to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide that is undertaken by the cardiac team to rule out a diagnosis of heart failure. Also, hospitals in England to which people may present with suspected acute heart failure ensure they use appropriate assay thresholds of plasma BNP less than 100 ng/litre and plasma NT-proBNP less than 300 ng/litre. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide on presentation to hospital to rule out a diagnosis of heart failure. Commissioners ensure that adults with new suspected acute heart failure have a single measurement of natriuretic peptide on presentation to hospital to rule out a diagnosis of heart failure. Adults presenting at hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have their natriuretic peptide (also known as BNP or NT-proBNP) level in their blood measured. This test is a quick way for doctors to find out whether the person is likely to have heart failure or if they need further assessment to see if their symptoms are caused by something else. Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187 (2014), recommendation 1.2.2 (key priority for implementation)
