Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


further assessment to see if their symptoms are caused by something else. Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187 (2014), recommendation 1.2.2 (key priority for implementation) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Natriuretic peptide A protein substance secreted by the wall of the heart when it is stretched or under increased pressure. It has several forms and its level can be raised in a number of conditions, including heart failure. A normal natriuretic peptide level means that heart failure is unlikely, and its measurement can be used to exclude a diagnosis of heart failure. Acute heart failure (QS103) [Adapted from NICE's full guideline on acute heart failure] Appropriate assay thresholds of plasma BNP to assist in ruling out the diagnosis of heart failure • Plasma BNP less than 100 ng/litre • Plasma NT-proBNP less than 300 ng/litre. [Adapted from NICE's full guideline on acute heart failure] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 2: Transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiography Quality statement Adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Rationale Performing a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of hospital admission for adults with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels will enable earlier diagnosis and appropriate management in terms of pharmacological treatment, location of care and relevant input from the specialist heart failure team. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and Acute heart failure (QS103) raised natriuretic peptide levels who have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Denominator – the number of hospital episodes of adults with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Mortality rates.
