Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


admission. Denominator – the number of hospital episodes of adults with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Mortality rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Length of stay. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. c) Incidence of adverse events (withdrawal of beta-blockers and other disease-modifying drugs). Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. d) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Acute heart failure (QS103) What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac and radiology services) ensure that adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Commissioners ensure that adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure and raised natriuretic peptide levels have a transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission. Adults admitted to hospital with new suspected acute heart failure have their natriuretic peptide levels (also known as BNP or NT-proBNP) in their blood measured. If the level is raised, they have an echocardiogram within 48 hours of admission to help find out if there is something wrong with their heart. Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187, recommendations 1.2.3 (key priority for implementation) and 1.2.4 (key priority for implementation) Definition of terms used in this quality statement Transthoracic doppler 2D echocardiogram An echocardiogram is a test that uses ultrasound waves to measure the pumping action and structure of the heart, including the heart valves. A probe is moved over the surface of the chest and picks up echoes of sound (similar to an ultrasound scan used in pregnancy), which are shown as a picture on a screen. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on acute heart failure information for the public] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 3: Organisation
