Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


pregnancy), which are shown as a picture on a screen. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on acute heart failure information for the public] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 3: Organisation of care – early specialist input Quality statement Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Rationale A dedicated specialist heart failure team with early involvement is important for cost-effective care. It can also positively contribute to rapid diagnosis, reduced readmissions and better quality of life. Ongoing input of the dedicated specialist heart failure team will also help to ensure appropriate care and make subsequent readmission less likely. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure who have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Acute heart failure (QS103) Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Denominator – the number of adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Outcome a) Mortality rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Commissioners ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours
