Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Commissioners ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have input within 24 hours of admission from a dedicated specialist heart failure team. Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure have contact with a team within 24 hours of admission that specialises in treating heart failure and that is involved in their early care. Acute heart failure (QS103) Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187, recommendation 1.1.2 (key priority for implementation) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Input within 24 hours of hospital admission Review and address the needs of acute heart failure patients within 24 hours of hospital admission. [Expert consensus] Dedicated specialist heart failure team This specialist inpatient team includes doctors, nurses (including heart failure specialist nurses), pharmacists, physiotherapists and psychologists, and has access to a palliative care specialist and other expertise as required. The team is led by a consultant specialist with a sub-speciality interest in heart failure. This team is based on a cardiology ward but also provides outreach services to heart failure patients on all other wards within the hospital. It is also part of a broader multidisciplinary specialist team working across primary and secondary care, as outlined by NICE guidance. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure and expert consensus] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 4: Starting or continuing beta-blocker treatment Quality statement Adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Rationale In-hospital introduction of beta-blockers is associated with increased use of beta-blockers at follow-up and better long-term outcomes such as fewer adverse events and reduced mortality. Also, it is important that beta-blocker treatment is continued for adults who are already taking it. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Process
