Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Process a) Proportion of adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction who are started on beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Acute heart failure (QS103) Numerator – the number in the denominator who are started on beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Denominator – the number of hospital admissions of adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction in which the patient is not already taking a beta-blocker. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction who continue with beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Numerator – the number in the denominator who continue beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Denominator – the number of hospital admissions of adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Mortality rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. c) Incidence of adverse events (withdrawal of beta-blockers and other disease-modifying drugs). Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Acute heart failure (QS103) d) Beta-blocker use at follow-up. Data source: Local data collection. e) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Commissioners ensure that adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction (known as LVSD, where the pumping chamber
