Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


are started on, or continue with, beta-blocker treatment during their hospital admission. Adults with acute heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction (known as LVSD, where the pumping chamber of the heart is not pumping well) start or continue beta-blockers while they are in hospital. Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187, recommendation 1.5.2 (key priority for implementation) Acute heart failure (QS103) Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Beta-blocker Treatment for heart failure, heart rhythm disturbances, angina and heart attacks, and high blood pressure. [Adapted from NICE's full guideline on acute heart failure] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 5: Drug therapy Quality statement Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Rationale Early initiation of ACE inhibitors and aldosterone antagonists for adults with acute heart failure is positively associated with improved outcomes such as lower mortality and readmission rates. If the ACE inhibitor has intolerable side effects, an angiotensin receptor blocker will be offered. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Process Proportion of new hospital admissions for adults with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction when an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist are Acute heart failure (QS103) offered. Numerator – the number in the denominator treated with an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Denominator – the number of new hospital admissions for adults with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Mortality rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. b) Readmission rates. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service
