Acute heart failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, data, acute heart, acute, hospital, adults, national, source, local, statement, quality, local data, source local


Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (cardiac service providers) ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Commissioners ensure that adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an ACE inhibitor and an aldosterone antagonist. Acute heart failure (QS103) Adults admitted to hospital with acute heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction are offered an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (also known as an ACE inhibitor) and an aldosterone antagonist. Source guidance Acute heart failure: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG187, recommendation 1.5.4 (key priority for implementation) Definition of terms used in this quality statement Reduced left ventricular ejection fraction The fraction of blood that is pumped out from the left ventricle during each heartbeat. In healthy people it is typically at least 55%. It is reduced in systolic heart failure. [Expert consensus] Acute heart failure (QS103) Quality statement 6: Follow-up clinical assessment Quality statement Adults with acute heart failure have a follow-up clinical assessment by a member of the community- or hospital-based specialist heart failure team within 2 weeks of hospital discharge. Rationale It is important that adults with acute heart failure have early specialist heart failure follow-up by a member of the community- or hospital-based specialist heart failure team within 2 weeks of hospital discharge to reduce early readmissions, achieve better long-term outcomes and improve their quality of life. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with acute heart failure have a follow-up clinical assessment by a member of the community- or hospital-based specialist heart failure team within 2 weeks of hospital discharge. Data source: Local data collection. National data are collected in the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research heart failure audit 2012/13. Process Proportion of adults with acute heart failure
