Cardiac stress test
KEYWORDS: stress, heart, coronary, test, methods, disease, testing, cardiac, plaques, stenosis, vulnerable, stress test, artery, risk, attacks


or so, newer approaches in research, have increasingly focused on IMT to detect plaque at earlier stages of progression, before the artery lumen becomes severely stenosed, or compromised. So the major limitation of the stress test approach, is that it needs a high grade stenosis as an indicator of heart attack risk. High grade stenosis, while being a good indicator of advanced arterial disease, is not the major cause for the majority of heart attacks. This issue is also reflected OK 1/8 in the results of the COURAGE trial[1], which demonstrated that "intensive pharmacologic therapy and lifestyle intervention", which they called "Optimal Medical Therapy" (not opening stenoses with Angioplasty, per-se) produced the more effective results in survival and quality of life. narrowings are typically the primary culprit responsible for those angina episodes which reproducibly occur at a given level of exercise. However, most heart attacks result from rupture of atheroma lesions associated with only mild narrowing (20% on average by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) clinical studies), thus stress tests do not work well for detecting the vulnerable plaques which are responsible for most heart attacks. Like all tests, stress testing has problems with both falsely positive and falsely negative results compared with other clinical tests. Angiogram and/or intracoronary ultrasound (preferably in a hospital capable of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [PCI] with stenting) can provide even greater information, but at the risk of complications associated with cardiac catheterization. Variations Some patients with abnormal resting EKGs, or those who are unable to walk safely, can be "exercised" pharmacologically instead of walking on a treadmill. The patient will typically receive a pharmaceutical such as dipyridamole or adenosine (both vasodilators) or dobutamine (stimulates heart rate and pumping force) while a cardiologist or physician assistant reviews the electrocardiogram (EKG) tracing and checks blood pressure periodically. A radiotracer (typically Technetium-99m sestamibi, Technetium-99m tetrofosmin, or Thallium- 201) is injected at peak exertion. After a suitable waiting period, pictures are taken with a gamma camera. The pictures can then be compared with the patient's resting images in order to assess the status of the patient's coronary arteries. Diagnostic value The American Heart Association journal, Circulation, describes: Treadmill test: sensitivity of 67%, specificity of 70% Nuclear test: sensitivity of 81%, specificity of 85-95% However, these numbers reference detection of advanced artery luminal narrowing as assessed by stress methods compared with angiography as the "gold standard". As a predictor of future heart
