Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


ABSTRACT In tropical countries like India, there are several reports of a unique form of diabetes called fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes (FCPD). In majority of the cases, FCPD occurs in young, lean individuals with diabetes, abdominal pain, and steatorrhea. Diabetes is typically ketosis resistant. Recent studies have shown that a proportion of the cases may have genetic factors and gene mutations that confer the risk of developing the disease. Recent studies have suggested a changing profile of the disease which could also be present in older individuals having a normal body mass index and better survival perhaps attributable to better exocrine and endocrine (diabetes) care being offered to people with FCPD. The management of exocrine insufficiency is by the same standards as in any other cause of chronic pancreatitis, and the same is true for diabetes management except for the need of insulin therapy in most cases. The most distinguishing and worrying feature of FCPD is the higher risk of developing pancreatic cancer for which vigilance is paramount. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION It is well known that diabetes in tropical and developing countries is different from that seen in the Western World. For example, people with diabetes in India are leaner, develop diabetes earlier than their counterparts, making the distinction between insulin deficient type 1 and insulin resistant type 2 diabetes challenging ( 1 , 2 ). In addition, some people with lean type diabetes in India could have a latent autoimmune diabetes of the adult ( 3 ). In earlier times, the leanness was attributable to factors like malnutrition ( 4 ), which has become less frequent over the years with increasing improvement in nutritional status in the Indian population, though not uniform ( 5 ). Type 2 diabetes in India has become associated with the “thin-fat” Indian concept, which describes the presence of visceral adiposity in thinly built persons, although not all lean diabetes in India conforms to this phenotype ( 2 , 6 ,). Another distinct subtype of diabetes seen with leanness in this population was eventually termed fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes (FCPD) ( 7 ). It is included in the current WHO classification of Diabetes Mellitus of 2019 as a subtype within ‘other specific types of Diabetes’ ( 8 ). This form of diabetes typically occurs in young people, in people with a low
