Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


Diabetes Mellitus of 2019 as a subtype within ‘other specific types of Diabetes’ ( 8 ). This form of diabetes typically occurs in young people, in people with a low body mass index (BMI), and with clinical features of malnutrition. It is unique because of structural changes identified in the pancreas described below and the associated pancreatic dysfunction. Before the onset of diabetes, there is a pre-diabetic phase of pancreatic damage referred to as tropical chronic pancreatitis, a term indicating its geographical association with tropical countries such as India. This article will discuss the unique nature of FCPD, its pathogenesis, the changing clinical spectrum and aspects of managing the condition. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND HISTORICAL ASPECTS In 1959, Zudeima reported a series of patients, particularly in the lower socioeconomic groups, with features of undernutrition and presence of pancreatic calculi ( 9 ). However, it was the disease-characterization work of Dr Geevarghese a decade later that the disease became known worldwide as such ( 10 ), with several Indian states adding to the description over subsequent decades ( 11 , 12 , 13 ). India, Brazil, Thailand, and other tropical countries published observations similar to those reported by Zudeima over the next four decades ( 14 , 15 ). Early reports indicated FCPD to be an important cause of diabetes in young, lean individuals with features of malnutrition. In 2008, a national prospective study involving 32 Centers across various regions of India established a comprehensive database of patients with chronic pancreatitis which yielded significant insight into the clinical profile FCPD at the time ( 16 ). The disease profile of FCPD appeared to overlap with idiopathic pancreatitis, and that leanness and malnutrition were not integral to chronic pancreatitis, perhaps reflecting improved treatment of the condition. These changes were substantiated in subsequent reports ( 17 , 18 ). More recent reports indicate that FCPD accounts for only a small proportion of people with young-onset diabetes ( 19 ). The life expectancy of people with chronic pancreatitis has increased compared to that in the past, though not yet returned to normal ( 20 ). It is universal knowledge that longer duration of, particularly uncontrolled, hyperglycemia leads to microvascular complications. Hence, with improved overall care, diabetes complications have been known to occur in patients with FCPD ( 21 ), though macrovascular complications are thought to be rare. PATHOGENESIS The exact pathogenesis of FCPD is unclear with
