Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


complications have been known to occur in patients with FCPD ( 21 ), though macrovascular complications are thought to be rare. PATHOGENESIS The exact pathogenesis of FCPD is unclear with oxidative stress, micronutrient deficiency, dietary toxins, and autoimmunity implicated inconclusively. A disbalance between the oxidative stress and antioxidant responses in the body has been postulated in FCPD based on reduced levels of antioxidant markers found with heightened oxidative stress markers ( 22 ). The consumption of cassava being linked pathogenetically to FCPD ( 23 ) was later proved to be of doubtful significance ( 24 ). While malnutrition is associated with FCPD, later reports indicate it to be a consequence rather than cause of FCPD ( 13 ). Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) associations as part of genetic susceptibility studies were inconclusive. Altered expression of genes such as serum protease inhibitor Kazal type 1 (SPINK1), cationic trypsinogen (PRSS1), anionic trypsinogen (PRSS2), and chymotrypsinogen C have been noted in FCPD and in the Indian population, the N34S variant of the SPINK gene appears to confer susceptibility in 33% ( 25 ). Two hit model with the first step being alteration of genes leading to supertrypsin formation in the acinar cells of pancreas, followed by a second hit involving unidentified genes leading to gross structural changes within the gland and/or manifestation of disease was proposed as a more plausible phenomenon over a decade ago ( 26 ). In summary, a multitude of pathogenetic mechanisms for FCPD has been proposed based mostly on earlier evidence from a time when the disease was reportedly more prevalent, neither one of which alone may play a singular role and that a complex interaction, most likely of gene-environment, underlies disease evolution. TABLE 1. PATHOPHYSIOLOGICAL FACTORS POSTULATED IN THE ETIO-PATHOGENESIS OF FCPD View in own window Genes Identified In FCPD Serum protease inhibitor Kazal type 1 (SPINK1)- especially N34S mutation Cationic trypsinogen (PRSS1) Anionic trypsinogen (PRSS2) Chymotrypsinogen C Factors Implicated With Inconclusive Evidence Toxins e.g. Cassava consumption Imbalance of oxidative stress and antioxidants Malnutrition Proposed Two-Hit Model First hit: genetic mutation leading to alteration in pancreatic acinar cells Second hit: unidentified genes leading to disease manifestation PATHOLOGY OF DIABETES IN FCPD While early evidence supported reduced mass and insulin secretion by beta cells, insulin resistance has been recognized to play a role in the pathogenesis of diabetes in FCPD. Both basal insulin secretion and stimulated insulin levels in response
