Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


secretion by beta cells, insulin resistance has been recognized to play a role in the pathogenesis of diabetes in FCPD. Both basal insulin secretion and stimulated insulin levels in response to a glucose tolerance test are reduced in people with FCPD compared to controls ( 11 , 13 ). Preservation of some beta cell function is supported clinically by the relatively rare instances of ketoacidosis following withdrawal of insulin ( 27 ). Ketoacidosis may be less common due to not only some residual insulin secretory activity but also due to reduced glucagon reserve secondary to alpha cell destruction and reduced availability of non-esterified fatty acid substrate for ketogenesis due to lack of visceral fat ( 28 ). Studies have also suggested that exocrine function could correlate with endocrine dysfunction. While it is simple and logical to presume that any pancreatic pathology would reduce insulin production, the situation is more complex than meets the eye. There is evidence of insulin resistance (IR) in people with FCPD when measured by mean glucose disposal rates and homeostasis model assessment-IR, independent of BMI ( 13 , 29 ). Deficiency of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) has been postulated to underlie IR in FCPD, particularly at the level of the liver where defects in the internalization of liver glucose transporter-2 as well as altered bioavailability/ function of hepatic insulin receptor have been observed. The role of glucagon and thereby preservation or otherwise of alpha cells is debatable. Reduced fat store in people with FCPD may lead to the storage of triglyceride in the liver, which could predispose to insulin resistance. This century has seen groundbreaking work in understanding the pathophysiology of endocrine dysfunction following non-necrotizing pancreatitis, including prediabetes and diabetes ( 29 ). New mediators and their associations include increased interleukin-6 driving insulin resistance and reduced pro-glucagon gut peptides oxyntomodulin [capable of signaling through glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucagon receptors] and glicentin with the former showing potential as a biomarker to distinguish post-pancreatic diabetes from T2DM. These pathways may well be implicated in FCPD, at least in part. CLINICAL FEATURES AND NATURAL HISTORY OF FCPD The first symptom is abdominal pain, noted in the upper abdomen radiating to the back and relieved by stooping forward or lying in a prone position, typical of pancreatitis pain. The pain abates, both in frequency and severity, which is followed by development of oily and frothy stool due to
