Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


or lying in a prone position, typical of pancreatitis pain. The pain abates, both in frequency and severity, which is followed by development of oily and frothy stool due to fat malabsorption indicating exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, as in pancreatic involvement from other chronic pathologies. Rise in blood glucose and eventually diabetes results usually one to two decades after the onset of abdominal pain. Tropical chronic pancreatitis is the pre-diabetes phase of the disease, whereas FCPD is the term used once diabetes has been diagnosed by universal diagnostic criteria. FCPD has been classically described in young, lean, malnourished people of low socioeconomic background residing in tropical countries. The onset of pancreatic disease is in childhood with diabetes developing between 15 and 35 years of age, requiring treatment with large doses of insulin for moderate to severe hyperglycemia, and usually no ketosis despite insulin withdrawal ( 7 ). The clinical profile of FCPD and previously described criteria may no longer be strictly applicable as reported in a nationwide study of pancreatitis conducted in 32 centers in different regions of India, including a total of 1033 patients ( 16 ). According to that survey, which used original criteria including a low BMI, the disease-affected people had normal BMI and presentation was later in life, contrary to the original descriptions of this entity. In this study, tropical pancreatitis accounted for only 3.8% of chronic pancreatitis, suggesting a downward trend in its incidence or at least the diagnosis. Classical signs such as cyanotic hue, distended abdomen, and parotid gland swelling may also no longer be seen ( 12 ). With appropriate diabetes care and good pancreatic enzyme supplementation, malnutrition is rare, as is death due to diabetes in adolescence ( 30 ). As is true in patients with chronic pancreatitis, people with FCPD are also now likely to have a relatively ‘normal’ BMI and not necessarily be ‘lean’ as per the original description of this entity. Severity of diabetes appears to be higher in lean individuals. Thus, in addition to the typical, young and malnourished patient with FCPD, it may be important to consider an “extended spectrum” of FCPD, with people being older, higher BMI, and at risk of diabetes vascular complications also being considered in the spectrum. More research is needed to characterize FCPD beyond simple clinical criteria. These criteria alone may yield a disproportionately large number of these cases, and those that are
