Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


in the spectrum. More research is needed to characterize FCPD beyond simple clinical criteria. These criteria alone may yield a disproportionately large number of these cases, and those that are limited to a geographical region. Hence, we call for development of newer criteria for FCPD, perhaps including a biological approach. The natural history of FCPD begins with abdominal pain and progresses through a subclinical e.g. pancreatic calcification phase followed by exocrine and later endocrine pancreatic insufficiency. This has undergone a shift from earlier days of abdominal pain in childhood, diabetes in adolescence and death in early adulthood. Unlike the reports of early mortality in the past, it is well known that people with FCPD now live longer, with 80% living beyond 35 years since the onset of abdominal pain ( 21 ). People with FCPD appear to be at risk of microvascular diabetes-related complications like retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy as in other patients with diabetes, perhaps secondary to the longer life span that these patients enjoy ( 11 ). Macrovascular complications like stroke and peripheral vascular diseases are however relatively rare likely due to relative youth, lower cholesterol levels, and leanness at least in the majority of patients ( 3 , 12 ). Modifiable mortality attributable to the standard vascular and non-vascular complications in FCPD remains the same as in T2DM and T1DM. The risk of death from pancreatic cancer is disproportionately high, particularly for women ( 31 ). DIAGNOSIS AND WORK UP OF FCPD As per the currently established criteria, FCPD should be suspected in young, lean people from tropical countries who have a history of abdominal pain and steatorrhea, particularly if they have features suggesting malnutrition along with diabetes and especially if the diabetes is ketosis resistant ( 30 ). Conventionally, the disease is thought to occur only in tropical countries, however currently, there is no evidence to link any geographical factor with the etiology of the disease. The absence of a single detectable secondary cause of chronic pancreatitis is important. Also, given the changing profile of the disease discussed above, it is not limited to people with a lower BMI and in an adolescent age group. FCPD is an important but increasingly less frequent cause of diabetes in the young ( 32 ). The diagnosis of FCPD is made when diabetes mellitus is associated with characteristic abnormalities in the pancreas including large intraductal calculi, fibrosis, or ductal
