Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


in the young ( 32 ). The diagnosis of FCPD is made when diabetes mellitus is associated with characteristic abnormalities in the pancreas including large intraductal calculi, fibrosis, or ductal changes. The presence of large and discrete pancreatic stones is a classical feature of the diagnosis of FCPD ( 15 ). Computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography may be required to clinch the diagnosis if typical calculi are absent on standard modalities such as x ray or ultrasound. Thorough diagnostic workup should include a gastroenterological and an endocrinological consultation, with the latter ensuring standard tests in the management of all types of diabetes, including regular measurement of glycosylated hemoglobin, renal function, lipid profile, urine albumin creatinine ratio, foot neurovascular assessment, retinal screening, and when indicated, screening for cardiovascular disease. Endocrine tests, like the measurement of C-peptide, may help clinical management, when a low C-peptide level would signal the need for insulin therapy, but they have no specific role in the diagnosis of FCPD. However, CA-19.9 for the early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer assumes a more important role from the point of view of long-term prognosis. Exocrine pancreatic dysfunction may be assessed by several tests of which low fecal elastase-1 assay is of practical significance, as well as low fecal chymotrypsin. The secretin pancreozymin test, which is a more dynamic assessment of pancreatic secretory function in response to the hormone secretin, is more cumbersome involving an endoscope. TABLE 2. DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR FCPD View in own window Occurrence in a tropical country Diabetes as per standard diagnostic criteria Evidence of chronic pancreatitis: Pancreatic calculi on X-ray or At least 3 of the following: Abnormal pancreatic morphology by imaging Chronic abdominal pain since childhood Steatorrhea Abnormal pancreatic function test Absence of other causes of pancreatitis like alcoholism, hyperparathyroidism, marked hypertriglyceridemia, hepatobiliary disease etc. Figure 1. X-ray abdomen showing multiple tiny opacities in epigastric region, suggestive of pancreatic calcification. Figure 2. Ultrasound of abdomen showing atrophic pancreas, with dilated main pancreatic duct and multiple calculi in main pancreatic duct. Figure 3. CT scan of abdomen showing atrophic pancreas with few parenchymal foci of calcification. Main pancreatic duct is dilated along with hyper dense calculi. Figure 4. MRI scan of abdomen (axial -T2 weight HASTE sequence) showing atrophic pancreas with dilated main pancreatic duct and few filling defects within, suggestive of calculi. Figure 5. MRI scan of abdomen (coronal - T2
