Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


(axial -T2 weight HASTE sequence) showing atrophic pancreas with dilated main pancreatic duct and few filling defects within, suggestive of calculi. Figure 5. MRI scan of abdomen (coronal - T2 weight HASTE sequence): Atrophic pancreas with dilated main pancreatic duct and few filling defects within, suggestive of calculi. Figure 6. Maximum Intensity Projection Image showing irregular dilatation of main pancreatic duct with calculi within. MANAGEMENT The management of FCPD includes management of diabetes, with special consideration for aspects of chronic pancreatitis. While diabetes can be managed with lifestyle changes and oral drugs in a few cases, insulin is required in many cases. Nutritional Management As in other form of diabetes, medical nutrition therapy is the cornerstone of FCPD management. As most FCPD patients are lean, calorie restriction should be avoided. A balanced diet with adequate carbohydrates, fat, and proteins must be ensured. A low-fat diet helps in the management of steatorrhea ( 33 ). A gastrointestinal consultation to assess correlation of steatorrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms with various foods should help in planning appropriate meals. Foods with potential for toxic effect on the pancreas, such as cassava (tapioca) should be avoided, though no conclusive link between the two has been proven and the damage to the pancreas is advanced. Fat soluble vitamins should be replaced as their absorption may be limited in FCPD. If available, sublingual or parenteral formulations of vitamin D may be preferred, to guard against pancreatic osteodystrophy. Smoking and alcohol must be avoided altogether. Pain Management Pain is a common symptom of FCPD and can occur due to acute inflammation of the pancreas, increased pressure within the parenchyma and the ductal system, ischemia of the gland, microvascular complications such as neuritis, and due to the space-occupying effect of pseudocysts. Abdominal pain is ideally managed by non-opioid analgesic, though in later stages their judicious use may be necessary ( 34 ). Subcutaneous octreotide, a synthetic somatostatin analogue, has been used to reduce the pain of chronic pancreatitis. It inhibits pancreatic secretion and increases the contractility of the sphincter of oddi. Multiple antioxidants have proven benefit in pain reduction when used together, also in combination with micronutrients ( 34 ). Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT – discussed in detail in the next section), while important from the exocrine therapy perspective, may benefit pain only if high protease containing (>25,000 USP units per tablet) preparation, in an uncoated formulation, is
