Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


in the next section), while important from the exocrine therapy perspective, may benefit pain only if high protease containing (>25,000 USP units per tablet) preparation, in an uncoated formulation, is prescribed multiple times a day. PERT degrades cholecystokinin-releasing peptide in the duodenum and facilitates inhibition of endogenous pancreatic activity and thus may help with pain reduction. Endoscopic interventions to remove stones and lithotripsy may be helpful ( 35 ). Severe pain may require surgical procedures such as ductal decompression, drainage procedures like pancreatojejunostomy, and ablative procedures like subtotal pancreatectomy in refractory cases. Coeliac blockage has also been tried as a pain-relieving intervention. Management of Pancreatic Exocrine Insufficiency Steatorrhea responds to pancreatic enzyme supplements, which also helps improve glucose control. PERT is necessary to ensure adequate nutrient absorption and prevent down- stream effects such as protein-energy and vitamin malnutrition. It is important to prescribe an optimal dose of PERT, at the right time. Enteric coated PERT is the preferred option, unless being used also for pain relief, as it prevents the contents from being denatured by the acidic medium of the stomach prior to reaching the duodenum ( 34 ). Standard approach includes initial doses of 500-1000 lipase units/kg of body weight with each meal, up to maximum of 2,500 lipase units/kg per meal. While doses may vary with meal content and portion, in practice, 10,000-20,000IU for a small meal with 40,000 to 50,000 for a main meal often suffice in persons with diabetes who may need lower doses when following low-fat diet ( 36 ). Ideally, patients should take half the dose with first bite of a meal, and the remaining half in the middle or at the end. However, as most patients prefer a reduced pill burden, the entire dose can be taken with the first bite of food to ensure adherence and convenience. Patients should be advised to avoid copious quantities of water with the tablet to prevent rapid transit through the upper gut. The adequacy of PERT replacement is determined clinically by enquiring about stool consistency, presence or absence of oily droplets in the stool, weight gain, muscle mass, and bone health. Fecal fat and breath tests to evaluate response to PERT are reserved for use in a research setting. Fecal elastase-1 is not impacted by PERT and cannot be used as a monitoring tool. PERT can be combined with proton pump inhibitors and/or histamine-2 blockers, as
