Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


a research setting. Fecal elastase-1 is not impacted by PERT and cannot be used as a monitoring tool. PERT can be combined with proton pump inhibitors and/or histamine-2 blockers, as these increase the responsiveness to PERT by reducing acidic degradation of the formulations. Diabetes Management A balanced and healthy diet with whole grains and adequate micro-and macronutrient intake is important, with due care given to the quantity of carbohydrate intake in the presence of diabetes. Restriction of simple carbohydrates remains a key recommendation. Adequate protein intake is important. In the presence of steatorrhea, a low-fat diet is important. Adequate physical activity, like brisk walking, and stress reduction are beneficial lifestyle measures advisable for all patients ( 36 ). Insulin levels have been noted to be lower in majority of FCPD patients and so insulin remains the drug of choice. Long-acting basal insulin and multiple doses of rapid acting insulin at mealtime is the ideal insulin regime in FCPD ( Figure 7 ). Glycemic targets to be attained with anti-diabetes therapy are similar to those recommended for all types of diabetes. Cardio-metabolic risk factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, should be approached in a standard manner. Very high triglyceride levels > 500 mg/dl put people with FCPD at risk of pancreatitis, and therefore may need medications such as fibrates ( 33 ). FIGURE 7: Representative Ambulatory Glucose Profile of a patient with FCPD well controlled on basal-bolus insulin therapy (Time in range 87%; time above range 10% and time below range 3%; glucose management indicator 6.4%). Oral anti-diabetes agents are useful only in a minority of patients with FCPD, as insulin is the medication of choice ( 36 ). Among secretagogues, short acting drugs like repaglinide, which stimulate insulin secretion may be considered. Metformin has the benefit of glucose control without hypoglycemia and may be beneficial in countering insulin resistance in some patients. In addition, there is evidence that metformin could protect against pancreatic cancer ( 37 ). However, metformin may worsen gastrointestinal symptoms and lead to diarrhea and undesirable weight loss, and hence cautious use is advised. Oral antidiabetic agents that seem less favorable in FCPD include alpha glucosidase inhibitors due to gastrointestinal symptoms, thiazolidinediones due to the link with osteoporosis, and oral sodium glucose co-transporters due to the associated weight loss until more research indicating benefit becomes available. Incretin based drugs, including GLP-1 receptor agonists or dipeptidyl peptidase 4
