Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fcpd, pancreatic, pubmed, pancreatitis, insulin, chronic, people, chronic pancreatitis, pain, patients, india, management, tropical, disease


osteoporosis, and oral sodium glucose co-transporters due to the associated weight loss until more research indicating benefit becomes available. Incretin based drugs, including GLP-1 receptor agonists or dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors should not be prescribed in FCPD, given the link between incretin-based therapies and pancreatitis. In fact, there is data from India that GLP-1 increases two-fold in people with FCPD compared to people with type 2 diabetes and controls ( 38 ). Gastric inhibitory peptide receptor antagonist and oxyntomodulin antagonism are emerging concepts in the management of post-pancreatic diabetes, and may well apply to FCPD ( 39 ). SUMMARY FCPD, a subtype of type 3c diabetes of pancreatic origin, that is unique to tropical regions of the world. There is a need for further research into etiology. The clinical phenotype is changing, and is not limited to the classical young, malnourished subject to an “extended spectrum” including older people with higher BMI without malnutrition and predilection to both exocrine and endocrine (diabetes-related) complications. Approach to its management includes standard care for pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and for diabetes, with a preference for insulin therapy for most patients. Judicious use of oral anti-diabetes agents may be appropriate for a few due to the presence of insulin resistance independent of intra-abdominal adipose tissue, a fascinating area of future research. A critical aspect of managing FCPD is early detection of pancreatic cancer, for which no specific guidance is available to date other than vigilance towards it. Future research on the genetic and environmental aspects of FCPD causation will help uncover new therapeutic approaches that may hold promise for further improving lives of people with FCPD. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT We thank Dr. Abhishek B. Yashod, MD (Radio-Diagnosis), Chellaram Hospital: Diabetes Care & Multispecialty, Pune, for providing the CT scan and MRI images. REFERENCES 1. Unnikrishnan R, Anjana RM, Mohan V. Diabetes mellitus and its complications in India. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2016 Jun;12(6):357-70. [ PubMed : 27080137 ] 2. Lontchi-Yimagou E, Dasgupta R, Anoop S, Kehlenbrink S, Koppaka S, Goyal A, Venkatesan P, Livingstone R, Ye K, Chapla A, Carey M, Jose A, Rebekah G, Wickramanayake A, Joseph M, Mathias P, Manavalan A, Kurian ME, Inbakumari M, Christina F, Stein D, Thomas N, Hawkins M. An Atypical Form of Diabetes Among Individuals With Low BMI. Diabetes Care. 2022 Jun 2;45(6):1428-1437. [ PMC free article : PMC9184261 ] [ PubMed : 35522035 ] 3. Unnikrishnan AG, Singh SK, Sanjeevi
