J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


and Pancreatic pseudocyst Offprint requests to: S. Isaji Clinical questions *President, Japanese Society of Emergency Abdominal Medicine; President, Japanese Society of Hepato- CQ1. Which procedure will best result in a definite Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery; President, Asian-Pacific diagnosis of infected pancreatic necrosis? Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association CQ2. What is the indication for surgical interven- **Chairman, Intractable Pancreatic Disease Investiga- tion in necrotizing pancreatitis? tion and Research Group of the Japanese Ministry of CQ3. How should sterile pancreatic necrosis be managed? ***President, Japan Pancreas Society S. Isaji et al.: Surgical management of acute pancreatitis 49 with local complications such as major organ failure, CQ4. What is the optimal timing for surgical pancreatic necrosis, pancreatic abscess, and pancreatic intervention? pseudocysts and are generally classified into two stages.5 CQ5. What is the optimal surgical procedure for The first stage of severe acute pancreatitis, the period infected pancreatic necrosis? within 2 weeks after the onset of the disease, is charac- CQ6. What is the optimal drainage procedure after terized by the systemic inflammatory response syn- necrosectomy? drome (SIRS), and pancreatic necrosis develops in CQ7. How should pancreatic abscess be managed? parallel with that within the first 4 days after onset. The CQ8. What is the indication for surgical drainage in second stage begins 2 or 3 weeks after onset with the pancreatic abscess? development of infectious pancreatic complications CQ9. What are the indications for drainage treat- such as infected pancreatic necrosis (bacterial infection ment in pancreatic pseudocysts? of the pancreatic necrosis) and pancreatic abscess. In- CQ10. What is the indication for surgical interven- fection of pancreatic necrosis is a major prognostic risk tion in pancreatic pseudocysts? factor in severe pancreatitis, and sepsis-related multiple organ failure is the main life-threatening complication with a mortality rate of 20%–50%. Introduction Necrotizing pancreatitis Research on the pathophysiology of acute pancreatitis has progressed dramatically during the past 20 years. As Clinical Question (CQ) 1. Which procedure will best the number of randomized controlled studies (RCTs, result in a definite diagnosis of infected pancreatic mainly done in the United States and Europe) on necrosis? the management of severe acute pancreatitis has in- creased, evidence-based management has come to be Computed tomography (CT)-guided or ultrasound demanded. Several guidelines and recommendations (US)-guided fine-needle aspiration for bacteriology for acute pancreatitis have been published in recent should be performed in patients suspected of years,1–4 and three institutions in Japan — the Japanese having infected pancreatic necrosis (Recommendation Society
