J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


for acute pancreatitis have been published in recent should be performed in patients suspected of years,1–4 and three institutions in Japan — the Japanese having infected pancreatic necrosis (Recommendation Society for Abdominal Emergency Medicine, the Japan A) Pancreas Society, and the Research Group for Intrac- Acute pancreatitis is classified morphologically into table Diseases and Refractory Pancreatic Diseases, edematous pancreatitis and necrotizing pancreatitis. Edematous pancreatitis accounts for 80%–85% of cases Labour and Welfare — collaborated to publish the of acute pancreatitis, and most of them are self-limiting Japanese-language version of the evidence-based and do not require special treatment. The mortality rate Guidelines for the Management of Acute Pancreatitis in for necrotizing pancreatitis, which accounts for 15%– 2003. This paper sets forth the JPN guidelines for the 20% of cases, is 30%–40%.6 The mortality rate for in- surgical management of acute pancreatitis, which incor- fected pancreatic necrosis is high — 40% on average,7 porate the latest evidence for the surgical management and some studies report rates of more than 70%.8 In of severe pancreatitis and are based on the Japanese- contrast, the mortality rate of sterile pancreatic necrosis language version of the guidelines. The surgical man- with no bacterial infection has been reported as being agement of gallstone pancreatitis is included in the JPN 0%–11%.9,10 guidelines for the treatment of gallstone-associated Findings suggest that infected pancreatic necrosis acute pancreatitis. presents with a worsening of clinical manifestations and hematological data, a blood culture with positive bacte- rial results, and a positive result on the endotoxin test of Clinical course of acute pancreatitis blood and gas in and around the pancreas on a CT scan. However, these findings are merely indirect evidence The majority of acute pancreatitis cases (around 80%) of infection in general. CT- or US-guided fine-needle are mild and self-limiting, and the patients spontane- aspiration for bacteriology of pancreatic or peripan- ously recover within 4–5 days after onset. Mild cases creatic necrosis has been established as an accurate, have a mortality rate of 1% or less and rarely require safe, and reliable technique for identifying infected intensive care or surgical management.1 necrosis. Its accuracy is high, at 89.4%–100% (Level However, severe acute pancreatitis develops in 10%– 2b),11,12 and it is safe if the correct puncture route is 20% of cases and part of the pancreas and surrounding chosen and complications such as intestinal injury do tissue becomes necrotic. Severe cases are associated
