J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


the correct puncture route is 20% of cases and part of the pancreas and surrounding chosen and complications such as intestinal injury do tissue becomes necrotic. Severe cases are associated not result (Level 2b). 50 S. Isaji et al.: Surgical management of acute pancreatitis Indications for surgery A retrospective study on the timing of surgery for severe pancreatitis24 revealed a mortality rate in patients CQ2. What is the indication for surgical intervention treated by delayed surgery of 12%, which is significantly in necrotizing pancreatitis? lower than the 39% rate for those who underwent early surgery; thus, surgical intervention should be delayed as Infected pancreatic necrosis accompanied by signs long as possible in severe pancreatitis. The only RCT25 of sepsis is an indication for surgical intervention comparing early surgery (pancreatic resection/debride- (Recommendation B) ment within 72 h of onset) and delayed surgery (the It is generally agreed that necrotizing pancreatitis with same procedure 11 days after onset) yielded mortality proven infected necrosis is an indication for surgical rates of 56% and 27%, respectively. Although the dif- intervention (Level 5).1,13,14 It is rarely managed conser- ference between the rates was significant, the trial was vatively without surgical intervention. terminated because of the very high mortality rate for the patients who underwent early surgery. CQ3. How should sterile pancreatic necrosis be The above findings indicate that surgical intervention managed? (necrosectomy) for severe acute pancreatitis patients should be deferred as long as possible (3–4 weeks after Patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis should be the onset).1,3 The reason for this is that the border be- managed conservatively and undergo surgical inter- tween normal and necrotic pancreatic tissue becomes vention only in selected cases, such as those with more distinct with time, and this may minimize intra- persistent organ complications or severe clinical operative hemorrhage and avoid unnecessary removal deterioration despite maximum intensive care of normal pancreas. However, a questionnaire survey of (Recommendation B) physicians specializing in hepatobiliary pancreatic dis- Whether sterile pancreatic necrosis is an indication for eases in Europe that asked about surgical intervention surgical intervention remains a matter of controversy. for severe pancreatitis showed no consensus regarding Patients often recover from sterile pancreatic necrosis the timing of surgery.26 in response to conservative nonsurgical management (Levels 2c–3b).9,15–17 However, many reports state that Surgical procedures failure of acute pancreatitis to improve in response to optimal therapy in an intensive care unit should be an CQ5.
