J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


management (Levels 2c–3b).9,15–17 However, many reports state that Surgical procedures failure of acute pancreatitis to improve in response to optimal therapy in an intensive care unit should be an CQ5. What is the optimal surgical procedure for in- indication for surgical intervention, irrespective of fected pancreatic necrosis? whether the patient has an infection (Levels 2c–3b).18–22 Necrosectomy is recommended as the optimal surgical However, these reports have differing views about the procedure for infected pancreatic necrosis (Recommen- length of time that conservative management should be dation A) applied before surgical intervention is considered, with the period ranging from 3–5 days to more than 5 weeks. Surgical procedures employed to treat severe acute pan- A review23 examining this issue has indicated that al- creatitis in the past included mobilization and drainage though it is difficult to recommend an exact duration, at of the pancreatic bed and extended pancreatic resection. least 3–4 weeks of conservative management is desir- Drainage of the pancreatic bed was widely used in Japan able. However, there are no comparative studies to jus- as a standard surgical procedure in the 1980s through the tify such a conclusion. early 1990s. However, it is no longer used because maxi- mal therapy in an intensive care unit has become the Timing of surgery principal procedure for managing severe acute pancre- atitis and the advances in imaging modalities have pro- CQ4. What is the optimal timing for surgical vided objective evidence that the necrotic tissue cannot intervention? be removed by a simple drainage procedure. On the other hand, the extended pancreatic resection Unless there are specific indications, early surgery is that was the major procedure used mainly in European not recommended for necrotizing pancreatitis countries from the 1970s through the 1980s has been (Recommendation D) increasingly avoided in view of the high incidence of In the past, early surgical intervention was recom- postoperative complications, the failure to improve the mended for severe acute pancreatitis, which is often overall life-saving rate (Level 1b–3b),27,28 and the low- accompanied by major organ failure, beginning in the ered quality of life in surviving patients because of the early stage after onset. However, the high mortality rate development of abnormal glucose tolerance.27 of up to 65% casts doubt on the benefits of early surgical Necrosectomy, or debridement of necrotic tissue, in- intervention. cluding necrotic pancreatic tissue and peripancreatic fat S. Isaji et al.: Surgical management of acute pancreatitis
