J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


(Level 2c)51–53 and endoscopic review and were reported by the same author at almost transgastric necrosectomy54 have been tried and yielded the same time, the reliability of the data is highly ques- favorable results. Proper evaluation of these new man- tionable. In another paper on continuous closed lav- agement procedures will require the collection of data age,35 approximately half of the patients underwent from additional cases and follow-up examinations. repeat laparotomy/debridement 12 or 13 times, and thus the results reported in that paper cannot be considered Pancreatic abscess a pure reflection of the effect of continuous closed lavage. CQ7. How should pancreatic abscess be managed? There is a planned necrosectomy/debridement proce- CQ8. What is the indication for surgical drainage in dure in which necrosectomy is repeated by temporarily pancreatic abscess? closing the abdominal wound to avoid the excessive invasiveness of open drainage (Level 2c).46 A recent Surgical or percutaneous drainage should be per- review compared continuous closed lavage, planned formed for pancreatic abscess (Recommendation B). If The report stated that the mortality rate in necrotizing proved by percutaneous drainage, surgical drainage pancreatitis patients treated by continuous closed lav- should be performed immediately (Recommendation age, zipper technique, and open drainage was 19%, A) 24%, and 20.1%, respectively, and that the differences Pancreatic abscess is an indication for surgical interven- between the groups were not significant. The closed tion, just as for infected pancreatic necrosis. Pus collec- lavage group had a lower incidence of fistula formation tion is the main lesion in most pancreatic abscess (pancreatic fistula and intestinal fistula) and postopera- patients, and it has been recently reported (Level 3b)55,56 tive hemorrhage, but a higher rate of repeat operation, that 78%–86% of patients can be managed by percuta- whereas the zipper technique and open drainage were neous drainage alone. If a safe puncture route is assured characterized by a higher incidence of fistula formation by imaging guidance, this procedure may be the first and postoperative hemorrhage, but a lower rate of choice as an aggressive treatment for pancreatic ab- repeat operation. scess. However, it should be noted that the favorable It is difficult to conclude from currently available evi- results reported for this treatment have all been based dence whether continuous closed lavage or open drain- on retrospective studies, and some of the cases were not age (or the zipper technique) is better, and in recent pancreatic abscess cases. For example,
