J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:48–55
KEYWORDS: pancreatic, surgical, pancreatitis, drainage, necrosis, acute, acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, management, patients, severe, intervention, infected, cases, procedure


closed lavage or open drain- on retrospective studies, and some of the cases were not age (or the zipper technique) is better, and in recent pancreatic abscess cases. For example, when severe years one of these drainage techniques has been chosen cases with a Ranson score of 5 or more (Level 2b)57 and freely by surgeons according to the extent of infected cases having multiple abscesses (Level 4)58 were in- necrotic tissue. Continuous closed lavage is chosen cluded in the study, the one-stage healing rates of percu- when necrotic tissue is localized around the pancreas, taneous drainage declined to 30%–47%. When no and open drainage is recommended if the necrotic area improvement in clinical findings is observed after percu- has spread from the root of the mesocolon to the right taneous drainage, surgical drainage should be per- and/or left paracolic gutter.48 formed immediately instead of monitoring the clinical Recently, less-invasive procedures have been pre- course.59 ferred. Because the pancreas is a retroperitoneal organ, necrosectomy alone by a retroperitoneal approach is performed with simultaneous local lavage (Level 2c).49,50 Pancreatic pseudocysts The benefits of this procedure are: (1) peritonitis can be prevented because the abdominal cavity is not entered CQ9. What are the indications for drainage treat- and infecting organisms are not disseminated into the ment in pancreatic pseudocysts? peritoneal cavity, (2) oral intake can be resumed shortly Pancreatic pseudocysts that give rise to symptoms and after the operation, (3) the risk of intestinal fistula for- complications or the diameter of which increases mation is low, and (4) the incidence of wound infection should be treated by drainage (Recommendation A) and abdominal wall incisional hernia is minimized. The disadvantages are associated with the approach being Generally agreed indications for drainage treatment of near the head of the pancreas. It is difficult to reach the pancreatic pseudocysts include (1) accompaniment by S. Isaji et al.: Surgical management of acute pancreatitis 53 symptoms, such as abdominal pain; (2) complication by indicated, but transgastric drainage should be per- infection or bleeding; (3) increase in size during the formed only when compression of the intestinal wall by observation period; (4) a diameter of 6cm or more; and a cyst can be confirmed endoscopically. It has been (5) no tendency to decrease in size during at least 6 suggested that guidance by endoscopic ultrasonography weeks of observation. There are no reports opposing may enhance the safety of
