Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


Atrial fibrillation is a rapid, irregularly irregular atrial rhythm. Symptoms include palpitations and sometimes weakness, effort intolerance, dyspnea, and presyncope. Atrial thrombi may form, causing a significant risk of embolic stroke. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography. Treatment involves rate control with medications, prevention of thromboembolism with anticoagulation, and sometimes conversion to sinus rhythm by medications or cardioversion. Atrial fibrillation is initiated and maintained by multiple electrophysiologic and structural mechanisms. Early in its course the dominant mechanisms are focal automaticity and micro-reentry (drivers) predominantly originating from muscular sleeves in venous structures adjacent to the atria, especially the pulmonary veins. Atrial electrical remodeling then encourages functional reentrant circuits, including leading circle reentry and rotors (spatiotemporal organization of activation wavefronts as rapid, localized reentrant spiral waves with centrifugal spread). Finally, atrial structural remodelling, including atrial fibrosis, permits structural reentry (reentrant activation wavefronts circling an anatomical barrier such as scar), which, in addition to the other phenomena, produces multiple atrial wavelets of disorganized activations. In atrial fibrillation, the atria do not contract, and the atrioventricular (AV) conduction system is bombarded with many electrical stimuli, causing inconsistent impulse transmission and an irregularly irregular ventricular rate, which is usually in the tachycardia rate range. Atrial fibrillation is one of the most common arrhythmias, affecting between 3 and 6 million adults in the United States (1). Males and White people are more likely to have atrial fibrillation than females and Black people. The lifetime risk of developing atrial fibrillation is approximately 25% in males and 20% in females. Prevalence increases with age; < 1% at age 50 years, 1 to 4% at age 65 years, and 6 to 15% at age 80 years (2). Atrial fibrillation tends to occur in patients with an underlying heart disorder. Complications of atrial fibrillation 1/14 The absent atrial contractions predispose to thrombus formation; the overall annual risk of cerebrovascular embolic events is 3 to 5%, and atrial fibrillation is responsible for approximately 20 to 25% of all strokes (2). Risk of stroke is higher in older patients and in patients with moderate to severe mitral stenosis, mechanical heart valve, hyperthyroidism, hypertension, diabetes, left ventricular systolic dysfunction, or previous thromboembolic events. These factors are considered in scoring systems that predict the risk of future thromboembolic events such as the CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score, which is widely used in patients without moderate or severe mitral stenosis or a mechanical heart valve (who need anticoagulation regardless of
