Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


future thromboembolic events such as the CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score, which is widely used in patients without moderate or severe mitral stenosis or a mechanical heart valve (who need anticoagulation regardless of their CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score). Systemic emboli can also cause malfunction or necrosis of other organs (eg, heart, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, eyes) or a limb. Atrial fibrillation also may impair cardiac output; loss of atrial contraction can lower cardiac output at normal heart rate by as much as 20% (3). Such a decrease is usually well tolerated except when the ventricular rate becomes too fast (eg, > 140 beats/minute), or when patients have borderline or low cardiac output to begin with. In such cases, heart failure may develop. CLINICAL CALCULATORS Atrial Fibrillation CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc Score for Stroke Risk Etiology of Atrial Fibrillation The most common causes of atrial fibrillation are Hypertension Coronary artery disease Cardiomyopathy Valvular heart disorders: mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation Hyperthyroidism Binge alcohol drinking (holiday heart) 2/14 Less common causes of atrial fibrillation include Pulmonary embolism Atrial septal defects and other congenital heart defects Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Sleep apnea Myocarditis Pericarditis Lone atrial fibrillation is atrial fibrillation without an identifiable cause in patients < 60 years. Overview of Atrial Fibrillatio... VIDEO Classification of Atrial Fibrillation Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is atrial fibrillation that lasts < 1 week having converted spontaneously or by an intervention to normal sinus rhythm. Episodes may recur (1). Persistent atrial fibrillation is continuous atrial fibrillation that lasts > 1 week (1). Long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation lasts > 1 year, but there is still the possibility of restoring sinus rhythm (1). Permanent atrial fibrillation cannot be converted to sinus rhythm (the term also includes patients for whom a decision has been made not to attempt conversion to sinus rhythm [1]). The longer atrial fibrillation is present, the less likely is spontaneous conversion and the more difficult is cardioversion because of atrial remodeling (rapid atrial rate-induced changes in atrial electrophysiology, including a decrease in atrial refractoriness, spatial dispersion of atrial refractoriness, slowed atrial conduction velocity, or combinations of these) (2). Symptoms and Signs of Atrial Fibrillation Atrial fibrillation is often asymptomatic, but many patients have palpitations, chest discomfort, or symptoms of heart failure (eg, weakness, light-headedness, dyspnea), particularly when the ventricular rate is very rapid (often 140 to 160 beats/minute). Patients may also present with symptoms and signs of acute stroke or of other organ damage
