Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


dyspnea), particularly when the ventricular rate is very rapid (often 140 to 160 beats/minute). Patients may also present with symptoms and signs of acute stroke or of other organ damage due to systemic emboli. The pulse is irregularly irregular with loss of a waves in the jugular venous pulse. A pulse deficit (the apical ventricular rate is faster than the rate palpated at the wrist) may be present because left ventricular stroke volume is not always sufficient to produce a peripheral pressure wave for a beat closely coupled to the previous beat. Diagnosis of Atrial Fibrillation Electrocardiography (ECG) Echocardiography Thyroid function tests Diagnosis of atrial fibrillation is by ECG (see figure Atrial Fibrillation). Findings include Absence of P waves Presence of f (fibrillatory) waves between QRS complexes; f waves are irregular in timing and irregular in morphology; baseline undulations at rates > 300 beats/minute, usually best seen in lead V1 and not always apparent in all leads Irregularly irregular R-R intervals 4/14 Atrial Fibrillation Other irregular rhythms may resemble atrial fibrillation on ECG but can be distinguished by the presence of discrete P or flutter waves, which can sometimes be made more visible with vagal maneuvers. Muscle tremor or electrical interference may resemble f waves, but the underlying ventricular rhythm is regular. Atrial fibrillation may also cause a phenomenon that mimics ventricular extrasystoles or ventricular tachycardia (Ashman phenomenon). This phenomenon typically occurs when a short R-R interval follows a long R-R interval; the longer interval lengthens the refractory period of the infra-Hisian conduction system, and the subsequent short R-R QRS complex(es) are conducted aberrantly, typically with right bundle branch morphology (1). Echocardiography and thyroid function tests are important in the initial evaluation (2). Echocardiography is done to assess structural heart defects (eg, left atrial enlargement, left ventricular wall motion abnormalities suggesting past or present ischemia, valvular disorders, cardiomyopathy) and to identify additional risk factors for stroke (eg, atrial blood stasis or thrombus, complex aortic plaque). Atrial thrombi are more likely in the atrial appendages, where they are best detected by transesophageal rather than transthoracic echocardiography. Pearls & Pitfalls Atrial fibrillation with a wide QRS complex may indicate Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome; in such cases, use of atrioventricular node-blocking medications may be fatal. Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation Rate control with medications or AV node ablation Sometimes rhythm control with synchronized cardioversion, medications, or atrial fibrillation substrate ablation Prevention of thromboembolism Patients with hemodynamically
