Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation Rate control with medications or AV node ablation Sometimes rhythm control with synchronized cardioversion, medications, or atrial fibrillation substrate ablation Prevention of thromboembolism Patients with hemodynamically unstable atrial fibrillation may benefit from hospitalization. Patients with recurrent episodes do not require hospitalization unless other symptoms suggest the need for it. Once causes have been managed, treatment of atrial fibrillation focuses on ventricular rate control, rhythm control, and prevention of thromboembolism. Ventricular rate control Patients with atrial fibrillation of any duration require rate control (typically to < 100 beats/minute at rest) to control symptoms and prevent tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy (1). For acute paroxysms of rapid rate (eg, 140 to 160 beats/minute), IV AV node blockers are used (for doses, see table Antiarrhythmic Medications). CAUTION: AV node blockers should not be used in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome when an accessory AV pathway is involved (indicated by wide QRS duration); these medications may increase frequency of conduction via the bypass tract, possibly causing ventricular fibrillation (1). Beta-blockers (eg, metoprolol, esmolol) are preferred if excess catecholamines are suspected (eg, in thyroid disorders, exercise-triggered cases) (1). Nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (eg, verapamil, diltiazem) are also effective. Digoxin is the least effective but may be preferred if heart failure is present. These medications may be used orally for long-term rate control (1). When beta-blockers, nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, and digoxin—separately or in combination—are ineffective, amiodarone may be required (1). Amiodarone may also convert the atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm; however, this conversion may not be desirable in some patients who are not receiving an anticoagulant (see Prevention of thromboembolism). Rhythm control In patients with heart failure or other hemodynamic compromise directly attributable to new-onset atrial fibrillation, restoration of normal sinus rhythm is indicated to improve cardiac output (1). In other cases, conversion of atrial fibrillation to normal sinus rhythm is optimal, but the antiarrhythmic medications that are capable of doing so (class Ia, Ic, III) have a risk of adverse effects and may increase mortality. Conversion to sinus rhythm does not eliminate the need for chronic anticoagulation. 6/14 For acute conversion, synchronized cardioversion or medications can be used. Before conversion is attempted, the ventricular rate should be controlled to < 120 beats/minute, and most patients should be anticoagulated (for criteria and methods, see Prevention of thromboembolism) because conversion of atrial fibrillation, regardless of the method used, transiently increases the risk of thromboembolism. Synchronized cardioversion
