Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


develop (“pill-in-the-pocket” approach) (5). This approach must be limited to patients who have no sinoatrial or AV node dysfunction, bundle branch block, QT prolongation, Brugada syndrome, or structural heart disease. Its major hazard (estimated at 1%) is the possibility of converting atrial fibrillation to a slowish atrial flutter that conducts 1:1 in the 200 to 240 beat/minute range (5). This potential complication can be reduced in frequency by coadministration of an AV nodal–suppressing medication (eg, a beta-blocker or a nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist). Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), and aldosterone blockers may attenuate the myocardial fibrosis that provides a substrate for atrial fibrillation, but the role of these medications in routine atrial fibrillation treatment has yet to be defined. Ablation procedures for atrial fibrillation 7/14 For patients who are not candidates for rate control or rhythm control or in whom these approaches fail, ablation of the AV node may be done to cause complete heart block; insertion of a permanent pacemaker is then necessary. Ablation of the slow AV nodal pathway (AV node modification) reduces the number of atrial impulses reaching the ventricles and eliminates the need for a pacemaker, but this approach is considered less effective than complete ablation and is rarely used. Catheter ablation procedures that accomplish electrical isolation of the pulmonary veins from the left atrium can prevent atrial fibrillation without causing AV block. Pulmonary vein isolation has a lower success rate (60 to 80%) and a higher major complication rate (1 to 5%) than ablation procedures used to treat supraventricular arrhythmias (6). Randomized trials in patients who have not had antiarrhythmic medications have shown a lower recurrence rate for atrial tachyarrhythmias with ablation (approximately 30%) than with pharmacotherapy (approximately 50%) after 17 months of follow up and no significant difference in major adverse events (7). Furthermore, meta-analysis suggests that, compared to medical therapy, catheter ablation reduces all-cause mortality, most evident in patients with coexisting heart failure, and reduces hospitalizations in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and in those with persistent atrial fibrillation with or without heart failure (8). Accordingly, guidelines give catheter ablation for rhythm control a class I indication in patients with atrial fibrillation in whom a rhythm control approach with antiarrhythmic medication has failed, in patients with coexisting heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, and in selected patients as first-line therapy early in the course of atrial fibrillation (1). There is
