Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


medication has failed, in patients with coexisting heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, and in selected patients as first-line therapy early in the course of atrial fibrillation (1). There is also an open heart surgical ablation procedure for atrial fibrillation treatment (the maze procedure), but it is mostly reserved for patients with another indication for open heart surgery rather than used as a stand-alone procedure (9). Randomized clinical trials addressing the need for continued long-term oral anticoagulation after an apparently successful ablation procedure are underway. Guidelines recommend long-term anticoagulation after ablation using the same guidelines as for patients who have not had an ablation regardless of the apparent success of the procedure (1). Prevention of thromboembolism Long-term measures to prevent thromboembolism are taken for certain patients with atrial fibrillation depending on their estimated risk of stroke versus risk of bleeding (eg, as per the CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score [8] and the HAS-BLED tool [10]). TABLE CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc Score Variable Points History of congestive heart failure 1 History of hypertension 1 Age ≥ 75 years 2 8/14 Variable Points History of diabetes mellitus 1 Prior stroke/transient ischemic attack 2 (TIA) Vascular disease 1 Age 65–74 years 1 Sex (female) 1 CLINICAL CALCULATORS Atrial Fibrillation CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc Score for Stroke Risk The guidelines for antithrombotic therapy in atrial fibrillation differ in different regions. The guidelines in the United States are as follows (1). Long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is recommended for patients with atrial fibrillation with the following (class I recommendation): Moderate to severe rheumatic mitral stenosis Mechanical artificial heart valve (with or without atrial fibrillation) Nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (ie, absent moderate to severe rheumatic mitral stenosis or mechanical heart valve) with CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc scores of ≥ 2 in males and ≥ 3 in females Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy The annual risk of thromboembolism for these patients is ≥ 2%. Long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is reasonable for (class IIa recommendation): Patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc scores of 1 in males and 2 in females The annual risk of thromboembolism for these patients is between 1 and 2%. Long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is not recommended for patients with: Nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc scores of 0 in males and 1 in females The annual risk of thromboembolism for these patients is < 1%. The following recommendations apply to the means of anticoagulation: Patients with atrial fibrillation and a mechanical heart valve(s) are treated with warfarin (class I recommendation). 9/14
