Atrial Fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, patients, heart, rhythm, rate, risk, medications, anticoagulation, class, cardioversion, ablation, thromboembolism, ventricular


patients is < 1%. The following recommendations apply to the means of anticoagulation: Patients with atrial fibrillation and a mechanical heart valve(s) are treated with warfarin (class I recommendation). 9/14 Patients with atrial fibrillation and moderate to severe rheumatic mitral stenosis are treated with warfarin (class I recommendation). Patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation who are treated with an oral anticoagulant are given warfarin, apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, or rivaroxaban (class I recommendation). When warfarin is given, target international normalized ratio (INR) is 2.0 to 3.0. For patients eligible for anticoagulant therapy with either warfarin (or another vitamin K antagonist) or a non-vitamin K antagonist anticoagulant such as apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, or rivaroxaban, the non-vitamin K antagonist anticoagulants are preferred (class I recommendation). Aspirin monotherapy is not recommended for prevention of thromboembolism. These general guidelines are altered in patients with more than moderate renal impairment with decreasing enthusiasm for anticoagulation as renal impairment progresses from chronic kidney disease stages 1, 2, and 3 (eGFR > 30 mL/minute [class I recommendation]), through chronic kidney disease stage 4 (eGFR 15 to 30 mL/minute [class IIa recommendation]), to chronic kidney disease stage 5 (eGFR < 15 mL/minute or on dialysis [class IIb recommendation]). Because 90% of left atrial thrombi in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation are located in the left atrial appendage, stroke prevention in such patients may be accomplished by surgical ligation of the left atrial appendage or by occlusion with a transcatheter device. Guidelines give a class IIa indication for left atrial appendage closure in patients with atrial fibrillation and a CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score of ≥ 2 when appropriate antithrombotic therapy is contraindicated and a class IIb indication in such patients based on patient preference (1). An individual patient's risk of bleeding may be estimated with any of a number of prognostic tools, of which the most commonly used is HAS-BLED (11) (see table HAS-BLED Tool for Predicting Risk of Bleeding in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation). The HAS-BLED score serves best in identifying conditions that, if modified, reduce bleeding risk rather than in identifying patients with a higher risk of bleeding who should not receive anticoagulation. TABLE HAS-BLED Tool for Predicting Risk of Bleeding in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation Variable Points Uncontrolled hypertension 1 Abnormal kidney function 1 Abnormal liver function 1 Prior stroke 1 Prior bleeding 1 10/14 Variable Points Labile international normalized ratios (INRs) if being treated with warfarin 1 (defined as
