HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Published in final edited form as: Gastroenterology. 2021 June ; 160(7): 2496–2508. doi:. American Gastroenterological Association Clinical Practice Guideline on the Medical Management of Moderate to Severe Luminal and Fistulizing Crohn’s Disease Singh, MD4, Yngve Falck-Ytter5, Shanaz Sultan3, Jonathan P. Terdiman, MD6 American Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Guidelines Committee 1Division of Gastroenterology and Center for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases, Beth Israel Healthcare System, Cleveland, Ohio Introduction CD is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease with substantial morbidity when not adequately controlled.2 Historically, approximately 20% of patients with CD were hospitalized every year, and the risk of surgery within one year of diagnosis was 24%, 36% by five years and 47% by 10 years.3 In recent years, outcomes have improved, likely because of earlier diagnosis, increasing use of biologics, escalation or alteration of therapy based on disease severity, and endoscopic management of colorectal cancer. CD includes multiple different phenotypes. The Montreal Classification categorizes CD as stricturing, penetrating, inflammatory (non-stricturing and non-penetrating) and perianal disease.4–6 Each of these phenotypes can present with a range in severity from mild to severe disease.7 This guideline addresses the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD. The International Organization for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IOIBD) characterizes severe disease as having a high risk for adverse disease-related complications including surgery, hospitalization, and disability based on a combination of structural damage, inflammatory burden and impact of quality of life. Contributors to severe disease include: large or deep mucosal lesions on endoscopy or imaging, presence of 4930 Del Ray Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. , Telephone: (301) 941-2618. at the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) headquarters in Bethesda, Maryland, and pertinent disclosures are published with this report. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript fistula and/or perianal abscess, presence of strictures, prior intestinal resections, particularly of segments >40cm, presence of a stoma, extensive disease (ileal involvement >40cm, or pancolitis), anemia, elevated C-reactive protein and low albumin. With respect to symptoms, patients with severe disease may have at least 10 loose stools/day, daily abdominal pain, presence of anorectal symptoms (anorectal pain, bowel urgency, incontinence, discharge, tenesmus), systemic corticosteroid use within the prior year, lack of symptomatic improvement despite prior exposure to biologics and/or immunosuppressive agents, or significant impact of the disease on activities of daily living.8 Moderate to severe disease can also be defined
