HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


of symptomatic improvement despite prior exposure to biologics and/or immunosuppressive agents, or significant impact of the disease on activities of daily living.8 Moderate to severe disease can also be defined using the Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI). This standardized disease assessment score categorizes severity of disease as: remission < 150, mild to moderate as 150-220, moderate to severe as 220-450 and severe > 450.9 For this guideline, moderate to severe disease was considered a CDAI score of 220 or higher. There are a number of different drug classes available for the management of moderate to severe CD, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α antagonists (infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab pegol), anti-integrin agents (natalizumab, vedolizumab), interleukin 12/23 antagonist (ustekinumab) and immunomodulators (thiopurines, methotrexate), corticosteroids (prednisone, budesonide).2 In general, most drugs, with the exception of corticosteroids, that are initiated for induction of remission are continued as maintenance induction and maintenance of remission. The drugs are listed, in general, in order of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval. This guideline does not address surgical management of moderate to severe CD. Therapeutic drug monitoring to guide the use of biologic therapy has been addressed in a separate AGA guideline and is not included in this guideline.10 Methods This document presents the official recommendations of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) on the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing Crohn’s disease (CD) in adults. This guideline addresses the outpatient medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD though we anticipate that most of the recommendations would apply to inpatients as well. The guideline was developed by the AGA Institute’s Clinical Guidelines Committee and approved by the AGA Governing Board. It is accompanied by a technical review that provides a detailed synthesis of the evidence from which these recommendations were formulated.1 Development of this guideline and the accompanying technical review was fully funded by the AGA Institute without additional outside funding. Guideline panel composition, Funding, Conflict of Interest Members of the Guideline Panel and Technical Review Panel were selected by the AGA Governing Board and Chair of the Clinical Guidelines Committee with careful consideration of conflict of interest. The guideline panel included the chair (JPT) adult gastroenterologists with IBD expertise (EH, ES, HS), Technical Review GRADE methodology chairs (JF, SS) and GRADE experts (SS, YFY). This guideline and its accompanying technical Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author
