HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


GRADE methodology chairs (JF, SS) and GRADE experts (SS, YFY). This guideline and its accompanying technical Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript review1 were developed utilizing a process outlined previously. The AGA process for developing clinical practice guidelines follows the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and adheres to best practices in guideline development as outlined by the National Academy of Medicine (formerly Institute of Medicine).12 Formulation of Clinical Questions The Guideline Panel and technical review team identified and formulated clinical relevant questions on the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing Crohn’s disease. Each question identified the population, intervention, comparison, and patient-important outcomes (PICO). The Technical Review Panel performed a systematic search of the literature and assessed relevant evidence to address the clinical questions to inform the recommendations.1 The evidence for each PICO question was assessed using GRADE and presented in an evidence profile in the Technical Review. Development of Recommendations The Guideline Panel and the authors of the Technical Review met virtually via a video conference call on two occasions August 14th and August 28th 2020 to discuss the findings from the technical review. During these meetings, the Guideline Panel independently formulated the guideline recommendations based on the GRADE evidence-to-decision framework. The Technical Review Panel was not involved in the formulating or finalizing of the recommendations. The certainty of available evidence and the strength of the recommendation are provided with each PICO statement (Table 1). Evidence Review In formulating this guideline, the predetermined critical outcomes were induction and maintenance of remission. The ability of the various drugs to achieve these outcomes are reported in the technical review with associated evidence profiles. For the questions regarding fistulizing disease, induction and maintenance of fistula remission was generally defined as complete cessation of fistula drainage. Important outcomes of interest were induction and maintenance of endoscopic remission, maintenance of corticosteroid-free remission, serious adverse events (including serious infections and malignancy), and treatment tolerability (drug discontinuation due to adverse events). These were considered in the evidence synthesis especially if inadequate or conflicting data were observed for critical outcomes. Safety considerations with these medications have been synthesized in the accompanying technical review. In the recommendations presented in this guideline, estimates of the effect of different medications are presented as the risk for failure to induce or maintain remission, i.e.,
