HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


accompanying technical review. In the recommendations presented in this guideline, estimates of the effect of different medications are presented as the risk for failure to induce or maintain remission, i.e., a relative risk (RR) or odds ratio (OR) <1 suggests that the drug under consideration is more effective than the comparison drug or placebo for induction or maintenance of remission. When considering the magnitude of benefit, for trials comparing interventions vs placebo, a minimal clinically important difference (MCID) was set at 10%. Failure to meet the MCID was considered to have no clinically meaningful impact over placebo. For additional details regarding the methodology please review the accompanying technical review. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Although the certainty of evidence (Table 1) was a key factor in determining the strength of the recommendations (Table 2), the panel also considered the balance between benefit and harm of interventions, patients’ values and preferences, overall resource utilization Framework). The recommendations, certainty of evidence, and strength of recommendations are summarized in Table 3. The target audience for this guideline includes health care professionals (primary care providers, gastroenterologists, and other specialists), policy makers, and patients. External Review The guideline and the accompanying technical review underwent independent peer review and a 30 day open public comment period. All the comments were collected by AGA staff. The comments were reviewed and addressed by the Guideline Panel and Technical Review panel respectively. Changes were incorporated in a revised document and if comments were not accepted, a response document was created for each comment. Guideline review and anticipated update reviewed annually at the AGA Clinical Guideline Committee meeting for new information. The next update for these guidelines is anticipated in 3 years from publication (2024). Recommendations A summary of all the recommendations in this guideline is provided in Table 3. Optimal understanding of the guideline will be enhanced by reading the applicable portions of the technical review and its updated systematic review of the evidence. PHARMACOLOGIC MANAGEMENT OF ADULT PATIENTS WITH MODERATE TO SEVERE LUMINAL CROHN’S DISEASE 1A. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA recommends the use of anti-TNFα over no treatment for induction and maintenance of remission. (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) Comment: Though the evidence supporting infliximab and adalimumab was moderate quality, the evidence for certolizumab pegol was low quality. 1B. In
