HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


95% CI, 0.65-0.92; adalimumab: RR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.62-0.79; certolizumab pegol RR, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.83-0.93; vedolizumab RR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.67-0.91; ustekinumab RR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.64-0.89). Though natalizumab did show benefit for induction (RR, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.82-0.96) and maintenance of remission (RR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.48-0.70) compared to placebo, given the risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and the availability of other drugs not associated with this devastating side effect, lead the guideline panel to recommend against its routine use in treating patients with moderate to severe luminal CD. The overall certainty of evidence for this recommendation was moderate for infliximab, adalimumab and ustekinumab rating down for imprecision secondary to the low number of events < 200 (low optimal information size, OIS). For certolizumab pegol and vedolizumab the certainty of evidence was rated down to low because of very serious imprecision since the summary risk estimates did not meet the MCID threshold of 10% over placebo. For maintenance of remission, the certainty of evidence was moderate (rated down for imprecision secondary to low OIS). 2A. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who are naïve to biologic drugs, the AGA recommends the use of infliximab, adalimumab, or ustekinumab, over certolizumab pegol for the induction of remission (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) and suggests the use of vedolizumab over certolizumab pegol for the induction of remission (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence). 2B. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who never responded to anti-TNFα (primary nonresponse), the AGA recommends the use of ustekinumab (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) and suggests the use of vedolizumab over no treatment for the induction of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence). 2C. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who previously responded to infliximab (secondary nonresponse), the AGA recommends the use of adalimumab or ustekinumab (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) and suggests the use of vedolizumab over no treatment for the induction of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence). Comment: if adalimumab was the first line drug utilized there is indirect evidence to suggest the option of using infliximab as a second line agent. There were no head-to-head trials comparing the efficacy of different agents for induction and maintenance of remission. Therefore, indirect evidence was derived using network meta-analysis from drug trials with similar study designs and outcomes. Network meta- analysis can help assess comparative efficacy of several interventions
