HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


secondary non- response to infliximab (OR, 3.57; 95% CI, 1.66-7.65) was moderate certainty evidence rating down for imprecision. Vedolizumab (OR, 1.53; 95% CI, 0.77-3.06) was supported by low certainty evidence rating down for very serious imprecision related to the very wide confidence intervals and crossing unity). Further indirect comparisons between the drugs were performed in the technical review but were not of high enough certainty to formulate a recommendation. Of note, the studies included in the network meta-analysis did not consistently report what proportion of patients had exposure to more than one TNFα antagonist, exposure to multiple different classes of biologics, and reasons for failure of prior biologics (primary non-response vs. secondary loss of response vs. intolerance). In monitoring (See prior AGA guideline on Therapeutic Drug Monitoring)10 may affect one’s decision to select one biologic over another biologic. 3A. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA suggests against the use of thiopurines monotherapy over no treatment for achieving remission. (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence) Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3B. In adult outpatients with quiescent moderate to severe CD (or patients in corticosteroid-induced remission), the AGA suggests the use of thiopurines monotherapy over no treatment for the maintenance of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence) 3C. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA suggests the use of subcutaneous or intramuscular methotrexate monotherapy over no treatment for the induction and maintenance of remission. (Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) 3D. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA suggests against the use of oral methotrexate monotherapy over no treatment for the induction and maintenance of remission. (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence) In adult outpatients with moderate to severe luminal CD guideline panel suggests against using thiopurines over no treatment for achieving remission because 5 trials including 380 patients treated with thiopurines did not show increased efficacy compared to placebo in achieving corticosteroid-free remission in patients who were corticosteroid dependent. The certainty of the evidence was very low due to serious bias, indirectness, and serious imprecision. However, 5 RCTs, did demonstrate that thiopurines were significantly more effective than placebo or no treatment (RR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.47-0.81) for maintaining corticosteroid-free clinical remission. The certainty of evidence was rated down for bias due to inadequate blinding and imprecision because of low OIS.
