HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


treatment (RR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.47-0.81) for maintaining corticosteroid-free clinical remission. The certainty of evidence was rated down for bias due to inadequate blinding and imprecision because of low OIS. In evaluating methotrexate, the technical review panel and guideline panel opted to evaluate oral vs intramuscular/subcutaneous methotrexate separately due to underlying differences in efficacy related to route of administration and total dose. Subcutaneous methotrexate dosed at 25mg/week was evaluated in 1 trial of 141 patients and was effective for induction of remission (RR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.61-0.93). For maintenance of remission, subcutaneous methotrexate dosed at 15mg/week was evaluated in one trial of 76 patients after they had achieved remission with 16-25 weeks of 25mg/week subcutaneous methotrexate. Subcutaneous methotrexate was more effective than placebo for maintaining corticosteroid- free remission (RR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.34-0.94). The certainty of evidence was moderate for induction and maintenance of remission, rating down for imprecision due to the small sample size. In contrast to subcutaneous methotrexate, oral methotrexate was evaluated in a single RCT dosed at 12.5mg every week and was not effective for inducing remission (RR, 1.14; 95% CI, 0.72-1.82). In the maintenance arm of the study, 12.5mg/week was not more effective than placebo for maintaining remission (RR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.04-2.27). The certainty of evidence was very low due to indirectness from the lower dose of methotrexate and very serious imprecision due to the very wide 95% CI. The guideline panel noted that the single RCT evaluating oral methotrexate may have used a dose that is suboptimal.14 It is not clear if a higher dose of oral methotrexate would be more effective. 4. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA recommends the use of biologic drug monotherapy over thiopurine monotherapy for the induction of remission. (Strong recommendation moderate certainty of evidence) The panel recommends the use of biologic drug monotherapy over thiopurine monotherapy for induction of remission. A separate recommendation for maintenance of remission Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript was not provided since corticosteroid-sparing drugs that are started for induction of remission are typically continued for maintenance of remission. The Study of Biologic and Immunomodulator Naive Patients in Crohn’s Disease (SONIC) study design was a three arm RCT including biologic and immunomodulator naïve patients comparing infliximab vs azathioprine vs infliximab + azathioprine.15 Infliximab was more effective than azathioprine (65/93
