HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


Disease (SONIC) study design was a three arm RCT including biologic and immunomodulator naïve patients comparing infliximab vs azathioprine vs infliximab + azathioprine.15 Infliximab was more effective than azathioprine (65/93 vs. 91/109, p<0.01). The certainty of evidence was moderate rating down for imprecision due to low OIS. Data on other biologics compared to thiopurines for induction of remission was lacking. However, given the overall efficacy of other biologics compared to placebo, and thiopurines failing to show efficacy compared to placebo for induction of remission, indirect evidence suggests that other biologics would also be more effective than thiopurines for induction of remission. Similarly, no RCTs compared biologic monotherapy to methotrexate monotherapy and data is therefore lacking. 5A. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who are naïve to biologics and immunomodulators, the AGA suggests the use of infliximab in combination with thiopurines for the induction and maintenance of remission over infliximab monotherapy. (Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) Comment: Based on indirect evidence combination infliximab with methotrexate may be more effective over infliximab monotherapy. 5B. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who are naïve to biologics and immunomodulators, the AGA suggests the use of adalimumab in combination with thiopurines for the induction and maintenance of remission over adalimumab monotherapy. (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence) Comment: Based on indirect evidence combination adalimumab with methotrexate may be more effective over adalimumab monotherapy. 5C. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA makes no recommendation regarding the use of ustekinumab or vedolizumab in combination with thiopurines or methotrexate over biologic drug monotherapy for the induction and maintenance of remission. (No recommendation, knowledge gap) Two trials compared infliximab with a thiopurine to infliximab monotherapy. Combination therapy was more effective for induction of remission (RR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.64-0.92). While there were no direct maintenance trials, both these studies included follow up of patients with active disease up to 50/52 weeks with combination therapy showing greater efficacy than infliximab monotherapy for maintenance of remission (RR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.60-0.90). The certainty of evidence for induction of remission was moderate, rating down for imprecision given the low OIS. Maintenance of remission certainty of evidence was low. This was rated down for indirectness (entering the maintenance with active disease and not specifically quiescent disease) and imprecision due to the low OIS. Combination therapy using infliximab and methotrexate vs infliximab monotherapy was compared in
