HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


(entering the maintenance with active disease and not specifically quiescent disease) and imprecision due to the low OIS. Combination therapy using infliximab and methotrexate vs infliximab monotherapy was compared in one RCT with 126 patients. There was no difference in achieving corticosteroid-free remission at week 14 RR, 1.07; 95% CI, 0.57-2.03) and at week 50 there 95% CI, 0.68-2.03). The certainty of evidence for induction and maintenance of remission using infliximab with methotrexate was rated low due to very serious imprecision. A single open-label RCT (DIAMOND study group) compared adalimumab and azathioprine to adalimumab monotherapy for 52 weeks. There was no difference between the two groups for induction of remission (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.80-2.14) or maintenance of remission (RR, Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1.13; 95% CI, 0.72-1.78).16 However, combination therapy was associated with higher rates of endoscopic remission at week 26 compared to adalimumab monotherapy (48/57 [84.2%] vs. 37/58 [63.2%], p=0.02). The certainty of evidence was very low rating down for risk of bias (unblinded study with high rates of drug discontinuations due to treatment intolerance) indirectness of outcomes, and imprecision from the low OIS. Importantly, use of combination therapy may be even more important in the subset of patients who have developed secondary non-response to TNFα antagonists. Roblin et al noted that combination therapy resulted in improved outcomes without clinical failure or unfavorable pharmacokinetics at 24 months with improvements of 77-78% for TNFα antagonists with a thiopurine compared to 22% with TNFα antagonists monotherapy (p<0.001).17 There were no RCTs to provide data on combination therapy using vedolizumab or ustekinumab with a thiopurine or methotrexate. The mechanism by which combination therapy provides improved induction and maintenance of remission is unclear. Adding the thiopurine or methotrexate to infliximab may result in improved drug levels and lower risk of immunogenicity by preventing anti- drug antibody formation. It is possible that the benefits of combination therapy might be achieved by therapeutic drug monitoring, using the information obtained to adjust drug dose or dosing interval. This option may provide the same benefits of combination therapy without the risk and inconvenience of adding the thiopurine or methotrexate. Importantly, if the focus is on reduction of immunogenicity, the potential benefits of combination therapy with newer biologics like vedolizumab and ustekinumab may not be beneficial since these drugs are less immunogenic compared to
