HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


is on reduction of immunogenicity, the potential benefits of combination therapy with newer biologics like vedolizumab and ustekinumab may not be beneficial since these drugs are less immunogenic compared to infliximab. Harms that must be considered when selecting combination therapy include the increased risk of infections and 2-3 fold higher risk of lymphoma compared to TNF-α antagonist monotherapy when adding a thiopurine.18 6. In adult outpatients with quiescent CD on combination therapy, the AGA makes no recommendation for withdrawal of either the immunomodulator or the biologic over ongoing combination therapy of a biologic and an immunomodulator. (No recommendation, knowledge gap) There were 3 RCT that included 161 patients who were in maintenance of remission on combination therapy with TNFα antagonists and immunomodulators for at least 6 months (2 trials of infliximab-, 1 trial of adalimumab-based combination therapy). Overall, there were no significant differences in the risk of relapse over 12-24 months in patients who continued combination therapy vs. withdrew immunomodulators (RR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.71-1.46). The certainty of evidence was rated as very low due to risk of bias (unblinded trials) and very serious imprecision (wide 95% CI and the inability to exclude significant benefit or harm with continuing or combination therapy). There were no RCTs comparing continued combination therapy to withdrawal of the biologic. There was a single prospective cohort study of 115 patients with CD who were on combination therapy and discontinued infliximab.19 The risks of relapse though was 44% at one year and 52% at 2 years. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript While combination therapy is associated with a higher risk of complications compared to use of a single agent, it is possible that cessation of the immunomodulator may result in some patients losing response to the biologic. This risk, however, may be mitigated with use of therapeutic drug monitoring.20 Based on limited observational data, treatment strategies where the biologic drug is discontinued and the immune modulator is continued may lead to a high risk of relapse. Given the limited data to support a recommendation for or against this cessation of drug when used in combination, the panel opted to make no recommendation. 7. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA suggests early introduction with a biologic with or without an immunomodulator rather than delaying their use until after failure of mesalamine
