HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


9 below). The guideline panel used these data to determine that delaying appropriate therapy by using a step-up policy may result in clinical harm from delaying appropriate disease Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment. The panel acknowledged that the treatment paradigm of earlier therapy with a combination of a immunomodulator and a biologic drug or biologic monotherapy may result in overtreating some patients and potentially exposing them to treatment related risks and costs with limited benefit. However, the step-up paradigm is associated with a potential risk of harm from disease progression related to inadequate disease therapy. 8A. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA suggests the use of corticosteroids over no treatment for induction of remission. (Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence) 8B. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA recommends against the use of corticosteroids over no treatment for maintenance of remission. (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence) Systemic corticosteroids were evaluated in 2 RCTs with 267 patients. Corticosteroids at a prednisone dose equivalent up to 60mg/day was more effective than placebo for induction of remission (RR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.45-0.73). The certainty of evidence was low, rating down for bias (sequence generation and allocation concealment not reported) and imprecision given the low OIS. 3 RCTs with 367 patients compared controlled release budesonide vs placebo. Budesonide was more effective than placebo for induction of remission (RR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.60-0.91) albeit two of the studies were in patients with mild to moderate CD. The certainty of evidence was rated low due to indirectness (non-moderate to severe CD) and imprecision (low OIS). Systemic corticosteroids as a maintenance drug were evaluated in 3 studies with 269 patients and were not more effective than placebo for maintenance of remission (RR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.81-1.29). The certainty of evidence was low due to risk of bias (unclear randomization) and imprecision (wide 95% CI that could not exclude significant benefit or harm). The technical review performed an additional comparison between budesonide and systematic corticosteroids. 5 RCTs compared controlled ileal release (CIR) budesonide to corticosteroids with budesonide being inferior to systematic corticosteroids for inducing remission (RR for failure to induce 1.20; 95% CI, 1.01-1.44). Nevertheless, in patients with CD involving the distal ileum and/or ascending colon who are more concerned about systemic corticosteroids and less concerning about
