HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


failure to induce 1.20; 95% CI, 1.01-1.44). Nevertheless, in patients with CD involving the distal ileum and/or ascending colon who are more concerned about systemic corticosteroids and less concerning about the lower efficacy, they may reasonably choose budesonide over systematic corticosteroids. The panel noted that while systemic corticosteroids play an integral role in the induction of remission in patients with moderate to severe luminal CD, the side effects in both the short and long-term with systematic corticosteroids are substantial (see technical review). Budesonide, however, due to a first pass metabolism in the liver is better tolerated with fewer side effects and no significant alterations on serum cortisol levels.24 Nevertheless, neither systemic corticosteroids nor budesonide have a role in long-term maintenance of remission in patients with moderate to severe luminal CD. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 9. In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD, the AGA recommends against the use of 5-ASA or sulfasalazine over no treatment for the induction or maintenance of remission. (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) Two RCTs compared mesalamine to placebo for induction of remission but the underlying severity of CD was not clear. There was no specific subgroup with moderate to severe CD that could be extracted for our analysis. In these two studies, mesalamine did not reach the MCID of 10% over placebo (RR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.81-1.00). Sulfasalazine was evaluated in 3 RCTs but the again the overall severity of CD was not clear. In these studies, sulfasalazine was more effective than placebo for induction of remission over 6-17 weeks (RR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.65-0.93). However, it was unclear if these patients had moderate to severe luminal CD. For maintenance of remission, 4 studies (415 patients) treated with sulfasalazine and 11 RCTs with 2014 patients treated with mesalamine did not find either drug to be more effective than placebo for maintenance of remission (sulfasalazine: RR, 0.98; 95% CI, 0.82-1.17, mesalamine: RR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.92-1.16). The certainty of evidence was very low for sulfasalazine. This was rated down for bias (sequence generation and allocation concealment), indirectness (wide variability in characteristics and outcome measures, and imprecision (very wide 95% CI). The certainty of evidence for mesalamine was moderate, rating down for imprecision (modest benefit and harm could not be excluded). The panel noted the robust safety profile of mesalamine but also noted
