HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


of evidence for mesalamine was moderate, rating down for imprecision (modest benefit and harm could not be excluded). The panel noted the robust safety profile of mesalamine but also noted that sulfasalazine is associated with many adverse events (see technical review). The main concern regarding the use of 5-ASAs was the lack of data on their use for induction of remission in moderate to severe luminal CD and the data showing their lack of efficacy for maintenance of remission. In general, the panel noted that most drugs started for induction of remission should be continued for maintenance of remission and that starting a drug that is ineffective can lead to delays in appropriate therapy and worsening disease. Given the lack of induction data in moderate to severe CD patients and given the clear failure of 5-ASAs to maintain remission, the panel recommended against the use of mesalamine or sulfasalazine for induction or maintenance of remission for moderate to severe luminal CD. PHARMACOLOGIC MANAGEMENT OF ADULT PATIENTS WITH FISTULIZING CROHN’S DISEASE In Crohn’s disease fistula formation may occur from one loop of bowel to another or from bowel to other structures such as the bladder or vagina or from bowel to the skin. By far the most common form of fistula are perianal fistula.25 Data on drug therapy for types if fistula other than perianal fistula are almost totally lacking, so the technical review team and guideline panel limited their focus to the medical management of perianal fistula. Surgical management of fistulizing CD also was outside the scope of the technical review and guideline. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 10A. In adult outpatients with CD and active perianal fistula, the AGA recommends the use of infliximab over no treatment for the induction and maintenance of fistula remission. (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) 10B. In adult outpatients with CD and active perianal fistula, AGA suggests the use of adalimumab, ustekinumab, or vedolizumab over no treatment for the induction or maintenance of fistula remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence) Comment: evidence suggests certolizumab pegol may not be effective for induction of fistula remission 10C. In adult outpatients with CD and active perianal fistula without perianal abscess, the AGA suggests against the use of antibiotics alone over no treatment for the induction of fistula remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence) Infliximab was
