HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


perianal fistula without perianal abscess, the AGA suggests against the use of antibiotics alone over no treatment for the induction of fistula remission. (Conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence) Infliximab was the only medication that had a dedicated RCT to assess the efficacy of the drug to induce fistula remission. Ninety-four patients with symptomatic draining fistula were randomized to infliximab or placebo. Infliximab achieved a greater rate of induction of remission of fistula closure within 18 weeks (RR, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.34-0.78). The certainty of evidence was moderate rating down only for imprecision due to the low OIS. Adalimumab was evaluated in a subgroup analysis of 2 RCTs of 77 patients with symptomatic draining fistula. Adalimumab was not effective in complete fistula closure within 4 weeks compared to placebo (RR, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.93-1.27). However, indirect data indicates that adalimumab may be effective for induction of luminal CD and in the network meta-analysis adalimumab does appear effective for induction and maintenance of remission. Unfortunately, there are no dedicated randomized control trials using adalimumab for induction of remission or maintenance of remission for the primary outcome of fistula remission. Similarly, certolizumab pegol was also evaluated in a subgroup analysis of 2 RCTs including 165 patients and did not show a benefit compared to placebo for inducing fistula remission (RR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.80-1.27). The ineffectiveness of certolizumab pegol was further supported by the indirect evidence of the failure of certolizumab pegol to induce remission in moderate to severe luminal CD. The certainty of evidence was very low quality for both drugs rating down for very serious imprecision (wide 95% CI which could not rule out significant risk of benefit or harm) and risk of bias (randomization was not stratified based on presence/abscess of fistula). Vedolizumab was evaluated in a subgroup analysis of a single RCT with 165 patients who had a clinical response to luminal disease but had symptomatic draining fistula at baseline. Vedolizumab may be more effective than placebo for achieving complete fistula closure (RR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.63-1.04) within 14 weeks. The certainty of the evidence was very low rating down for risk of bias (randomization not stratified by presence/absence of fistula), indirectness (all patients received induction therapy with vedolizumab), and imprecision (95% CI crossing unity). Ustekinumab was evaluated in a pooled analysis of 4 trials of induction therapy (238 patients) with active draining fistula. Ustekinumab was more effective than
