HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


and imprecision (95% CI crossing unity). Ustekinumab was evaluated in a pooled analysis of 4 trials of induction therapy (238 patients) with active draining fistula. Ustekinumab was more effective than placebo in achieving fistula remission (RR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.73-1.99). The certainty of evidence was rated as low quality due to risk of bias (since randomization was not stratified by presence/ absence of fistula), and imprecision (OIS not met). Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Antibiotics were compared to placebo in a single 3 arm RCT of 25 patients with active draining perianal fistula. The 3 arms included: ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, and placebo. Antibiotics did not show more efficacy compared to placebo for induction of fistula remission (RR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.67-1.33). The certainty of evidence was low due to very serious imprecision (very wide 95% CI where significant benefit or harm with antibiotic monotherapy could not be excluded). Data on maintenance of remission for the biologics was present for some but overall quite limited. In general, a drug that is started for induction of remission is typically continued for maintenance of remission. Similarly, data on thiopurines were also quite limited and the guideline panel did not find sufficient evidence to formulate a recommendation. 11. In adult outpatients with CD and active perianal fistula without perianal abscess, the AGA recommends the use of biologic agents in combination with an antibiotic over a biologic drug alone for the induction of fistula remission. (Strong recommendation, moderate certainty evidence) Two RCTs involving use of TNF-α antagonists (infliximab or adalimumab) in combination with ciprofloxacin for 12 weeks was significantly more effective than using the corresponding TNF-α antagonist alone in achieving fistula closure over 12-18 (RR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.26-0.68). The certainty of evidence was moderate, rating down for imprecision due to the low OIS. Equity A recent review on the effects of race and ethnicity on the management of IBD patients shows conflicting data on the use of medical therapies, specifically biologic agents.26 While some studies demonstrated that African Americans, Asians, or Hispanic patients with CD were less likely to receive biologics compared with Whites, other studies have shown no differences in the use of immunomodulators of TNFa antagonists among patients of different races of ethnicities. This review did highlight that African Americans and Hispanic populations are less likely to have commercial insurance and
