HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


of immunomodulators of TNFa antagonists among patients of different races of ethnicities. This review did highlight that African Americans and Hispanic populations are less likely to have commercial insurance and are more likely to have Medicaid or be uninsured which may lead to disparities in care. Implementation Considerations The decision of which drug to initiate for moderate to severe CD needs to be individualized to the patient with shared decision making. While data suggests the biologics as a whole are effective drugs, individual drugs may have better efficacy but need to be balanced with patient preference for mode of delivery and ability to obtain insurance approval. While the initial phase 3 drug trials had very set inclusion and exclusion criteria, not every patient time of publication there are no large randomized head-to-head studies comparing which drug is most efficacious for moderate to severe CD. As a result, data can be obtained via a network meta-analysis to provide some guidance in this area. The limitation of a network meta-analysis needs to be considered as this data is derived from the initial drug trials and when formulating the recommendations, net benefits and harms were considered but in Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript general the benefits of disease remission outweighed most concerns surrounding risks of adverse events and harms. However, when considering the use of natalizumab, the panel noted the significant risk of harm from PML and therefore suggested against its use. However, even in this situation, the panel still noted that some patients who put a high value on the benefits of drug therapy and lower value of PML risk may still consider the drug with ongoing JC virus monitoring. Discussion These practice recommendations for the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing Crohn’s disease were developed using the GRADE framework and in adherence to the standards established by the National Academy of Medicine for the development of trustworthy guidelines11, 12. The guideline recommendations incorporated data on the benefits and risks of treatment and non-treatment, along with patient values and preferences. The goal of this guideline is to promote high value evidence-based care and to facilitate shared decision making with patients in the management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD. Current evidence supports use of multiple drug classes, including: TNF-α antagonists, anti—integrins, anti-Il12/23 inhibitors, methotrexate (subcutaneous/intramuscular)
