HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


making with patients in the management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD. Current evidence supports use of multiple drug classes, including: TNF-α antagonists, anti—integrins, anti-Il12/23 inhibitors, methotrexate (subcutaneous/intramuscular) and corticosteroid for induction of remission and the use TNF-α antagonist, anti—integrins, anti-Il12/23 inhibitors, thiopurines and methotrexate (subcutaneous/intramuscular) for the maintenance of remission. Thiopurines and methotrexate were also suggested for use as combination therapies with TNF-α antagonists for induction and maintenance of remission compared to TNF-α antagonist monotherapy. The panel made no recommendation for combination therapy with other biologics given a lack of data. Similarly, no recommendation could be made regarding withdrawal or either immunomodulators or a biologic agent over ongoing combination therapy in quiescent CD. The panel recommended against the use of natalizumab given the side effect profile and availability of other medications to manage moderate to severe CD. The panel also recommended against the use of thiopurines for induction of remission, corticosteroids for maintenance of remission and the use of mesalamine for induction or maintenance of remission due to overall lack of efficacy. Finally, the panel suggests the early introduction of a biologic with or without an immunomodulator rather than delaying their use until after failing mesalamine and/or corticosteroids. In patients who initially were treated with an TNFα antagonist with a primary nonresponse, the AGA recommends the use of ustekinumab and suggests the use of vedolizumab. However, in cases of those who previously responded to infliximab (secondary nonresponse), the AGA recommends the use of adalimumab or ustekinumab and suggests the use of vedolizumab. Of note, if adalimumab was the first drug failure with subsequent secondary nonresponse, indirect evidence suggests the consideration of infliximab as a second line agent. In fistulizing disease, infliximab was noted to have the most robust evidence supporting its use but other drugs did show efficacy including adalimumab, ustekinumab and vedolizumab. In contrast, evidence suggests certolizumab pegol may not be effective for induction Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of fistula remission. In cases of perianal disease with an active fistula but no abscess, combining biologics with antibiotics were most effective in inducing fistula remission. Future Research Needs and Evidence Gaps The guideline panel identified multiple knowledge gaps and areas for future research in patients with moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD. The last two decades have witnessed many important advances in CD
