HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


identified multiple knowledge gaps and areas for future research in patients with moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing CD. The last two decades have witnessed many important advances in CD treatment with associated improved outcomes, but there continues to be a significant fraction of patients who fail to respond sufficiently to the available treatments. In addition to the ongoing development of new drugs and drug classes, there remain unanswered questions about the optimal application of the current therapies. Importantly, direct comparisons of the benefits and harms, especially over the long-term, of the available drugs and treatment strategies are mostly lacking. There remains and harm to a particular drug or drug class to improve the rational choice of initial and second line therapeutic agents in a given patient. The need is especially great in special populations such as those with fistulizing disease or aggressive and recurrent fibrostenosing disease. Overall, the data on risk stratifying individual patients into low and high risk of disease complications and disability remains poor. These data would allow clinicians to better understand the optimal timing of initial therapies and the optimal duration of therapies, facilitating better-shared decision making with patients based on their values and preferences. Most all of our data on drug efficacy and safety is based on White patients from a narrow age range. We urgently need data on treatment outcomes in diverse populations including African Americans, Latinx and the elderly to name just the most glaring deficiencies. We urgently need better data on benefits and risks of combining drugs, not just biological drugs with immune modulators, but also the combination of biologic drugs with one another, a strategy that might leverage the different mechanisms of actions of different drug classes to good effect. Fundamental questions, such as ideal target of therapy in CD also remain unanswered. Many of the studies referenced in this guideline regarding drug efficacy focused on clinical response and remission as defined by the CDAI and other mostly symptom based indices, but newer studies now include rates of endoscopic remission and in some cases histologic remission. Long-term patient outcomes appear to be better when we achieve these more objective and robust targets of response and remission, but there remains uncertainty in clinical practice about when to declare a drug successful or when to change treatment strategies looking for a better outcome. For patients that do respond well, like among those who
