HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: remission, evidence, author, author manuscript, manuscript, moderate, patients, induction, use, certainty, maintenance, certainty evidence, severe, manuscript author, moderate severe


clinical practice about when to declare a drug successful or when to change treatment strategies looking for a better outcome. For patients that do respond well, like among those who achieve endoscopic or histologic remission, we need data to guide us in when or how to deescalate or discontinue therapy. In summary, though our ability to treat patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s has improved markedly over possible outcome. Plans for Updating This Guideline: Guidelines are living products. To remain useful, they need to be updated regularly as new information accumulates. The guidelines are reviewed annually at the AGA clinical practice guideline committee. Additionally, this document will be updated when major new research is published. The need for an update will be determined no later than 2024. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Acknowledgements: The AGA Clinical Guidelines Committee includes The AGA Clinical Guidelines Committee included Shahnaz This document presents the official recommendations of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) on the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and fistulizing Crohn’s disease. The guideline was developed by the AGA’s Clinical Practice Guideline Committee and approved by the AGA Governing Board. Development of this guideline and its accompanying technical review was fully funded by the AGA Institute with no additional outside funding. Conflict of interest Disclosures: Eugenia Shmidt MD- Received research support from Celgene and Takeda. Harminder Singh MD- Served on the educational funding from Ferring and research funding from Merck Canada. Dr. Harminder Singh also served an advisory role to Guardant Health. Yngve Falck-Ytter- No relevant conflicts to disclose. Shanaz Sultan- No relevant conflicts to disclose. Jonathan P. Terdiman MD- Received research support from Abbvie Abbreviations used in this paper: AGA American Gastroenterological Association CD Crohn’s disease CDAI Crohn’s Disease Activity Index CI confidence interval CIR controlled ileal release FDA Food and Drug Administration IOIBD International Organization for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease GRADE Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation JC John Cunningham MCID minimal clinically important difference OIS optimal information size OR odds ratio PICO population, intervention, comparator, outcome PML progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy RCT randomized control trial REACT Randomised Evaluation of an Algorithm for Crohn’s Treatment Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript RR relative risk SONIC Study of Biologic and Immunomodulator Naive Patients in Crohn’s
