Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


ABSTRACT Thyroid hormones (THs) regulate growth, development, metabolism. This chapter aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the molecular and cellular mechanism(s) for intracellular signaling by TH. At the cellular level, THs bind to thyroid hormone receptors (TRs) that are members of the nuclear hormone receptor family. TRs act as ligand-activated transcription factors that bind to their cognate thyroid hormone response elements (TREs) in the promoters of target genes. TRs regulate gene transcription by employing TR-interacting protein complexes containing coactivators (CoAs) or corepressors (CoRs). Coactivator and corepressor complexes include histone modifying enzymes known as histone acetyltransferases (HATs) or histone deacetylases (HDACs), respectively, that induce epigenetic changes in the chromatin structure of target gene promoters to enhance or repress the transcriptional efficiency of RNA polymerase on TH-responsive genes. TRs also can mediate transcriptional effects indirectly by binding to other transcription factors or activating cell signaling cascades. Additionally, emerging evidence suggests that THs may bind to cell membrane proteins other than TRs to activate cell signaling pathways. The important role of TH on metabolism, has spawned interest the pharmacological use of TH and its analogs/metabolites for the treatment of metabolic diseases such as hypercholestronemia, hypertriglycerimia obesity, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). INTRODUCTION The thyroid hormones (THs, thyroxine (T 4 ) and triiodothyronine (T 3 )) have important effects on development, growth, and metabolism (1-3). Some of the most prominent effects of TH occur during fetal development and early childhood. In humans, the early developmental role of TH is illustrated by the distinctive clinical features of cretinism observed in iodine-deficient areas. In childhood, lack of TH can cause delayed growth. However, in this latter case, many of the effects of TH may be metabolic rather than developmental, as growth is restored rapidly after the institution of TH treatment. In adults, the primary effects of THs are manifested by alterations in metabolism. These effects include changes in oxygen consumption, protein, carbohydrate, lipid, and vitamin metabolism. The clinical features of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism emphasize the pleiotropic effects of these hormones on many different pathways and target organs. At the clinical level, identification of quantitative markers of TH action has been difficult (4). At the extreme ends of the clinical spectrum, which extends from hypothyroidism to hyperthyroidism, the diagnosis of a thyroid abnormality is usually apparent. Clinical suspicion of a thyroid abnormality can be confirmed using laboratory tests for THs and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).
