Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


in the absence and presence of TH (1,2,30). In fact, TH receptors are tightly associated with chromatin (1-3,30), consistent with their proposed role as DNA-binding proteins that regulate gene expression. CLONING, STRUCTURE, AND EXPRESSION OF TH RECEPTORS Cloning of TRs TH receptors (TRs) were first cloned in 1986 and belong to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily that includes the glucocorticoid, estrogen, progesterone, androgen, aldosterone, vitamin D, retinoic acid (RARs), retinoid X (RXRs) and "orphan" (unknown ligand and/or DNA target) receptors (1,2,15,16,30-33). TRs are the cellular homologs of v-erbA, a viral oncogene product involved in chick erythroblastosis. TRs are encoded at two genomic loci (α and β) located on human chromosomes 17 and 3, respectively and their gene products result in two major isoforms, TRα and TRβ . Structure of TRs Like other members of the nuclear receptor superfamily, the TRs have a central DNA-binding domain (DBD) and a carboxy-terminal ligand-binding domain (LBD) (Figure 3d-1). The two major TR isoforms have high amino acid sequence homology in their respective DBDs and LBDs. Dimerization domains also are found in both DBDs and LBDs. The amino-terminal regions are more variable between TRα and TRβ (1-3), and contain ligand-independent activation domains. In contrast, multiple sub-regions are located in the LBD for ligand-dependent transcriptional activation and basal repression of target genes. Figure 1 Functional domains of the TH receptor (TR). The TH receptor (TR) is depicted schematically. The zinc finger DNA-binding domain (DBD) is denoted along with the carboxy terminal ligand-binding domain (LBD). Other functional domains and interaction sites are indicated. The DNA-binding domains of the nuclear receptors are comprised of two distinct zinc fingers that are separated by a 15-17 amino acid linker sequence. The crystal structure of the DNA-binding domains of the TH receptor and its heterodimeric partner, RXR has been determined. The two heterodimer partners interact with a direct repeat of the receptor binding site in a head-to-tail manner (34-37). A small stretch of amino acids at the base of the first finger (referred to as the P-box) dictates the DNA sequence specificity of the receptor (35-39). The P-box sequence of the TH receptor is shared by other receptors that bind to similar or identical DNA recognition sites (AGGTCA). The underlined amino acids in the P-box (EGCKG) of the TH receptor are also found in the retinoic acid receptors, the retinoic acid X receptors, the rev-erbA protein, the vitamin D receptor, and
