Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


acids in the P-box (EGCKG) of the TH receptor are also found in the retinoic acid receptors, the retinoic acid X receptors, the rev-erbA protein, the vitamin D receptor, and NGFI-B. Of note, the steroid hormone receptors have a different P box sequence and bind as homodimers to a different consensus DNA half-site sequence (AGAACA). The region between the DBD and LBD is called the hinge region and contains the nuclear localization signal, typically a basic amino acid‑rich sequence, first described in viral nuclear proteins. X‑ray crystallographic studies of the liganded rat TRα-1 show that TH is embedded in a hydrophobic "pocket" lined by discontinuous stretches of amino acid sequences within the LBD. Additionally, there are several hydrophobic interfaces within the LBD that contribute to the TR homo- and heterodimerization with RXR (39). There are twelve amphipathic helices in the LBD and specific helices among them provide the critical contact surfaces for protein-protein interactions with co-activators and co-repressors (helices 3,5,6,12 and 3,4,5,6, respectively) (40-43). Ligand-binding to TR causes a major conformational change in the LBD, particularly in helix 12. This, in turn, facilitates TR discrimination between co-activators and co-repressors (see below). Splicing variants of TRs The carboxy-terminal hormone-binding domain of the TRα gene is alternatively-spliced to generate several protein products (Figure 3d-2, below). One variant, referred to as α-2, is identical to TRα-1 through the first 370 amino acids, but then its sequence diverges completely, owing to splicing of alternate exons (44-47). Another splicing variant, referred to as TRvII or α-3, is similar to α-2 except that it lacks the first 39 amino acids found in the unique region of α-2 (45). α -2 cannot bind TH because of the replacement of critical amino acids at the extreme carboxy-terminal end of the protein due to alternative splicing (48), and thus cannot mediate ligand-dependent gene transcription (49– 51). The amino acid replacements in α-2 also alter its dimerization properties and reduce DNA-binding affinity (52-55). The α-2 splicing variant is highly expressed in many tissues such as brain, testis, kidney, and brown fat, but its function remains poorly understood (56). The α-2 isoform has been proposed to be an endogenous inhibitor of TH receptor function as it inhibits TRα and β activity in transient gene expression assays (44,54). The mechanism by which α-2 antagonizes TR action is controversial. Some studies indicate that α-2 competes for active receptor complexes at DNA target sites
