Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


in transient gene expression assays (44,54). The mechanism by which α-2 antagonizes TR action is controversial. Some studies indicate that α-2 competes for active receptor complexes at DNA target sites (57,58). Other studies indicate that α-2 inhibits TR activity independent of DNA-binding (59). It is likely that the inhibitory effects of α-2 involve more than one mechanism. Amino acid substitutions in the carboxy-terminal region of α-2 also prevent its interactions with transcriptional corepressors (see below) (55), and may provide an explanation as to why α-2 is not a more potent inhibitor of TR activity. Additionally, the phosphorylation state of α-2 may modulate its inhibitory activity (60). Given the foregoing features, the TRα-1 and α-2 system represents one of the few examples in mammals whereby multiple mRNAs generated by alternative splicing encode proteins that are antagonistic to each other. Figure 2 TH receptor isoforms. The TH receptors (TR) β and α are expressed from separate genes. Each TR gene can be expressed as distinct isoforms, reflecting the use of alternate promoters and exons. The central zinc finger DNA-binding region is indicated and unique domains are shown by distinct patterns of shading. The TRβ-2 isoform, which is expressed predominantly in the pituitary and hypothalamus, contains a unique amino-terminus. The TRα-2 isoform contains unique carboxy-terminal sequences that eliminate hormone binding. The DNA- and T3-binding properties and transcriptional activity of the various isoforms are shown at the right. A receptor-like molecule, Rev-erbA, is, surprisingly, encoded on the opposite strand of the TRα gene locus (61, 62). Rev-erbA mRNA contains a 269-nucleotide stretch which is complementary to the α-2 mRNA due to its transcription from the DNA strand opposite of that used to generate TRα-1 and α-2. This protein also is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily, and is highly expressed in adipocytes and muscle cells. Rev-erbA, contains a DBD that is homologous to the TR DBD. However, Rev-erbA does not bind TH and its putative LBD has minimal homology with other nuclear hormone receptors. Since no cognate ligand has been identified for Rev-erbA, it is categorized as an "orphan nuclear receptor. " It can act as a transcriptional repressor for nuclear hormone receptors and other transcription factors (63-65). Since Rev-erbA shares an exonic segment of the bidirectionally transcribed TRα gene, it is possible that it modulates the expression or splicing of TRα-1 and α-2 (66, 67) as parallel increases in rev-erbA mRNA
