Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


exonic segment of the bidirectionally transcribed TRα gene, it is possible that it modulates the expression or splicing of TRα-1 and α-2 (66, 67) as parallel increases in rev-erbA mRNA and TRα-1 mRNA expression occur relative to α2 mRNA expression. The major variant of the TRβ gene, TRβ-2, has a different amino-terminus than TRβ 1 (Figure 3d-2, above) (68). The distinct amino-terminal region of the TRβ-2 is due to transcription from a tissue-specific promoter. The function of the amino-terminus of the TH receptor is not known, but it likely plays a role in transcriptional control (69,70). The TRβ-1 and TRβ-2 isoforms function similarly in most transient gene expression assays (69, 71), although differences in the transcriptional activities of the TRβ 1 and TRβ 2 isoforms have been noted with respect to certain target genes (69-72). It is likely that tissue-restricted expression of the TRβ-2 isoform contributes to unique patterns of TR expression, which in turn, may modulate target gene regulation. Recently, short isoforms of TRα and TRβ have been described (73, 74). The novel TRα isoforms arise from translational start sites in the 7th intron and yield shortened TRα 1 and α 2 isoforms that have dominant negative activity on WT TR. Novel short TRβ isoforms arise from alternative splicing of TRβ. It is possible that these isoforms may modulate T 3 -responsiveness in a tissue- and/or developmental stage-specific manner. Tissue- and development-specific expression of TRs Most studies of TR isoform expression have employed mRNA analyses rather than protein measurement (30). In general, the α and β receptor isoforms are distributed widely and exhibit overlapping patterns of expression (30,75). TRα 1 mRNA is expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscle whereas TRβ-1 mRNA is predominant in liver, kidney, and brain. Α-2 mRNA is most prevalent in brain and testis. In contrast, TRβ-2 mRNA has the most tissue-restricted expression, and is present in the anterior pituitary gland, hypothalamus, and cochlea (75-79). The TRs also are expressed in specific stages during development, and are subject to regulation by hormones and other factors (78, 79). For instance, TRα-1 mRNA is expressed early whereas TRβ 1 mRNA is expressed later during embryonic brain development. In the rat pituitary gland, TH decreases TRβ 2, TRα-1, and α-2 mRNAs while slightly increasing TRβ-1 mRNA. However, in most other tissues, TH decreases TRα-1 and α-2, but not TRβ-1 mRNA. Isoform-specific knockout mice of each of the TR isoforms
