Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


α-2 mRNAs while slightly increasing TRβ-1 mRNA. However, in most other tissues, TH decreases TRα-1 and α-2, but not TRβ-1 mRNA. Isoform-specific knockout mice of each of the TR isoforms display distinct phenotypes (17,18). However, lack of significant TR isoform-specific gene expression was observed in cDNA microarrays of hepatic genes in TR isoform knockout mice (80). Given the apparent redundancy in TR isoform function, it is possible the different KO phenotypes may be due to absolute TR expression levels in critical tissues and developmental stages. TRANSCRIPTIONAL REGULATION BY TRS TH receptors bind to TH response elements (TREs) in specific target genes (Figure 3d-3, below). After binding TH, the receptor induces changes in gene expression by either increasing or decreasing the transcriptional activity of target genes. Examples of the target genes that are positively- and negatively-regulated by TH are summarized in Table 1. cDNA microarrays have been employed to study TH regulation of hepatic genes in mice, and led to the identification of a large number of novel target genes (both positively- and negatively-regulated) (81,82). These studies demonstrated that TH affected gene expression in a wide range of cellular pathways and functions, including gluconeogenesis, lipogenesis, insulin signaling, adenylate cyclase signaling, cell proliferation, and apoptosis. Although many of the TH-responsive genes were regulated directly by TRs, others were probably regulated indirectly through intermediate genes. Indirect regulation of TH-mediated transcription is suggested when the time course for induction is slow (hours) and when it is blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors. Although TH acts mainly at the level of transcription, it also can affect mRNA stability, translational efficiency, and miRNA regulation (83,84). Thus, TH acts at multiple levels to alter protein expression. Figure 3 Mechanism of TH action via its nuclear receptor. TH is transported across plasma membrane and likely diffuses through nuclear membrane to bind to its receptor. The TH receptor (open circle) is localized almost exclusively in the nucleus where it associated with DNA as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with RXR (stippled box). The hormone-activated receptor binds to TH response elements (TREs) to alter rates of gene transcription and consequently levels of mRNA. Table 1 Examples of Genes Positively-regulated by T3. 1. Fatty acid synthetase 2. Growth hormone 3. Lysozyme silencer 4. Malic enzyme 5. Moloney leukemia virus enhancer 6. Myelin basic protein 7. Myosin heavy chain α 8.Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 9. RC3 10. Spot 14 lipogenic enzyme 11. Type I
