Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


silencer 4. Malic enzyme 5. Moloney leukemia virus enhancer 6. Myelin basic protein 7. Myosin heavy chain α 8.Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 9. RC3 10. Spot 14 lipogenic enzyme 11. Type I 5'-deiodinase 12. Uncoupling protein Table 2 Examples of Genes Negatively-regulated by T 3 . 1. Epidermal growth factor receptor 2. Myosin heavy chain β 3. Prolactin 4. Thyroid-stimulating hormone α 5. Thyroid-stimulating hormone β 6.Thyrotropin-releasing hormone 7. Type II 5’-deiodinase TR binding to TH response elements (TREs) Detailed analyses of thyroid response elements (TREs) have led to the identification of a canonical TRE half-site sequence (1, 2,85) (Figure 3d-4). The TRE half-site is generally considered to be a hexamer (AGGTCA), but TR binding is optimal with a more extended binding site (37,88,89). Specifically, the sequence TAAGGTCA is optimal for TR binding and T 3 -responsiveness. However, inspection of TREs from many different target genes reveals there is a relatively low degree of sequence conservation among these elements. This finding suggests the possibility that naturally-occurring TREs may have diverged from an ideal consensus element during evolution as a means to modulate the degree of TH responsiveness. TR interactions with DNA are quite different from those observed with steroid receptors, which bind to palindromic DNA sequences as homodimers. Although TR also can bind to certain TREs in vitro as a homodimer, it binds preferentially to most TREs as a heterodimer with the retinoid X receptors (RXRs) (1-3,30). The TR-RXR heterodimer binds to half-sites that are arranged in several different configurations. These include palindromic arrangements (head-to-head), direct repeats (head-to-tail), and inverted repeats (tail-to-tail). Most naturally occurring TREs are direct repeats (Figure 3d-4), typically separated by four nucleotides. The ability of TR dimers to bind to TRE’s in different configurations suggests a flexible protein structure, or the possibility that distinct protein surfaces are involved in the formation of dimers (34,39,90). Taken together, the specificity and affinity for the TR-RXR heterodimer is primarily determined by sequences within the half-site, the length of the spacer region between the half sites, and the sequence context within the spacer region. Figure 4 Consensus thyroid response element (TRE). Studies of TRE’s in many different promoters has allowed the derivation of a "consensus" TRE comprised of a direct repeat of the hexameric sequence, AGGTCA, spaced by four nucleotides (n). Of note, there is considerable diversity in the sequences of half-sites, orientation of half-sites, and bases that form the spacers between
