Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


the hexameric sequence, AGGTCA, spaced by four nucleotides (n). Of note, there is considerable diversity in the sequences of half-sites, orientation of half-sites, and bases that form the spacers between half-sites (see text). Although TR can interact with a wide variety of other nuclear receptors and transcriptional adaptor proteins (see below), the RXR proteins (α, β, and g) represent its most important heterodimeric partners (1-3). The RXR proteins enhance TR binding to DNA and reduce the rate of receptor dissociation from DNA (91). RXR binds to the 5’ sequence and TR binds to the 3’ sequence of TREs in which half-sites are arranged as direct repeats (92, 93). The DNA-binding domains interact with the major grooves of the half-sites on the same face of the DNA (34,92,93). The carboxy-terminal end of the TR DNA-binding domain forms an α -helical structure that interacts with the spacer region in the DNA minor groove between the TRE half-sites. Although protein-protein contacts between the RXR and TR DNA-binding domains are important for dimerization, the major sub-regions involved in dimerization reside in the carboxy-terminii of the receptors (34). The dimerization surface of the TR appears to involve residues that lie along the surfaces of helices 10 and 11. T 3 binding enhances the formation of TR-RXR heterodimers (94). On the other hand, T 3 dissociates TR-TR homodimers (95). These findings raise the possibility that T 3 binding might induce disruption of TR homodimers and induce the formation of TR-RXR heterodimers. The RXRs bind a stereoisomer of all trans retinoic acid, 9-cis retinoic acid (96,97). which variably alters transcriptional activity depending on the nature of the TH responsive gene (1,2). Additional studies are required to clarify the functional roles of RXRs and their ligands in TH action and interaction with other transcription factors. Recently, Hollenberg and colleagues recently analyzed the hepatic TRβcistrome of hyper- and hypothyroid mice using Chip-seq technology (98). They found that the majority of TRβ-1 binding sites were not in the proximal promoter region but in other portions of target genes. Interestingly, by comparing the TR binding sites with previous Chip-seq data for RXRa, they found that some target genes may be regulated by TR homodimers rather TR/RXR heterodimers. Additionally, T 3 increased TRβ-1 binding to DNA sites that, in turn, was correlated with T 3 -induced gene expression. DR-4 and DR-0 motifs were significantly enriched at the DNA binding sites where T
