Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


TRβ-1 binding to DNA sites that, in turn, was correlated with T 3 -induced gene expression. DR-4 and DR-0 motifs were significantly enriched at the DNA binding sites where T 3 increased or decreased in TRβ1 binding, and were associated with positive and negative transcriptional regulation by T 3 . Interestingly, in another study using Chip-chip methodology (99), some TH-regulated genes were identified that had little TR binding, despite the presence of putative TREs suggesting that other mechanisms such as receptor cross-talk, non-genomic effects, or indirect signaling mechanisms (see below) may be involved in regulating these genes. TRs can have cross-talk with other nuclear hormone receptors owing to their common abilities to heterodimerize with RXRs. TR crosstalk with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) and LXR signaling via heterodimerization with RXR is a prominent example. PPARg regulates the expression of its target genes by binding to the PPAR response element (direct repeat 1; DR1) as a heterodimer with RXR. Recently, it was shown that TRβ1 competes with PPARg for binding to DR1 as a heterodimer with RXR in vitro and in vivo to repress the transcriptional activity of PPARg (100). Since PPARg plays a key role in lipid metabolism, carcinogenesis, and cardiovascular diseases (101.102), this mode of TR may exert some of its effects by crosstalk with PPARs. Recently, cell-based studies indicate that TRβ inhibits the activity of LXR-α transcription activity of the CYP7A1 promoter which shares a common DR-4 element with TR (103). These studies show that TR cross-talk with other nuclear hormone receptor-mediated signaling expands TR effects beyond those target genes directly regulated by TRs (104). Basal repression/Transcriptional corepressors After binding to DNA, TR alters transcriptional activity by interacting directly or indirectly with a complex array of transcriptional cofactors. These proteins include corepressors (CoRs), coactivators (CoAs), integrators like CREB-binding protein (CBP), and general transcription factors (GTFs) (reviewed in 1-3, 31). Many of these factors have been identified by protein-protein interaction assays such as the yeast two-hybrid and glutathione-s-transferase pull down assays. In the absence of TH, TR represses basal transcription in proportion to the amount of receptor and the affinity of receptor binding sites in positively-regulated target genes.This phenomenon also is referred to as transcriptional silencing (105-108). (Figure 3d-5, below). The addition of TH reverses basal repression and increases transcriptional activation above basal levels seen in the absence of receptor. Our understanding of the molecular mechanism for basal repression of
