Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


The addition of TH reverses basal repression and increases transcriptional activation above basal levels seen in the absence of receptor. Our understanding of the molecular mechanism for basal repression of transcription by unliganded receptor was advanced significantly by the discovery of a family of repressor proteins that bind selectively to unliganded TRs and RARs. This corepressor family includes silencing mediator for retinoid and TH receptors (SMRT) and nuclear receptor corepressor (NCoR) (105,109,110). These corepressors are 270 kD proteins that contain three transferable repression domains and two carboxy-terminal α -helical interaction domains. They are able to mediate basal repression by TR and RAR, as well as orphan members of the nuclear hormone receptor family such as rev-erbAα and chicken ovalbumin upstream transcription factor (COUP-TF). They have little or no interaction with steroid hormone receptors and therefore do not mediate basal repression by these receptors. Another protein, small ubiquitous nuclear co-repressor (SUN-CoR) enhances basal repression by TR and rev-erbA (31). This 16kD protein may form part of a co-repressor complex as it interacts with NCoR. Within the interaction domains of NCoR and SMRT are consensus LXXI/HIXXXI/L sequences which resemble the LXXLL sequences that enable co-activators to interact with nuclear hormone receptors (40-42) (see below). Interestingly, these motifs allow both corepressors and co-activators to interact with similar amino acid residues on helices 3, 5, and 6 which are part of the ligand-binding pocket of TR. Differences in the length and specific sequences of the co-repressor and co-activator interaction sites coupled with the conformational changes in the LBD upon ligand binding, determine whether corepressor or coactivator binds to TR. Recently, it has been shown that corepressors can form a complex with other repressors such as Sin 3 and histone deacetylases that are mammalian homologs of well-characterized yeast transcriptional repressors RPD1 and RPD3 (1-3,31). Thus, local histone deacetylation likely plays a critical role in the basal repression by unliganded TR/corepressor complex by maintaining local chromatin structure in a state that decreases basal transcription. Upon T 3 binding, TR undergoes a conformational change that dissociates CoRs and recruits an array of coactivators (CoAs). Thus, hormone binding relieves repression and stimulates transcription by altering receptor binding to distinct classes of cofactors. Additionally, DNA-methylation may play a role in basal repression as methyl-CpG-binding proteins can associate with a co-repressor complex containing Sin3 and histone deacetylases (111,112). This repression was relieved by the deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A. These findings
