Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


in basal repression as methyl-CpG-binding proteins can associate with a co-repressor complex containing Sin3 and histone deacetylases (111,112). This repression was relieved by the deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A. These findings suggest that two repression processes, DNA methylation and histone deacetylation, may be linked via methyl-CpG-binding proteins. The fact that TR alters the level of gene transcription in both the absence and presence of T 3 has important implications for TH physiology. At low hormone concentrations, such as hypothyroidism, the unliganded receptor is predicted to repress transcription rather than function as an inactive, passive receptor. In some respects, this model is borne out by targeted inactivation of the TRα and TRβ genes. The phenotype of these double knockout mice are, for the most part, much less pronounced than the clinical features of congenital hypothyroidism (113,114). Thus, basal repression of transcription may explain why absence of receptor has less deleterious effects than absence of hormone (80,113,114). Figure 5 TH receptor-mediated transcriptional silencing and activation. (A) Positively regulated genes. In the absence of hormone, the unliganded TH receptor represses or "silences" transcription in a process that involves TR interactions with a corepressor complex. Binding of T3 releases corepressors, relieving silencing and inducing the recruitment of coactivators that mediate transcriptional stimulation. (B) Negatively regulated genes. In the absence of hormone, the unliganded receptor activates transcription in a process that involves corepressors. Addition of TH dissociates corepressors and recruits coactivators. In the case of negatively regulated genes, this T3-mediated exchange of corepressors and coactivators inhibits transcription. Figure 6 Role of corepressors and coactivators in the control of T3-regulated genes. In the absence of T3, the RXR-TR heterodimer recruits corepressors (CoR), which in turn, assemble additional components of a repressor complex that includes histone deacetylase (HDAC). Deacetylation of histones induce transcriptional repression. In the presence of T3, the corepressor complex dissociates and coactivators (CoA) bind to TR. The coactivator complex can include steroid receptor co-activators (SRCs)/p160, CREB-binding protein (CBP), p300/CBP associated factor (P/CAF), and proteins with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity. Vitamin D receptor interacting protein/TR associated protein (DRIP/TRAP) complex can also interact with liganded TR, and may cycle with SRC/p160 complex. The general transcription factors (GTFs) are also indicated. Transcriptional activation/Coactivators A large and growing number of co-factors have been shown to interact with liganded nuclear hormone receptors and enhance their transcriptional activation. These include: steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC1); SRC2/transcriptional intermediary factor 2 (TIF2) /
