Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


of co-factors have been shown to interact with liganded nuclear hormone receptors and enhance their transcriptional activation. These include: steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC1); SRC2/transcriptional intermediary factor 2 (TIF2) / glucocorticoid receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1); SRC3/ amplified in breast cancer 1 (AIB1)/ receptor associated coactivator 3 (RAC3)/ p300/CBP cointegrator associated protein (p/CIP)/ nuclear receptor coactivator (ACTR)/ thyroid receptor activator molecule 1 (TRAM 1); peroxisome proliferator activated protein binding protein (PBP); TR accesory proteins (TRAPs) /vitamin D receptor interacting proteins (DRIPs); p300/CBP associated factor (p/CAF), and cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP)/ p300. among others (reviewed elsewhere (1-3,31). At present, the precise roles of all these putative coactivators are not known; however, it appears that there are at least two major complexes involved in ligand-dependent transcriptional activation: the steroid receptor co-activator (SRC) complex and the vitamin D receptor interacting protein/TR associated protein (DRIP/TRAP complex) (Fig. 3d-6). SRCs (SRC-1,SRC-2, and SRC-3) are 160 kD proteins that associate with nuclear hormone receptors, including TRs, and enhance their ligand-dependent transcription (115-117). SRCs also interact with the CREB-binding protein (CBP), the co-activator for cAMP-stimulated transcription as well as the related protein, p300, which interacts with the viral co-activator E1A (118-121). Recent studies also have shown that CBP/p300 can interact with PCAF (p300/CBP-associated factor), the mammalian homolog of a yeast transcriptional activator, general control nonrepressed protein 5, GCN5. Like GCN5, PCAF has intrinisic histone acetyltransferase activity (HAT) activity. Both PCAF and CBP interact with TBP associated factors (TAFs) and RNA pol II. Thus, PCAF and CBP possess dual functional roles both as adaptors of nuclear receptors to the basal transcriptional machinery as well as enzymes that can alter chromatin structure by histone acetyl transferase (HAT) activity. SRC‑1 and CBP may coordinate with TRs to synergize further the actions of TH, and also allow for the convergence of plasma membrane and nuclear hormone receptor signaling pathways in the cell. The DRIP/TRAP complex also interacts with liganded VDRs and TRs (122-125). However, none of the subunits are members of the SRC family or their associated proteins. Instead, several DRIP/TRAP components are mammalian homologs of the yeast Mediator complex, which associates with RNA Pol II. Thus, TR recruits DRIP/TRAP complex which, in turn, may recruit or stabilize RNA Pol II holoenzyme via their shared subunits. It is noteworthy that DRIP/TRAP complex does not appear to have intrinisic HAT activity. Recent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays of proteins
