Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


or stabilize RNA Pol II holoenzyme via their shared subunits. It is noteworthy that DRIP/TRAP complex does not appear to have intrinisic HAT activity. Recent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays of proteins bound to hormone response elements (HREs), suggest that there may be a sequential, possibly cyclical recruitment, of co-activator complexes to hormone response elements by liganded nuclear hormone receptors (126-129). Studies of co-activator recruitment to TH-regulated genes showed distinct temporal patterns of recruitment. Last, other co-factors such as SW1/Snf and BRG-1 may be involved in early chromatin remodeling before the co-activator complexes are recruited to the TREs (130,131). Negative regulation by TRs In contrast to positively-regulated target genes, negatively-regulated genes can be stimulated in the absence of TH and repressed by TH (Figure 3d-5, above). Regulation of TRH and the TSH α and β -subunit genes have been studied most extensively as models of negatively-regulated genes. From a physiological perspective, negative-regulation of these genes represents a critical aspect of feedback control of the TH axis. The T 3 -responsive regions of these negatively- regulated genes have been localized to the proximal promoter regions (132-134). However, TR binding to putative TREs in these promoters is relatively weak in comparison to the binding sites in positively-regulated genes. There are several different potential mechanisms for negative regulation by TH. Negative regulation may involve receptor interference with the actions of other transcription factors or with the basal transcription apparatus (135,136). For instance, TR can inhibit the activity of AP-1, a heterodimeric transcription factor composed of Jun and Fos. T 3 -mediated repression of the prolactin promoter has been proposed to occur by preventing AP-1 binding (137). The TR also interacts with other classes of transcription factors, including NF-1, Oct-1, Sp-1, p53, Pit-1, CTCF, and GATA (138-144). By binding to these, or other positive transcription factors, the TH receptor may be able to inhibit gene expression by protein-protein interactions. Negative regulation may also occur by TR directly binding to DNA. A negative TRE from the TSHβ gene resides in an exon downstream of the start site of transcription (134) raising the possibility that it occludes the formation of a transcription complex. (Figure 3d-6, above) Additionally, liganded TRs may potentially recruit positive cofactors off DNA (squelching), which in turn, could lead to decreased transcription of target genes. Transcriptional CoRs and CoAs, or even novel co-factors, may be involved in the control of negatively regulated genes. In contrast
