Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


in turn, could lead to decreased transcription of target genes. Transcriptional CoRs and CoAs, or even novel co-factors, may be involved in the control of negatively regulated genes. In contrast to the basal repression by unliganded TR in the case of positively regulated genes, CoRs cause basal activation of the TSH and TRH genes (132-134,145,146). CoAs also play an apparently paradoxical role in T 3 -dependent repression of negatively regulated genes (146,147). Moreover, both SRC-1 knockout mice and knockin mice which express a TRβ mutant with a mutation in the helix 12 region (that interacts with CoAs) have defective negative regulation of TSH (148,149). Interestingly, histone acetylation can be increased in the T 3 - mediated negative regulation of TSHawhereas it is decreased in regulation of TSHβ and TRH (150,151). Epigenetic modifications by TRs Transcriptional regulation by TRs is a multistep process involving: (1) association of TRs with regulatory sites in the genome (usually within the targe gene promoters) in the context of chromatin, (2) ligand-dependent recruitment and function of coregulators to modify chromatin and thereby regulating RNA Pol II recruitment to the target genes, and (3)co-valent modifications of histones to alter chromatin structure, recruit RNA pol II complex, and to mediate transcription. In particular, the site-specific acetylation of histone tails induces local relaxation of chromatin, which enhances the binding of some transcriptional regulators and facilitates the recruitment and functioning of the general transcriptional machinery. Recent studies have demonstarted that thyroid hormone-positively regulated target genes may have distinct patterns of coactivator recruitment and histone acetylation that may enable highly specific regulation (129). However the epigenetic changes associated with negetively regulated gene seems to be much more complex. For instance, histone acetylation of H3K9 and H3K18 sites, two modifications usually associated with transcriptional activation, occur in negative regulation of TSHapromoter. T 3 also caused the release of a corepressor complex composed of histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3), transducin b-like protein 1, and nuclear receptor coprepressor (NCoR)/ silencing mediator for retinoic and thyroid hormone receptor from TSHapromoter in chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. These findings demonstrate the critical role of NCoR/HDAC3 complex in negative regulation of TSHagene expression and show that similar complexes and overlapping epigenetic modifications can participate in both negative and positive transcriptional regulation (150). Of note, histone deacetylation has been observed in T 3 -mediated negative regulation of several target genes (150-152). Moreover, abberant histone modification at the TRH and TSHagenes has
