Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


regulation (150). Of note, histone deacetylation has been observed in T 3 -mediated negative regulation of several target genes (150-152). Moreover, abberant histone modification at the TRH and TSHagenes has been implicated in the inappropriate TSH secretion observed in resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) syndrome (150,151)). Other coregulators may be involved in T 3 -mediated regulation as RIP140, a coregulator that can decrease transcription by some nuclear hormone receptors, mediated T 3 repression of Crabp1 gene via chromatin remodeling during adipocyte differentiation (153). Interestingly, the use of HDAC inhibitors to counteract the effects of basal repression of target genes have restored some transcriptional activity in hypothyroidism associated with RTH syndrome and hypothyroidism (154,155). Although nuclear CoRs play a prominent role in T3 nuclear action (156,157), NCoR-independent signaling may account for basal repression by unliganded TRs for a significant number of target genes (158). Another mechanism for T 3 -mediated epigenetic signaling is regulation of small non-coding microRNAs. MicroRNAs act as negative regulators of gene expression by inhibiting the translation or promoting the degradation of target mRNAs. Since individual microRNAs often regulate the expression of multiple target genes with related functions, modulating the expression of a single microRNA can, in principle, influence an entire gene network and thereby modify complex disease phenotypes (159). Thyroid hormone have been shown to regulate the levels of microRNA pair miR-206/miR-133b in human skeletal muscles (160), miR 208a in heart (161), miR21 and miR181d in liver (162,163). These miRNAs regulate important cellular events by TH such as differentiation, contractility, and metabolism. MicroRNAs thus are a novel mechanism for thyroid hormone signaling which may regulate mRNA levels of target genes in which TRs are not recruited to their promoters or directly affect their transcription (164). Last, it recently has been reported that miRNA 27a can modulate the expression of target gene, b-MHC in cardiac myocytes by decreasing TRb mRNA expression (165) and multiple miRNAs may also regulate TRb expression in papillary thyroid cancer (166) suggesting direction regulation of TR expression may be another mechanism for modulating target gene expression by TH. Novel indirect pathways for TH action It has been assumed that early transcriptional activation of target genes are mediated by direct transcriptional effects by TRs owing to their abilities to bind to TREs and recruit co-activators (167,168). Previous studies have suggested that TH may have non-genomic signaling activation that may result in rapid transcriptional changes (3,
