Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


to their abilities to bind to TREs and recruit co-activators (167,168). Previous studies have suggested that TH may have non-genomic signaling activation that may result in rapid transcriptional changes (3, see below). However, several groups have shown that TH can activate SIRT-1 activity by a TR-dependent process, that in turn, can lead to deacetylation and activation of transcription factors such as PGC1a and FoxO1a. These findings raise the possibility that TRs can activate some target genes without TREs through activating other transcription factors (169). On the other hand, TRs can interact with SIRT-1 directly so it is possible that it can recruite deacetylase activity that can act on transcription factors as well as modulate transcription through histone modification (170-72). Thyroid Hormone Receptors and Carcinogenesis There are many reports providing evidence that reduced TR expression and/or alterations in TH levels are common events in human cancer (173, 174). These alterations include loss of heterozygosity, gene rearrangements, promoter methylation, aberrant splicing and point mutations (173,175). Tumors, including lung, breast, head and neck, melanoma, renal, uterine, ovarian and testicular tumors, present high frequencies of somatic deletions and mutations in both TR alpha/beta loci (176-178). Aberrant TRs have also been found in more than 70% of human hepatocellular carcinomas The tendency for TR expression to disappear as malignancies progress suggests that TR can act as a tumor suppressor in human cancers; therefore, loss of expression and/or function of this receptor could result in cell transformation and tumor development (179). In fact, TR overexpression in hepatoma cell lines shows repression of various tumor promoting genes such as PTTG1 (180), and activation of anti-tumorogenic TGF-beta. However certain mutant TRs like TRb PV/PV mey even enhance tumor growth by non-genomicaly activating beta-catenin and PI3K pathways (181,182). Last, it recently has been reported that miRNAs can downregulate the expression of dio 1 in renal cell carcinoma, and TRbin papillary thyroid, carcinoma. Clarifying the molecular mechanisms by which TRs influence tumor progression and elucidating the epigenetic modifications ofT 3 target genes in cancers would perhaps lead to a better understanding of the treatment regime in humans. PHENOTYPIC EFFECTS OF TRa AND TRβ KNOCKOUTS AND KNOCKINS (CLINICALLY RECOGNIZED DISORDERS RELATED TO TR DYSFUNCTION ARE DESCRIBED IN CHAPTER 16D) Recently, targeted gene inactivation or knockout (KO) of TR isoforms, and “knockin” of mutant TRs to their native TR genomic locii have provided new information on the mechanisms of TH action (16,17).
