Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


gene inactivation or knockout (KO) of TR isoforms, and “knockin” of mutant TRs to their native TR genomic locii have provided new information on the mechanisms of TH action (16,17). The ability to disrupt TR genes by targeted mutagenesis has been particularly challenging given there is more than one gene encoding TRs, multiple splicing variants (TRα-1, α-2, TRβ-1, TRβ-2), and an additional transcript (Rev-erbA) derived from the opposite strand of the TRα gene (12,16,17). Two TRα knockout mouse lines have been generated that display different phenotypes (175, 176). It is likely this difference is due to the different sites in the TRα gene locus used for homologous recombination to generate the knockout mice. The TRα gene is complex as it encodes TRα-1, α-2 (which cannot bind T 3 ), and rev-erbA (generated from the opposite strand encoding TRα) (12, 16, 17). KO mice in which both TRα-1 and α-2 were deleted (TRα -/- ) had a more severe phenotype with hypothyroidism, intestinal malformation, growth retardation, and early death shortly after weaning (175). T 3 injection prevented the early death of pups. KO mice that lacked only TRα-1 (TRα-1 -/- ) had a milder phenotype with decreased body temperature and prolonged QT intervals on electrocardiograms (183). The phenotypic effects of the loss of TRα 1 are relatively mild (184-185). Unexpectedly, there is no evidence of resistance to TH, as occurs with the TRβknockout. Disruption of the TRα-1 causes lower heart rates (19% reduced) and prolonged QRS and QT durations. These cardiac effects persist after hormone replacement. No changes were found in the levels of known TH-responsive genes in the heart (e.g., sarcoplasmic Ca 2+ ATPase, Na + -K + ATPase, β-adrenergic receptors). The bradycardic effect of the TRα-1 knockout may result from alterations in the sympathetic or parasympathetic nervous systems or it could result from an intrinsic defect in cardiac myocytes. The TRα-1-deficient mice also have a 0.5 o C reduction in body temperature that is independent of TH levels. The mice have normal amounts of brown adipose tissue. Samarut and co-workers have reported generation of short TRα isoforms from intronic transcriptional start sites which have dominant negative activity on TR function (73), and it is likely these short TRα isoforms are responsible for the more severe phenotype of the TRα -/- mice. In this connection, TRα KO mice which did not express either TRα-1 and α-2 (TRα o/o ), had
