Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


are responsible for the more severe phenotype of the TRα -/- mice. In this connection, TRα KO mice which did not express either TRα-1 and α-2 (TRα o/o ), had a milder phenotype than TRα -/- mice which expressed only the short TRα isoforms (186). Interestingly, TH stimulation of some target genes was increased, perhaps due to the absence of α-2 which inhibits normal TR-mediated transcription (57,58). Targeted disruption of the TRβ locus created a mouse deficient in both TRβ-1 and TRβ-2 (16,17). These mice had elevated circulating TSH and T 4 levels, thyroid hyperplasia, as well as hearing defects (187,188). These findings are similar to the index patients with resistance to TH who were later shown to have homozygous deletion of TRβ (4,152). Thus, the mouse model appears to faithfully reproduce some of the features seen in humans with resistance to TH who are lack TRβ or express a dominant negative mutant TRβ (189). TRβ-2-selective knockout mice also have been generated and exhibited elevated levels of TH and TSH suggesting TRβ-2 plays the major role in regulating TSH (190). TRβ-2-selective knockout mice also have abnormal color discrimination and suggest TRβ-2 may play a role in cone development of the retina (191). The relatively mild phenotypes of the TRα-1 and TRβ KO mice suggest the two isoforms have redundant roles in the transcriptional regulation of many target genes. In this connection, microarray studies of TRα and TRβ KO mice showed similar gene regulation profiles in the absence and presence of T 3 in liver (82). Recently, a study employing TRα or TRbreceptor over-expressing cell lines also showed that both these receptor isoforms mostly share a common gene repertoire but with varying degrees of induction or repression of target genes (192). When both TR isoforms were abolished, the resultant double knockout mice (TRα 1 -/- TRβ -/- ) were surprisingly viable (113, 114). Thus, the absence of TRs is compatible with life. These mice had markedly elevated T 4 , T 3 , and TSH as well as large goiters. They also showed decreased growth, fertility, heart rate as well as bone density and development. Interestingly comparison of cDNA microarrays of double KO and hypothyroid mice showed only partial overlap of their gene regulation profiles, confirming the observation that the absence of receptor can give a different phenotype than lack of hormone. It is likely that basal transcription occurs even in
