Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


their gene regulation profiles, confirming the observation that the absence of receptor can give a different phenotype than lack of hormone. It is likely that basal transcription occurs even in the absence of receptor whereas basal repression of target genes occurs in the absence of hormone. When the phenotypes of TRa, TRb, and double KO are compared, it is apparent that each isoform may have isoform-specific function, perhaps in part due to different expression patterns of the isoforms as well as gene-specific actions by each isoform (114). Cheng and colleagues have generated a “knock-in” mouse model in which a mutant TRβ from a patient with RTH (PV) was introduced into the endogenous TRβ gene locus (193). These mice have a phenotype similar to patients with RTH, as the heterozygous mice showed elevated serum T 4 and TSH, mild goiter, hypercholesterolemia, impaired weight gain, and abnormal bone development. Homozygous mice had markedly elevated serum T 4 and TSH, and a much more severe phenotype than heterozygous mice. Wondisford and colleagues also have generated a “knock-in” mouse that expresses mutant TRβ (194). These mice had abnormal cerebellar development and function, and learning deficits. These latter studies suggest that expression of mutant TRβ under the control of endogenous TRβ promoter produces many of the clinical features of RTH in mice. This same group also recently developed a knock-in of a mutant TRβ that cannot bind DNA. This model should be useful in distinguishing signaling and developmental patterns due to protein-protein interactions of TRs (as well as non-genomic pathways) from those that require TR binding to TREs of target genes (195). Knockin mice harboring a T R amutant at the same site as the TRβ PV mutant gene decreased white adipose tissue (WAT) and liver mass (196). In contrast, TRβPV markedly induced hepatosteatosis and mass of liver but had little effect on white adipose tissue. The expression of lipogenic genes was decreased in white adipose tissue and liver of TR a PV mice whereas it was increased in liver and normal in TRβ PV mice. A recent study showed that the phenotype of impaired adipogenesis can be restored by crossing with mice expressing a mutant Ncor1 allele (Ncor1(ΔID) mice) that cannot recruit the TR (197). These findings support the notion that the phenotypes in the T R a PV mutant mice, and perhaps some patients with RTH with mutant TR a, may be due
