Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


(197). These findings support the notion that the phenotypes in the T R a PV mutant mice, and perhaps some patients with RTH with mutant TR a, may be due to aberrant repression of target gene (18, 198, 199). NONGENOMIC PATHWAYS REGULATED BY TH There is increasing evidence for non-genomic effects by TH (3) in addition to the transcriptional effects mediated by nuclear TRs. There is continuous shuttling of a small amount of TRs between the cytoplasm and nucleus (200), so non-genomic effects may be mediated by cytoplasmic TRs (see below). Recently, a TRavariant from alternative translation was shown to be palmitoylated and associated with the plasma membrane (201). TH binding to this receptor led to increased intracellular calcium, nitrous oxide, and cyclic guanine monophosphate (cGMP), which in turn activated PKGII, Src, ERK, and Akt signaling pathways. Another recent study suggests that non-DNA-binding TRs that cannot stimulate transcription may have “non-canonical” thyroid hormone signaling to regulate important physiological effects such as serum glucose and triglyceride levels, body temperature, and heart rate. (202). However, it appears that many non-genomic effects by TH are likely mediated by cellular binding proteins other than TRs. Evidence supporting this notion comes from the rapid time course of some TH effects (thus precluding transcription and protein synthesis), utilization of membrane-signaling pathways such as kinases or calmodulin, lack of dependence on the presence of nuclear TRs, and structure-activity correlations by TH analogs that are different than those observed for nuclear TRs (3). Several non-nuclear sites for TH binding have been identified in various cell systems although their functional significances are not well characterized. Some of these include: plasma membrane associated T 3 transporters, actin, calcium ATPase, adenylate cyclase, and glucose transporters; an endoplasmic reticulum associated protein, prolyl hydroxylase; and monomeric pyruvate kinase (3, 203-207). A useful guideline that describes transcriptional and non-transcriptional signaling via TR and non-TR mechanisms recently has been published (208) TH also has profound effects on mitochondrial activity and cellular energy state. A 43 kD protein has been described in mitochondria which also could bind to TREs and could be recognized by antibodies against the TRα ligand-binding domain (209). Recently, it has been shown that TRβ can interact with the p85 subunit of PI3K and activate the PI3K-Akt/PKB signaling cascade; thus, the small subpopulation of cytosolic TRβmay be involved in cell signaling (210). This PI3K activation by T 3 leads to both direct and
