Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


and activate the PI3K-Akt/PKB signaling cascade; thus, the small subpopulation of cytosolic TRβmay be involved in cell signaling (210). This PI3K activation by T 3 leads to both direct and indirect effects on the transcription of several genes involved in glucose metabolism (210, 211,) and provides a mechanism for cross-talk between TH and cell signaling pathways. Recently, integrin α-Vβ-3, has been identified as a plasma membrane TH-binding site (212). Previously, T 4 , but not T 3 , was shown to promote actin polymerization and integrin interaction with laminin in neural cells (213). Additionally, both T4 and T 3 activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity, and led, among other events, to phosphorylation of TRβ (210). Using a chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) system, Davis et al. showed that both T4 and T 3 stimulated angiogenesis (214). Since integrin α-Vβ-3 is involved in angiogenesis, T 4 and T 3 binding to it was examined, and T 4 was found to bind to integrin α-Vβ-3 with high affinity. Tetraiodothyroacetic acid (tetrac) and antibodies against laminin blocked T 4 binding (213). Moreover, siRNAs against the integrin α-V or β-3 subunits blocked MAPK activation by TH. These findings suggest that TH activates the APK cascade and stimulates angiogenesis via TH binding to integrin α Vβ 3. Additionally, thyroid hormone non-genomically suppresses Src thereby stimulating osteocalcin expression in primary mouse calvarial osteoblasts (215). A direct physical interaction of TRbPV with cellular proteins, namely the regulatory subunit of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (p85alpha), the pituitary tumor transforming gene (PTTG) and beta-catenin, that are critically involved in cell proliferation, motility, migration, angiogenesis and metastasis suggest a novel mode of non-genomic action, whereby mutant TR isoform acts as an oncogene in thyroid carcinogenesis (216). TH ANALOGS, METABOLITES, AND ANTAGONISTS Several tissue-specific and TR isoform-specific compounds have been developed as potential treatments for hypercholesterolemia, obesity, and heart failure. An early prototypical compound was 3,5-dibromo-3-pyridazinone-L-thyronine (L-940901) that bound preferentially to the TRs in the liver over those in the heart (217). Although the relative affinity of this compound for the respective TR isoforms has not been reported, the selective action of L-940901 is likely due to tissue-specific uptake of the compound. Interestingly, mice treated with L-940901 had decreased serum cholesterol levels without cardiotoxicity. Recently, several other TH analogs have been described that have isoform-selective affinity for TRβ compared to TRα (218-220). Since TRs in the liver are approximately 90% TRβ whereas those
