Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


cardiotoxicity. Recently, several other TH analogs have been described that have isoform-selective affinity for TRβ compared to TRα (218-220). Since TRs in the liver are approximately 90% TRβ whereas those in the heart are mostly TRα, these isoform-selective compounds may serve as novel agents to lower serum cholesterol with minimal cardiotoxicity. N-[3,5-dimethyl-4-(4’-hydroxy-3’isopropylphenoxy)-phenyl]-oxamic acid (CGS 23425), 3,5-dimethyl-4(4’-hydroxy-3’-isopropylbenzyl)-phenoxy) acetic acid (GC-1), and 3,5-dichloro-4[(4-hydroxy-3-isoopropylphenoxy)phenyl] acetic acid (KB-141) all have been reported to lower total serum cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol (205-209). CGS 23425 also increases LDL receptor expression in HepG2 cells. Additionally, these compounds can increase serum apoA1 levels; however, the total serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level does not changes or may even decrease. In this connection, GC-1 decreased serum HDL; increased expression of HDL receptor, SR-B1; stimulated the activity of cholesterol 7α hydroxylase; and increased fecal excretion of bile acids in treated mice (221). Thus, GC-1 regulates important steps in the reverse cholesterol transport pathway (221). Recently, KB141 was shown to be a potential treatment for obesity by decreasing body weight via stimulation of metabolic rate and oxygen consumption (222). The TR agonist MB07811, which is converted to an active metabolite in the liver, has proven to be effective in reducing hepatic steatosis in rodents (223). The TRb-specific compound, KB215 recently was shown to be effective in decreasing LDL cholesterol, apoliprotein B, triglycerides, and Lp(a) in humans (224)when used in combination with statins. These findings suggest that TH analogs may be useful in the treatment of a wide range of metabolic disorders (225). TH analogs and derivatives also bind specifically to proteins other than TRs, and are involved in non-genomic cell signaling pathways, Thyronamines (3-T1AM, T0AM) are endogenous compounds derived from L-thyroxine or its intermediate metabolites. Activities of intestinal deiodinases and ornithine decarboxylase generate 3-T1AM (226). Significantly, this compound bound poorly to nuclear TRs. T1AM has interesting physiological actions as it produced a rapid drop in body temperature and heart rate when injected intraperitoneally in mice. T1AM also decreased cardiac output in an ex vivo working heart model. Although 3-T1AM have a weak affinity towards classical nuclear TH receptors a number of putative receptors, binding sites, and cellular target molecules mediating actions of 3-T1AM have been proposed. Among those are members of the trace amine associated-receptor family (TAR1), the adrenergic receptor ADRα2a, and the thermosensitive transient receptor potential melastatin 8 channel (226). Preclinical studies using animal models are in progress, and more
