Cellular Action of Thyroid Hormone
KEYWORDS: receptor, hormone, thyroid, thyroid hormone, gene, genes, binding, receptors, nuclear, transcriptional, mice, protein, transcription, regulation, expression


the trace amine associated-receptor family (TAR1), the adrenergic receptor ADRα2a, and the thermosensitive transient receptor potential melastatin 8 channel (226). Preclinical studies using animal models are in progress, and more stable receptor-selective agonistic and antagonistic analogues of 3-T1AM are now being synthesiszed exerting marked cryogenic, metabolic, cardiac and central actions and represents a key lead compound linking endocrine, metabolic, and neuroscience research to advance development of new drugs (226). TH can increase cardiac performance by increasing cardiac contractility and decreasing systemic vascular resistance (2); however, TH excess also can cause cardiotoxicity. 3,5-diiodothyropropionic acid (DITPA) is a TH-related compound with low metabolic activity and low affinity for nuclear TRs (Kd 10 -7 M). DITPA was able to increase cardiac contractility and peripheral circulation without significant effects on heart rate in animal studies (227). Moreover, DITPA improved hemodynamic performance in animal models of congestive heart failure after myocardial infarction. Patients with heart failure treated with DITPA showed significant improvement in systolic cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance in preliminary studies (227). Thus DITPA or similar compounds may represent a novel class of drugs for the treatment of heart failure. Recently, the naturally occurring analogs, 3,5,3'-triiodothyroacetic (TRIAC) and 3,5,3',5'-tetraiodothyroacetic TETRAC) acids decreased heat-induced albumin fibrillation suggesting they may have a protective effect against amyloid formation (228). Additionally, tetraiodothyroacetic acid (tetrac) caused radiosensitization of GL261 glioma cells (229). The mechanisms for these effects are not understood at this time but likely involve non-genomic effects as TRIAC and TETRAC have weak binding affinity for TRs. Similarly, 3,5-diiodothyronine (T 2 ) has also shown favorable effects in rodent models of fatty liver diseases (230,231). SUMMARY We have learned much about molecular mechanisms of nuclear TH action during the past 25 years. In particular, the identification and characterization of TRs, their heterodimeric partners, corepressors, coactivators, and TREs, generation of TR knockout mice, and discovering non-genomic pathways have provided new insight into TH action. It is expected that new information will be obtained from microarray and proteomic studies, structural biology approaches, and in vitro transcriptional systems. Such information should provide an even better understanding of the mechanisms of disease caused by abnormal circulating TH and/or altered intracellular TH levels, and provide targets for the development useful therapeutic agents for not only TH-related conditions but also for metabolic derangements such as hypercholesterolemia, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and obesity. BIBLIOGRAPHY Yen PM: Physiological and molecular basis of TH action. Physiol
