Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


distinguish between occupant- the various lower respiratory infections. reported dampness and/or mold and researcher- We applied random effects models to derive cen- reported dampness and/or mold. tral estimates and confidence limits for associations of The categories of health outcomes constructed for the health outcomes with dampness and mold as meta-analyses were respiratory infection group, respira- reported by the multiple published studies which varied tory infection group excluding otitis media, and bron- in symptom definitions, subjects, and locations. The chitis (acute, chronic, or not clearly characterized as approach used was the same as in a prior meta-analysis acute or chronic). The respiratory infection group out- of dampness and mold with respiratory and asthma out- comes involved viral or bacterial infections; we excluded comes . In each meta-analysis model, we included from consideration respiratory infections by fungi which multiple ORs from single studies that reported more occur primarily in people with compromised immune than one OR for different but correlated risk factors (e. come categories overlap, with some studies of respira- (e.g., respiratory infection, common cold), or both; e.g., tory infections including bronchitis or episodes of ORs in one study for visible mold with bronchitis, Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page4of11 infections, and dampness with respiratory infections. comes from reviewed studies included in each category. Random effects models adjusting for possible within- Table 2 identifies the studies in each health outcome study correlations were used in our primary analyses. In category. It was not possible to summarize findings for addition, we used the procedure PROC MIXED in SAS acute bronchitis separately, as too few studies reported ing the within-study variances (matrix R in SAS) while infectious bronchitis. estimating between-study variance (matrix G in SAS). Major results from the meta-analyses of all eligible ORs and 95% CIs reported in each reviewed study studies, regardless of control for confounding, are pro- were first transformed to the log scale. The transformed vided in column 2 of Table 3. For the two primary out- results for each outcome category were then combined comes, bronchitis and respiratory infections, central using a random effects model. The model accounting estimates of ORs were 1.44 and 1.45. For these and all for the correlation between multiple results within stu- other subcategories in Table 3, 95% CIs excluded the dies was null. P-values for heterogeneity for both were <0.0001. For bronchitis and the respiratory infection group, cen- y ~N( + ,2) (1) tral estimates changed
