Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


95% CIs excluded the dies was null. P-values for heterogeneity for both were <0.0001. For bronchitis and the respiratory infection group, cen- y ~N( + ,2) (1) tral estimates changed little (by less than 0.01) when the ij 0 0i ij models were restricted to studies that controlled for age, where: gender, smoking, and socioeconomic status (column 3); however, with this restriction the p-value for heteroge- y ij is the ln OR in the jth sub-study of the ith study; neity for bronchitis increased to 0.12. Estimates (not b 0 is the fixed effect across all studies; shown) derived from fixed effects models were also very b 0i is the random effect in the ith study. b 0i ~ N(0, similar to the estimates in Table 1 - the maximum s*2), where: change in central estimate OR was 0.04. For the respira- s*2 is the between-study variance; and tory infection group, excluding RR values reported by 2 is the within-study variance, calculated from the two studies changed the central estimate by ij less than 0.01 and confidence interval endpoints by 0.03 log CI. or less. A series of models excluding each finding sequentially Results based on the model described above were did not identify highly influential single findings. The compared to those obtained from secondary analyses two most extreme findings (ORs of 0.48 and 5.1 using fixed effects models that assumed independence ) were not from large studies, and did not have of multiple ORs within individual studies. Additional major influence. Additional models were constructed models were constructed that omitted the reported RR with specific subgroups of respiratory infection out- values. For final models, we assessed heterogeneity of comes (Table 3). For these subgroups, when restricted study-specific effect estimates using the meta command to studies with control of at least the four key con- in STATA to estimate the Q statistic and associated founding factors, modeling outcomes of respiratory p-value. Where the p-value for heterogeneity was <0.05 infections excluding otitis media did not much change for both the full and restricted sets of findings, we the estimate or decrease heterogeneity. Modeling out- further explored possible sources of heterogeneity by comes of respiratory infections excluding common cold conducting sensitivity tests, and performing tests of het- and nonspecific upper respiratory infections increased erogeneity for various subsets of findings, as feasible. the central estimate to 1.50 and decreased heterogeneity Funnel plots were produced
