Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


(1.32-1.70) Commoncoldoracuteupperrespiratoryinfection 1.38 0.009 1.38 0.002 (1.21-1.57) (1.13-1.67) Respiratoryinfections(childrenorinfants) 1.48 0.16 1.48 0.09 8.8-19.4% (1.34-1.62) (1.33-1.65) Respiratoryinfections(adults) 1.50 <0.0001 1.49 <0.0001 (1.22-1.83) (1.14-1.95) #estimatedforfindingsrestrictedtostudiescontrollingforfourkeyconfoundersandassumingarangeof20-50%ofhouseswithdampnessormold;provided onlyforestimateswithp-valueforheterogeneity>0.05. Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page6of11 Figure1Oddsratiosandconfidenceintervalsfromallstudiesmeetingthelessrestrictedeligibilitycriteriaandfromameta-analysis ofthesestudiesperformedusingtherandomeffectsmodelandassumingdependentestimateswithinstudies.Thewidthoftheboxes (somesosmalltheyappearaspoints)isproportionaltotheprecisionofthestudyandtheendsofthehorizontallinesrepresentlowerand upper95%confidencelimits.Theleftverticallinemarksanoddsratioof1.0,correspondingtonoincreasedrisk,whilemostofthereported oddsratiosaregreaterthanunityindicatinganincreaseinriskwithdampnessandmold.Thecentralestimatefromthemeta-analysisis indicatedbytherightverticallineandtheleft-andright-sidepointsofthediamondatthebottomofthefigureindicatethelowerandupper 95%confidencelimitsfromthemeta-analyses. and inspection of estimates revealed no clear potential The statistical associations reported here do not docu- to influence heterogeneity. ment that dampness and mold are causally related to Figure 1 shows forest plots with adjusted ORs and the bronchitis and respiratory infections. Building damp- 95% CIs for the associations of respiratory infections ness itself is unlikely to directly cause adverse health and bronchitis with dampness and mold as reported in effects. If these associations are confirmed as causal, the original studies. Figure 1 also shows the summary exposure to one or more dampness-related agents, estimates produced in the meta-analyses using random either microbiologic or chemical, is likely to be ulti- effects models with all studies listed in Table 2. mately implicated. However, the consistent evidence of Funnel plots for the respiratory infection group and adverse health effects from a substantial number of stu- bronchitis are shown in Figure 2. No asymmetry was dies that have controlled for key potential confounders, evident for bronchitis. The asymmetry in data points for along with the moderately strong associations and the the respiratory infection group, i.e., the absence of pub- limited evidence of publication bias, provide initial evi- lished ORs less than 1.0 produced by less precise (gener- dence for causal links between these health effects and ally smaller) studies, suggested possible publication bias. some dampness related agent(s). When we excluded study results with standard errors Evidence for relationships of dampness or mold with greater than 1.0 (the set with asymmetric estimates), the respiratory infections and bronchitis has strengthened – revised estimate for this outcome differed by only 0.01 initially anecdotal, now documented in multiple observa- from the estimate in Table 1, suggesting that publication tional studies. Within the past decade, there have been bias had little effect on the central estimates. at least three major qualitative reviews of the associa- tions of dampness and mold with health outcomes. An Discussion interdisciplinary Nordic review panel in 2001 con- The results of these meta-analyses indicate that building cluded “There also seems to be an association between dampness and mold are associated with moderate but dampness and.... airway infections.” but this review pro- statistically significant increases in respiratory infections vided no conclusions
