Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


to be an association between dampness and mold are associated with moderate but dampness and.... airway infections.” but this review pro- statistically significant increases in respiratory infections vided no conclusions pertaining to the association of and bronchitis. The central estimates and confidence dampness with bronchitis. The IOM review in 2004 limits for these associations were stable across different made no conclusions relative to the association of modeling strategies: adding studies that controlled for dampness or mold with respiratory infections or bron- fewer confounding variables, assuming independence of chitis, but stated “Healthy persons exposed to dampness multiple estimates from the same studies, and omitting or moldy indoor environments sometimes report that included RRs. Also, analyses suggest that publication they are more prone to respiratory infections....” The bias likely had little impact on these estimates. most recent review, by WHO in 2009 , concluded Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page7of11 Figure2Funnelplotsforbronchitisandtherespiratoryinfectiongroup.ThehorizontallineintheplotfortheRespiratoryInfectionGroup indicatestheline(StandardError=1)belowwhichasymmetricdatapointswereomittedinasecondaryanalysis. that there is sufficient evidence to document an associa- Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumo- tion of dampness and dampness-related agents with nia, acute bronchitis, and acute exacerbation of chronic respiratory infections, but only limited or suggestive evi- bronchitis, can result from a variety of causal organisms, dence of an association for bronchitis. The results of the including Haemophilus influenza, Streptococcus pneumo- present quantitative meta-analyses are consistent with niae, and Moraxella catarhalis . Pneumonia is an the WHO findings for respiratory infections, but imply inflammation of the lung, caused usually by an infection more strongly that dampness and mold are associated from bacteria, virus, or fungi, but sometimes by acciden- with bronchitis. tal inhalation of other substances . Bronchitis, an dampness and mold have not included a category for can be acute or chronic. Acute bronchitis often occurs respiratory tract infections overall. The meta-analysis by in conjunction with viral infections such as common Antova et al. on visible mold in residences and bron- cold (e.g., rhinovirus, adenovirus), respiratory syncytial chitis in children, based on a set of similar European virus, or influenza, with a minority of cases caused by studies, reported an OR (95% CI) of 1.38 (1.29-1.47). bacterial infections. In contrast, chronic bronchitis is This compares well to the summary OR reported here generally caused not by respiratory infection, but by for dampness or mold in residences and bronchitis, recurring injury or irritation to the lining of the bronchi, based on the larger medical literature, of 1.45 (1.32- such as from tobacco smoke
