Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


or mold in residences and bronchitis, recurring injury or irritation to the lining of the bronchi, based on the larger medical literature, of 1.45 (1.32- such as from tobacco smoke or irritating dust or fumes 1.59). . The outcome categories included in this review con- An evident increase in respiratory infections in asso- tain a variety of specific diseases, with all but chronic ciation with dampness or mold could occur from bronchitis caused by a range of infectious organisms. increased numbers of infections, or from more serious We will consider biologic plausibility of the associations infections that are more clinically apparent; either might reviewed here separately for the infectious and non- result from impairment of immune defenses. Although infectious mechanisms. the specific exposures occurring in the reviewed studies Respiratory infections include upper and lower are not known, and although it has not been demon- respiratory tract infections and otitis media. Upper strated that exposures to microbial toxins in typical respiratory tract infections include common colds, phar- damp or moldy houses can suppress immune response yngitis (sore throat), and sinusitis. Most are caused by in humans, potential underlying mechanisms can be viruses such as rhinovirus, coronavirus, adenovirus, or suggested. Studies both in vitro and in vivo have respiratory syncytial virus, although a minority of cases demonstrated inflammatory and immunosuppressive is caused by bacteria . Otitis media, an infection or responses to the spores, metabolites, and components of inflammation of the middle ear often resulting from a specific microorganisms found in damp buildings . prior upper respiratory tract infection, can be bacterial Repeated activation of immune responses and inflamma- or viral in origin . tion from microbiologic exposures may contribute to Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page8of11 inflammation-related diseases, and the resulting infection, and frequent childhood respiratory infections), inflamed mucosal tissue may provide a diminished bar- with the highest potential of being allergic or irritant rier to respiratory infections. Observed synergistic inter- outcomes misclassified as infections. Because this actions in toxicologic studies among microbial agents restriction of the respiratory infection outcomes present in damp buildings, including specific fungi, acti- increased the summary OR slightly from 1.44 to 1.50 nomycetes, and amoebae (e.g. ) suggest that (and reduced heterogeneity of findings), this potential immunotoxic effects of fungal and bacterial strains typi- misclassification is not likely to explain the elevated risk cally found in damp buildings may be potentiated dur- of infections found here with dampness or mold.
