Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


and bacterial strains typi- misclassification is not likely to explain the elevated risk cally found in damp buildings may be potentiated dur- of infections found here with dampness or mold. ing joint exposures. This could explain lack of evident Regarding the summary OR of 1.38 for common cold associations for specific exposures. Thus, some biologic and acute upper respiratory infections, it is not clear plausibility is evident even in the absence of consistent how much allergic and irritant effects have been associations between human exposures to specific included with true upper respiratory infections. We did microorganisms or microbial components or products not estimate effects for a category of lower respiratory and respiratory infections in healthy individuals. infections because these findings were mostly for acute For chronic bronchitis, more often caused by chronic bronchitis. There were only seven findings for pneumo- exposures to irritants and inflammatory agents, the nia from three studies (ORs 0.79, 1.30, 1.33, 1.71, 1.77, immunostimulatory and inflammatory agents and aller- 1.85, and 2.3), too few to allow confidence in a meta- gens in some molds and other dampness-related micro- analysis (estimated summary OR = 1.57), but suggestive bial agents may explain or contribute to the associations of increased risk. . Also, dampness in building materials can increase The substantial diversity of findings in the studies the emission rates and indoor concentrations of some reviewed here was evident in the initial low p-values for chemicals , such as formaldehyde, which could cause heterogeneity. When acute bronchitis findings were irritation or inflammation . restricted to studies adjusted for the four key confound- Our analysis is subject to multiple limitations. Publica- ing variables, the p-value for heterogeneity increased to tion bias in the selection of available studies remains a 0.12. This suggests that heterogeneity for the unrest- possibility despite the limited evidence of publication ricted findings may have been due to scattered estimates bias effects described above. Estimates from random from less well-adjusted studies. That the central OR effects models should be interpreted with caution when estimate, 1.45, remained unchanged with this restriction the number of observations is small, as in some sub- suggests scatter in the unrestricted findings rather than analyses reported here. The test of heterogeneity used systematic bias. here has low power to reject the null hypothesis when For the respiratory infection group, restriction to find- the number of included findings is small. ings from more consistently
