Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


bias. here has low power to reject the null hypothesis when For the respiratory infection group, restriction to find- the number of included findings is small. ings from more consistently adjusted models omitted The respiratory infections category used in this analy- many of the most extreme estimates (e.g., 0.48, 0.49, 4.4, sis is broad, including outcome definitions of various 4.8), but did not decrease heterogeneity of the remaining types of lower respiratory infections that include acute findings. Exclusion of relatively nonspecific upper bronchitis; common cold; mixes of lower and upper respiratory infections, which might be misdiagnosed respiratory infections; and upper respiratory infections allergic or irritant effects, increased the central estimate including otitis. There were not sufficient numbers of to 1.50 and decreased heterogeneity (p = 0.07), whereas most outcomes for separate analyses. We have sepa- the estimate for common cold or acute upper respira- rately estimated summary measures of effect for bron- tory infection was 1.38. While substantial heterogeneity chitis (acute or chronic), respiratory infections overall, remained within many of the subgroups listed in Table 3, and various subsets of respiratory infections. It is possi- for those subgroups with little heterogeneity within, dif- ble that some disease caused by allergy or irritation, ferences in OR were not large. especially in the upper respiratory tract, was classified Because of the small number of available studies and erroneously as respiratory infection. Since allergy and the frequent use of outcomes containing multiple dis- irritation are known to be associated with damp indoor eases, clear conclusions cannot be drawn about even spaces, this could have resulted in erroneously linking associations with specific infectious diseases such as dampness and mold with respiratory infections. To influenza. While the central estimate for common cold check this possibility, we estimated risks for a restricted or acute upper respiratory infection of OR = 1.38, the set of respiratory infections: including lower respiratory lack of homogeneity in the included findings and the infections plus specific upper respiratory infections of uncertain diagnosis makes this estimate only suggestive. tonsillitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis, and otitis, but excluding Most studies included here relied on occupant report- common cold and less specific upper respiratory ing of dampness and mold, a possible source of both infections (e.g., acute upper airway infections, airway systematic bias and error. However, two prior reviews Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page9of11 have considered whether biased subjective response by data analysis of over 58,000 children by Antova
