Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


acute upper airway infections, airway systematic bias and error. However, two prior reviews Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page9of11 have considered whether biased subjective response by data analysis of over 58,000 children by Antova et al building occupants in dampness studies might have were very similar, even though Antova et al. adjusted for positively biased the findings. The prior comparison by 13 potential confounding factors - age, gender, current Fisk et al. of occupant-reported versus independent smoker in household, maternal smoking during preg- researcher-based assessments of dampness and mold in nancy, maternal and paternal education, household six studies concluded that it is “very unlikely that the crowding, nationality, gas cooking, unvented gas/oil/ker- dampness and mold is a consequence of over-reporting area. Also, the analysis by Antova et al., when adjusted of dampness and mold by occupants with respiratory only for age, gender, and geographic area, gave similar symptoms.” Bornehag et al. reported that findings estimates as when adjusted for many factors. Although of studies with independent assessment of both damp- the estimates included in Antova’s summary for bron- dies with more subjective information sources. included studies exceeded 1.0, and CIs for nine of the The use of subjective, qualitative assessments of 10 exceeded 1.0. Furthermore, Antova et al. performed a dampness and mold, even if not systematically biased, sensitivity analysis on potential heterogeneity on other will misclassify actual causal exposures. However, these variables such as season of questionnaire, age of subject, subjective metrics are currently the most useful corre- year of study, and response rate, and found little effect lates of health effects. Direct causal exposures related to other than a significantly higher ORs for bronchitis in dampness and mold have not yet been documented. studies with above 80% response. Overall, this suggests Many quantified assessments of microbial exposures that the relationships of bronchitis and various other have been studied, and they have not shown consistent respiratory outcomes to mold are not much confounded duals . This is likely because the specific causal expo- substantially by other key variables. sures involved have either not yet been identified or not Respiratory tract infections, the most common infec- molds “may better represent long-term exposure to consequences for individuals and for the public. Acute moulds than direct measurements during a short sam- lower respiratory infections are the leading cause of pling time .” death in children below five years old worldwide . tional studies that are subject
