Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, bronchitis, studies, dampness, mold, respiratory infections, dampness mold, infection, findings, estimates, acute, ors, upper, included


measurements during a short sam- lower respiratory infections are the leading cause of pling time .” death in children below five years old worldwide . tional studies that are subject to confounding and other acquired or in the immunosuppressed) is a major limitations inherent in that study design, despite the cause of hospitalization and morbidity and costs more attempts to control for known confounders. The result- than $17 billion dollars annually in the U.S. . Otitis ing estimates are all less than 1.5, making their eleva- media is the most common bacterial infection in chil- tions especially susceptible to alternate explanation by dren, and is a major cause for antibiotic prescriptions unmeasured confounding factors and other biases rather . Estimates of the prevalence of dampness or mold than by dampness- or mold- related exposures. It is not problems in houses are available from multiple sources, clear what additional confounding variables might and include the following: at least 20% in European explain these findings consistently across studies. On countries, the U.S., and Canada ; 14-40% in Europe, the other hand, since the risk factors assessed in these Russia, and North America ; and 50% in the U.S. . studies are likely to be surrogates for unmeasured Little effective prevention is currently possible for indoor dampness-related causal exposures, ORs for the human respiratory infections outside of attempting to true causal exposures would be higher. avoid contact with or spreading infections, vaccination The primary summary estimates reported here for influenza and pneumococcal pneumonia, and possi- required that studies controlled at least for age, gender, bly specific nutritional supplementation . The few smoking, and SES (although many included studies also documented environmental risk factors for respiratory controlled for other factors). If studies did not ade- infections include environmental tobacco smoke , quately control for all important confounders, biased wood or biofuel stoves , and low building ventilation estimates may have resulted. Evidence suggesting that rates . If prevention and remediation of dampness substantial residual bias was unlikely comes from the and mold in houses and other buildings were documen- paper by Antova et al. . Only two of the 23 studies ted to substantially reduce some or all types of human included here were among the 12 included in Antova et respiratory infections, this would be good and important al. Yet findings for bronchitis here and in the pooled news. Fisketal.EnvironmentalHealth2010,9:72 Page10of11 The attributable
