JournalofClinicalPathology, 1979, 32, 1282-1285
KEYWORDS: liver, perhexiline, normal, hepatitis, maleate, showed, cases, damage, fig, cirrhosis, months, liver damage, treatment, evidence, alcoholic


JournalofClinicalPathology, 1979, 32, 1282-1285 Liver damage due to perhexiline maleate G. B. FORBES, M. RAKE, AND D. J. E. TAYLOR 0. Kent, CTJ 3NG, UK SUMMARY Two middle-aged men, who had received perhexiline in recommended dosage, showed study ofthelivers showed a strikingresemblance to alcoholic hepatitis. Perhexiline maleate (Pexid) has been used as an and signs of hepatic failure; his condition deteri- antianginal agent for nearly 10 years, and, until orated despite antibiotic and antihepatic failure recently, there have been few reports of adverse therapy and he died three weeks after admission. side-effectswhichcouldgivecauseforseriousalarm. Thiscommunicationdrawsattentiontothepotential Histopathology hepatotoxic effect of the drug, a complication that A needle biopsy specimen of liver was taken im- has been recorded by other authors during the past mediately after death, and histological examination three years (Pelletier et al., 1976; Beaugrand et al., showed a severedegreeofliverdamagedueto focal 1977; McDonald, 1977; Bonnet et al., 1978; liver-cell necrosis and active hepatitis. There was Pessayre etal., 1979; Lewis etal., 1979). areductionofparenchymal tissuedue towideactive septaandmicronodularcirrhosis(Fig. 1).Theportal Casereports tracts and septa showed fibrosis and contained a heavy inflammatory infiltrate which included many CASE 1 neutrophils and no eosinophils. The cytoplasm of A whitemanaged 63, ateetotaller, presented witha most ofthe liver cells showed degenerative changes short history of chest pain on exertion, and an which ranged from ballooning to hyaline necrosis electrocardiogram showed ischaemic changes. As withclumps and globules ofMallory's hyaline (Fig. treatment with fi blockade produced unacceptable 2). Therewas evidence ofattempted regeneration in bradycardia, he was given perhexiline, 100mgtwice the form of atypical hepatocytes with double aday, togetherwithasmall doseofoxyprenolol. He vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli, a feature remained well for 10 months on this treatment but noted by Lewis et al. (1979). Fatty infiltration was then began to feel generally unwell and easily absent, but in other respects the histological picture fatigued; hereported loss ofbalance and wasnoted bore a close resemblance to severe alcoholic to be ataxic. Examination revealed an enlarged hepatitis. liver, and the results of laboratory tests were: Necropsy was carried out 10 hours after death. serumglutamateoxaloacetatetransaminase (SGOT) Theheartwasenlarged(440g) dueto left ventricular 139 IU/l (normal 0-30 IU/I), alkaline phosphatase hypertrophy, and the coronary arteries showed 112 IU/l (normal 25-100 IU/l), bilirubin 13 pumol/l atherosclerosis with luminal stenosis; there was no (normal 3-17,umol/1), albumin 33 g/l (normal 35-50 evidence of myocardial infarction. The liver was g/l), normal electrophoretic protein analysis and moderatelyenlarged(1950g)and of a dull greenish negativehepatitisassociatedantigen(HBsAg). Serial colour. There was fine
