JournalofClinicalPathology, 1979, 32, 1282-1285
KEYWORDS: liver, perhexiline, normal, hepatitis, maleate, showed, cases, damage, fig, cirrhosis, months, liver damage, treatment, evidence, alcoholic


3-17,umol/1), albumin 33 g/l (normal 35-50 evidence of myocardial infarction. The liver was g/l), normal electrophoretic protein analysis and moderatelyenlarged(1950g)and of a dull greenish negativehepatitisassociatedantigen(HBsAg). Serial colour. There was fine micronodular cirrhosis, and liverfunctiontestsduringthenextfewweeksshowed therewerefociofliquefactivenecrosisinpartsofthe progressively rising SGOT, alkaline phosphatase, transacted organ. The gall bladder and extrahepatic and bilirubin levels, and a liver scan suggested biliary tractwerenormal, andtherewasnoevidence parenchymal disease. ofneoplasia or cholelithiasis. Histological examina- The perhexiline was stopped after 13 months' tionofthelivershowedfeaturessimilartothoseseen continuous therapy. Later he developed pneumonia in the needle biopsy but necrosis was much more advanced and confluent, and this was attributed to Receivedforpublication 30 May 1979 superimposed postmortem autolysis. Liver damage due toperhexiline maleate 1283 Fig. 1 Case1.Micronodularcirrhosis.Liverbiopsy. Reticulin x 100 Fig. 2 Case1. InclusionsofMallory'shyaline, neutrophilinfiltration, andnuclearatypia. Liverbiopsy. Haematoxylin andeosin x 800 1284 G. B. Forbes, M. 0. Rake, andD.J. E. Taylor CASE 2 provement in liver function tests: SGOT 46 lU/I, A 63-year-oldwhiteman had complained ofangina alkaline phosphatase 480 IU/I, bilirubin 14 ,umol/l, pectoris for several years, andduringthe 14months andy GT 945 IU/I. before admission he had received perhexiline in a dose of 100 mg twice a day. He also suffered from Histopathology asbestosis and recurrent attacks of chronic bron- Sections ofaneedlebiopsyspecimenofliver(Fig. 3) chitis, and for three months before admission showed ahistological picturethatwasalmostidenti- weight loss, and jaundice. He admitted to having itwas this striking similaritythatdrewourattention consumed half a bottle of spirits daily in the past to the possibility of a common aetiological factor. but his alcohol consumption had been much re- Thechangeswereperhapslesspronouncedinthisnon- ducedduringrecentmonths.Examinationshowedan fatal case, but the dominant features were again enlarged liver, and an isotopic liver scan showed severeliver-cell damagewithdepositionofMallory's generalised diminished uptake; a needle biopsy hyalineinsomeofthedegeneratecells,aggregatesof specimen was taken. Biochemical tests gave the neutrophils, and binucleate hepatocytes. The septa alkaline phosphatase 560IU/I (normal25-100 IU/1), but there was no obvious evidence of cirrhosis in bilirubin 54 ,umol/l (normal 3-17 ,gmol/l), 5 nucleo- reticulin-stained preparations. Fatty infiltration tidase60IU/l (normal 0-17 IU/1), y glutamyl trans- was minimal. peptidase (yGT) 1160IU/1(normal 10-55 IU/I); the HBsAg test was negative. Discussion Perhexiline was withdrawn and he was treated withprednisolone, 20mgtwicedaily. Onthisregime That perhexiline could have a deleterious effect he remains fairly well two months later; his liver is on liver function has been suspected for some time, still enlarged and there has been only slight im- and several separate clinical trials have shown that Fig. 3 Case2. Balloondegeneration ofhepatocytes, Mallory'shyaline, andinflammatory infiltrate. Liverbiopsy. HandE x 300 Liver damage due
