JournalofClinicalPathology, 1979, 32, 1282-1285
KEYWORDS: liver, perhexiline, normal, hepatitis, maleate, showed, cases, damage, fig, cirrhosis, months, liver damage, treatment, evidence, alcoholic


and there has been only slight im- and several separate clinical trials have shown that Fig. 3 Case2. Balloondegeneration ofhepatocytes, Mallory'shyaline, andinflammatory infiltrate. Liverbiopsy. HandE x 300 Liver damage due toperhexiline maleate 1285 approximately 10% of patients receiving the drug befoundinliverbiopsiesfrompatientswithdiabetes have raised liver enzyme levels. The effect was re- and obesity, and these commoner diseases could garded by Howard and Russell Rees (1976) and present diagnostic problems as they may mimic Lockhart and Masheter(1976)asrelativelymildand alcoholic hepatitis closely. reversible, but they advised treating at the smallest Evidence is now accumulating which incriminates effective dose or withdrawing the drug altogether perhexiline treatment as a possible cause of severe if abnormal liver function tests persisted. However, hepatitis with or without cirrhosis, and the patho- recent reports, especially from France where per- logist should be aware of this possibility when hexiline is prescribed frequently, together with the confronted with a histological picture resembling two cases reported herein, indicate that this form alcoholic hepatitis. Clinicians for their part should of therapy may be responsible occasionally for a ensure that full and specific information on drug much more severe degree ofhepatic damage which treatment ismadeavailableto the pathologist when may lead to death from liver failure. Beaugrand submitting liver biopsy specimens. etal. (1977) reported two cases, oneofwhich termi- It is recommended that patients undergoing nated fatally. The clinical and histological features treatment with perhexiline should have careful described in their report parallel closely those periodic monitoring of liver function, including encountered in our cases; in particular, they ob- liverbiopsy,andthedrugshouldbewithdrawnatthe servedinsectionsofthelivermicronodularcirrhosis, first sign ofdysfunction. zones of hepatocellular ne:rosis, and numerous Mallory bodies. Similar morphological features We thank Mr E. W. Spice, FIMLS, for the photo- were seen in a fatal case reported by Bonnet et al. micrographs. (1978). In a recent paper, Pessayreetal. (1979) have reviewed the relevant literature and recorded two fatal cases of cirrhosis after prolonged administra- References tion ofperhexiline. The samepattern ofhistological changes was seen in non-fatal cases reported by Beaugrand, M.,Chousterman, M.,Callard,P.,Camilleri, J. P., Petite, J. P., and Ferrier, J. P. (1977). Hepatites McDonald (1977, 4cases) andby Lewisetal. (1979, au maleate de perhexiline (PEXIDR) evoluant vers la 2cases).Allpatientshadreceivedperhexilineforlong cirrhose malgr6 l'arret du traitement (2 cas). Gastro- periods, ranging from 9 to 36 months. enterologie Clinique etBiologique, 1, 745-750. Our two cases confirm the observation that there Bonnet, P., Jourdan, J., Janbon, F., Michel, H., and isanimpressiveresemblancebetweenthehistological Bertrand, A. (1978). Cirrhose hepatique apres deux
