Optical coherence tomography to guide percutaneous coronary intervention
KEYWORDS: oct, patients, imaging, pci, coronary, case, oct imaging, used, case series, series, stent, image, clinical, guidance, series patients


1 Recommendations 1.1 The evidence on the safety of optical coherence tomography (OCT) to guide percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) shows no major concerns. The evidence on efficacy is limited in quantity and quality. Therefore, this procedure should only be used with special arrangements for clinical governance, consent and audit or research. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to undertake OCT to guide PCI should take the following actions. • Inform the clinical governance leads in their NHS trusts. • Ensure that patients understand the uncertainty about the procedure's efficacy and provide them with clear written information. In addition, the use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. • The National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research runs the UK Central Cardiac Audit Database (UKCCAD) and clinicians should enter details about all patients undergoing OCT to guide PCI onto this database and review local clinical outcomes. 1.3 NICE encourages further research into OCT to guide PCI compared against PCI with no intravascular imaging or PCI with intravascular ultrasound. Research outcomes should include data on medium- and long-term clinical outcomes, including the need for revascularisation. 2 Indications and current treatments 2.1 Optical coherence tomography (OCT) uses a catheter emitting near-infrared light to produce high-resolution images of blood vessel walls. It may be used to assess stenotic lesions in the coronary arteries and to image the result of stent deployment during percutaneous coronary interventions. 2.2 Coronary angiography is used to image coronary arteries immediately before angioplasty. Intravascular ultrasound or OCT may be used to provide additional and complementary information to coronary angiography. 3 The procedure 3.1 Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is usually performed using local anaesthesia. A guide wire and delivery sheath are introduced percutaneously into either the femoral or radial artery and passed into the target coronary artery using fluoroscopic image guidance. OCT imaging needs a blood-free field. This was first achieved by an occlusive technique, using an occlusion balloon with first-generation, time-domain OCT (TD OCT), but this technique is no longer used in clinical practice. A non-occlusive technique is now used, involving continuous flushing of contrast with frequency-domain OCT (FD OCT). For non-occlusive OCT, a guide wire through which contrast can be injected is used. The imaging catheter is delivered over this wire. Injection of contrast and imaging take place concurrently. 3.2 Second-generation FD OCT devices aim to improve image quality and, more importantly, increase the speed of image acquisition by a factor of
