Optical coherence tomography to guide percutaneous coronary intervention
KEYWORDS: oct, patients, imaging, pci, coronary, case, oct imaging, used, case series, series, stent, image, clinical, guidance, series patients


None of the patients for whom PCI was deferred had a coronary event within an average follow-up of 4.6 months. 4.5 The specialist advisers listed a key efficacy outcome as a change in diagnosis or management due to OCT imaging results. They cited as examples identifying culprit or non-culprit plaques in acute coronary syndromes, identifying intracoronary or intra-stent thrombus, identifying dissections and complications after stenting, examining stent deformation and conformation, identifying modes of stent failure including neoatherogenesis, and documenting stent tissue coverage. 5 Safety This section describes safety outcomes from the published literature that the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the overview. 5.1 A large coronary perforation occurred (no further details of cause available) during optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging in 1 patient presented in a case report, leading to reduced blood pressure and loss of consciousness. Surgical repair was done but the patient died of cardiac arrest after 7 days. 5.2 A minor type A coronary dissection occurred in 1 patient in the case series of 468 patients during time-domain OCT (TD OCT) imaging. Coronary blood flow was not impaired and further treatment was not needed. 5.3 Ventricular fibrillation occurred in 5 patients in a case series of 468 patients during TD OCT imaging, in 3 out of 256 during occlusive imaging and 2 out of 212 during non-occlusive imaging. In all cases, sinus rhythm was promptly restored after stopping OCT imaging and external defibrillation. Ventricular ectopic beats were noted in 3 patients in a case series of 90 patients undergoing 114 OCT image acquisitions. 5.4 Air embolism occurred in 3 patients in the case series of 468 patients during TD OCT imaging. All responded promptly to air aspiration, treatment with nitrates and, in 1 patient, nitroprusside administration. 5.5 Mechanical device failure occurred in 1 patient in the case series of 468 patients. The imaging wire became trapped within the struts of a stent and the tip fractured and remained within the stent. At 4-month follow-up there had been no clinical consequences and angiography showed no flow abnormalities. 5.6 Multiple thrombi were reported during OCT imaging in 3 patients presented in case reports. These formed during OCT imaging in the left anterior descending artery causing total occlusion in 1 patient and subtotal occlusion in 2 others. All resolved with appropriate management and all patients recovered uneventfully.
