NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: agents, inhibitors, virus, drugs, hiv, antiviral, hepatitis, influenza, infection, active, protease inhibitors, protease, antiviral agents, hcv, pubmed


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antiviral Agents. [Updated 2022 Dec 2]. Bookshelf URL: Antiviral Agents Updated: December 2, 2022. OVERVIEW The antivirals are a large and diverse group of agents that are typically classified by the virus infections for which they are used, their chemical structure and their mode of action. Most antiviral agents have been developed in the last 20 to 25 years, many as a result of the major research efforts to develop therapies and means of prevention of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Some of the agents developed to treat HIV infection, AIDS and its complications were found to also inhibit other viruses, and the novel approaches taken in development of antiretroviral therapy have been applied to develop therapies of other viral infections. Antiretroviral Agents for HIV Infection. The antiretroviral agents include nucleoside analogues with reverse transcriptase activity (such as tenofovir, emtricitabine, lamivudine, abacavir, stavudine, didanosine, zidovudine), the nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (such as delavirdine, efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine and rilpivirine), protease inhibitors (atazanavir, darunavir, indinavir, ritonavir, tipranavir and many others), and miscellaneous agents such as maraviroc that inhibits binding of the HIV virus its T cell receptor (CCR5 coreceptor antagonist), enfuvirtide that blocks the uptake of HIV into cells (fusion inhibitor), and integrase inhibitors (raltegravir, elvitegravir and dolutegravir) that block the integrase enzyme of HIV. Hepatitis B Agents. The agents active against hepatitis B virus (HBV) include several nucleoside analogues that are also active against and used to treat HIV infection (tenofovir, emtricitabine, lamivudine), as well as agents that are poorly if at all active against HIV (adefovir, entecavir and telbivudine). Alpha interferon and peginterferon (its long acting pegylated form) are also active against hepatitis B, but are no longer commonly used for this indication. Hepatitis C Agents. The agents active against hepatitis C virus (HCV) include interferon alfa (1992) and peginterferon (2000) which are used in combination with ribavirin, a nucleoside analogue that potentiates the effects of interferon against hepatitis C by unclearly defined mechanisms. Progress in treatment of hepatitis C began to accelerate in 2010 with the introduction of the first direct acting anti-HCV agents, two HCV-spec ific protease inhibitors: boceprevir and telaprevir. While combinations of these protease inhibitors with peginterferon and ribavirin yielded high response rates (60% to 75%), the regimens were poorly tolerated, expensive and prolonged
