NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: agents, inhibitors, virus, drugs, hiv, antiviral, hepatitis, influenza, infection, active, protease inhibitors, protease, antiviral agents, hcv, pubmed


protease inhibitors: boceprevir and telaprevir. While combinations of these protease inhibitors with peginterferon and ribavirin yielded high response rates (60% to 75%), the regimens were poorly tolerated, expensive and prolonged (courses were typically for 48 weeks). Beginning in 2013, new direct acting anti-HCV agents with potent activity against different regions of the virus were introduced, which in combination obviated the need for interferon and yielded sustained response rates of greater than 90% with 12 to 24 weeks of treatment. The direct acting agents were directed against 3 components of HCV: HCV protease (NS3) inhibitors included simeprevir , paritaprevir , grazoprevir and glecaprevir ); HCV RNA polymerase (NS5B) inhibitors included sofosbuvir [2013, a nucleoside analogue] and dasabuvir [2015, a non- nucleoside inhibitor]; and, HCV NS5A inhibitors included daclatasvir , elbasvir , lepidasvir , 2 LiverTox ombitasvir , velpatsvir and pibrentasvor . Combinations of 2 or 3 of these achieve sustained response rates of greater than 90%, with relatively short courses of therapy (8, 12 to 16 weeks) and without the need of interferon and its difficult and dose-limiting side effects. These combinations are available under brand names such as Harvoni, Technive, Viekira Pak, Zepatier, Epclusa and Mavyret. Newer agents and differen t combination products are likely to be developed in the future. Many of the earlier combinations are likely to be discontinued as newer regimens are more effective, better tolerated and active against all genotypes and in patients with renal disease, HIV infection or cirrhosis. Herpes Virus Agents. The agents active against various herpes viruses (herpes simplex, varicella zoster, cytomegalovirus) include acyclovir and related acyclic nucleoside analogues such as valacyclovir, cidofovir, famciclovir, ganciclovir and valganciclovir, and other miscellaneous agents such as foscarnet. Influenza Agents. The agents active against influenza A virus include amantadine and rimantadine which act on viral uncapping, three neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir (oral), zanamivir (by inhalation) and peramivir (intravenous), and most recently a cap-dependent endonuclease inhibitor baloxavir (oral). These agents are used during influenza outbreaks, generally for a brief period only, but are effective in prevention as well as amelioration of influenza infection. COVID-19 Agents. The agents active against SARS-CoV-2, the cause of the epidemic of novel coronavirus infections) were developed rapidly during the pandemic of this disease that started in 2019 (COVID-19). Th e agents developed include remdesivir, molnupiravir, and Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir and ritonavir) and several monoclonal antibodies. Their major use is in treating patients with early symptoms
