One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


Part Summary and Cross-Cutting Themes • Summary • Cross-Cutting Themes Chapter Investing in Health Dean T. Jamison A girl born in Chile in 1910 could expect to live only to age 33. Although the magnitude of possible gains in health was Since then, her life expectancy has more than doubled to its clear by the early 1990s,it is even clearer today:focused atten- current level of78 years.What has this increase meant for her? tion by health systems on delivering powerful but often inex- The probability that she will die before her fifth birthday has pensive interventions can lead to dramatic improvements in declined from 36 percent to less than 2 percent. Throughout health at modest cost.Globalization has helped diffuse knowl- middle age the likelihood that she will die is also far lower: edge about what those interventions are and how health sys- death in childbearing or from tuberculosis (TB) as a young tems can deliver them.The pace ofdiffusion ofsuch knowledge adult are no longer threats,and she is less likely to die in mid- into a country—much more than its level of income— dle age from cancer.Mirroring this mortality reduction—but determines the pace of health improvement in that country. less easily quantified—are marked improvements in health- Our purpose in Disease Control Priorities in Developing related quality of life.She will be able to choose to have fewer Countries,2nd edition (DCP2),is to help speed the diffusion of children and thus spend less time in pregnancy and child rear- policy-relevant knowledge. ing. From an average of about 5.3 children at midcentury, This introductory chapter to DCP2serves two purposes: Chilean women’s fertility rate has dropped to its current level • First,it provides the context for the rest ofthe book by dis- of 2.3. She will have fewer infections, less anemia, greater strength and stature,and a quicker mind.Her life is not only health conditions ofthe world at the dawn ofthe 21st cen- much longer;it is much healthier as well. tury,and by pointing to recent research suggesting that the Chile’s history of health improvements is unusually well economic benefits from successful investments in health are documentedbuttypifieschangesthathaveoccurredinmuchof likely to be exceptionally high. theworld.Thesedramaticimprovementsinhealthhave,more- • Second,it highlights some of the main messages for policy over,beenpossiblewithoutmajorincreasesinincome.Inthe that emerge from the 37 chapters that deal with conditions early 1900s, income levels in the United States were roughly and risk factors and the 21 chapters that deal with strength- thesameastheyareinChiletoday,yetU.S.lifeexpectancythen ening health systems.These
