One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


chapters that deal with conditions early 1900s, income levels in the United States were roughly and risk factors and the 21 chapters that deal with strength- thesameastheyareinChiletoday,yetU.S.lifeexpectancythen ening health systems.These highlights are deliberately brief was 25 years shorter.New knowledge,new vaccines,and new because chapters 2 and 3 summarize the remainder of the drugs have inexpensively enabled major gains in health that book: chapter 2 summarizes findings about intervention were not possible before,even for those whose incomes were cost-effectiveness from across the book,and chapter 3 syn- high.Althoughthosegainsarenowpossible,theydonotoccur thesizes findings on strengthening health systems. unless health systems and policies effectively realize the avail- ablepotential. Box 1.1 summarizes the main messages ofthis chapter. Box 1.1 Disease Control Priorities Chapters in this volume convey compact distillations of 3. Although health improvements constituted an enor- current knowledge concerning interventions to improve mous success for human welfare in the 20th century, health and the related delivery systems. Chapter 2 sum- four critical challenges face developing countries (and marizes main messages of the chapters dealing with the world) at the beginning ofthe 21st century: interventions, and chapter 3 summarizes the main mes- • high levels and rapid growth (for mostly demo- sages concerning health systems. Chapter 1 provides graphic reasons) of noncommunicable conditions context and conveys examples of the range of findings in the disease profiles ofdeveloping countries from across the volume. Here, in brief, are the main • the still unchecked HIV/AIDS pandemic messages of chapter 1: • the possibility of a successor to the influenza pan- demic of1918 1. Average life expectancy in low- and middle-income • the persistence in many countries and many popu- countries increased dramatically in the past half- lation subgroups of high but preventable levels of mortality and disability from diseases such as decreased.In the countries with the best health indi- malaria, TB, diarrhea, and pneumonia; from cators,life expectancy increased a substantial two and micronutrient malnutrition;and,for both mothers one-half years per decade since 1960; low- and and infants,from childbirth. middle-income countries on average, with life expectancy gains of about five years per decade, The main purpose ofthis volume is to facilitate diffu- have been converging toward the countries with sion of appropriate approaches for addressing those the longest life expectancy. Improvement in average problems. income and education levels contributed to these 4. The volume’s conclusions concerning interventions worldwide gains in health.Ofmuch greater quantita- include the following: tive significance, however, have been the
