One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


average problems. income and education levels contributed to these 4. The volume’s conclusions concerning interventions worldwide gains in health.Ofmuch greater quantita- include the following: tive significance, however, have been the generation • Although 50 percent of deaths (including still- and diffusion of new knowledge and of low-cost, births) of children under age five occur at ages appropriate technologies.Increased access to knowl- younger than 28 days,relatively little attention has edge and technology has accounted for perhaps as been paidto this age group.Cost-effective interven- much as two-thirds of the impressive 2 percent per tions exist. year rate ofdecline in under-five mortality rates. • Treatment of HIV-positive mothers, treatment of nomic welfare. Per capita GNP rose rapidly in devel- of condoms, and other interventions can cost- oping countries in the decades following 1960, and effectively interrupt HIV transmission. These economic research suggests that health improvements preventive interventions continue to receive inade- led to perhaps 10 percent to 15 percent of that GNP quate attention from health systems and workers. growth.Although GNP includes the costs of provid- • Controlling tobacco use,particularly through taxa- consumption, such as the quantity and quality of single most important intervention for reducing food, it omits altogether the value that mortality noncommunicable disease. reduction represents for countries.Recent economic • Lifelong medical management of risk factors in research has extended measurement to a broader individuals at high risk for heart attacks or strokes, indicator,known as full income, that reflects reason- using aspirin and other drugs,is cost-effective and able valuation of changes in mortality. For many would benefit tens ofmillions ofindividuals. the growth of GNP. More widespread use of full- systems include the following: income measures to calculate the rate of return to • Provider incentives matter. Financial or other almost certainly conclude that,today,most countries the likelihood ofsuch services.Conversely,financial substantially undervalue those investments. incentives for excessive or inappropriate use of 4 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison drugs or diagnostic tests is an all-too-common health in the 20th century. Every reason exists to cause ofhigh costs and poor health outcomes. believe that continued progress—meeting the chal- few things frequently, rather than attempting to potential pandemics, and neglected populations— provide diverse services,facilitates quality improve- will also rely heavily on new knowledge.The rapidly ment with potentially major improvements in growing commitment of high-income countries to health outcomes. providing development assistance for health would be • Strengthening surgical capacity at
