One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


Remaining Challenges ally lost more than four years oflife expectancy. Four central challenges for health policy ensue from the pace Since 1950, life expectancy in the median country has and unevenness ofthe progress just documented and from the steadily converged toward the maximum and cross-country evolving nature ofmicrobial threats to human health. differenceshavedecreasedmarkedly.Thisreductionininequal- inequality between and within countries. Despite the magni- see continuation oftrends resulting from the dramatic mortal- tudeofglobalimprovements,manycountriesandpopulations ity declines of recent decades. The key phenomenon is that have failed to share in the overall gains or have even fallen the major noncommunicable diseases—circulatory system behind.Some countries—for example,Sierra Leone—remain diseases, cancers, and major psychiatric disorders—are fast far behind (figure 1.1). China’s interior provinces lag behind replacing (or adding to) the traditional scourges—particularly themoreadvantagedcoastalregions.Indigenouspeopleevery- infectious diseases and undernutrition in children. This phe- whereprobablyleadfarlesshealthylivesthandoothersintheir nomenon results in substantial part from rapid relative respectivecountries,althoughconfirmatorydataarescant. population growth at the older ages,when noncommunicable Reasonsforremaininghealthinequalitieslieonlypartiallyin diseases become manifest.Additionally,injuries resulting from incomeinequality:theexperiencesofChina,CostaRica,Cuba, road traffic are replacing more traditional forms of injury. SriLanka,andKeralastateinIndia,amongmanyothers,con- Using data from Chile,figure 1.2 illustrates the huge increase in clusivelyshowthatdramaticimprovementsinhealthcanoccur the relative importance ofinjuries,cancers,and cardiovascular without high or rapidly growing incomes.The experiences of disease between 1909 and 1999.Responding to this epidemio- countriesinEuropeinthelate19thandearly20thcenturiessim- logical transition with sharply constrained resources is a key ilarlyshowthathealthconditionscanimprovewithoutprioror challenge.Tables 1.A1 and 1.A2 (see annex 1.A) provide cause- concomitant increases in income . A recent specific summaries of death and disease burden,measured in review, undertaken in part as background for this volume, DALYs, in 2001 for the world as a whole and for low- and 6 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison Percentage distribution andwithin countries.Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002) have 35 stressed that global inequalities are declining if one properly 1909 1999 30 which more than compensates for income divergence. unacceptably—and unnecessarily—poor. This factor is a source ofgriefand misery,and it is a sharp brake on economic growth and poverty reduction.From 1990 to 2001,for exam- ple, the under-five mortality rate remained stagnant or increased in 23 countries.In another 53 countries (including 10 China), the rate of decline in under-five mortality in this period was less than halfofthe 4.3 percent per year required to 5 reach the fourth Millennium Development Goal (MDG-4) (see map 2 on the inside back cover of this book). Meeting the 0 MDG for under-five mortality reduction by 2015 is not Resp i i n ra fe to c r ti y
