One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


and middle-income countries, although nearly 40 percent of century arguably contributed as much or more to improve- deaths continue to be from infection, undernutrition, and ments in overall well-being as did the equally dramatic innova- maternal conditions,creating a “dual burden”that Julio Frenk tion in and expansion ofthe availability ofmaterial goods and and colleagues have pointed to (Bobadilla and others 1993). services.To the substantial extent that appropriate investments in health can contribute to continued reductions in morbidity epidemic.Control efforts and successes have been very real but, ments are likely to be exceptional and positive—with pre- with only a few exceptions, limited to upper-middle-income viously unrecognized implications for public sector resource and high-income countries. Poorer countries remain in the allocation.These returns go far beyond the contribution better substantial (see Bloom, Canning, and Jamison 2004; Lopez- New Pandemics. The global influenza pandemic of 1918 Casasnovas,Rivera,and Currais 2005).This section first sum- resulted in more than 40 million human deaths,exceeding the marizes the evidence concerning health’s effect on per capita 20th-century toll of HIV/AIDS or of World Wars I and II. income and then turns to more recent literature concerning the Continued evolution ofthe influenza virus leaves the world at effect of health changes on a broader measure of economic risk ofanother such pandemic—as has been much discussed in well-being than per capita gross domestic product (GDP). the press as this book goes to print.Ifthe H5N1 strain ofavian influenza,for example,evolved so that (like the human flu) it Health and Income could be efficiently transmitted from human to human, a major pandemic would be likely.Preparing for such an eventu- HowdoeshealthinfluenceGDPperperson?Healthyworkers ality is the third great challenge to global health. are more productive than workers who are similar but not healthy. Supporting evidence for this plausible observation Unequal Progress. A fourth key challenge results from con- comesfromstudiesthatlinkinvestmentsinhealthandnutrition tinued high levels of inequality in health conditions across oftheyoungtoadultwages(StraussandThomas1998).Better Investing in Health | 7 healthalsoraisespercapitaincomethroughanumberofother incomegrowthinlow-incomecountriesthaninhigh-income channels. One involves altering decisions about expenditures ones. Although attribution of causality is never unequivocal andsavingsoverthelifecycle.Theideaofplanningforretire- inanalyseslikethese,differenttypesof evidencepointconsis- mentoccursonlywhenmortalityratesbecomelowenoughfor tentlytoalikelycausaleffectofhealthongrowth. generation to save—an incentive that can dramatically affect ofHIV/AIDS on per capita GDP could prove devastating in the nationalsavingrates.Althoughthissavingboomlastsforonly long run. An enormous waste of human capital occurs as one generation and is offset by the needs of the elderly after prime-age workers die. A high-mortality environment deters populationagingoccurs,itcansubstantiallyboostinvestment the next generation from investing in education and creating andeconomicgrowthrateswhileitlasts. human capital.The creation ofa
