One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


offset by the needs of the elderly after prime-age workers die. A high-mortality environment deters populationagingoccurs,itcansubstantiallyboostinvestment the next generation from investing in education and creating andeconomicgrowthrateswhileitlasts. human capital.The creation ofa generation oforphans means Encouraging foreign direct investment is another channel: that children may be forced to work to survive and may not get investors shun environments in which the labor force suffers a the education they need. High rates of mortality may reduce heavy disease burden.Endemic diseases can also deny humans investment. Saving rates are likely to fall, and retirement access to land or other natural resources,as occurred in much becomes less likely.A foreign company is less likely to invest in ofWest Africa before the successful control ofriver blindness. a country with a high HIV prevalence rate because ofthe threat Boosting education is yet another channel. Healthier chil- to the firm’s own workers,the prospect ofhigh labor turnover, dren attend school and learn more while they are there. A and the loss ofworkers who have gained specific skills by work- longer life span increases the returns on investment in ing for the firm. The International Monetary Fund recently education. published a collection of important studies of the multiple Demographic channels also play an important role.Lower mechanisms through which a major AIDS epidemic can be infant mortality initially creates a “baby-boom” cohort and expected to affect national economies . leads to a subsequent reduction in the birth rates as families choose to have fewer children in the new low-mortality regime. Health and Economic Welfare A baby-boom cohort thereby affects the economy profoundly as its members enter the educational system,find employment, Judging countries’economic performance by GDP per person cohorts before and after a baby boom are much smaller;hence, tions differ: a country whose citizens enjoy long and healthy for a substantial transition period, this cohort creates a large lives clearly outperforms another with the same GDP per per- labor force relative to overall population size and the potential son but whose citizens suffer much illness and die sooner. for accelerated economic growth (Bloom, Canning, and Individual willingness to forgo income to work in safer envi- Malaney 2000). ronments and social willingness to pay for health-enhancing nationalincomeinthelongrun.Countriesthathavehighlevels Many such willingness-to-pay studies have been undertaken ofhealthbutlowlevelsofincometendtoexperiencerelatively in recent decades, and their results are typically summarized faster economic growth as their income adjusts. How big an asthe value ofa statistical life(VSL).Chapter 7 discusses these overall contribution
