One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


ofthe conditions that affect 10 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison Box 1.2 The Multisectoral Determinants of Health Malnourished children easily acquire diseases, and they • risky sexual activity—5.3 percent (5.1 percent) easily die from the diseases that they acquire. Dwellings • alcohol use—3.6 percent (3.4 percent). and neighborhoods without sanitation provide fertile Underlying most proximal risks are more general environments for transmission of intestinal infections. determinants ofhealth,such as education and,to a lesser Cooking with wood and coal results in air dense with extent,income.The effects ofincome and education oper- particulates and gases, which destroy lungs and lives. ate for the most part through influencing risk (and per- Hopeless life circumstances thrust young girls (and boys) mitting effective use of health services). If an important into commercial sex work with its attendant risks of vio- fraction of ill health results from poverty and low educa- lence and sexually transmitted infections, including tional levels—or from their consequences in inadequate HIV/AIDS. Manufacturers of tobacco and alcohol profit food or sanitation or other specific risks—then ought the enormously from advertising and promotion that spread task ofthe health professional lie principally in addressing addiction. Rapid growth in vehicular traffic—often with these underlying problems? In one sense, the answer is untrained drivers on unsafe roads—generates a rising toll surely yes: the health community should measure the of injury. Poorly designed irrigation creates breeding effects on health of actions outside the health sector. It grounds for vectors ofdisease.The point is clear:determi- should ensure that these findings are communicated and nants ofhealth are truly multisectoral. are considered by those making policy choices.The mag- WHO coordinated a group ofmore than 100 individu- nitude of the demonstrated effect of girls’ education on als to generate estimates of the percentage of deaths, by region and globally,associated with a range of26 risk fac- powerful argument for investing in expansion of educa- tors (Ezzati and others 2004). Those estimates were tional access to girls.Millions ofpremature deaths,to take revised and updated for the Disease Control Priorities another example,could be averted in Africa alone in the Project. The results give a sense of the extent to which next quarter century with appropriate policies toward multisectoral factors contributed to mortality and disease supply of energy for household use (Bailis, Ezzati, and burden in low- and middle-income countries in 2001.The Kammen 2005).It is essential that the health sector docu- following,for example,are estimates
