One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


of decline Causes, per Thousand Births, 1990 and 2001, Sub-Saharan Africa required for the period 1990–2015 to meet MDG-4 of reducing under-five mortality by two-thirds. Figure 1.4 Rate of Progress in Reducing Under-Five Mortality, leading to an even greater rise in malaria mortality and mor- 1960–2000: China, India, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Sub-Saharan Africa bidity that could be substantial.Figure 1.5 illustrates increases in malaria death rates in under-five children in Sub-Saharan Africa in the period from 1990 to 2001.The design of instru- book) shows country-specific progress in reducing under-five ments for financing a rapid transition to effective new mortality: treatments—artemisinin combination therapies (ACTs)—is a high priority (chapter 21;Arrow,Gelband,and Jamison 2005). • Countries colored in green experienced annual rates of The other intervention priorities for addressing under-five decline greater than 4.3 percent in the first halfofthe MDG mortality are for the most part familiar: period (1990–2002). • Countries colored in red saw no decrease (or an increase) in • Expand immunization coverage. their under-five mortality. • Expand the use ofthe simple and low cost but highly effec- • Countriescoloredinyellowandorangedepictcountriesin tive treatments for diarrhea and child pneumonia through between—withyellowindicatingperformanceinthetophalf integrated management of childhood illness or other oftherangebetween0and4.3percent,andorangeindicat- mechanisms. ingpoorerperformanceinthebottomhalfoftherange. • Prevent transmission of and mortality from malaria by expanding coverage of insecticide-treated bednets, by Basic knowledge about the cost-effectiveness of interven- expanding use of intermittent preventive treatment for from the 1980s.DCP2’s work provides a reassessment with few tion of ACTs to replace the now widely ineffective drugs surprises but some additions.Itmakes two important relatively chloroquine and SP. new points.The first results from noting that halfofunder-five • Ensure widespread distribution ofkey micronutrients. deaths occur at ages less than 28 days, when the substantial • Expand the use ofa package ofmeasures to prevent mother- butusually neglected problem ofstillbirth is considered.DCP2 to-child transmission ofHIV (further discussed in the next identifies some highly cost-effective approaches to interven- section on HIV/AIDS). tion against stillbirth and neonatal death (chapter 27). The second new point results from the rapid spread of resistance In addition to interventions to reduce under-five mortality, of the malaria parasite to chloroquine and sulfadoxine- one other priority is clear. The world’s most prevalent infec- pyrimethamine (SP). These inexpensive, highly effective, tions are intestinal helminth (worm) infections,and children of widely available drugs provided an important partial check on all ages are among the most heavily affected. Chapter 24 the high levels of malaria mortality
