One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


helminth (worm) infections,and children of widely available drugs provided an important partial check on all ages are among the most heavily affected. Chapter 24 the high levels of malaria mortality in Africa. Their loss is discusses these infections,which a low-cost drug (albendazole), 12 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison taken every six months to a year, can control effectively. in buying interventions, in buying out of prevailing system tance to children’s school progress oftaking albendazole where future? What needs to be constantly borne in mind throughout needed and the potential efficacy ofschool health programs as this continued controversy is that somethingworks:under-five a vehicle for delivery.In the long run,improved sanitation and mortality rates have plunged by more than half since 1960 in water supplies will prevent transmission.Use ofalbendazole is the low- and middle-income countries. only an interim solution,but it is one that may be required for decades if the experience of the currently high-income coun- HIV/AIDS tries is relevant. For dozens of countries around the world—including several Delivering Child Health Interventions of the most populous—the AIDS epidemic threatens every The list of potential interventions is far from exhaustive,and aspect of development.No other threat comes close,with the different regions, countries, and communities will face possible exceptions ofuse ofnuclear weapons in densely pop- different mixes of the problems these interventions address. ulated areas or a devastating global pandemic similar to the However, there can be little dispute that any short list of 1917–18 influenza episode.Most governments ofaffected low- intervention priorities for under-five mortality in low- and and middle-income countries and most providers of develop- middle-income countries would include many on the list in the ment assistance have only recently begun to respond more preceding section.Why not,then,simply put money into scal- than minimally. Creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, ing up these known interventions to a satisfactory level? Tuberculosis,and Malaria can be viewed as an attempt of the To greatly oversimplify—and these issues are discussed world’s top political leaders to improve on the records ofexist- more substantially in chapter 3—two schools ofthought exist. ing institutions. The Global Fund’s initial years have seen One line of thinking—often ascribed to macroeconomist substantial success,but that success is potentially undermined Jeffrey Sachs and his work as chair of the WHO CMH— by sharp constraints on resource availability . concludes that more money and focused effort are the solu- tions. Although acknowledging
