One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


Sachs and his work as chair of the WHO CMH— by sharp constraints on resource availability . concludes that more money and focused effort are the solu- tions. Although acknowledging dual constraints—of money Tools to Control the Epidemic and of health system capacity—Sachs and his colleagues In contrast to the initially slow programmatic movement of (WHO CMH 2001;Sachs 2005) contend that money can buy most national leaders and international institutions, the (or develop,or both) relevant system capacity even over a peri- research and development community—public and private— od as short as five years.Major gains are affordable and health has made rapid progress in developing tools to control the system capacity constraints can be overcome. Immunization HIV/AIDS epidemic, although both a vaccine and a curative provides an example of where,even in the short term,money drug remain distant objectives.Sensitive,specific,and inexpen- can substitute for system capacity. Adding antigens for sive diagnostics are available; means of prevention have been Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) and hepatitis B (HepB) to developed and tested; modes of transmission are well under- the immunization schedule is costly (although still cost- stood; and increasingly powerful drugs for controlling viral effective). In some environments, however, it proves less load allow radical slowing of disease progression. Tools for demanding of system capacity than expanding coverage does. dealing with HIV/AIDS are thus available: As emphasized in Money can be effectively spent by adding antigens at the same chapter 18,a number ofcountries show by example that those time as investing in the capacity to extend coverage. tools can be put to effective use. Most of the high-income A second school ofthought acknowledges the need for more countries have done so,and Brazil and Mexico provide exam- money but asserts that health system capacity is often a bind- ples of upper-middle-income countries that have forestalled ing short- to medium-term constraint on substantial scaling potentially serious epidemics.Mexico succeeded,for example, up of interventions. Critical priorities are, therefore, system with a policy of responding both early and forcefully to the reform and strengthening while ensuring that such reforms epidemic (del Rio and Sepúlveda 2002).The major successes of focus clearly on achieving improved health outcomes and Thailand and Uganda demonstrate that countries with fewer financial protection. financial resources can also succeed—and succeed against Chapter 3,as indicated,discusses these issues further in the more established epidemics that had already penetrated deeply into their populations. chapter9 provides a thoughtful assessment ofhow to
