One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


also succeed—and succeed against Chapter 3,as indicated,discusses these issues further in the more established epidemics that had already penetrated deeply into their populations. chapter9 provides a thoughtful assessment ofhow to overcome the constraints facing achievement of the MDGs for health. Prevention and Management From an individual country’s perspective,however,iffinancial resources are available,the question is very much an empirical Prevention underpins success. At the time the World Bank’s one:to what extent can those resources be effectively deployed World Development Report: Investing in Health (World Bank Investing in Health | 13 1993) was being written in 1992 and 1993, the only tool for resistant mutants that undermined the efficacy oftherapy.In a dealing with the epidemic was prevention. In collaboration remarkably short time, scientific advances have substantially with the then–Global Programme againstAIDS atWHO,the attenuated those problems,making feasible,at least in princi- World Development Report commissioned very approximate ple,antiretroviral therapy in low-income settings.WHO’s “3 by estimates of the consequence for the new infection rate of 5”program had as its objective,for example,to reach 3 million fully implementing available preventive measures (its opti- people in low- and middle-income countries with antiretrovi- mistic case scenario) or of doing very little (worst case). ral therapy by 2005.Although that goal was far from being met, Actual incidence numbers for 2000, unfortunately, fall very the global effort to make treatment widely available is well close to the worst-case projection, and chapter 18 points out under way. thatevenby2003fewerthanoneinfivepeopleathighriskof Despite the indicated progress against the problems infection had access to the most basic preventive services. In with antiretroviral drugs, challenges to their effective use in much of the world, little has been spent on prevention, and low-income environments remain formidable.The complexity little has been achieved. In addition, the current U.S. admin- of patient management is very real. Management requires istration may be partially responsible for discouraging con- high levels of human resources and other capacities in many domuseinsomecountriesandinstigmatizingandalienating of the countries where those capacities need to be most commercial sex workers who are particular priorities for pre- carefullyrationed.Perhaps in consequence,achieving effective vention programs. Despite those problems, the potential for implementation has been difficult on even a limited scale. prevention is very real,and a number of successful countries Chapter 18 reviews those problems and how they might be have shown the possibility of using that potential well. addressed. Chapter 17 on sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and Three points concerning widespread antiretroviral drug use chapter18onAIDSdiscussabroadmenuof preventivemea-
