One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


they might be have shown the possibility of using that potential well. addressed. Chapter 17 on sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and Three points concerning widespread antiretroviral drug use chapter18onAIDSdiscussabroadmenuof preventivemea- are particularly noteworthy: sures and experiences with their implementation. Among them, treatment of STIs may be of particular salience both • Poor implementation (low adherence, development of becausethediseasesarewellworthtreatingintheirownright resistance,interruptions in drug supplies) is likely to lead to of HIV. (This outcome is unlike that of a weak immunization pro- with AIDS could avert much misery,both by treating oppor- population that is immunized.) Poorly implemented anti- tunistic infections and by ameliorating the often excruciating retroviral drug delivery programs could divert substantial pain associated with many AIDS deaths.Medically inappropri- resources from prevention or from other high-payoffactiv- for pain control continue to deny dignity and comfort to mil- false sense ofcomplacency in affected populations:evidence lions of patients with AIDS and cancer in their final days from some countries suggests that treatment availability has (chapter 52). led to riskier sexual behavior and increased HIV transmis- sion. The injunction to “do no harm” holds particular salience. Antiretroviral Treatment • Unless systematic efforts are made to acquire hard knowl- decade to the availability of well over a dozen antiretroviral likelihood exists that unsuccessful implementation efforts drugsthatcangreatlyreducethequantityofHIVinaninfected will be continued without the appropriate reallocation of person.This reduction in viral load slows or halts progression resources to successful approaches. Learning what works ofAIDS and can return individuals from serious illness to rea- will require major variations in approach and careful evalu- sonable health.Available drugs leave a residual population of ation ofeffects.Failing to learn will lead to large numbers of HIV in the body, however, and this population grows if the needless deaths.Most efforts to scale up antiretroviral ther- drugs are stopped.At present the drugs must be taken for life. apy unconscionably fail to commit the substantial resources Widespread use of these drugs in high-income (and some required for evaluation of effects. Such evaluations are middle-income) countries has transformed the life prospects of essential ifineffective programs are to be halted or effective HIV-infected individuals. ones are to receive more resources. Early generation antiretroviral drugs suffered notable short- • Many programs rely exclusively on the cheapest possible comings:they were enormously costly;regimens for their use drugs, thereby risking problems with toxicity, adherence, were complicated,making adherence difficult;their use gener- and drug resistance. From the outset a broader range of ated unpleasant side
