One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


costly;regimens for their use drugs, thereby risking problems with toxicity, adherence, were complicated,making adherence difficult;their use gener- and drug resistance. From the outset a broader range of ated unpleasant side effects;and rapid evolution ofHIV led to drug regimens needs to be tested. 14 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASE AND INJURY Tobacco deaths worldwide in the indicated quarter century (millions) At the same time that most low- and middle-income countries Baseline If proportion of young 300 need to address health problems that are now effectively con- 300 adults taking up smoking 280 trolled in high-income countries,they are increasingly sharing halves by 2020 the high-income countries’ heavy burdens of cardiovascular 250 If adult consumption halves by 2020 system disease (chapters 33,44,and 45);cancers (chapter29); psychiatric disorders (chapter 31); and automobile-related injuries (chapter 39). The public health research and policy 150 148 150 community has been surprisingly silent about these epidemics even though, for example, cardiovascular disease (CVD) in low- and middle-income countries killed over twice as many people in 2001 as did AIDS, malaria, and TB combined 50 50 (table1.A1).An important early exception is Feachem and oth- ers (1992),who indicated approaches to treatment and preven- 0 1975–2000 2000–25 2025–50 tion of these conditions that can be adapted to the tighter Time interval budget constraints ofdeveloping countries.The World Health Organization provides a valuable and more up-to-date discus- Source: Chapter 46, figure 46.2. Adapted from Jha and Chaloupka 2000; Peto and Lopez 2001. sion that emphasizes prevention . In addition, low-cost but effective approaches to long-term management of Figure 1.6 Increase in Tobacco-Related Deaths as Populations Age chronic conditions need to be developed and implemented. The remainder ofthis section briefly discusses,as examples, the prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases, starting. Reducing smoking levels is well demonstrated to be psychiatric disorders,and injuries. within the control of public policy.The principal instrument is through taxation: Complementary measures discussed in chapter 46 are important as well. Cardiovascular Disease The main risk factors for CVD account for very large frac- Cardiovascular diseases in low- and middle-income countries tions ofthe deaths (and even more ofthe burden) from those result in about 13 million deaths each year,over a quarter ofall diseases. For ischemic heart disease, they collectively account deaths in those countries. Most cardiovascular deaths result for 78 percent ofdeaths in low- and middle-income countries; from ischemic heart disease (5.7 million) or cerebrovascular for
