One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


that constructive action is gest.About 10 percentofdisease burden in DALYs in low- and feasible at relatively modest cost.No attempt has been made to middle-income countries results from these conditions; three be comprehensive (chapters 29 through 38 all deal with non- major psychiatric diseases—unipolar major depression (3.1 communicable diseases); rather the discussion points to the percent ofDALYs),bipolar disorder (0.6 percent),and schizo- need for health systems to systematically incorporate effective phrenia (0.8 percent)—account for much ofit (table 1.A2). responses to noncommunicable diseases and injuries as their Chapter 31 provides a concise overview ofadvances made in capacities grow. recent years in treating these conditions (as well as panic disor- der), summarizes information on their burden, and develops estimates ofthe cost-effectiveness ofdrug-based and cognitive HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE behavioral therapies in different settings (hospital based and community based). Although the cost-effectiveness estimates DCP1 focused principally on intervention priority.What mix reported in chapter 31 suggest interventions are only moder- ofpublic health and clinical interventions would best respond ately cost-effective,the authors suggest that a fuller analysis of to important disease conditions in highly resource constrained would justify substantial investments. They analyze a basic were the most important overall best buys? Where were package ofmental health services that could provide a practical resource commitments likely to be oflow value? DCP2returns vehicle for providing these interventions in environments with to those questions but goes beyond them in assessing the steps tightly constrained financial and implementation resources.A required for strengthening of health services and systems in continuing theme in this volume—and one of particular rele- ways that will allow the appropriate mix ofinterventions to be vance here—is that without careful evaluations ofthe effects of delivered equitably and well. De Savigny and others (2004) alternative approaches to large-scale intervention against psy- describe a specific example from Tanzania that links system chiatric disorders,the world will fail to develop hard knowledge reform to intervention selection. ofwhat does—and does not—work.Without that knowledge, Part 3 ofthe volume addresses strengthening ofhealth sys- potentially possible from the inevitably limited resources see WHO’s World Health Reports for 1999 and 2000 (WHO available. 1999,32–33;2000,23–25) and Roberts and others (2003). 16 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison Part 3 first reviews options for public health services with This overview of the topics on health systems provides a chaptersonsurveillanceandinformation(chapters53and54), sense of the breadth of the issues considered.Chapter 3 pro- drugresistance(chapter55),communityhealthandnutrition vides a concise and
