One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


public health services with This overview of the topics on health systems provides a chaptersonsurveillanceandinformation(chapters53and54), sense of the breadth of the issues considered.Chapter 3 pro- drugresistance(chapter55),communityhealthandnutrition vides a concise and integrated statement ofthe main findings. programs (chapter 56), contraception (chapter 57), school- The remainder of this section deals briefly with assessing occupationalhealth(chapter60),naturaldisasterrelief(chap- finance. Before we turn to those topics, however, it is worth ter 61),and disease elimination and eradication (chapter 62). highlighting several particular points. devotedtopublichealthisthathealthsystemstrengtheningand ity has sometimes led governments (and development assis- reform efforts need to commit substantial financial resources tance agencies) to focus their capacity on a few high-priority andpoliticalandmanagerialattentiontopublichealth. items—such as immunization or control of HIV/AIDS. The Asecondclusterofchaptersinpart3dealswithstrengthen- objective may be a reasonable one:a greater reduction in dis- ing personal health services. The first of those chapters deals ease burden in the population and more financial protection withanimportantfacetofcommunity-levelhealthservices,the for it are likely to be achieved by doing a few important things integratedmanagementofthesickchild(chapter63).Chapters well than by doing many things poorly.Yet ifthis focused effort 64to66dealwithlevelsofcare:generalprimarycare,thedis- is undertaken by establishing vertical structures outside the tersaddressservicesofferedatmultiplelevelsofthesystem:sur- capacity may be missed. Chapter 3 stresses a critical point: a gery(chapter67),emergencymedicalservices(chapter68),and focused program should be designed so that it contributes to, complementary and alternative medicine (chapter 69). The rather than detracts from, long-term system strengthening. final cluster of four chapters addresses capacity strengthening Second,quality of care is important; it can be measured,and and management reform: quality of care (chapter 70), the it can be improved (box 1.3). Third, providing basic surgical (chapter72),andmanagementofclinicalservices(chapter73). offer major but neglected opportunities for addressing Box 1.3 Tangible Approaches to Improving Quality of Care A 2001 report from the Institute of Medicine of the U.S. • Use evidence-based criteria to link quality ofcare to out- National Academy of Sciences (Institute of Medicine comes. This approach can be implemented by training 2001b) highlights great variation in the quality of clinical and creating incentives for adapting clinical guidelines or care in the United States.Its publication catalyzed reform by using the collaborative improvement model. efforts.In a recent evaluation,Leape and Berwick (2005) • Improve system-level and provider incentives. fessional attitudes and organizational culture, although incentives facing providers,for example,by establishing less effect, so far, on mortality. Chapter 70 on quality of a legal and ethical environment where care providers low- and middle-income countries and the associated cost procedures,or referrals to expensive specialized care. in lives and money. Improving quality of care amplifies • Emphasize
