One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


ethical environment where care providers low- and middle-income countries and the associated cost procedures,or referrals to expensive specialized care. in lives and money. Improving quality of care amplifies • Emphasize high-volume care for selected surgical pro- the effect of investments in health.Promising approaches cedures and prevalent medical conditions. Such an in improving the quality ofcare include the following: approach can lead to higher quality and lower cost even while, in some cases (for example, cataract removal), • Invest in measuring quality and feeding that informa- allowing lower-level workers to substitute for more tion back into the system. This approach has been expensive and scarcer physicians. and effective. Source:This box was prepared with input from John Peabody. Investing in Health | 17 significant sources ofdisease burden.An important substantive ance of countries is better understood even though relating component of health sector reforms should often involve country performance to performance ofits health systems may strengthening surgical capacity. remain only judgmental for the moment.For example,Brazil and China had under-five mortality rates that were quite close in 2002:37 per 1,000 for Brazil and 38 per 1,000 for China.In Health System Performance 1990,however,Brazil’s rate was 60 per 1,000 and China’s was 49 Since about 1940, the publication of economic performance per 1,000:the rate ofimprovement in Brazil was far more rapid indicators in national income and product accounts has than in China. This measure is only one dimension of out- madeitpossibletoholdpoliticalleadersaccountableforeco- come,and many explanations are possible.Yet hard numbers performance—suchasGDPgrowthratesandunemployment rates—have allowed economists to move toward evidence- Financing Health Services based assessments of which policies facilitate good economic performance and which do not. Chapters 12 and 13 in this volume discuss domestic and exter- tem performance remains where economic performance mea- income countries than in middle-income ones,and the discus- sures were before the development of national income and sion that follows is so divided. Table 1.2 provides context by product accounts in the United Kingdom in the late 1930s. conveying the level of health expenditures in 2001 in different Chapter 3 observes,for example,that “The body ofknowledge income groupings of countries,the fraction of GDP spent on collection of facts,figures,and points of view.Making confi- financed.Almost 10 percent of the total product of the world WHO made an ambitious effort to provide the performance payment.In the high-income European countries,only about measures for health systems that would enable progress toward one-quarter of expenditures is private. Middle-income coun- more systematic knowledge of
