One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


to provide the performance payment.In the high-income European countries,only about measures for health systems that would enable progress toward one-quarter of expenditures is private. Middle-income coun- more systematic knowledge of the policies to improve health tries spend about 5 times as much per capita on health services systems . Such knowledge could replace what is as do low-income ones and over 10 times as much through the now frequently simply ideology and opinion.The 2000 World public sector.Although available data sets (for example,from of health system performance may in the end be judged as over time in health expenditures (for more than very short more ofa first attempt than an initial approximation (Jamison periods),current levels ofexpenditure are likely to substantially and Sandbu 2001).WHO set an agenda that will certainly con- exceed those of several decades ago, even as a percentage tinue to be advanced. of growing incomes. The availability of physicians provides Despite current inability to judge health system perform- one indicator: in a large sample of countries the number of ance and the consequently ad hoc character of knowledge, physicians per 100,000 population increased from 54 in the and 3 ofthis volume summarize very specific knowledge about of2.8 percent. intervention characteristics and system design that can inform Beforeweturntoquestionsoffinancinghealthservices(or policy.Although broad prescriptions may still elude us,partic- insurance), briefly discussing related issues concerning the ular knowledge is still important. Additionally, the perform- publicsector’sfinancialroleisworthwhile.Thoseissuesaddress Health expenditure Health expenditure Public sector expenditures Country group per capita (2001 US$) (percentage of GDP) (percentage of total health expenditures) Low income 23 4.4 26.3 Middle income 118 6.0 51.1 High income 2,841 10.8 62.1 (Countries in the European Monetary Union) (1,856) (9.3) (73.5) World 500 9.8 59.2 Source:World Bank 2004,table 2.14. 18 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison whatchapter11calls“healthyfiscalpolicyandfiscalpolicyfor increasinglyclearthatastronggovernmentpresenceinfinance health.”An example of unhealthy fiscal policy was the Polish is the least bad way of dealing with these problems. Such a government’ssubsidyoffattyanimalproducts.Eliminationof presenceisnecessarytoachieveuniversalaccesstohealthcare that subsidy was a gain for the treasury and resulted in andmakesiteasiertoimposethehardbudgetconstraintsthat identifiesandcorrectssuchinappropriatesubsidies.Fiscalpol- indicatesthatintroducinguniversalmandatoryhealthcoverage icyforhealthisexemplifiedbytobaccotaxation,whichchapter favorably affects both wages and employment levels. Gruber 46dealswithatlengthandchapter11dealswithmorebriefly. andHanratty(1995)providethoroughdocumentationofthese Fiscalpolicyforhealthinvolvestaxeswhoseprincipalpurposes effects in Canada. Some combination of these factors likely liemoreinchanginghealth-relatedbehaviorsthaningenerat- underpinsthechoicesofthehigh-incomedemocraciestofund ingrevenue(althoughthelattercanbeimportantaswell). alargefractionofprivateclinicalserviceswithpublicresources. Public financing of services for all does not imply that all cause of poverty (and economic insecurity more generally) straints,countries face hard choices about what to include (and results from highly uneven and unpredictable needs to finance exclude) in the
