One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


advertising or water fluoridation) or Iffee-for-service financing can generate a perverse incentive where significant externalities exist (such as interruption of environment,does that imply that a system must forgo charg- transmission of TB by treatment of infections) is widely ing beneficiaries for services they receive? Not at all:other ways repair, has none of those attributes. Nonetheless, as Arrow may be more effective. Earmarking payroll taxes to finance of incomplete information for decision makers (patients, social insurance) is one approach for recovering costs that is delivery of clinical services. These personal clinical services principally on salaries or capitation rather than fee-for-service. account for the bulk of health expenditure. The evidence is It has been argued that cost recovery through payroll taxes Investing in Health | 19 consumption,or sin taxes—although recent evidence suggests Much of this volume deals with resource allocation across that may not be true (Blanchard and Katz 1997).Nonetheless, interventions.Public finance must address an additional set of when general revenue mechanisms are incapable of financing decisions.Do interventions with substantial positive externali- the nationally defined basic package of services for all, the ties have a particular claim on public resources—beyond the option ofcost recovery through payroll taxes for the privileged amount ofhealth and financial protection they buy per million workers in the formal sector is clearly desirable on equity dollars spent? Should public resources be spent only on indi- grounds. This form of taxation also links contributions to a viduals with low income? Or should health systems provide specific service,which increases its acceptability. universal public finance for the very limited range ofinterven- tions that can be afforded? Should public finance emphasize FinancingHealthinLow-IncomeCountries. Approximately providing interventions that maximize financial protection 2.5billionpeopleliveincountriestheWorldBankclassifiesas or improvements in health? What patterns of public sector low-income—thatis,withapercapitagrossnationalincomein resource allocation are likely to prove politically sustainable? 2002 of less than US$735 per year. These countries include Fewer tradeoffs may exist among these criteria than at first IndiabutnotChina.Table1.2reflectsthattheestimatedaver- seems to be the case. agepercapitahealthexpenditureforthese2.5billionpeopleis A starting point for thinking about these criteria is the avail- about US$23 per year, of which US$5 or US$6 comes from ability of an increasing number of good benefit incidence publicsources.Chapter12,onfinancinghealthsystems,points studies—that is,studies of how the benefits of a public inter- totheseverechallengesinsettingprioritiesthattheseresource vention distribute across income (or asset) quintiles of the limitations imply. Not only are expenditure levels currently population.Those studies find that in a great majority ofcoun- very low,but also the fiscal space needed to
