One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


prove insufficient to finance cally sustainable than targeting population subgroups.Lindert attainment ofthe MDGs in some countries. (2004) extensively discusses the experience in high-income Achieving gains for health (and frequently concomitant countries with universalization of public financing of educa- 20 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison Percentage of incremental benefit received by each quintile answer to this question exists, an important factor has been 50 advance in scientific knowledge and its application both in Universal delivery attendance creating powerful interventions and in guiding behavior. 45 43 Universal immunization coverage Acquisition and use ofhealth research and development or its products becomes, then, an essential function of a country’s 30 29 beyond development of new products to encompass knowl- edge generation on health system financing and performance. 22 Much knowledge is embodied in global public goods: 20 19 once a vaccine against hepatits B has been developed any- 15 where, it becomes, in some sense, available everywhere. 10 Although monopoly pricing made possible by patents may 10 9 slow the diffusion ofsome innovations,the temporary nature 5 4 of patent-induced monopoly pricing limits that effect. 0 However,an innovation’s being cheap,powerful,and globally Poorest Second Third Fourth Richest available in no way assures its global use. The implication is Quintile clear: globally available knowledge and products offer enor- Source: Calculations based on data reprinted in Gwatkin and others (2000). mous opportunities to countries, but national policies and Notes: Universal immunization coverage means complete coverage with the standard and Gwatkin and others (2000) show the coverage level by quintile. The black bar shows put to local use.Additionally,although some information for what the percentage distribution of benefits by population quintile would be of moving from the 1998 status quo to universal coverage. Universal delivery attendance means improving outcomes is principally local and must be locally produced,making the results available contributes to a grow- achieved 63 percent coverage overall, and the white bar shows what the percentage distribution of benefits by population quintile would be of moving from the current ing evidence base. Chapter 4 on health research stresses the pattern of coverage to universal coverage. value of contributing to a global evidence base and summa- Figure 1.7 Equity Implications of Providing Universal Coverage for rizes with the observation that “all health care is national”and What are the implications for policy? One is that if knowl- edge gains prove even partially as important for
