One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


for rizes with the observation that “all health care is national”and What are the implications for policy? One is that if knowl- edge gains prove even partially as important for future health it is politically sustainable but also that no evidence indicates improvements as they have in the past century—and chapters that the resulting higher taxes have harmed economic growth. in this volume point to a number ofreasons for expecting this Two final points are worth stating about making coverage to be so—then investments in health research and develop- universal: ment will continue to have high payoffs in health status and economic productivity. Chapter 7 points to the potential for • First,early adoption ofuniversalization ofcoverage for pub- enormous economic returns. Ensuring an adequate level of licly financed interventions—even if only a few can be research and development investment,therefore,holds strong the overwhelming choice ofthe democratic process in high- important—is that the investments be efficient in generating income countries. useful new knowledge and products.Fauci (2005) discusses the low-income countries will often be highly constrained. ment in an environment oftightening budgets in U.S.agencies, Capacity is likely to grow most rapidly by building on a base and he points to a number ofspecific directions for doing so. of doing a few things well rather than many things poorly. In some cases,additional resources (probably from growth Universal coverage implies tight focus in highly resource- within national health budgets or health aid budgets) will be constrained environments. required to meet these research and development needs ade- quately.In many cases,institutional change will be necessary to create the information and incentives required for efficient RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT resource allocation.At the international level,resource alloca- tion has often lacked focus,failing to bring results to the point income and, hence, the availability of commodities that, like issues while providing, often generously, for less important Investing in Health | 21 driven international funding and experience-sharing networks approach to public goods such as research and development; should be applied to currently neglected clusters ofconditions. here,responsibility for catalyzing collective action lies princi- Just as the quality and productivity of research efforts vary pally in the hands of the global community. Far from over- dramatically from one institution to another within the high- shadowing action at the national level,global efforts help both income countries, they vary in the low- and middle-income to make national research and development efforts more pro- countries.Exemplary work is done in
