One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


(GAVI) is pointing growth rates? Is there any evidence that infusions ofeconomic to ways that support for immunization programs can be assistance have affected mortality rates or levels of poverty? advanced within the context of this tendency to move toward These questions are clearly not easy to answer. Nonetheless, general budget support. GAVI’s innovation is to support some data provide insights.Burnside and Dollar (2000) con- immunization programs based on performance—US$20 for a clude,for example,that development assistance does seem to fully immunized child.The country gets the US$20 for immu- work in countries where a good policy environment and a good nizing the child in whatever way it decides;thus,GAVI provides institutional environment exist, but not in countries lacking general budget support that is conditioned on performance. those elements. Recent work focuses on aid directed to eco- GAVI’s concern has been with transitional financing (rather nomic development and greatly strengthens the inclusiveness than with sustained assistance),but its approach points the way of the conclusion that aid boosts growth (Clemens, Radelet, for designing long-term budget support conditioned on meas- and Bhavnani 2004).The effect of development assistance on urable performance with respect to specific health goals. growth is quantitatively important even in countries with poor Jamison (2004) outlined design of long-term development countries with better policies.Interestingly,aid’s effect appears incentives for countries to increase coverage (or performance) larger in countries with higher life expectancy.That develop- while scaling back the volume of aid as a country’s income ment assistance contributes broadly to growth does not, of increased. Adequate measurement underpins assessment of ofthe potential in health to know that development assistance for and budgeted. works for growth. Even if development assistance is viewed as working better Macroeconomic Consequences of Aid in strong institutional and policy environments, a dilemma exists in that the countries that most need aid are often ones Another concern in the aid community—particularly in the that have weak policies and weak institutions (Radelet 2003, International Monetary Fund—is that development assistance 194).Experiences with ODA in health complement the recent could have adverse domestic macroeconomic consequences— research on aid for growth in suggesting that ODA can pay off essentially inflationary consequences (see WHO 2002, despite limited institutional or absorptive capacity. Polio has chapter8).This argument needs to be taken seriously.It is in certainly been eliminated in countries with good health sys- essence an argument about the generation of domestic infla- tems,but it has also been eliminated from
