One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


be taken seriously.It is in certainly been eliminated in countries with good health sys- essence an argument about the generation of domestic infla- tems,but it has also been eliminated from most countries with tionary pressures—of projects chasing after those few good weak ones. No smallpox exists today in countries with bad engineers or doctors with an increasing amount of foreign policies and bad institutions.A number ofthose countries have money and creating an inflationary spiral in that way.However, immunization rates of 60 or 70 percent, or as high as in the if the principal proposed use for the money is for drugs or United States. An important question concerns the extent to vaccines—for example, the US$10 increment for adding Hib Investing in Health | 23 schedule—that money is almost all foreign exchange,and the of uncertain duration. Jamison and Radelet (2005) point to macroeconomic arguments about inflationary consequences ways ofusing such aid that can be minimally disruptive. simply would not apply. Careful project design can respond to what on the whole are serious concerns from the macro- CONCLUSIONS economic part of the development assistance community. Economic analysis can provide information—such as this vol- A volume as large as this one can provide only a sampling of ume attempts to provide—on getting the maximum health and opportunities and potential pitfalls for investments in health. financial protection outcomes from the development assistance Indeed, the International Statistical Classification of Diseases available and for designing interventions (tradable and com- takes more than 1,500 pages simply to list the modity intensive) that will minimize potentially adverse conditions that a health system must address.Yet the diseases macroeconomic consequences. accountingformostoftheburdencanbelistedinperhapshalf a dozen pages, and the diseases that account for most of the differencesinoutcomebetweenhigh-andlow-mortalitycoun- The Millennium Development Goals triescanbelistedonapage.Chapters in this volume assess 115 An additional and significant direction in thinking about ODA population interventions and 204 personal interventions that concerns achievement ofthe MDGs (chapter 9).The MDGs are address most conditions ofimportance.Theconclusionslisted income-related poverty. Interestingly, focusing development conclusions for policy without attempting to summarize the assistance on achieving the MDGs stands in at least partial volumeasawhole.Chapters2and3complementthisonewith opposition to the move toward budget support. afullersummary. These considerations point to several directions for the Table 1.3 provides a sense of the nature of the findings in 194) provides detailed quantitative examples to show that,even methods.ThetableshowsthenumberofDALYsthatweestimate under very favorable circumstances,in a lower-middle-income couldbeaverted(oryearsofhealthylifethatcouldbebought)by country development assistance is likely to be needed for spendingamilliondollarsonafewoftheinterventionsaddress-
