One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


of the findings in 194) provides detailed quantitative examples to show that,even methods.ThetableshowsthenumberofDALYsthatweestimate under very favorable circumstances,in a lower-middle-income couldbeaverted(oryearsofhealthylifethatcouldbebought)by country development assistance is likely to be needed for spendingamilliondollarsonafewoftheinterventionsaddress- decades.Some conclusions follow that are drawn from the pre- ingmajorsourcesofdiseaseburden.Ifwethinkofthesenum- ceding discussion and from the need for predictability and long bersasthepricesforbuyinghealthbydifferentmeans,theprice time horizons in donor behavior. ODA should move toward variationisenormous,rangingfromoneortwoDALYspermil- the following: lion dollars up to well over 100,000.All the standard caveats morethanapplytothesenumbers.Nonetheless,theydoconvey • providing aid over long-term perspectives (10 or more informationrelevantforpolicy.Expandingcoverageofthecur- years) rentlyusedmixofvaccines,forexample,appearsmoreattractive • ensuring predictability in assistance commitments thandoesaddingnewvaccines(exceptwhenthelowerdemands • emphasizing demand-side support (with concomitant on system capacity of adding new vaccines are considered). country control ofresources) Bypasssurgeryusedeveninthemostappropriatecircumstances • providing incentives for countries to maintain high cover- isanexpensivewaytobuyayearof healthylife,butformany age for cost-effective programs commonindicationsitisinordinatelyexpensive.Findingsfrom • avoiding perverse incentives table 1.3 exemplify findings of the cost-effectiveness analyses • including a transparent exit strategy (for example,reduced fromthroughoutthebookthataresummarizedinchapter2. grant support with per capita GDP growth). A general conclusion follows from the preceding discussion. There are many inexpensive ways to reduce mortality rates and There is a strong analogy to within-country programs like improve health.A country that focuses on those interventions Mexico’s Progresa, which provides cash transfers to poor can expect to achieve major improvements—even with very households contingent on getting children immunized or into limited resources.There are also ways to buy better health that school.Gertler (2004) has reported evaluation results indicat- can dissipate even a substantial budget with almost no ing a high degree ofeffectiveness.The effectiveness ofcoverage return—either for better health or for the financial protection incentives is well exemplified by the Bill & Melinda Gates of populations. Intervention selection matters. Many of the Foundation in its work on polio with both GAVI and the World good and bad buys are now well known.Some are not,and our Bank in providing a financial incentive for enhanced coverage main purpose in this volume has been to assemble the evidence (chapter 13). Although donors increasingly state a commit- based on what is known. ment to providing aid predictably and over long periods,the We now turn to more specific conclusions.Different items reality for many countries is that aid flows will be volatile and on the list are relevant in different countries. (Chapter 2 24 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison Table 1.3 How Much Health Will a Million Dollars Buy? Estimated DALYs averted Service or intervention Cost per
