One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


in the more extensive discussions in the low-income countries, not only are financial resources chapters 2 and 3, which synthesize messages from the rest of sharply limited now, but prospects for more than modest the book on setting intervention priorities and strengthening increases seem unlikely for many years.(Financial constraints Investing in Health | 25 Box 1.4 Cost-Effectiveness Analysis in This Volume A starting point for cost-effectiveness analysis is to observe substitute for different aspects ofsystem capacity (see also that health systems have two objectives:(a) to improve the Gericke and others 2003). An important mechanism for tion and (b) to protect individuals from financial risks oriented programs,may simply be to use it successfully— thatareoftenverysubstantialandthatarefrequentcauses learning by doing. Several chapters discuss capacity ameliorated by preventing illness or its progression and by The literature on economic evaluation of health proj- using appropriate financial architecture for the system. ects typically reports the cost per unit of achieving some ofresources to be available:financial resources and health (QALYs) or DALYs or deaths averted—and at times system capacity.To implement an intervention in a popu- addresseshowthatcostvarieswiththelevelofintervention lation, the system uses some of each resource. Just as and other factors. Pritchard (2004) provides a valuable some interventions have higher dollar costs than others, introduction to this literature.DCP1 reported such cost- some interventions are more demanding ofsystem capac- effectiveness findings for a broad range of interventions; ity than others. In countries with limited health system DCP2 does so as well. DCP2 authors were asked to use capacity,it is clearly important to select interventions that methodsdescribedinJamison(2003);chapter15discusses require relatively little of such capacity.Human resource actual implementation. Cost-effectiveness calculations capacity constitutes a particularly important aspect ofsys- provide important insights into the economic attractive- tem capacity, discussed in chapter 71 and in a recent nessofanintervention,butotherconsiderations—suchas report ofthe Joint Learning Initiative (2004). consequences for financial protection and demands on Although in the very short run little tradeoffmay exist healthsystemcapacity—arealsorelevant. between dollars and human resources or system capacity DCP2also makes a preliminary attempt to accumulate more generally, investing in the development of such information about the extent to which interventions place capacity can help make more ofthat resource available in demands on health system capacity; this information is system capacity and intervention complexity,and it points tative information does provide helpful input to policy. tothe importance of and potential for responding to low Kim (2005) develops a more quantitative approach in an capacity by selecting interventions that
