One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


information does provide helpful input to policy. tothe importance of and potential for responding to low Kim (2005) develops a more quantitative approach in an capacity by selecting interventions that are less demanding analysis dealing with cervical cancer. Much less has been of capacity and by simplifying interventions. Chapter 3 done on the extent to which specific interventions provide also explores the extent to which financial resources can financial protection forpatients and their families. Source:Author. binding.) Selecting priorities will be hard.This section provides treatment for diarrhea, malaria, and acute respiratory a starting point for discussing which activities should be high infections; and improved prenatal and delivery care. In priorities.The conclusions are grouped under four headings: cases of sharply limited resources—financial or health and development;and development assistance. be expansion of immunization coverage with the basic antigens: poliomyelitis, measles, diphtheria, tetanus, Interventions pertussis,and perhaps BCG. 1. Standard interventions for reducing under-five mortality 2. Cost-effective interventions exist to address the 50 percent have long been known to be highly cost-effective.The chal- of under-five deaths that occur under 28 days of age, lenge is to scale up while conserving and strengthening including stillbirths.These are underused relative to inter- immunization; micronutrient supplement delivery; priority. 26 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison 3. Standard interventions to treat TB are also known to be reduce problems of obesity, hypertension, and dyslipi- highly cost-effective,although probably more demanding demia and their consequences for vascular disease. ofhealth system capacity than are some ofthe child health Successes are rare but suggestive that large-scale efforts interventions.Scaling up by using already developed mod- could be worthwhile. Careful impact evaluation will be els for strengthening relevant health system capacity is a essential to ascertain whether these investments deliver priority. value for money. 4. Many well-tested preventive interventions for AIDS are 8. Lifetime medical management—eventually using variants effective and cost-effective. Such interventions include of the polypill—of individuals at high risk for stroke or treating STIs,promoting condom use,providing voluntary ischemic heart disease is cost-effective and important for counseling and testing,promoting peer intervention,using tens of millions of individuals.The clearest indications of antiretroviral therapies to prevent mother-to-child trans- high risk are a previous vascular event or diabetes. mission,ensuring safe blood supplies,and encouraging the Scaling up treatment for STIs may prove particularly 9. Focusedfundingforparticulardiseasesorprograms—for important. Much more rapid implementation of these example,TBorimmunization—isafactoflifeinmanylow- interventions is ofhighest priority and needs to be accom- incomecountries.Usingsuchfundingtobuildhealthsys- panied by
