One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


Scaling up treatment for STIs may prove particularly 9. Focusedfundingforparticulardiseasesorprograms—for important. Much more rapid implementation of these example,TBorimmunization—isafactoflifeinmanylow- interventions is ofhighest priority and needs to be accom- incomecountries.Usingsuchfundingtobuildhealthsys- panied by effective mechanisms ofsurveillance and evalu- temcapacityisfeasibleaswellasdesirable,butitisfarfrom ation. The appropriate mix and distribution of interven- automatic.As capacity grows,the potential advantages of tions depends on the stage of the epidemic.In particular, categoricalprogramsarelikelytofadewhileamoreinte- limited financial and institutional resources imply focus- grated(butstilloutcome-oriented)healthsystemassumes ing effort on populations at high risk early in an epidemic. responsibilityfordealingwiththerelevantconditions. 5. Antiretroviral drugs have been successful on a wide scale in high-income countries (and in some upper-middle- both to the cost of care and to health outcomes.Tangible income countries—notably Brazil and Mexico) in sharply actions can be taken to improve quality:important among reducing viral load and extending the life expectancy of them is having each provider do a few things well rather patients who are HIV positive.Health system capacity for than many things poorly. achieving durable benefits from antiretroviral drug use at 11. Strengthening capacity for surgery at the district hospital scale in resource-constrained environments, however, level is a frequently neglected priority. Major important remains to be demonstrated. Failure to achieve good uses of this capacity will be to deal with injuries and adherence in such an environment would provide minimal obstetrical emergencies. benefits to the patient, increase risks of drug resistance, 12. In low-income countries public funding for health will and incur substantial costs:the financial and human losses remain highly constrained as a percentage ofGDP for the could be enormous. Multiple approaches to successful foreseeable future. Targeting these funds to provide uni- maintenance on antiretroviral drugs should be tried and versal access to a limited number ofinterventions that are evaluated in large-scale pilots or as part ofimplementation high priority for poor people is both efficient and equity scale-up. Given the magnitude of the AIDS problem, enhancing, but it will require clear setting of priorities, undertaking and evaluating variations in implementation particularly for incremental resources as they become (including possible variation in the choice of first-line available. drugs) in parallel rather than serially is important. This 13. Middle-income countries can learn from the OECD expe- approach is not now being used. Similarly important is rience that universal public financing ofa substantial pack- being rigorous in dropping unsuccessful implementation age ofclinical care is both efficient and equity enhancing. models before they consume substantial resources that could otherwise have greatly affected AIDS
