One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


substantial pack- being rigorous in dropping unsuccessful implementation age ofclinical care is both efficient and equity enhancing. models before they consume substantial resources that could otherwise have greatly affected AIDS prevention or Research and Development other priorities in the health sector. 6. Control of tobacco use is the cornerstone of proven 14. Impact evaluation ofinterventions in many domains is an approaches to primary prevention ofheart disease,stroke, essential priority and should be done around planned vari- chronic pulmonary disease, and many types of cancer. ations in implementation.One specific area ofimportance Instruments for control of tobacco use centering on is evaluation of effective ways to manage lifelong drug taxation and improved public information are well use—for example, for AIDS, secondary prevention of established. vascular disease,diabetes,and major psychiatric disorders. 7. A range of potential approaches to changing dietary and 15. Public-private partnerships such as the Medicines for exercise patterns of populations would, if successful, Malaria Venture and the International AIDS Vaccine Investing in Health | 27 Initiative provide promising models for developing impor- others 2006) will provide more comprehensive tables ofresults tant new drugs,vaccines,and diagnostic products to deal for a much finer disaggregation ofconditions,a full exposition with the major diseases of poverty as well as the problem of methods and data sources,and sensitivity analyses (includ- ofdrug resistance and microbial evolution more generally. ing assessments of the sensitivity of results to including still- birth).All numbers in this annex are consistent with those in Development Assistance the companion volume. 16. Development assistance for health has begun to become This annex first provides a brief background on assess- performance based,and this trend should accelerate,along ments of deaths by cause and disease burden and then an with making development assistance more stable and long overview of the uses of such measures for health policy. It term (contingent on performance). This change may concludes with aggregated tables on deaths and on disability- involve at least a partial shift away from the sectorwide adjusted life years (DALYs) by selected causes or groups of approaches to development assistance that recent evidence causes. The tables present estimates both with and without suggests may lead to neglect of focus on outcomes.It will stillbirths, which constituted approximately 5.5 percent of require renewed attention to outcome measurement. deaths globally in 2001.Estimates are provided separately for 17. Resistance of the malaria parasite that is responsible for high-income countries and for the low- and middle-income most
