One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


to outcome measurement. deaths globally in 2001.Estimates are provided separately for 17. Resistance of the malaria parasite that is responsible for high-income countries and for the low- and middle-income most deaths to chloroquine and SP is now widespread and countriesasagroup. rapidly increasing. A particular challenge is overcoming Background financial and institutional barriers to virtually complete replacement of those drugs with ACTs, which minimize Many countries,including all high-income ones,maintain vital resistance and can decrease transmission.Absent such an registration systems that provide data (usually annual) on the effort, malaria mortality is likely to continue rising. A number ofdeaths by cause,age,sex,and sometimes race.Some centralized procurement mechanism receiving subsidies countries additionally compute years of life lost (or YLL) by from development assistance agencies and making low- cause,which assigns a number ofyears of life lost attributable cost ACTs available to public and private supply chains to each cause that depends on the age ofdeath and some rele- globally would address this problem. vant measure oflife expectancy.As ofthe early 1990s,no simi- 18. Investing in global capacity to respond effectively to a new lar estimates existed for many developing countries or for influenza pandemic,particularly within the resource con- regional groupings of them.Experts on individual conditions straints oflow-income countries,is a priority for the inter- or the relevant disease program at WHO generated estimates national system. Such capacity would include effective for the diseases ofinterest to them.When added up across dis- surveillance, surge manufacturing capacity for drugs and eases,however,such estimates exceeded,often by a factor of 2 vaccines,stockpiles ofdrugs that could be used to attempt or more,any plausible estimate of the total number of deaths to contain epidemics,and mass media messages and pub- occurring in each age group.DCP1and the World Development lic policies prepared in advance to be deployed ifneeded. Report 1993(Lopez 1993 and World Bank 1993) generated esti- 19. Because research and development is so important for mates of the number of deaths by cause that were consistent a substantial fraction of incremental development assis- regional groupings ofcountries.WHO collaborated closely on tance for health should go to research and development. this work.The number ofdeaths from a disease is one measure of the magnitude of its burden,and YLL constitutes for many Thecontentofthesespecificrecommendations,andofrec- purposes a better measure. Neither takes account of the dis- ommendationsthroughoutthisvolume,pointtotheenormous ability or suffering associated with a nonfatal disease. potentialwenowhavetoreducefurtherthehumanandfinan- The 1993 World Development Reportalso developed a vari- cialburdenofillhealth.Scientificadvancecreatedthispotential. ant of the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from the
