One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


the dis- ommendationsthroughoutthisvolume,pointtotheenormous ability or suffering associated with a nonfatal disease. potentialwenowhavetoreducefurtherthehumanandfinan- The 1993 World Development Reportalso developed a vari- cialburdenofillhealth.Scientificadvancecreatedthispotential. ant of the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from the health Itsmorewidespreadrealizationrequiresthefocusedattentionof economics literature to add a disability dimension to YLLs in healthsystemstofinanceanddeliverpriorityinterventions. order to generate a more comprehensive measure of burden. The result,called a disability-adjusted life year,measures bur- ANNEX 1.A: THE BURDEN OF DISEASE IN 2001 den from a specific cause as the sum of years of life lost from that cause and the equivalent years oflife lost (in a sense that is This annex provides estimates of the burden of different dis- made quite specific) from the disability caused by the condi- eases and injuries in 2001. Alan Lopez, Colin Mathers, tion. Original publications on disease burden included esti- Christopher Murray, and their colleagues at WHO generated mates that discounted future events at 0 percent or at 3 percent the estimates, aggregated them by World Bank regions, and per year.They also included estimates that weighted the value provided final updates. A companion volume (Lopez and of a year of life uniformly across all age groups and estimates 28 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dean T. Jamison that placed greater value on middle-aged groups. These are The national income and product accounts for the labeled DALYs (r,k) with the first number indicating the dis- United States (NIPAs),and kindred accounts in other count rate in percent per year and the second indicating nations,have been among the major contributions to whether uniform or nonuniform age weights were used. The economic knowledge over the past half century.... most widely reported variant on the DALY is the DALY (3,1)— Several generations of economists and practitioners that is,one that uses a 3 percent discount rate and nonuniform have now been able to tie theoretical constructs of age weighting.This chapter and the companion volume report income, output, investment, consumption, and sav- DALYs (3,0)—that is, with discounting but uniform age ings to the actual numbers of these remarkable weighting. accounts with all their fine detail and soundly meshed Estimates of DALYs by cause for 1990 first appeared as interrelations.(Eisner 1989,1) appendix B of the 1993 World Development Report and, in expanded form, in Murray, Lopez, and Jamison (1994). Disease burden measures have the potential of serving a updated estimates for 1990 and a fuller account ofthe methods 2. Generatingaforumforinformeddebateofvaluesandpriori- used (Murray and Lopez
