One
KEYWORDS: health, countries, disease, development, mortality, economic, world, interventions, chapter, burden, income, jamison, life, percent, important


Murray, Lopez, and Jamison (1994). Disease burden measures have the potential of serving a updated estimates for 1990 and a fuller account ofthe methods 2. Generatingaforumforinformeddebateofvaluesandpriori- used (Murray and Lopez 1996a,1996b).The relative burden of ties.Theassessmentofdiseaseburdeninacountryinprac- different conditions as measured by numbers of deaths corre- tice involves participation of a broad range of national lates highly with DALYs, but important exceptions exist. The diseasespecialists,epidemiologists,and,often,policymak- massive burden ofmajor psychiatric conditions,for example,is ers. Debating the appropriate values, say, for disability captured by DALYs but missed in estimates ofdeaths by cause weightsorforyearsoflifelostatdifferentageshelpsclarify or YLLs.Table 1.A1 summarizes the current estimates ofdeaths valuesandobjectivesfornationalhealthpolicy.Discussing by cause in 2001 from Mathers, Murray, and Lopez (2006). theinterrelationsamongdiseasesandtheirriskfactorsinthe Table 1.A2 shows disease burden in DALYs. Additional lightoflocalconditionssharpensconsiderationofpriorities. columns in these tables show the effect of including stillbirths 3. Identifying national control priorities. Many countries on the percentage distribution of burden across conditions nowidentify a relatively short list of interventions,the full while leaving unchanged the other numbers (see Jamison and implementation of which becomes an explicit priority for others 2006). national political and administrative attention. Examples Disease burden can be assessed by risk factor as well as by include interventions to control TB, poliomyelitis, HIV disease or condition.An initial assessment ofrisk factor burden infection,smoking,and specific micronutrient deficiencies. appeared in the 1993 World Development Report and later in Because political attention and high-level administrative Murray and Lopez (1997) and WHO (1996).WHO published capacity are in relatively fixed and short supply,the benefits a much fuller set of estimates in its 2003 World Health Report from using those resources will be maximized if they are .Ezzati and others (2006) provided a substantial directed to interventions that are both cost-effective and update adjusted to the same methodological assumptions as for aimed at problems associated with a high burden. Thus, deaths and DALYs,including use ofDALYs (3,0). national assessments of disease burden are one input in establishing a potential short list ofcontrol priorities.In the Uses of Disease Burden Measures summary of the cost-effectiveness analyses reported in this ways. Estimates of deaths by cause or YLL serve these same cost-effective interventions capable of averting a large dis- purposes,but for some uses less well. ease burden. 4. Allocating training time for clinical and public health practi- 1. Assessing performance. A country-specific (or regional) tioners. Medical schools offer a fixed number of instruc- assessment of the burden of disease provides an outcome tional hours;training programs for other levels and types
