Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


variant. Rarely, a proband diagnosed with MEF2C-related disorder has the disorder as the result of a pathogenic variant inherited from an affected heterozygous parent or an unaffected mosaic parent. Each child of an individual with MEF2C-related disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the MEF2C pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis Suggestive Findings MEF2C-related disorder should be considered in probands with the following clinical and brain MRI finding s and family history. Clinical findings • Moderate-to-profound developmental delay (including lack of speech in 95% and inability to walk independently in 50%) • Profound intellectual disability • Hypotonia • Feeding/gastrointestinal issues (constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, feeding difficulties) • Dysmorphic facial features (broad forehead, prominent philtrum, tented upper lip, widely spaced teeth, large ears) • Seizures (febrile, infantile spasms, generalized tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and focal) • Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations, including autistic features (decreased social interaction, stereotypic movements particularly of the hands, repetitive rocking and head shaking, hyperkinesis), bruxism, agitation, sleep issues, and high pain tolerance • Cardiac manifestations (ventricular septal defect, double outlet right ventricle, patent ductus arteriosus, pulmonary stenosis, and adult-onset dilated cardiomyopathy) • Vision issues (strabismus, refractive errors) Brain MRI findings • Hypoplastic corpus callosum • Mild thinning of the cortical white matter • Enlarged ventricles and other cerebrospinal fluid spaces (including the subarachnoid space and cortical sulcus) • Delay in myelination and mild undermyelination Family history. Because MEF2C-related disorder is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). MEF2C-Related Disorder 3 Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of MEF2C-related disorder is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in MEF2C identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous MEF2C variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with exome sequencing or genome
