Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with exome sequencing or genome sequencing [Manickam et al 2021, van der Sanden et al 2023]. Other options include use of a multigene panel. Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of MEF2C, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. • Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene(s) are likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used and yields results similar to an intellectual disability multigene panel, with the additional advantage that exome sequencing includes genes recently identified as causing intellectual disability, whereas some multigene panels may not. Genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. • An intellectual disability, autism, or epilepsy/seizure multigene panel that includes MEF2C and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) may also be considered to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Of note, given the rarity of MEF2C-related disorder, some panels for intellectual disability, autism, or epilepsy/seizures may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in MEF2C-Related Disorder Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Identified Gene 1 Method by Method Sequence analysis 3 65%-70% 4 MEF2C Gene-targeted deletion/duplication 30%-35% 4, 6 analysis 5 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Data derived from the subscription-based professional view of
