Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


manifestations 92% (11/12) adult-onset DCM Based on Stenson et al , Cooley Coleman et al DCM = dilated cardiomyopathy; GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease; PDA = patent ductus arteriosus; PFO = persistent foramen ovale; PS = pulmonary stenosis; VSD = ventricular septal defect Developmental delay and intellectual disability. Developmental delay is evident early in life with both speech and motor delays. Most affected individuals are unable to speak but may use some vocalizations or babble. Those who are able to speak typically only use a few words and are not able to form sentences. Most individuals are able to reach for objects and transfer them from hand to hand, but acquisition of fine motor skills (e.g., pincer grasp and using utensils for feeding) are less common. Hypotonia is a common feature and likely contributes to motor delay. Approximately half of individuals are able to walk, with this milestone being achieved between ages 16 months and six years [Cooley Coleman et al 2022]. For individuals able to walk, gait abnormalities are common. Regression after acquiring milestones is not common in individuals with MEF2C-related disorder; however, five of 108 individuals were reported to have regression. Additionally, one individual has been reported with frontotemporal dementia in their sixth decade of life [Adrião et al 2022]. Feeding and gastrointestinal issues. Some individuals require assisted feedings. Problems with chewing and swallowing are reported. Gastroesophageal reflux disease and constipation have been common in several individuals. Dysmorphic features. Many individuals have distinctive facial features that may include a broad forehead, thick eyebrows, deep-set eyes, large ears with prominent ear lobes, depressed nasal bridge, short and prominent philtrum, full vermilion of the upper and lower lips with tented upper lip and everted lower lip, widely spaced teeth, down-turned corners of the mouth, and micrognathia. One individual had right question mark-shaped ear and left ear dysplasia. Epilepsy. Seizures are reported in up to 86% of affected individuals. The most reported types of seizures include febrile and myoclonic seizures. Tonic-clonic, focal, absence, afebrile, atonic, and infantile spasms are also reported. Seizure onset is within the first year of life for a majority of individuals. EEG findings include multiple epileptiform discharges, hypsarrhythmia, temporal and occipital spike-slow waves, focal or multifocal bilateral spikes, and slowing background. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations. Many affected individuals are reported to have autistic features, some of which include lack of eye contact, lack of a social smile, lack of
