Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


spikes, and slowing background. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations. Many affected individuals are reported to have autistic features, some of which include lack of eye contact, lack of a social smile, lack of interest in surroundings, or limited social interactions. Several individuals display stereotypical movements, particularly of the hands, including hand clapping, hand wringing, and hand mouthing; bruxism, repetitive rocking, and head shaking are also reported. Hyperkinesis with constant movements of the hands and feet is reported in some individuals [Mikhail et al 2011, Paciorkowski et al 2013, Rocha et al 2016]. A few individuals are reported as being easily agitated and exhibiting self-mutilating behaviors including self-biting. Additional reported behavior manifestations include overstuffing the mouth when self-feeding, happy demeanor, fascination with water, and breath-holding or hyperventilation [Vrečar et al 2017, Wang et al 2018]. Some individuals have issues with sleep, including irregular sleep initiation and sleep disruption. High pain tolerance is reported in several individuals. Cardiac manifestations. Some individuals were reported to have congenital heart defects, including ventricular septal defect, double outlet right ventricle, patent ductus arteriosus, pulmonary stenosis, and adult-onset dilated cardiomyopathy. 6 GeneReviews ® Growth. A few individuals were reported to have a small head circumference (2-3 standard deviations below the mean), and some (fewer than 10%) were characterized as microcephalic. Other growth parameters are typically within the normal range. Ophthalmologic involvement. The most common reported vision issue is strabismus. One individual had bilateral esotropia, which was surgically repaired [Shim et al 2015]. Additional findings include refractive errors (e.g., myopia, hypermetropia). Neuroimaging. Abnormalities identified on brain MRI include hypoplastic corpus callosum, mild thinning of the cortical white matter, cortical atrophy, enlarged ventricles and other cerebrospinal fluid spaces (including the subarachnoid space and cortical sulcus), Chiari I malformation, spots of nonspecific hyperintensity, delay in myelination, and mild undermyelination. Recurrent infections, particularly upper respiratory tract infections, have been reported in several individuals. A few individuals had recurrent otitis media, some requiring tympanostomy tubes. One study, using cells from MEF2C-haploinsufficient individuals and mice, showed defects in natural killer cell development and effecto r function and an increased susceptibility to viral infection [Li et al 2024]. Other. Findings reported in one or only a few individuals include: • Duplex left kidney [Vrečar et al 2017] • Tremors [Nowakowska et al 2010, Paciorkowski et al 2013] Prognosis. It is unknown whether life span in individuals with MEF2C-related disorder is abnormal. A number of adults with MEF2C-related
