Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


• Tremors [Nowakowska et al 2010, Paciorkowski et al 2013] Prognosis. It is unknown whether life span in individuals with MEF2C-related disorder is abnormal. A number of adults with MEF2C-related disorder have been described. The oldest individual was reported alive at age 69 years [Adrião et al 2022]. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations At least two individuals with a deletion encompassing only MEF2C exons 1-3 presented with cutaneous vascular malformations, suggesting a possible genotype-phenotype correlation [Tanteles et al 2015, Vrečar et al 2017]. Individuals with pathogenic variants affecting the proximal region of the MEF2C protein (e.g., within the MADS or MEF2 domains) may be more severely affected than individuals with more distal pathogenic variants [Wang et al 2018]. Possible genotype-phenotype correlations associated with MEF2C (e.g., variant type or variant position) require further study. Note: Several reported MEF2C genotype-phenotype correlations compare MEF2C single- nucleotide variants to larger contiguous deletions that encompass additional genes; these are not included in this GeneReview. Penetrance Penetrance is 100%; all individuals who have a MEF2C pathogenic variant have clinical manifestations of the disorder. There have been no reports of unaffected individuals with a pathogenic variant in MEF2C. Nomenclature The term "MEF2C-related neurodevelopmental disorder" is based on the dyadic naming approach proposed by Biesecker et al to delineate mendelian genetic disorders. MEF2C-Related Disorder 7 Prevalence The prevalence of MEF2C-related disorder is unknown. At least 142 affected individuals have been reported in the literature to date. Eight additional affected individuals are known to the authors but have not been reported in the medical literature. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in MEF2C. Contiguous gene deletions in the 5q14.3 region that include MEF2C and adjacent genes have been reported in at least 64 individuals. These individuals presented with developmental delay, intellectual disability, seizures, stereotypic movements, dysmorphic features, abnormal MRI and EEG findings, feeding difficulties, cardiac manifestations, and vision issues (OMIM 613443). Individuals with a contiguous deletion including RASA1 are typically diagnosed with capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome, including vascular lesions with or without telangiectatic vessels, in addition to MEF2C-related disorder. Differential Diagnosis The phenotypic features associated with MEF2C-related disorder are not sufficient to diagnose this condition clinically; all disorders with intellectual disability and seizures
