Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


vessels, in addition to MEF2C-related disorder. Differential Diagnosis The phenotypic features associated with MEF2C-related disorder are not sufficient to diagnose this condition clinically; all disorders with intellectual disability and seizures without other distinctive findings should be considered in the differential diagnosis. See OMIM Phenotypic Series for genes associated with: • Autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorders • Autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorders • Nonsyndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorders • Syndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorders Classic Rett syndrome and Angelman syndrome can be considered in individuals presenting with stereotypic hand movements, intellectual disability, and seizures (see Table 3). Table 3. Genes of Interest in the Differential Diagnosis of MEF2C-Related Disorder Selected Features of Disorder Gene / Genetic Disorder MOI Mechanism Overlapping w/MEF2C- Distinguishing from MEF2C-related related disorder disorder • Normal development for 1st Classic Rett syndrome ID, DD, severe speech 6-18 mos of life followed by MECP2 (See MECP2 XL impairment, seizures, hand regression Disorders.) stereotypes • Absence of brain structural abnormalities on MRI UBE3A / ID, DD, severe speech • Persons w/Angelman deficient expression or impairment, seizures, hand syndrome seek eye contact. Angelman syndrome See footnote 1. function of maternally stereotypes, fascination w/ • Cardiac abnormalities are not inherited UBE3A allele water typically reported. DD = developmental delay; ID = intellectual disability; MOI = mode of inheritance; XL = X-linked 1. The risk to sibs of a proband depends on the genetic mechanism leading to the loss of UBE3A function (see Angelman Syndrome, Genetic Counseling). 8 GeneReviews ® Management No clinical practice guidelines for MEF2C-related disorder have been published. In the absence of published guidelines, the following recommendations are based on the authors' personal experience managing individuals with this disorder. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with MEF2C-related disorder, the evaluations summarized in Table 4 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to diagnosis) are recommended. Table 4. MEF2C-Related Disorder: Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis System/Concern Evaluation Comment • To incl motor, adaptive, cognitive, & speech-language eval Development Developmental assessment • Eval for early intervention / special education To incl assessment of: • Gross motor & fine motor skills Orthopedics / physical medicine & Musculoskeletal • Mobility, ADL, & need for adaptive devices rehab / PT & OT eval • Need for PT (to improve gross motor skills) &/or OT (to improve fine motor skills) • Neurologic eval
