Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 6 are recommended. 12 GeneReviews ® Table 6. MEF2C-Related Disorder: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. Gait abnormalities / Physical medicine, OT/PT assessment of mobility, self-help skills Motor abnormalities At each visit • Measurement of growth parameters Growth/Feeding • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake Gastrointestinal Monitor for GERD & constipation. Assess for new or changing manifestations such as seizures, At each visit or per treating Neurologic changes in tone, movement disorders. neurologist Behavioral assessment for ASD, hyperkinesis, agitation, self-injury, Neurobehavioral/Psychiatric Annually breathing issues, sleep issues, & high pain tolerance Cardiovascular Assessment by cardiologist Per cardiologist Ophthalmologic Ophthalmology eval for strabismus & refractive errors Per ophthalmologist • Assess for recurrent respiratory infections &/or recurrent Recurrent infections otitis media. Annually or as needed • Hearing eval in those w/recurrent otitis Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite care, home nursing, other local resources), care coordination, or Family/Community At each visit follow-up genetic counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning). ASD = autism spectrum disorder; GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease; OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance MEF2C-related disorder is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband MEF2C-Related Disorder 13 • Most probands reported to date with MEF2C-related disorder whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo MEF2C pathogenic variant. • Rarely, a proband
