Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


reported to date with MEF2C-related disorder whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo MEF2C pathogenic variant. • Rarely, a proband diagnosed with MEF2C-related disorder has the disorder as the result of an MEF2C pathogenic variant inherited from a: ⚬ Heterozygous parent. Transmission of a MEF2C pathogenic variant from an affected parent has been reported in three families. Affected individuals in these families had intellectual disability, seizures, speech impairment, stereotypic movements, and cardiac manifestations [Qiao et al 2017, Lu et al 2018, Yuan et al 2018]. ⚬ Parent with gonadal (or somatic and gonadal) mosaicism. Transmission of an MEF2C pathogenic variant from an unaffected mosaic parent to a child with MEF2C-related disorder has been reported in two families to date [Wan et al 2021]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with gonadal (or somatic and gonadal) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the MEF2C pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the variant is 50%. • If the MEF2C pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism [Wan et al 2021]. Offspring of a proband. • Each child of an individual with MEF2C-related disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the MEF2C pathogenic variant. • The majority of individuals with MEF2C-related disorder are not known to reproduce; however, many are not yet of reproductive age. Other family members. Given that the majority of individuals with MEF2C-related disorder reported to date have the
