Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


are not known to reproduce; however, many are not yet of reproductive age. Other family members. Given that the majority of individuals with MEF2C-related disorder reported to date have the disorder as the result of an MEF2C pathogenic variant that occurred de novo in the proband or a mosaic parent, the risk to other family members is presumed to be low. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the MEF2C pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. 14 GeneReviews ® Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Simons Searchlight Phone: 855-329-5638 Gene Guide: MEF2C-Related Syndrome • US MEF2C Foundation Phone: 302-899-1706 Email: usmef2cfoundation.org • American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD) Phone: 202-387-1968 aaidd.org • CDC - Child Development Phone: 800-232-4636 Developmental Disability Basics • Epilepsy Foundation Phone: 800-332-1000 Email: epilepsy.com • MedlinePlus Intellectual Disability Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. MEF2C-Related Disorder: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases MEF2C 5q14.3 Myocyte-spec ific MEF2C database MEF2C MEF2C enhancer factor 2C Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for MEF2C-Related Disorder (View All in OMIM) 600662 MYOCYTE ENHANCER FACTOR 2C; MEF2C 613443 NEURODEVELOPMENTAL DISORDER WITH HYPOTONIA, STEREOTYPIC HAND MOVEMENTS, AND IMPAIRED LANGUAGE; NEDHSIL MEF2C-Related Disorder 15 Molecular Pathogenesis MEF2C encodes myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), a member of the MADS family of transcription factors, which regulate hundreds of downstream gene targets during development and adulthood. MEF2C
