Bookshelf_NBK610216
KEYWORDS: disorder, related, related disorder, individuals, pathogenic, genetic, variant, reported, developmental, issues, intellectual, testing, pathogenic variant, disability, family


Molecular Pathogenesis MEF2C encodes myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), a member of the MADS family of transcription factors, which regulate hundreds of downstream gene targets during development and adulthood. MEF2C is particularly crucial during embryogenesis, as it plays a role in myogenesis, neural crest formation, anterior heart field development, lymphoid development, neurogenesis, and synaptic formation, among other functions. MEF2C haploinsufficiency occurs when MEF2C pathogenic variants (including loss of function and missense) produce abnormal gene products that cannot bind DNA targets properly, as shown by functional studies of some variants that cause MEF2C-related disorder [Harrington et al 2020]. MEF2C hypofunction in neurons is presumed to underlie most of the symptoms of MEF2C-related disorder. Mechanism of disease causation. Loss of function, haploinsufficiency MEF2C-specific laboratory technical considerations. In addition to deletions and coding region variants, pathogenic deep intronic variants have been reported [Wright et al 2021, Adrião et al 2022]. Certain genetic testing methods may not be able to detect these variants. Chapter Notes Author Notes Dr Jessica Cooley Coleman () became involved with MEF2C research during her doctoral studies by scouring the scientific literature and developing a parent survey to better characterize the disorder. She seeks to remain knowledgeable and involved in MEF2C research when possible. She would be happy to communicate with persons who have any questions regarding diagnosis of MEF2C-related disorder or other considerations. Dr Steven A Skinner () would be happy to communicate with persons who have any questions regarding diagnosis of MEF2C-related disorder or other considerations. Contact him to inquire about potential clinical evaluations or possibilities for functional evaluation of all MEF2C variants of uncertain significance. Contact Dr Cooley Coleman to inquire about review of MEF2C variants of uncertain significance. Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank all individuals with MEF2C-related disorder and their families for sharing their medical and personal stories and being involved in patient support groups and research publications.
