Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


Anastomoses Healing of Esophagojejunal after Experimental Total Gastrectomy A Comparative Study Using Manually Sutured Stapled Anastomoses or BRUNO WALTHER, M.D., PH.D. SVEN-ERIK STRAND, PH.D. JAN OSCARSON, M.D., PH.D. PETER LOWENHIELM, M.D., PH.D. FREDDYSTAHLBERG, B.SC. ANDERS EVANDER, M.D., PH.D. BENGT UVELIUS, M.D., PH.D. Inconstruction ofthe eosphagojejunostomy after total gastrec- FromtheDepartmentofSurgery, Radiation Physics, andthetwo-layerinterrupted3-0Dexonganastomosesarecom- ofLund, Lund, Sweden paredconcerningtheradiologicalappearance, breakingstrength, circulation, andcollagenconcentration.Thirtyfemalepigswere used. After total gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y preparation, the pigswererandomizedtoachievesuturedorstapledanastomoses. the incidence of leakage and stenosis, measurement of "4'Ce-labeled microspheres were used for measurements of breakingstrength, blood flow, and collagen concentration anastomoticbloodflow.Afterthepigswerekilled,thebreaking strength ofthe anastomosis was recorded, thecollagen content ofthe esophagojejunal specimen. Finally, a histological determined,andananastomoticindexcalculatedcomparingtwo evaluation ofthe anastomotic area is performed. perpendicular diameters in the anastomosis and 5 cm above. Breaking strength, leakage frequency, and anastomotic index Materials and Methods werethesameinthetwogroups.Oneweekaftersurgery,there was asignificant increase inanastomotic circulation (p <0.05) Animals in both the sutured and the stapled anastomoses compared to controls.Collagenincreasedequallywithtimeinthetwogroups Thirty standard Swedish domestic female pigswith an (p<0.01).Thestapledesophagojejunostomy wasfastertoper- average weightof 17.4 kg(range: 13.7-21.2 kg) andaged form(20 min)thanthesutured (28 min)(p <0.05). 6 to 7 weekswere used forthe experiments. The animals were housed four per cage with free access to tap water 'L EAKAGEfromtheesophagojejunalanastomosisaf- and food (Grisex, Lantmannen, Lund, Sweden). Food, ter total gastrectomy is still the main reason for butnotwater,waswithdrawn 24hoursbeforethesurgical postoperative morbidity and death."2 Following procedures and was reinstituted 48 hours afterwards. the introduction ofmechanical stapling devices, encour- agingresultshavebeenreportedwithloweredleakagefre- SurgicalProcedures quency.36 There is, however, still no prospective, ran- domized series comparing the qualities ofmanually su- The operations were performed with the use ofpen- tured and stapled esophagojejunal anastomoses. Factors tobarbital anesthesia and endotracheal intubation. All that may influence the results ofthe differenttechniques animalswereartificiallyventilatedwithnitrousoxideand include anastomoticblood flowandcollagen metabolism. oxygen. Isotonic glucose infusion was given I.V. during The aim ofthe present study is to compare stapled and the operative proceduresthrough ajugularvein catheter. manuallysuturedesophagojejunalanastomosesinahighly Theabdominal proceduresandthecatheterinsertionwere standardized experimental model. Parameters studied are performed understerileconditions. An uppermidline in- cision was used, and the stomach mobilized from the greater and lesser omenta. The left and right gastric ar- Grant support from John and Augusta Persson's Foundation for teries, thegastroepiploic artery, andthe shortgastric ves- Medical Research and Maggie Stephens' Fund, The Medical Faculty, selswereligatedanddivided. The stomachwasremoved, ResearchCouncil (No 14X-00028). withinterrupted stitchesintwolayers, using 3-0Dexon®. Reprintrequests: BrunoWalther, M.D., DepartmentofSurgery,The UniversityofLund,S-221 85 Lund, Sweden. Thejejunumwascut20cmbelowtheligamentofTreitz, Submitted forpublication:October28, 1985. and a 40 cm Roux-en-Y loop was prepared. After ran- 440 WALTHER AND OTHERS Ann.Surg. April 1986 Sutures Staples esophagojejunostomy was
