Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


DepartmentofSurgery,The UniversityofLund,S-221 85 Lund, Sweden. Thejejunumwascut20cmbelowtheligamentofTreitz, Submitted forpublication:October28, 1985. and a 40 cm Roux-en-Y loop was prepared. After ran- 440 WALTHER AND OTHERS Ann.Surg. April 1986 Sutures Staples esophagojejunostomy was accomplished with an inner w// diameterof 15 mm. Aside from inspection ofthedough- 1 5 w 1 w 5 w nutsand palpation ofthe anastomosis, no intraoperative testing ofthe completeness ofthe anastomosis was per- n=5 n=5 n=6 n=5 formed. The open end ofthejejunum was closed as de- scribedabove. Thetimeintervalfromtheendoftheprep- aration ofthe Roux-loop to the end ofthe anastomotic completion was recorded. Thejejuno-jejunal anastomosis was performed end-to-side using 3-0Dexon intwolayers of interrupted stitches. The cut edges ofthe mesentery were approximated by a running 4-0 Dexon suture. A carefullavageoftheabdominalcavitywithisotonicsaline was carried out and the abdomen closed with an inter- rupted 2-0 Dexon in the fascia and Suturamid® in the skin. Duringthe first48 hoursaftersurgery, eachpigwas given 2 L Ringer's lactate solution. Experimental Design 11( All operations were performed by the same surgeon FIG. 1. After total gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y preparation, the pigs wererandomized to hand-sewn orstapled end-to-side esophagojejunal (BW). After the abdomen was opened, six animals were anastomoses.Theanimalswerekilled 1 or5weeksaftersurgery.Controls randomized to serve as controls. In these animals, no re- (N = 6). section wasdone. Theywereotherwisetreatedinthesame way as the remaining 24 animals, in which the esopha- domization (videinfra), eithera manually sutured orsta- gojenunal anastomosis was randomly manually sutured pled end-to-side esophagojejunostomy was performed. or stapled (Fig. 1). The manually sutured anastomosis was done with 3-0 Sevendaysaftersurgery, allanimalswereanesthetized, Dexon, using a conventional 2-layer technique with in- their body weight measured, and a roentgenogram per- terrupted stitches while holding the esophagus with an formed ofthe esophagojejunaljunction. Halfofthe pigs intestinalclamp(Fig. 1). Theopenjejunalendwasclosed ineachgroupwererandomlykilledatthispoint,whereas with two rows ofsingle 3-0 Dexon stitches. The EEA sta- the rest were observed for another 4 weeks and weighed plerwasusedaccordingtothemanufacturer(USSurgical once weekly. Corporation), using Prolene® for the purse string suture Beforetheanimalswerekilledbyintracardial injection in the cut end ofthe esophagus. After dilatation to 25 of saturated KCI solution, microspheres were injected. mm, the 25 mm cartridge was inserted through the open The esophagojejunal specimen was removed in toto and end ofthejejunum and the central rod made to emerge examined by X-ray, which was followed by tensile tests through a scalpel incision on the antimesenteric wall 5 and blood flow measurements. Strips for histologic ex- cm from the open end (Fig. 1). No purse string suture amination were prepared, and the remaining were saved was placed around the
