Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


blood flow measurements. Strips for histologic ex- cm from the open end (Fig. 1). No purse string suture amination were prepared, and the remaining were saved was placed around the central rod on the intestinal wall. in a refrigerator and later examined forcollagen. The anvil was attached, the instrument introduced into the esophagus, and the purse string suture tied.3 When RadiologicalExaminations the instrument was fired, an inverted 2-row stapled In a standard setting, radiological examinations were performed intwoperpendicular planesusing 10%contrast x 11 x solution (Mixobar Ventrikel, Astra-Meditec AB, Moln- dal, Sweden)(Fig. 2). FromtheX-rayfilms, theinnerand outerdiameters ofthe anastomosis and oftheesophagus 5 cm above the anastomosis were measured (Fig. 3). An anastomotic index, using the ratio between the two per- --- pendicular innerdiameters ofthe anastomosis and 5 cm above, wascalculated (Fig. 3). In thisway, anydifference in diameter ofthe anastomosis and the esophagus was observed. A straighttubewith nonarrowingwouldobtain FIG.2.Thestandardset-upusedforradiologicexaminationsoftheanas- an index of 1.0. An anastomotic narrowing and/or a tomoses. proximal dilatation resultsinadecreasedindex. Also,the VOl.203.NO.4 HEALING OF ESOPHAGOJEJUNAL ANASTOMOSES 441 wall thickness in two perpendicular planes ofthe anas- b2 tomosis was calculated in the same way. Tensile Tests Breaking strength in uniaxial tension was tested ac- cordingtoLowenhielm,7 usingapiezoelectric forcetrans- ducerandatransientrecorder. Forthispurpose,theanas- tomotic area, including 5 cm above and below, was pre- pared and the test performed within 2 hours. The U2,i , b1 5cm specimenwaspulledovertwocylinders, oneofwhichwas attached to the stationary force transducer and the other to a pneumatic piston. The specimen was tied to each cylinder by three cords. The tensile force was applied at a strain rate ofabout 10 per second. Measurement ofBloodFlow in theAnastomoticArea Measurement ofspecific organ blood flow was made by means of the reference organ method, described by Hafstrom etal.8 Accordingtothismethod, arterial blood flow f1 (ml X min-') in an organ (i) can be calculated using the equation: fi = -l X fr, FIG.3.Theesophagojejunostomyregionshowingthecalculationsofthe qr anastomotic index:(a, +a2)/(b, + b2). where fristhe known blood flowin a reference organ (r); qiandqraretheamountofradioactivity (Bq)intheorgan iand inthereference organ r, respectively. Themeasure- mentsaredoneapproximately 1 minuteaftertheinjection ofthe radiolabeled microspheres into theleft ventricle of the animal under investigation (Fig. 4). The use ofthis og'6o formula requires that the microspheres have been well Microspheres mixedwithinthebloodbeforeleavingtheheart. Assuming Heart, thattheinvestigated organisuniformlyvascularized, spe- left ventricle cific organ blood flow can be calculated from measure- 00 ments ofactivity ofan organ sample: fi fi sample = qi sample fr X mi mi sample qr mi sample' wheremidenotestheweightoftheorgani.Cardiacoutput (C.O., ml X min-')can be calculated
