Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


afterthegastrectomy and in controls (Table 3 and then continued to gain weight. No difficulties were ob- Fig. 5). After 1 week, there isa significantly higherblood tained with any ofthe anastomotic techniques. Perfor- flow(p < 0.05)in theesophageal part immediately prox- mance ofthestapled anastomoses (20 min, range: 15-60 imal to the anastomosis, irrespective oftechnique used, min) was slightly quicker than that ofthe manually su- when compared to controls. After 5 weeks, the only dif- turedanastomoses (28 min, range: 20-40 min)(p <0.05). ference (p < 0.05) occurred in the prompt distal part of After 1 week, there was an incomplete mucosal bridging the anastomosis where a lower flowin the sutured group in one ofthe manually sutured anastomoses and in two compared to controls was found. The stapled group also ofthe stapled at macroscopic examination. hadalowerflowthan controlsbutthedifferencewasnot significant (p = 0.0552). The anastomotic circulation de- RadiologicalFindings creased 5 weeksaftertheresectionascomparedto 1 week, No leakage was found. There was a slight but insignif- especially in thejejunal part(p < 0.05) (Table 3 and Fig. icant decrease in the anastomotic indices from 1 to 5 5). Five weeks aftergastrectomy, there was a high corre- weeks. Nodifferences were observed between the stapled lation between intestinal and esophageal blood flow in and manually sutured groups. Furthermore, the anasto- the prompt vicinity ofthe anastomosis, which was not motic wall thickness 1 and 5 weeks after surgery was un- the case after 1 week (Fig. 6). influenced by the operative technique (Table 1). Collagen Tensile Tests The concentration ofcollagen in the esophageal part The ultimate breaking force of the anastomosis in- ofthe anastomosis was uninfluenced by the operation. creased with time. Five weeks after operation, the anas- Ontheotherhand, intheintestinalpartthecollagencon- tomoses were significantly stronger compared to the sit- centration increased following the resection. Compared uation 1 week after operation. The stapled anastomoses to controls, the collagen was significantly higher 1 week wereslightlybutinsignificantlystrongerthanthemanually aftertheoperationandstillhigher5weeksafteroperation sutured both 1 and 5 weeks after surgery (Table 2). (p <0.01). Therewerenodifferencesbetweenthestapled 444 WALTHER AND OTHERS Ann.Surg..April 1986 defectsandaslightinflammatory response with predom- Ln z y = 0.00028 + 0.632 x inantly round cells. The mucous gap seen in the 1-week 0.015 r= 0.892 groups was overbridged after 5 weeks with proliferating o p < 0.001oxxx *c stratified squamous epithelium, which formed a good g.0 D continuity with the mucosa ofthejejunum. In sections 0.010 from the 5-week manual group, there were proliferating blood vessels and fibrous tissue at the anastomotic
