Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


which formed a good g.0 D continuity with the mucosa ofthejejunum. In sections 0.010 from the 5-week manual group, there were proliferating blood vessels and fibrous tissue at the anastomotic site, Cs O 0 0.005 and the inflammatory response had subsided. oJ 4.- 0..-.# c .c O Discussion 0 0.010 0.020 Aspreviously stated, theobjective ofthepresent study L .) 0.005 0.015 wastocomparethehand-suturedandthestapledesopha- gojejunostomy in a highly standardized experimental Intestinal blood flow 5 w model. This is probably the only way to achieve an ob- (% of cardiac output) jective assessment ofthe pros and cons ofthe two tech- niques. Thisisofparticularinterestbeforeadvocatingthe FIG. 6. Regression analysis ofintestinal versus esophageal blood flow (%ofcardiacoutput)inthepromptvicinityoftheanastomosis5weeks use ofstapled anastomoses in man. We preferthe pig as aftersurgery. N = 10(5 suturedand 5 stapledanastomoses). our experimental animal, as its abdominal anatomy closely resembles the human. Furthermore, in pigs, the esophagusislargeenoughto makepossible theuseofthe or manually sutured anastomoses (Fig. 7). Furthermore, standard stapling device. the collagen concentration of the intestine next to the Thetimeforcompletion oftheanastomosesisshortest anastomosisalsoincreasedsignificantly(p<0.05)5weeks forthe stapled esophagojejunostomy and similartowhat afterthe resection irrespective ofanastomotic technique. is found for rectal anastomoses experimentally'3 as well asclinically."' MicroscopicAppearance Thewidthoftheanastomosisisequalinthetwogroups, 1 and 5 weeksafteroperation, with atendency ofsucces- It was difficult to prepare sections ofhigh quality, as sive narrowing. In man, however, it is shown that this thestapleshadtoberemovedbeforesectioning, aprocess tendencyisdisappearingwithtimeforbothstapledrectal'5 that damaged the tissue. Sections from two anastomoses and stapled esophagojejunal anastomoses.3 Esophagoje- in the 1-week manual group, from two in the 5-week junal leak, none in this study, is low for all surgeons ex- manualgroup,andfromthreeinthe 1-weekstapledgroup perienced with this type ofanastomoses, independent of were studied. In the 1-week groups, there were mucosal technique.36 One ofthe arguments against the use ofstaplers isthe presumption that blood flow to the anastomoses is im- paired by the stapling clips. In fact, there is no previous c 550 - studyevaluatingthecirculation inanastomosesperformed . either manually or stapled. In this study, 15 jtm radio- d -D 400 0 actively labeled microspheres were used for blood flow -C- SA0 measurements. This technique was previously used by 250 oneoftheauthors'6incalculatinganastomoticcirculation ioE I 0* in arteries. The method is known to be reliable for the gut, liver, and kidney because ofonly small amounts of 100 0 sphere shunting.'7 The hyperemia in the anastomosis is O -r 1w 5w 1w Sw presumablyreflectingthemetabolicdemandinthehealing sutures staples phase and diminishes during time as the inflammatory reaction decreases. This inflammatory reaction that sub- FIG. 7.Collagenconcentration(jug/mgdryweight)intheintestinalpart sided with time was also confirmed
