Anastomoses
KEYWORDS: ofthe, blood, flow, anastomoses, fig, week, anastomosis, stapled, blood flow, anastomotic, collagen, weeks, sutured, staples, sample


1w 5w 1w Sw presumablyreflectingthemetabolicdemandinthehealing sutures staples phase and diminishes during time as the inflammatory reaction decreases. This inflammatory reaction that sub- FIG. 7.Collagenconcentration(jug/mgdryweight)intheintestinalpart sided with time was also confirmed by histology. In the oftheanastomoses in controls and in resected animals I and weeks aftersurgery.Asignificantincreaseincollagenconcentrationwasobserved esophagus with itslowblood flow but high collagen con- both I and5weeksafterresectioncomparedtocontrols(p<0.05). No centration, the anastomotic part increases its blood flow difference wasobtained between hand-sewn and stapled anastomoses. more than four times in 1 week following the resection Inthesuturedgroup,thecollagenconcentration increasedsignificantly from to5weeks(p<0.05). and approaches the high flow in the more metabolically Vol.203*No.4 HEALING OF ESOPHAGOJEJUNAL ANASTOMOSES 445 activejejunal part. To the contrary, the collagen content is unaffected by time. The reverse is true for the small intestine, where collagen is increasing significantly while CD 315 the circulation is almost unaffected. This equalizing ten- N x _270 dencyisfurtherunderlinedbythefactthatthereisastrong x x correlation after 5 weeksbetween esophageal andjejunal bloodflow, i.e., with a good jejunal circulation comes a @ 225 _ goodcirculation intheesophageal partoftheanastomosis. xx This correlation is absent during the first week and the °3 180 x xx anastomotic partsareobviously heremoredependent on 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 their different origins. This scar tissue, successively achievingitsownfeatures, notesophageal, notjejunalbut Blood flow (% of cardiac output) something in between, is equal for both the stapled and sutured anastomoses. FIG. 8. Regression analysisofblood flow versuscollagenconcentration Collagen, which is the dominating factor determining intheintestinalpartoftheanastomosis 1 weekaftertotalgastrectomy. anastomotic strength," was in this study measured by r N = = 0.6 1 6 0 ; ( p 5 < su 0 t . u 0 r 5 e . d and 5 stapled anastomoses); y = 159 + 22.36x; estimation ofhydroxyproline, whichisknowntobefound almost exclusively in collagen." In this report, we ex- pressed collagen in relation to tissue dry weight, i.e., col- flow is not followed by increased collagen concentration, lagen concentration, as it can be speculated that the two which might be a reason for the high leakage frequency techniques used could result in different wall thickness. ofesophageal anastomoses. In experiments studying bowel rest, where a mucosal The breaking strength after 1 week, with the sutures atrophy is at hand,'9'20 measurement ofcollagen content left in place, reflects the strength ofthe suture material wouldbemoreaccurate. Inourstudy, ontheotherhand, andthesutureholdingcapacityofthetissue.After5weeks, there is no bowel rest, as the pigs are given food orally thestaplesarestillintactbutthesuturesabsorbed. Atthis fromthesecondpostoperativeday.Therefore, itisunlikely time,theincreasedbreakingstrength,thesameinthetwo that atrophy ofnoncollagenous substances should be at groups, indicatesthatthedominating factordetermining hand. Becauseoftotalgastrectomyintheresectedgroups,
