Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


ABSTRACT As the proportion of population above age 65 grows, so too increases the prevalence of those individuals who are obese. This phenomenon of an elderly population with obesity is the source of much research and debate with regards to treatment recommendations. It appears that older individuals on the extreme ends of the BMI spectrum, those who are underweight and those who are morbidly obese, have an increased risk of mortality. One major concern in the treatment of obese, elderly individuals is that many may have sarcopenic obesity which can be worsened with weight loss where some degree of lean body mass loss is inevitable. While various methods of weight loss may be recommended in some elderly who are obese, it is clear that any chosen method should be accompanied by a resistance training program in order to preserve muscle mass. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The aging population in the U.S. is expected to more than double by 2050, increasing from 40.2 million to 88.5 million people ( 1 ). In tandem with this increase in elderly individuals is the high prevalence of those who are both elderly and obese. The significance of the increasing number of elderly individuals with obesity in terms of appropriate care and associated healthcare costs is the source of much debate. PREVALENCE Approximately 35% of adults in the U.S. aged 65 and over between 2007-2010 were obese as defined by body mass index (BMI, weight in kilograms over height in meters squared). In crude numbers this represents over 8 million adults aged 64-74 years and almost 5 million adults aged 75 and over ( 1 ). For individuals aged 75 and over there is a lower prevalence of obesity (27.8%) compared to those aged 65-74 years (40.8%) ( 1 ). A growing number of elderly are residing in nursing home (NH) facilities, and in line with this trend, researchers are examining the prevalence of obesity in NH facilities and its impact on healthcare utilization. Between 2000 and 2010, the prevalence of moderate to severe obesity in NHs increased from 14.7% to 23.9% ( 2 ). The rapid growth of the elderly population, which can largely be attributed to the aging baby boomers, will mark a change in the population’s composition in terms of sex ratios and ethnic diversity. Sex ratios of
