Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


population, which can largely be attributed to the aging baby boomers, will mark a change in the population’s composition in terms of sex ratios and ethnic diversity. Sex ratios of the population are projected to shift to include a larger share of elderly men ( 3 ). Moreover, the racial and ethnic make-up of this elderly cohort of patients is expected to develop to include more Hispanic individuals and a larger proportion of racial groups other than white. Between 2010 and 2050, the number of Hispanic people 65 years and older will increase from 2.9 to 17.5 million and the number of non-Hispanic individuals 65 years and older will increase from 37.4 to 71 million ( 3 ). These numbers of elderly individuals with obesity are also expected to increase as the population ages. Paradoxically, increased longevity does not necessarily translate to extra years spent in healthy living but may in fact result in more years spent in chronic poor health. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Aging is accompanied by alterations in body composition. Fat free mass composed mostly of skeletal muscle declines by 40% between ages 20 and 70 years ( 4 ). Following age 70, both fat free mass and fat mass decrease together. With aging, there is also a redistribution of fat mass mainly in the visceral component but deposits are also observed in skeletal muscle and liver. The balance between energy intake and energy expenditure determines body fat mass. In the elderly, energy intake does not appear to increase significantly or may even decrease over time; therefore, decreased energy expenditure plays an important role in increasing fat mass with aging ( 4 ). After the age of 20, resting metabolic rate decreases by 2-3% per decade mainly due to a loss of fat free mass ( 4 ). In addition to a decrease in resting metabolic rate, physical activity declines and there is an increase in sedentary time, which accounts for approximately half the loss in total energy expenditure with aging ( 4 ). The redistribution of body fat centrally leads to the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( 5 ). Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) lead to muscle loss and sarcopenia due to their catabolic effects ( 6 ). This loss of muscle mass leads to adverse outcomes such as decreased mobility and increased frailty. Endocrinologic changes that occur with aging also
