Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


to their catabolic effects ( 6 ). This loss of muscle mass leads to adverse outcomes such as decreased mobility and increased frailty. Endocrinologic changes that occur with aging also play a role in the pathophysiology of obesity including a decrease in growth hormone, testosterone, and DHEA in addition to resistance to leptin and insulin. HEALTHCARE OUTCOMES: THE POSITIVE AND THE NEGATIVE Limitations To BMI Measurements The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association define adults as overweight if BMI ≥ 25 kg/m 2 and obese as BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 regardless of age range. Accurately assessing obesity outcomes in the elderly can be a challenge given the drawbacks of defining obesity by BMI. Other methods have been utilized including hydrostatic densitometry (underwater weighing), dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), and waist circumference. Given that BMI can either underestimate or overestimate body fat mass in the elderly and the fact fat deposition in the elderly tends to be accumulated intraabdominally, measurement of waist circumstance may be a better way of assessment. Despite its drawbacks, most studies analyzing healthcare outcomes in the obese elderly have utilized BMI as an assessment tool. The Obesity Paradox According to existing studies and meta-analyses, a higher BMI can be protective in the elderly. In an analysis of 13 observational studies from 1966 to 1999 examining cardiovascular mortality in non-hospitalized subjects aged 65 and above, a U-shaped curve was observed with an increase in right curve only when BMI was above 31-32 kg/m 2 ( 7 ). A subsequent meta-analysis showed that BMI in overweight range did not confer an increased risk of mortality and a BMI in moderately obese range was only associated with a modest increase in mortality risk by 10% independent of gender, disease and smoking status ( 8 ). In a large, multi-ethnic study of community dwelling men and women aged 65 and above, the lowest hazard ratios (HRs) for mortality were seen in individuals with BMI 25 to less than 30 and BMI 30 to less than 35. HRs for mortality were increased when BMI was below 25 or higher than 35 ( 9 ). Similarly, in a large study of mortality in over 10,000 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a median age of 63 years followed for a median of 10.6 years, a lower mortality risk was observed in overweight (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m 2 ) and
