Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


mellitus and a median age of 63 years followed for a median of 10.6 years, a lower mortality risk was observed in overweight (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m 2 ) and a higher mortality risk in those who were underweight (BMI ≤ 18.5 kg/m 2 ) or obese (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ) ( 10 ). A subsequent systemic review and meta-analysis evaluating the association of BMI with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, showed a strong non-linear relationship between BMI and all-cause mortality in both men and women. The lowest risk was seen in those with BMI 31-35 kg/m 2 and 28-31 kg/m 2 . Lower BMI values were associated with higher mortality in both sexes ( 11 ). Combining available data suggests that BMI < 25 and > 35 kg/m 2 is associated with higher mortality ( 41 ) ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. BMI and Mortality in Elderly While there are positive effects of obesity including increased energy reserve and prevention of malnutrition, protection from bone mineral density loss and osteoporosis, and delay in cognitive decline, there are also potential biases which may account for the obesity paradox seen in the elderly. The survival effect is one such bias which postulates that the remaining living elderly with obesity are more resistant to the complications of obesity compared to those who were perhaps more susceptible and therefore died earlier. Many studies are epidemiologic in design with the limitation of reverse causation where an overestimation of mortality risk can occur if unintentional weight loss due to an underlying disease occurs prior to BMI measurements and are then compared to the BMI of healthy group. Finally, cohort effects can be seen as subjects in different environments practicing different lifestyles are compared to one another ( 12 ). One of the most significant complications of obesity in the elderly is the metabolic syndrome. This clustering of risk factors including increased waist circumference, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and glucose intolerance increases the likelihood of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Obesity can stress the joints leading to joint dysfunction and mobility impairment as well as lead to pulmonary dysfunction and obstructive sleep apnea. Certain cancers are associated with higher BMIs including breast, uterine, colon and leukemia. Weight Loss Numerous population-based studies have found that weight loss in older persons is associated with increased mortality ( 13 , 42 , 43
