Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


including breast, uterine, colon and leukemia. Weight Loss Numerous population-based studies have found that weight loss in older persons is associated with increased mortality ( 13 , 42 , 43 , 44 ). This is also true in diabetes ( 14 ). Obviously, a part of this may be due to the disease itself causing weight loss, but a number of studies have used different approaches to control for this. The negative effects of weight loss are muscle loss (sarcopenia), the protective effect of fat (on hip fracture for example), lipolysis leading to accelerated atherosclerosis, and fat loss leading to release of fat-soluble toxins into circulation ( 15 ). Fat and protein loss can also lead to drug toxicity due to the alteration of the pharmacokinetics of medications that are either fat-soluble or protein-bound ( 15 ). The benefits of weight loss need to be weighed against the risks in older persons ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Risk and Benefits of Weight Loss in the Elderly Sarcopenic Obesity Diet-induced weight loss in both younger and elderly adults consist of 75% fat tissue loss and 25% is fat free mass loss ( 16 , 17 ). Hypothetically, in the elderly with obesity the loss of lean body mass is buffered by the already increased muscle mass. This proved to be a falsely reassuring concept when sarcopenic obesity was first described in the early 2000s. Sarcopenia is defined as the loss of skeletal mass and function and leads to frailty, disability, and loss of independence in the elderly. Elderly individuals with obesity have the unique difficulty in that although weight gain causes increased lean body mass and fat mass, the increased muscle mass is of poor quality. In a study by Villareal and colleagues, 52 obese elderly adults, 52 nonobese frail adults and 52 nonobese, nonfrail subjects matched for age and sex were compared. Elderly adults with obesity showed lower muscle quality compared with the other two groups in addition to reduced functional performance, aerobic capacity, strength, balance, and walking speed ( 18 ). In essence, the elderly with obesity cohort were sarcopenic and their increased adiposity proved deleterious. Subsequent studies have continued to demonstrate that sarcopenic obesity is associated with and precedes the onset of instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) disability in community dwelling elderly ( 19 ). However, elderly subjects who are obese with increased muscle mass have
