Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


and precedes the onset of instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) disability in community dwelling elderly ( 19 ). However, elderly subjects who are obese with increased muscle mass have better outcomes compared to those with low muscle mass. Determining which individuals who are elderly and obese have sarcopenia is important clinically and can be accomplished inexpensively and easily by measuring muscle strength via handgrip dynamometry or gait speed. The brief SARC-F questionnaire ( Table 1 ) can also be used to identify obese individuals with poor muscle function ( 20 ). Another method for measuring and monitoring skeletal muscle mass is the use of creatine ( methyl -d 3 ) creatine dilution. In this noninvasive test, an oral tracer dose of D3-creatine is given and then subsequently measured in a fasting morning urine sample. Creatine dilution is a better measure of functional muscle mass than DXA ( 21 ). Table 1. SARC-F Questionnaire View in own window Component Question Scoring Strength How much difficulty do you have in lifting and carrying 10 pounds? None = 0 Some = 1 A lot of unable = 2 Assistance in walking How much difficulty do you have walking across a room? None = 0 Some = 1 A lot, use of aids, or unable = 2 Rise from a chair How much difficulty do you have transferring from a chair or bed? None = 0 Some = 1 A lot or unable without help = 2 Climb stairs How much difficult do you have climbing a flight of 10 stairs? None = 0 Some = 1 A lot or unable = 2 Falls How many times have you fallen in the past year? None = 0 1-3 falls = 1 4 or more falls = 2 Score: ≥ 4 predictive of sarcopenia TREATMENT Who Should Be Recommended For Weight Loss? Select elderly individuals with obesity and BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 who either have metabolic derangements or functional impairment may be recommended for weight loss provided that muscle and bone loss can be avoided ( 22 ). Lifestyle Changes: Dietary Changes & Physical Exercise Weight loss can be achieved alone by a moderate caloric deficit of 500-1000 kcal/day which leads to 1-2 pounds lost per week and 8-10% over 6 months ( 4 ). However, dietary changes should be prescribed in conjunction with an exercise program consisting of aerobic, resistance and balance
