Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


pounds lost per week and 8-10% over 6 months ( 4 ). However, dietary changes should be prescribed in conjunction with an exercise program consisting of aerobic, resistance and balance training to promote functionality and improve frailty ( 23 ). In a study of 107 frail elderly subjects with obesity randomized to control, diet group with 500-750 kcal deficit with 1 gm protein/kg/day, and a multi-component exercise and diet group, the combined exercise and diet group was more effective. The combined group had better physical performance scores, functional status, and aerobic capacity. Subjects also lost less lean body mass and bone mineral density compared to the diet group ( 24 ). Additionally, lifestyle interventions can reduce disease burden. In the Diabetes Prevention Program, men and women ≥ 65 years with obesity were more likely to achieve 7% weight loss compared to their younger (age ≤ 45 years) counterparts with obesity, at 3 years, 63% and 27% respectively. For every kilogram lost through diet and physical activity, the incidence of T2DM was decreased by 16% over a 3-year period ( 25 ). In order to prevent muscle catabolism, elderly individuals with obesity with or at risk for sarcopenic obesity should be counseled on a less restrictive caloric deficit of 200-500 kcal/day combined with a recommended protein intake of 1.0-1.5 gm/kg assuming normal renal function. Pharmacotherapy There is limited data on safety and efficacy of weight loss medications in the elderly as they have largely been excluded from clinical trials. The FDA has approved five medications for chronic weight management: Semaglutide, Liraglutide, Naltrexone/Bupropion, Phentermine/Topiramate, and Orlistat. Additionally, metformin has been studied as a weight loss medication in obese, non-diabetic subjects. There is also a study in progress of elderly Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes assessing the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin, a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT2i), known to cause weight loss (EMPA-ELDERLY). In this population, the effects on skeletal muscle mass, muscle strength, and physical performance will be assessed in subjects age 65 and older with type 2 diabetes on Empagliflozin ( 26 ). Overall, drug interactions, affordability, efficacy, and safety are all potential drawbacks to pharmacotherapy for weight loss in the elderly. However, there are no studies of outcomes of anorectic drugs used with exercise to protect muscle and bone. SEMAGLUTIDE The weekly injectable glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1) receptor agonist was approved in 2021 for chronic weight management in adult patients
