Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


anorectic drugs used with exercise to protect muscle and bone. SEMAGLUTIDE The weekly injectable glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1) receptor agonist was approved in 2021 for chronic weight management in adult patients with BMI of 30 kg/m2 or greater or 27 kg/m2 or greater plus a weight-related comorbid condition (hypertension, type 2 diabetes or dyslipidemia) as an adjunct to reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity. In the clinical trials, 233 (8.8%) of patients were between 65 and 75 years and 23 (0.9%) were 75 years or older and no differences in safety or efficacy were observed ( 27 ). LIRAGLUTIDE Liraglutide, a daily injectable GLP-1 receptor agonist was approved at doses of 3mg daily for weight loss by the FDA in 2014 for chronic weight management. This incretin-based therapy appears to have a short-term effect on decreasing gastric emptying but a long lasting central anorectic effect leading to a mean weight loss of 5.8kg in clinical studies ( 28 , 29 ). The concern surrounding any weight loss in the elderly is the loss of skeletal muscle mass and sarcopenia. In a small study of elderly subjects who were either overweight or obese with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with liraglutide 3mg daily in addition to metformin, reductions in fat mass and android fat were observed with the beneficial effect of preserved muscle tropism ( 30 ). A multicenter randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study of subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus aged 18-80 years evaluated the effects of Liraglutide (as monotherapy or in combination with metformin) at various doses approved for treatment of diabetes mellitus (0.6mg, 1.2mg, 1.8mg daily) compared to individuals treated with Glimepiride or placebo. Mean body weight was reduced from baseline in all liraglutide treatment arms (up to 3.2 kg) and reduced fat tissue mass (1.0-2.4 kg) more than lean mass (1.5 kg) while glimepiride increased the mass of one or both tissue types ( 31 ). CT assessment also confirmed that reductions in fat tissue mass occurred in both abdominal subcutaneous and visceral fat compartments ( 31 ). CONTRAVE Contrave, the combination of naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, and bupropion, an aminoketone antidepressant, was FDA approved in 2014 for chronic weight management. Only 2% (62 of 3,239 subjects) in the Contrave clinical trials were over age 65 years and none older than 75 years ( 32 ). Data is lacking in terms of safety in older individuals, but given
