Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


the Contrave clinical trials were over age 65 years and none older than 75 years ( 32 ). Data is lacking in terms of safety in older individuals, but given potential for neuropsychiatric disturbances, seizures, increased blood pressure and heart rate; extreme caution should be observed with this medication in the elderly. QSYMIA The combination of phentermine, a sympathomimetic amine anorectic, and topiramate extended release, an antiepileptic rug was FDA approved for chronic weight management in 2012. A small proportion of the subjects (254 total, 7%) studied in Qsymia clinical trials were aged 65 and older ( 33 ). While no differences in safety or effectiveness were observed, the adequate study numbers are also lacking. Given the side effect profile including risk of increased heart rate, acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma, cognitive impairment and elevated creatinine, caution should be taken with starting this medication in elderly. Lower doses should be chosen and potential drug-drug interactions evaluated. ORLISTAT Orlistat acts as a pancreatic and gastric lipase inhibitor and leads to a 6.5-7.5 lb loss at one year. Its major side effects include steatorrhea, flatulence, fecal incontinence and malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins. It appears to be equally efficacious with similar tolerance in a both the younger and elderly population ( 34 ). METFORMIN Metformin, a biguanide antidiabetic medication developed in the 1950s, may be a safe option to achieve modest weight loss even in nondiabetic individuals. In a small study of middle-aged nondiabetic subjects with obesity, metformin 2500mg daily without further caloric restriction or increased physical activity requirement resulted in a mean weight loss of 5.8 +/- 7kg (5.6+/-6.5%) compared to untreated controls ( 35 ). It may therefore be an efficacious and cost-effective strategy in elderly persons pending further studies. Bariatric Surgery According to the NIH, bariatric surgery procedures including sleeve gastrectomy, laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB), Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), and biliopancreatic diversion with or without duodenal switch are potential options for individuals with obesity between ages 18 and 64 with BMI ≥ 40 kg/m 2 or BMI ≥ 35 kg/m 2 with additional co-morbidities. The American Diabetes Association has recommended lower BMI cutoffs of ≥ 30 kg/m 2 for select individuals with uncontrolled hyperglycemia despite medical therapy ( 36 ). A retrospective review at a major surgical center in the U.S., found that of the 393 older patients (age > 65 years) who underwent bariatric surgery, older
