Obesity in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: elderly, loss, obesity, weight, pubmed, mass, weight loss, bmi, older, mortality, muscle, fat, years, diabetes, individuals


( 36 ). A retrospective review at a major surgical center in the U.S., found that of the 393 older patients (age > 65 years) who underwent bariatric surgery, older subjects had a higher comorbid burden compared to younger patients but exhibited comparable complication rates to patients under the age of 65 ( 37 ). In a systematic review of over 8,000 patients aged 60 years and older who underwent bariatric surgery, outcomes (resolution of hypertension, diabetes, lipid disorders) and complication rates were similar to a younger population, independent of type of procedure ( 38 ). While age should not necessarily be a barrier to recommending bariatric, this must be balanced against the limited existing data from pooled results of mostly small studies. Furthermore, bariatric surgery in the young and the elderly should always be coupled with resistance exercise. Cryolipolysis Cryolipolysis is FDA approved for treatment of focal fat deposits in the flanks, abdomen and thighs. In this procedure, fat cells are destroyed through a process of thermal reduction by which temperatures below normal but above freezing induce apoptosis-mediated cell death ( 39 ). Damaged adipocytes are then removed via an inflammatory response ( 39 ). This procedure has the advantage of being less invasive, does not require anesthesia with no downtime. In a retrospective review of a single surgery center with 528 subjects with age ranging from 18-79 years, the procedure was well tolerated with no adverse events and only 3 cases of mild or moderate pain reported to resolve in 4 or fewer days ( 40 ). However, there are limitations regarding the evaluation of the literature on this procedure thus far, including short follow-up time (typically 2-3 months), variability in cooling intensity factor (CIF) applied, differences in the evaluation of efficacy, and differences in the duration of procedure. CONCLUSION The landscape of the population is certainly changing and is marked by two significant trends: an increasingly elderly population and an ongoing obesity epidemic. This will undoubtedly impact families, social structures, and healthcare costs. How to appropriately care for these individuals will be the subject of much debate and further research. Physicians will need to balance the potential danger of weight loss in older persons against the complications of obesity to decide on the best patient centered approach. One clear recommendation is that all weight loss regimens in the elderly need to be coupled with a comprehensive resistance
