Percutaneous thrombectomy for intermediate-risk or high-risk pulmonary embolism
KEYWORDS: procedure, evidence, outcomes, high-risk, treatments, committee, alternative, used, suitable, safety, alternative treatments, treatments suitable, pulmonary, clot, nice


controlled trials and very little long-term follow- up evidence, particularly for patient-reported outcomes. There is an unmet need for people with high-risk PE when alternative treatments are not suitable or have failed, and this procedure is the only treatment option. So, this procedure is recommended for use with special arrangements for this population. Because of the lack of evidence, this procedure is only recommended for use in research for intermediate-risk PE, or high-risk PE when alternative treatments are suitable. 2 The condition, current treatments and procedure The condition 2.1 A pulmonary embolism (PE) is when a pulmonary artery is obstructed by an embolus (usually a blood clot) that travels to the lungs from deep veins in the leg or pelvis. PE often causes shortness of breath, chest pain and cough. The symptoms and severity vary from no symptoms to cardiovascular collapse and death. 2.2 A high-risk PE (also known as massive PE) is defined by sustained systemic hypotension or shock. An intermediate-risk PE (also known as submassive PE) involves right ventricular dysfunction or myocardial injury without major haemodynamic compromise. High-risk PE accounts for less than 10% of acute PE cases and is a medical emergency with a high mortality rate. Current treatments 2.3 The first-line treatment for PE is systemic or oral anticoagulants. For high- or intermediate-risk PE with haemodynamic compromise, systemic thrombolysis may be used or, rarely, open surgical embolectomy. Catheter-directed therapies may also be used, including catheter-directed thrombolysis and percutaneous thrombectomy. Catheter-directed therapies are usually used if someone has a high-risk PE and they cannot have surgery, or when systemic thrombolysis is contraindicated or has failed. The procedure 2.4 In this endovascular procedure, a catheter is inserted percutaneously into the peripheral vasculature (usually by a common femoral vein) and advanced through the right side of the heart into the pulmonary arteries under image guidance. This procedure is usually done by interventional radiologists and interventional cardiologists. It is usually done using local anaesthesia with or without sedation. 2.5 There are several thrombectomy devices available with some variation in their mechanism of action. The thrombus may be fragmented before removal or not. There are several methods by which the thrombus can be removed: vacuum suction, aspiration with a syringe, mechanical removal with a clot removal device, or a combination of methods. It is a minimally invasive procedure that may be used alone or in combination with other treatment options for
