Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, J. Jannin, A. Kroeger, A.Medici, P. Musgrove, M. B. Nathan, A. Shaw, and C. J. Schofield Dengue,leishmaniasis,and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping present with symptoms ranging from mild, self-limiting, Organization (WHO) characterizes as lacking effective control pictures are recognized:(a) dengue fever (DF) and (b) dengue measures.They are transmitted by insect vectors and can result hemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome (DSS). in epidemic outbreaks. Specific treatment is unavailable for The four dengue serotypes,known as dengue 1,2,3,and 4, dengue, although good supportive treatment can drastically constitute a complex of the flaviviridae transmitted by Aedes reduce mortality.For the leishmaniases and for sleeping sick- mosquitoes, particularly Ae. aegypti. Infection by any of the ness, treatment relies largely on antiquated drugs based on four serotypes induces lifelong immunity against reinfection by antimony and arsenic, respectively. Sustained control of the the same serotype, but only partial and transient protection insect vectors is difficult for dengue and leishmaniasis because against the others. Sequential infection by different serotypes their high reproductive potential allows the vector populations seems to be the main trigger for DHF/DSS. to recover quickly after intervention wherever adequate breed- ing conditions exist. By contrast, tsetse flies, the vectors for Disease Manifestations. The incubation period is four to six sleeping sickness, have a much lower reproductive potential days.Infants and young children usually develop fever,some- and could be eliminated over large areas,given adequate organ- times accompanied by a rash.Older children and adults may ization and surveillance.Through the African Union,African develop either a mild febrile syndrome or classic DF with fever, nations are developing a large-scale initiative for areawide headache,myalgias,arthralgia,nausea,vomiting,and rash.Skin elimination of tsetse flies,partly because of sleeping sickness, bleeding, petechiae, or ecchymosis are observed in some but also because of their importance as vectors of animal try- patients. Bleeding from the nose, gums, and gastrointestinal panosomiasis, which poses a serious constraint to livestock tract;hematuria;or hypermenorrhea can accompany the clini- development and agriculture. cal picture.Leukopenia is common and thrombocytopenia is sometimes observed.DF can be incapacitating,but the prog- DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS nosis is favorable and the case-fatality rate is low. ANDTRANSMISSION Bycontrast,DHF/DSScanbelifethreatening.Itischaracter- izedbyhighfever,bleeding,thrombocytopenia,andhemocon- Dengue centration (Nimmanitya 1993; PAHO 1994). Plasma leakage Dengue is a mosquitoborne viral disease with a high capacity differentiatesDHF/DSSfromclassicDF.Severityisclassifiedas for epidemic outbreaks.Infection can be asymptomatic or can mild (grades I and II) or severe (grades III and IV),with the
