Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


is a mosquitoborne viral disease with a high capacity differentiatesDHF/DSSfromclassicDF.Severityisclassifiedas for epidemic outbreaks.Infection can be asymptomatic or can mild (grades I and II) or severe (grades III and IV),with the main difference being shock in the latter.In some epidemics, Eastern Mediterranean, Southeast Asia, and the Western hepatomegalyhasbeenprominent.AswithDF,DHFgenerally Pacific.According to WHO,it occurs in more than 100 coun- begins with a sudden temperature rise accompanied by facial tries and an estimated 2.5 billion people are at risk. flush and other nonspecific manifestations, such as anorexia, Theincreaseindengueepidemicscanbeattributedtorising vomiting, headache, and muscle or joint pains. The most levelsofurbanization,whichpromotecontactbetweenhumans common hemorrhagic manifestation is a positive tourniquet and Ae. aegypti; inadequate domestic water supplies; and test,althoughpetechiae,ecchymosis,epistaxis,andgingivalor increasinginternationaltravel,migration,andtrade,whichhelp gastrointestinal bleeding may also be observed.After three or disseminatevectorsandthevirus.Epidemiologicalchangesin fourdays,whenthetemperaturereturnstonormalorbelow,the theAmericassincethe1970sillustratethisprocess.Duringthe patient’sconditioncansuddenlydeterioratewithsignsofcircu- 1940sthroughthe1960s,theAe.aegypticontrolprogramwas latorydisturbance.Thepatientmaysweat,berestless,havecool successfulinmostoftheregion,withseveralcountriesdeclaring extremities,andshowchangesinpulserateandbloodpressure. completeeradication.However,aftersomeyears,reinfestation Many recover spontaneously or after brief fluid therapy, but withAe.aegyptiwasapparent,andby1995ithadreturnedto someproceedtoshockwithtypicalsignsofcirculatoryfailure. mostofthepreviouslyinfestedcountries.Reinvasionbythevec- Initiallypatientsmaybelethargicbutbecomerestlessandrap- torwasfollowedbyincreasedcirculationof thevirus,andthe idlyenteracriticalstageofshock.Somepatientsevolvetosevere region evolved from nonendemic to hypoendemic (sporadic circulatoryfailure(DSS),presentingarapidandweakpulse,a epidemicscausedbyasingleserotype)tohyperendemic(simul- narrowpulsepressureorhypotension,coldandclammyskin, taneouscirculationofmultipleserotypesresultinginfrequent and an altered mental state.DSS is fatal in 5 to 10 percent of epidemics).DHFbecameamajorpublichealthproblem.Before casesiffluidmanagementisinadequateordelayed. 1981,5countriesintheregionreportedonlyafewcasesofDHF, butby2002,21countriesreportedmorethan14,000casesand Transmission and Epidemiological Trends. The dengue virus 250 deaths (Gubler 2002; Guzmán and Kouri 2002, 2003; is transmitted from humans to humans by Aedesmosquitoes, Guzmánandothers2002). ofwhich the most important is Ae.aegypti(Bennett and others 2002;Gubler 1979;Tardieux and others 1990).Female mosqui- Leishmaniasis toes ingest the virus while feeding on viremic individuals,and after an 8- to 12-day incubation period they can transmit the Leishmaniasis(ortheleishmaniases)referstoinfectionscaused virus to other humans during blood feeding (Watts and others byprotozoanparasitesofthegenusLeishmaniatransmittedby 1987). Thereafter, the female mosquito remains infective for female sandflies (Phlebotominae). More than 20 Leishmania life. Transmission of the virus from infected females to their speciesarepathogenictohumans,andmorethan30speciesof progeny has been documented,but its epidemiological signifi- sandfliesareprovenvectors.Thediseasetendstobefocalindis- cance is not well understood (Hull and others 1984;Rosen and tribution. In anthroponotic foci, sandflies transmit parasites others 1983). fromhumantohuman,andinzoonoticfoci,sandfliestransmit Although believed to be ofAfrican origin,Ae.aegyptiis now theparasitesbetweenmammalhostsandfromthemtohumans. established throughout the tropics and subtropics, exploiting almost any water-filled container as larval habitat.Ae.aegyptiis Disease Manifestations. The different species of Leishmania also the urban vector of yellow fever.Ae.albopictusalso trans- cause illness of differing severity.Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), mits dengue and is an important secondary vector in parts of caused by species of the L. donovani complex,is usually fatal Southeast Asia and the Pacific.This species is of Asian origin if untreated. Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, caused by the but has spread to parts ofAfrica,the Americas,and Europe by L.braziliensiscomplex,ishighlydisfiguringandmutilating,and depositing egg masses in used car tires, which are traded
