Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


of Asian origin if untreated. Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, caused by the but has spread to parts ofAfrica,the Americas,and Europe by L.braziliensiscomplex,ishighlydisfiguringandmutilating,and depositing egg masses in used car tires, which are traded itcanbefatalbecauseof secondarycomplications.Cutaneous around the world. leishmaniasis (CL), caused by the L. major, L. donovani, and Major epidemics of denguelike illness were documented in L. braziliensis complexes, may be a simple, self-limiting skin the 18th and 19th centuries in Africa,the Americas,and Asia, ulcer, but it can be disabling when numerous lesions occur. China date from about 265. During 1900–50, dengue epi- L. aethiopica complexes, is longer lasting because of deficient demics occurred in Australia, China, Greece, India, Japan, immuneresponses. Malaysia,Thailand,and Vietnam and in the Caribbean (Gubler and Kuno 1997). DHF was first recognized in the 1950s, Epidemiological Trends. Leishmaniasis is found in 88 coun- although a similar hemorrhagic fever was reported in tries worldwide.VL occurs in 62 ofthose countries,with most Philadelphia in 1780, in Australia in 1897, and in Greece in ofthe estimated 500,000 annual cases occurring in poorer rural 1928. Dengue is now endemic in Africa, the Americas, the and suburban areas of Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Nepal, and 452 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, and others Sudan. Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis is mainly limited to producingacharacteristiclesionorchancre.Theparasitescir- South and Central America, whereas most of the estimated culate in blood and lymph, resulting in waves of parasitemia 1million to 1.5 million annual CL cases occur in the Middle with episodes of fever, often accompanied by chills, rigor, East (Afghanistan,Algeria,the Islamic Republic of Iran,Saudi malaise, prostration, and weight loss. These symptoms may Arabia,and the Syrian Arab Republic) and in Brazil and Peru occurwithindaysofdevelopmentofthechancreandconstitute .Reliable data on incidence and prevalence are the hemolymphatic early stage. Febrile episodes become less scarce because only 33 endemic countries provide official noti- severeasthediseaseprogresses,andafteravariableperiodthe fication ofinfection. parasitesinvadethecentralnervoussystemandcerebrospinal Leishmaniasis transmission is increasing in several areas. fluid,leadingtothelatestage,withmeningoencephalitistypi- For example,the number ofcases ofCL in Kabul,Afghanistan, callyaccompaniedbysevereandprotractedheadache,apathy, increased from 14,200 in 1994 to 65,000 in 2002,and the num- sleepdisorders,irritability,andantisocialbehavior. in 1998 to 6,000 in 2002.Such increases reflect the following resemble AIDS. With T.b. rhodesiense, meningoencephalitis environmental,land-use,and behavioral changes that increase typically occurs within weeks ofinitial infection,whereas with exposure to the sandflies: T.b.gambiense,this syndrome occurs later,sometimes after sev- eral years.Untreated disease causes relentless deterioration in • Rural-urban migration seems to have contributed to urban- cerebral function,with patients becoming increasingly difficult izing VL in Brazil, whereas in
