Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


after sev- eral years.Untreated disease causes relentless deterioration in • Rural-urban migration seems to have contributed to urban- cerebral function,with patients becoming increasingly difficult izing VL in Brazil, whereas in East Africa,VL seems to be to rouse and passing into coma and death. Infection does more closely associated with migrations ofseasonal workers not seem to confer immunity, so reinfection can occur after and refugees.Transborder migrations between Bangladesh, treatment. India,and Nepal are also a risk factor for VL. • New settlements in high-risk endemic areas,such as those Transmission and Vectors. Male and female tsetse flies are established by people migrating from high plateaus to trop- obligate bloodsuckers and can transmit trypanosomes,which ical plains in some Andean countries,increase their expo- undergo cyclical development in the infected flies. With T.b. sure to vectors. gambiense, the main reservoir host is people, so tsetse flies • Development in areas of zoonotic transmission, such as mainly transmit from person to person, although increasing road building, mining, oil prospecting, forestry, and eco- evidence suggests that pigs and some other animals are also tourism, and military activity increase risks for those important reservoirs.With T.b.rhodesiense,the main reservoir involved . hosts are cattle and related animals, so transmission occurs • Deteriorating social and economic conditions in the poorer mainly from animals to humans,although transmission from suburbs of some cities may contribute to increasing trans- human to human also occurs .Mechanical (Frézil mission,especially ofVL. 1983),sexual (Rochas and others 2004),and transplacental (De Raadt 1985;Libala,Wery,and Ruppol 1978;Traub and others Leishmaniasis can be an opportunistic infection in people 1978) transmission have been described but are believed to be with HIV/AIDS, and coinfections have been reported in insignificant. 34 countries (Desjeux and Alvar 2003). Malnutrition or Thirty-one species and subspecies of Glossina are recog- HIV/AIDS coinfection can also increase disease severity by nized.All probably can transmit trypanosomes,but only eight impairing the immune response. are known vectors for human infection.Animal trypanosomi- asis can be found wherever wild tsetse flies occur,but human African Trypanosomiasis trypanosomiasis is usually associated with historic foci with African trypanosomiasis is caused by parasites transmitted by strong epidemic potential.Most T.b.gambiensetransmission is tsetse flies (Glossinidae). The most important are forms of attributed to G.palpalis species occupying riverine and forest Trypanosoma brucei that infect humans and livestock, and habitats in West and Central Africa, whereas T.b. rhodesiense T. congolense and T. vivax that infect only livestock. Human transmission is mainly attributed to G.morsitansspecies in East
