Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


equivalent to US$12.6 million in services can be rapidly overwhelmed.Frequently,governments 1994,of which patients and their families incurred 45 percent declare states of emergency to mobilize additional resources (Okanurak,Sornmani,and Indaratna 1997).Kouri and others against dengue outbreaks, sometimes deploying the army to (1989) estimate the cost ofthe 1981 DHF epidemic in Cuba at eliminate or apply larvicides to larval habitats.These responses US$103 million, constituting US$41 million in medical care, are often launched at or after the peak ofthe epidemic,and the US$5 million in social security disability payments, US$14 decline in transmission is unjustifiably attributed to the inter- million in lost production, and US$43 million for vector vention rather than to the natural epidemic decline. control. For Southeast Asia, Shepard and others (2004) estimate individual treatment costs of US$139 for DHF and Leishmaniasis medications, travel expenses, and parents’time seeking treat- In 2001, leishmaniasis killed an estimated 51,000 people, ment for their children).This estimate implies annual costs in including 40,000 in South Asia and 8,000 in Sub-Saharan the region of US$105 million—US$69.5 million for DHF and Africa, representing 0.3 percent and less than 0.1 percent, US$35.5 million for DF.Extrapolating from current trends (on respectively,ofalldeaths(table23.1).Nearlyalldeathsoccurred the basis ofcases reported to WHO since 1960),this figure will at ages 5 to 29.Males were more affected than females,espe- increase to an average ofUS$118 million each year through the ciallyinSub-SaharanAfrica,wheretheratiowasthreetoone. first decade of the 21st century. Using the Thailand study to add the value of productive work lost doubles this figure to Economic Impact. Treatment for leishmaniasis is expensive, US$236 million.Thus,during the next decade,Southeast Asian especially forVL. For many countries, the cost of treating all economies could lose a total ofUS$2.36 billion because ofDF leishmaniasis patients would far exceed their total health and DHF.Additional economic losses are expected because of budgets.ForaWHO-recommendedcourseofpentavalentanti- the impact ofdengue outbreaks on tourism. monials,currentdrugcostsperpatientareUS$150forsodium stibogluconate, US$120 for meglumine antimoniate, and Social Impact. During the transmission season,parents famil- US$30forgenericsodiumstibogluconate.Casesnotresponding iar with DHF are anxious about their children’s survival and toantimonialsmayrequiresecond-line,moretoxicdrugs,such the financial consequences of emergency medical care. In asamphotericinBatacostofUS$60orpentamidineatacostof ditures can lead to debt and poverty (Van Damme and others costsUS$1,500perpatient.ThefirstoraldrugforVL,miltefos- 2004). The psychological burden is poorly understood and ine,currentlycostsUS$120perpatient. warrants further study. Inadditiontodrugcosts,theadditionalcostsofdrugdeliv- Even though dengue affects all strata of society, it may erycanbehigh,especiallyforpatientsinremoteareas.Patients selectively affect the poorest. Most larval habitats in dengue- oftenlivefarfromatreatmentcenter,andtheexpenseofhos- endemic communities are artificial: water storage containers, pitalization may lead to interrupted treatment, facilitating flower vases,discarded food containers,used tires,and habitats resistanceandrequiringadditionaltherapy.Withouttreatment,
