Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


affect the poorest. Most larval habitats in dengue- oftenlivefarfromatreatmentcenter,andtheexpenseofhos- endemic communities are artificial: water storage containers, pitalization may lead to interrupted treatment, facilitating flower vases,discarded food containers,used tires,and habitats resistanceandrequiringadditionaltherapy.Withouttreatment, created by poor design ofroofgutters and drains.Local vector severeleishmaniasiscanbecomechronicanddebilitating,inca- ecology is largely determined by community social and cultural pacitatingpatientsandmakingthemunabletoworkandvul- practices and infrastructure,and increasing urbanization typi- nerabletopoverty,malnutrition,andsecondaryinfections. cally attracts the poor to periurban settlements with deficient water supplies. Studies in the República Bolivariana de Social Impact. Even self-limiting CL can leave disfiguring Venezuela (Barrera, Avila, and Gonzalez-Teller 1993; Barrera scars, which have associated stigma and may affect marriage and others 1995) and in Thailand (Nagao and others 2003) prospects.CL can be disabling when lesions are numerous,and have shown higher Ae.aegyptiinfestations where water distri- the most severe form, recidivans leishmaniasis, is difficult to bution systems are deficient or unreliable. Along the border treat,long-lasting,and disfiguring.In individuals with a defec- between Mexico and the United States, Reiter and others tive cell-mediated immune response,the disseminated lesions (2003) attribute the low dengue seroprevalence reported in of diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis resemble those of leprosy. Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis | 455 treatment. Diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis is recognized as a costs. Even though WHO now provides specific first-line severe emotional consequences. hospitalization and treatment are expensive. In the DRC, The lesions of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis can cause Gouteux and others (1987) estimate that total costs are - extensive destruction and distortion of oronasal and pharyn- equivalent to at least 25 percent of a year’s income from geal cavities,leading to mutilation ofthe face.Patients may be agriculture. shunned and, in severe cases, even incarcerated. Although mainly associated with L.braziliensis and L.guyanensis in the Social Impact. The importance of sleeping sickness lies not Americas,mucocutaneous leishmaniasis has been reported in only in the number of new cases reported, but also in its Africa,Asia,and Europe as a complication of L.donovaniand potentialforepidemicoutbreakscausingthousandsofdeaths: L. major infections and, in immunosuppressed patients, of during recent epidemics in the DRC, in some villages up to L.infantum. 70percent of the population became infected.Because of the Untreated VL is usually fatal. Even after recovery, patients severityof thedisease,onecasecanaffectallfamilymembers, may develop a chronic form of CL that usually requires pro- placingaburdenonthewholecommunity,reducingthelabor longed and expensive therapy. force, interrupting agricultural activities, and jeopardizing food security. Although untreated trypanosomiasis is lethal, African Trypanosomiasis treated patients often remain incapacitated, perpetuating the cycleofpoverty,malnutrition,anddisease.DALYsdonottake WHO estimates the number ofdeaths caused by sleeping sick-
