Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


agricultural activities, and jeopardizing food security. Although untreated trypanosomiasis is lethal, African Trypanosomiasis treated patients often remain incapacitated, perpetuating the cycleofpoverty,malnutrition,anddisease.DALYsdonottake WHO estimates the number ofdeaths caused by sleeping sick- intoaccountthepsychosocialimpactandthe“minor”disabil- ness as 48,000 in 2001 (table 23.1),although current estimates ities. In adults, loss of memory and ability to concentrate is are in the range of50,000 to 100,000 per year.Men are affected common. Such disabilities are often accompanied by reading at nearly twice the rate ofwomen.In relation to mortality,ofall and writing difficulties and occasionally by extreme incoher- parasitic diseases in Sub-Saharan Africa,trypanosomiasis ranks ence.Thesedisabilitiesgreatlyaffecteverydaylife,particularly for those school-age children who,even after successful treat- similar to that ofschistosomiasis.In Sudan,33 DALYs on aver- age are lost because of each premature death from sleeping (Frézil1983). sickness .In Uganda,23 DALYs were lost per death,but only 0.21 DALYs per successfully treated individual (Odiit and others 2004).Underreporting makes deriving esti- Burden of Animal Trypanosomiasis. Animal trypanosomi- mates for the whole continent difficult:100,000 deaths per year asis constrains agricultural production—in particular,the use would imply more than 2 million DALYs lost,compared with of draft power.Cattle infected with T.b.brucei,T.vivax, or T. the WHO estimate of 1.31 million (830,000 for males and congolense quickly succumb to a wasting form of anemia. In 480,000 for females) (table 23.1). many areas with a high tsetse challenge,such as Central Africa, cattle are few or not present at all.Elsewhere,countries invest Economic Impact. Information on age at death indicates that an estimated total ofUS$30 million to US$50 million per year sleeping sickness mainly affects economically active adults. in some 35 million doses ofveterinary trypanocides to prevent Data from Uganda show nearly 25 percent ofcases occurring in the disease in livestock (Geerts and Holmes 1998). About those age 20 to 29 and more than 60 percent in those age 10 to 60percent ofthe cattle at risk are not treated,and the disease is 39 .Thus,when people become ill,their families thought to kill about 1 million a year.Current drugs are more not only become burdened with the care of seriously ill indi- than 40 years old, and drug resistance is increasing, as are viduals but also often lose their breadwinners.Poor diagnostic problems of drug availability and accessibility, counterfeit support in many areas means that families often invest in a drugs,and drug mismanagement (Geerts and Holmes 1998). number of treatments that have no effect on the disease.In a Constraints on draft power mean that farmers can till only T.b. rhodesiense
