Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


drugs,and drug mismanagement (Geerts and Holmes 1998). number of treatments that have no effect on the disease.In a Constraints on draft power mean that farmers can till only T.b. rhodesiense area of Uganda,Odiit and others (2004) find small plots, making subsistence farmers extremely vulnerable before being correctly diagnosed, with just under three- animal trypanosomiasis lowers fertility and increases mortality, quarters initially being diagnosed with malaria.For the 11 of12 thereby constraining the overall growth rate of the number of who were never diagnosed or were told that they had a differ- livestock . Kristjanson and others (1999) esti- ent fatal disease,the costs to and burdens on their families can mate annual direct losses ofUS$1.3 billion per year as a result only be imagined. of lowered production of milk and meat,with aggregate agri- In addition to the economic losses caused by interruption cultural losses attributable to trypanosomiasis estimated at of their work, sleeping sickness patients face direct financial US$4.5 billion per year. 456 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, and others MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL STRATEGIES Environmental management is generally considered the core component of dengue prevention and control,including Dengue cleanup campaigns,regular emptying and cleaning ofcontain- Patient Management and Treatment. Classic dengue fever is ers,installation of water supply systems,solid waste manage- generally self-limiting. No specific treatment is available, but ment, and urban planning. However, huge investments in supportive treatment must be given, including fluid replace- infrastructure are needed to increase access to safe and reliable ment when necessary. Early recognition of DHF cases— water supplies, to provide solid waste management services, vomiting; and restlessness or lethargy—and early supportive gains,such provision would have a major effect on vector ecol- treatment are of utmost importance to reduce case-fatality ogy,although the relationship is not invariably an inverse one. rates .For differential diagnosis,a wide spec- Cost-recovery mechanisms, such as the introduction of trum of viral and bacterial infections should be considered, metered water,may encourage household collection and stor- especially leptospirosis, malaria, yellow fever, chikungunya age of roof catchment rainwater that can be harvested at no virus,rubella,and influenza. cost.Although unproven,the installation ofcommunity water services in rural townships and villages may be contributing to the rural spread ofdengue in Southeast Asia and elsewhere. Vector Control. Although good patient management can be At the household and community levels,where most vector effective for individual cases,currently no alternative to vector control efforts are
