Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


Asia and elsewhere. Vector Control. Although good patient management can be At the household and community levels,where most vector effective for individual cases,currently no alternative to vector control efforts are centered, increasing attention is given to controlisavailableforthepreventionofdengue.Mostendemic such activities as covering or frequently cleaning water storage countries have a vector control component in their programs; vessels,removing discarded food and beverage containers,and quently insufficient,ineffective,or both and is currently failing collect rainwater.Such tasks would seem to be simple and well Most Aedescontrol programs rely on the application oflar- tions, achievements to date have been unspectacular. vicides and adulticidal insecticide space sprays (Zaim and Nevertheless,such community-based interventions are widely Jambulingham 2004). Because Ae. aegypti characteristically seen as the most promising way of achieving sustainable con- breeds in water that does not contain high levels of organic trol through behavior change (Parks and Lloyd 2004). pollutants,control measures typically must be applied to water stored for household purposes, including drinking water. Leishmaniasis WHO currently approves five insecticides for application to potable water (FAO 1999;WHO 1991).Since the early 1970s, Leishmaniasis control is based primarily on finding and treat- the organophosphate temephos has been the most widely ing cases,combined where feasible with vector control and,in used,but increasing levels of resistance to this insecticide are some zoonotic foci,control ofanimal reservoirs. reducing the duration of effectiveness of treatments in some countries (Brengues and others 2003; Lima and others 2003; Diagnosis and Treatment. For VL, serological diagnosis is Rodriguez and others 2001). An additional challenge is the usually based on the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay growing objection among householders, particularly in Latin (ELISA),indirect fluorescent antibody tests,and direct aggluti- America,to the application ofchemicals to drinking water. nation tests,including a new direct agglutination test kit using Biological control agents, including larvivorous fish and lyophilized antigen, which avoids the need for refrigeration copepods,have had a demonstrable role in integrated control (Schallig and others 2001). A dipstick test based on a highly of Ae.aegypti,but operational difficulties—particularly a lack specific recombinant antigen is also available,together with a of facilities and of expertise in mass rearing and the need for latex agglutination test that can be used to detect antigens in repeated introduction of these agents into some container urine (Attar and others 2001; Sundar and others 1998). habitats—have largely precluded their widespread use. One Parasitological diagnosis relies on microscopy of aspirates of encouraging exception is Vietnam,where indigenous species of the spleen,bone marrow,and lymph nodes. predatory copepods
