Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


1998). habitats—have largely precluded their widespread use. One Parasitological diagnosis relies on microscopy of aspirates of encouraging exception is Vietnam,where indigenous species of the spleen,bone marrow,and lymph nodes. predatory copepods are increasingly used to control semiper- Specific treatment includes the first-line drugs, which are manent larval habitats of Ae. aegypti (Kay and others 2002; pentavalent antimonials (sodium stibogluconate and meglu- Nam and others 2000). However, some communities have mine antimoniate), and the second-line drugs, which are strong cultural objections to the introduction of live animals amphotericin B and AmBisome (amphotericin B in lipo- into household water storage containers—for example, in somes).MiltefosineforVLwasregisteredinIndiain2002,and Thailand,where bathing with water that contains small fish or aminosidine(paromomycin)hasjustcompletedphase3clin- other creatures is widely regarded as unacceptable. ical trials and follow-up. For CL, parasitological diagnosis is Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis | 457 made from skin smears followed by treatment with pentava- Sleeping sickness is fatal if untreated. No vaccination lent antimonials. Treatment is given locally if lesions are few exists. Specific drugs are currently available free through andrelativelysmall,orsystemicallyiflesionsaremorenumer- WHO.Pentamidineisusedtotreatearly-stageT.b.gambiense ous. For mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, diagnosis relies on infection, and suramine is used for early-stage T.b. serology because patients generally develop a strong humoral rhodesiense. The organoarsenical compound melarsoprol response. (Arsobal) is used for the late stages of both.Eflornithine has been introduced to treat late-stage T.b. gambiense but is Vector and Reservoir Control. In foci of peridomestic or difficult to administer. Nifurtimox, although not yet regis- intradomestic transmission,vector control can be carried out teredforthetreatmentof sleepingsickness,hasbeenusedon by indoor residual spraying using pyrethroid insecticides. compassionate grounds to treat patients unresponsive to Individual protection using pyrethroid-impregnated bednets is melarsoprol. also used in some areas. In zoonotic foci of VL, control has alsoincluded culling stray dogs—and pet dogs if found to be Vector Control. A wide range oftechniques for tsetse control infected—although this practice is often poorly accepted by is available (Maudlin,Holmes,and Miles 2004).Most current communities and is probably of limited effectiveness. Trials approaches exploit the acute susceptibility of tsetse flies to with insecticide-treated dog collars are showing some promise biodegradable pyrethroid insecticides.Spraying can be applied as an alternative way to reduce the peridomestic reservoir of from the ground to known fly resting sites or at ultra-low infection (Mazloumi Gavgani and others 2002).For zoonotic volume from the air. Spraying is carried out sequentially to CL,rodent reservoirs can be controlled using poisoned bait and killall flies initially present and
