Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


(Mazloumi Gavgani and others 2002).For zoonotic volume from the air. Spraying is carried out sequentially to CL,rodent reservoirs can be controlled using poisoned bait and killall flies initially present and thereafter to kill each environmental management,including physical destruction of generation of newly emerging flies. The sequential aerosol rodents’burrows. technique uses extremely low levels ofinsecticide and has been effective in Botswana,Somalia,South Africa,and Zambia.It is also useful against epidemic outbreaks of sleeping sickness, African Trypanosomiasis where a rapid cessation in contact between humans and tsetse For human trypanosomiasis, control consists primarily of flies is needed. active and passive case finding and treatment, occasionally Tsetse flies can also be controlled using traps and targets. associated with vector control operations. Dissemination of Targets are combinations of cloth and netting baited with an sleeping sickness can be prevented by regular surveillance of odor attractant and impregnated with a pyrethroid insecticide. the population at risk,including diagnosis and treatment;con- Traps work on the same principle,but the fly is encouraged to trol of the tsetse-fly population can affect the transmission of enter a net or plastic chamber where it remains trapped.Live sleeping sickness as well as of animal trypanosomiasis.In T.b. bait techniques are also used.Cattle are treated with a veteri- rhodesiense foci,where cattle are reservoirs ofthe disease,treat- nary formulation ofpyrethroid insecticides applied as sprays or ing cattle with trypanocides is being investigated as an addi- pour-ons,which kill both tsetse flies and ticks.This technique tional approach to controlling outbreaks. has been successfully used in Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania,Zambia,and Zimbabwe (Kuzoe and Schofield 2005). CaseFindingandTreatment. Nosingleclinicalsignisregarded The sterile insect technique involves mass release of steril- as pathognomonic for sleeping sickness.Tests have been devel- ized male tsetse flies,which compete with local males to mate oped to detect antibodies,circulating antigens,or trypanoso- with females. Because female tsetse flies generally mate only mal DNA, but all require parasitological confirmation. For once,the result is infertile offspring and a decline of the wild mass screening,infection can be confirmed by the card agglu- tsetse population. This technique is expensive, because it tination trypanosomiasis test,which is easy to perform and rel- requireslarge-scalerearingofflies,anditisonlyrecommended atively inexpensive. Parasitological confirmation is by for use once the wild tsetse population has been suppressed to microscopy oflymph node aspirates and ofthin or thick blood low levels using other techniques.A combination ofinsecticide films. Concentration methods increase sensitivity. The most spraying and trap deployment followed by the sterile insect sensitive is the miniature anion exchange
