Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


blood low levels using other techniques.A combination ofinsecticide films. Concentration methods increase sensitivity. The most spraying and trap deployment followed by the sterile insect sensitive is the miniature anion exchange centrifugation tech- technique has been successfully used to eliminate G.austeni nique.The capillary tube centrifugation technique is less sensi- from Zanzibar (Vreysen and others 2000). tive but is commonly used in the field because of its ease and Degrees ofresistance to trypanosome infection are found in rapidity ofuse and its low cost. the N’dama, Dwarf, and Savannah Shorthorn breeds in West Determining the stage of disease is essential,because early- Africa and, to a lesser extent, in some Orma Boran breeds and late-stage infections require different treatments.The cri- inEast Africa. However, even though these cattle show toler- teria for late-stage infection are based on cerebrospinal fluid ance,can control parasitemia,and resist development of ane- analysis. mia,they can ultimately succumb to the disease. 458 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, and others COSTS AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS agglutination test using freeze-dried antigen,and US$1.50 for OFINTERVENTIONS the urine latex agglutination text.These tests can be used in the field.A study in Nepal comparing outreach case Dengue detection using serology (the dipstick) with parasitological Few studies are available on the cost-effectiveness of vector diagnosis at health centers (bone marrow aspirate) concluded control for reducing dengue transmission.One ofthe difficul- that the median cost per VL case detected was US$25 in the reduce transmission is influenced by the human population’s which more than 50 percent was due to absence from work). past exposure to the circulating virus serotype.A direct rela- Treatment costs increased these figures to US$131 and US$200 tionship is apparent between seroprevalence rates and levels per patient,respectively. of vector abundance needed for epidemic transmission.Thus, InIndia,anexaminationofthecostsofdrugsandhospital- the paradox is that, as herd immunity declines over time in ization and of the evolution of the disease under treatment response to effective vector control,progressively lower vector (cure,relapse,failure,intolerance)indicatedthatthefinalcost densities can maintain the same level oftransmission. ofsuccessfultreatmentdependslargelyonthebasicdrugcost, Modeling of the dynamics of dengue transmission is help- which averaged US$86 per patient successfully treated with ing to improve understanding of the interrelationships miltefosine(usingreducedpricingbecauseofthelargenumber between virus, vector, and host (Ferguson, Donnelly, and of patients),US$467 for treatment with amphotericin B,and Anderson 1999; Focks and others 1995; Newton and Reiter US$1,613 for treatment with AmBisome. Given current esti- 1992; Shepard 2001), but the absence of epidemiologically mates of about
