Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


become cost-effective for reducing leishmaniasis in areas management.Were a dengue vaccine to become available,the ofdomestic transmission.In Yenice,Turkey,the use ofimpreg- Shepard model estimates that immunization would cost nated bednets reduced the incidence of CL from 1.90 percent US$3,040 per DALY averted. to 0.04 percent between 2000 and 2001 (Alten and others 2003). Leishmaniasis African Trypanosomiasis Case Finding and Treatment. For leishmaniasis, diagnosis represents a small proportion of the cost of case finding Case Finding and Treatment. WHO (1986, 1998) has ana- and treatment, with diagnostic tests becoming available at lyzed the costs of T.b. gambiense control by means of case approximately US$1.50 for the dipstick,US$3.00 for the direct finding and treatment based on practice in Côte d’Ivoire and Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis | 459 Uganda.This work and other studies indicate that,at current studied in more detail in the context of livestock disease prices,the cost ofactive detection using the card agglutination (Maudlin,Holmes,and Miles 2004).These costs vary accord- trypanosomiasis test with parasitological confirmation varies ing to the technique used and the environmental context,often around US$1 per person screened or slightly more for mobile ignoring overheads for organizing and planning. With that teams.However,mobile teams are more effective in screening a caveat in mind,the figures per square kilometer cited for local high proportion ofthe population and are also more successful tsetse-fly eradication range from about US$250 to US$550 at in ensuring that a high proportion of patients receive treat- current prices for aerial spraying (based on experience in ment.Unit costs are currently US$0.33 per person for the card Somalia, South Africa, Zambia, and Zimbabwe); US$250 to agglutination trypanosomiasis test and US$2.20 for the minia- US$400 per square kilometer for ground spraying;and US$200 ture anion exchange centrifugation technique. Less sensitive to US$400 per square kilometer for targets.However,the cost parasitological techniques,such as examination oflymph node oftraps and targets falls to US$25 to US$60 per square kilome- aspirate or blood smears,cost only a few cents but may miss a ter for control or suppression operations alone. Projects third to halfofpatients. treating cattle with insecticideshave been implemented at costs Bycontrast,treatmentisexpensivedespitetheavailabilityof of US$50 to US$60 per square kilometer. Use of the sterile free drugs. Treatment of early-stage disease incurs costs of insect technique is much more expensive because it relies on morethanUS$100perperson,risingtomorethanUS$250for prior suppression of fly populations using another technique. late-stagetreatmentwithmelarsoprolandaboutUS$700with The overall costs ofthe experimental eradication ofG.austeni eflornithine(WHO1998).Thelonghospitalizationperiodisa from Zanzibar using the
