Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


is much more expensive because it relies on morethanUS$100perperson,risingtomorethanUS$250for prior suppression of fly populations using another technique. late-stagetreatmentwithmelarsoprolandaboutUS$700with The overall costs ofthe experimental eradication ofG.austeni eflornithine(WHO1998).Thelonghospitalizationperiodisa from Zanzibar using the sterile insect and other techniques major component of costs during the second stage, although were about US$3,000 per square kilometer, although the work undertaken by Burri and others (2000) on a shorter International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) envisages that melarsoprol regimen offers opportunities for reducing these the cost of the sterile insect technique component could costs. be reduced to less than US$800 per square kilometer as the Despite the costs and the risk of complications, treating technology is developed and applied on a sufficiently sleeping sickness patients in the second stage of the disease is large scale, (Dr.Udo Feldmann, IAEA, Vienna, personal cost-effective. In Uganda, costs were less than US$10 per communication). DALYavertedformelarsoproltreatmentandlessthanUS$20 perpersonforeflornithine(Politiandothers1995).Similarly, in southern Sudan, the cost per DALY averted ranged from PROBLEMS AND CHALLENGES US$4 to US$22 (Trowbridge and others 2001). Shaw and FOR DISEASE CONTROL Cattand(2001)consideredthecostsof casefindingandtreat- Dengue ment for T.b. gambiense infection for three delivery options and a wide range of prevalences. Given the limited informa- Potential for Vaccine Development. The occurrence of DHF tion available on DALYs gained or on the effect on transmis- in children and adults with previous dengue antibodies, sionofreducingthesizeofthehumanreservoir,theyestimate acquired passively or actively, has been the most important thatunderdifferentscenariosthecostsperDALYavertedtend challenge for the development of a dengue vaccine.Lack of a toconverge.Formostassumptions,thecostperDALYaverted suitable animal model, insufficient knowledge of disease fell below a US$25 threshold at prevalences of 0.5 to 1.0 per- pathogenesis,and limited research funding have also had a neg- cent but rose sharply at low prevalences, which explains the ative influence.Researchers generally agree that a dengue vac- reluctance of control programs to invest in screening opera- cine must confer long-lasting protection against the four tions when prevalence is less than 0.2 percent. With better dengue serotypes.Currently,they are following different strate- quantitative understanding of the effects of screening and gies in the development of several vaccine candidates. Some removing patients from the reservoir in preventing future vaccines are currently undergoing human clinical trials—for epidemics, investigators could demonstrate that even at low example,live attenuated dengue and yellow fever chimeric vac- prevalences screening for sleeping sickness is highly cost- cines. The conventional live attenuated vaccines are entering effective. phase 3 trials,while the chimeric vaccines are presently in phase 1 and phase 2 trials.Others are
