Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


sleeping sickness is highly cost- cines. The conventional live attenuated vaccines are entering effective. phase 3 trials,while the chimeric vaccines are presently in phase 1 and phase 2 trials.Others are in the preclinical phase ofdevel- Vector Control. Several countries have undertaken opment.To accelerate the development of a dengue vaccine,a community-based programs to trap tsetse flies, notably Côte new initiative—the pediatric dengue vaccine initiative—has d’Ivoire, where costs came to US$2.30 per person protected been launched, with the major objective of mobilizing per year (Laveissière and others 1994), and Uganda, which resources to accelerate the development of a safe and effective achieved a cost of US$0.50 per person protected per year pediatric dengue vaccine (Almond and others 2002; Halstead (Lancien and Obayi 1993). Vector control costs have been and Deen 2002;Pang 2003). 460 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, and others Vector Control. Without a vaccine,vector control remains the New Risk Factors. Environmental changes,particularly those only available strategy against dengue.Selective,integrated vec- related to climate,directly affect the incidence and prevalence tor control with community and intersectoral participation, of vectorborne diseases. However, social factors, such as system,emergency preparedness,capacity building and train- dengue, are also important. Using an empirical model of the ing,and vector control research constitute the major elements effect ofpopulation and climate change on the global distribu- of WHO’s global strategy for dengue prevention and control. tion of dengue fever, Hales and others (2002) conclude that Since the eradication era, few examples of successful dengue predicted changes in humidity will increase the areas with a cli- prevention and control on a national scale are available. mate suitable for dengue transmission. Exceptions include Cuba and Singapore, both island states. Theworldisalsobecomingincreasinglyurbanized:during Cuba,with approximately 11 million inhabitants,has been able 2000–25, Asia’s urban population is expected to double, and to interrupt dengue transmission.Despite being in an endemic that of Latin America and the Caribbean is expected to area,the country has maintained low vector densities and has increasebyalmost50percent.Theresultinghighhumanpop- successfully controlled epidemics in recent years . ulation densities, coupled with lifestyles that increasingly Critical factors contributing to this achievement are the strong contribute to the proliferation of larval habitats and infra- dengue surveillance system, which integrates environmental, structural deficiencies in relation to water supply and sanita- surveillance in conjunction with the public health infrastruc- scale needed is beyond the reach of many governments. ture, and a strong vector control program,
