Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


relation to water supply and sanita- surveillance in conjunction with the public health infrastruc- scale needed is beyond the reach of many governments. ture, and a strong vector control program, along with good Theincreasing global trend in international travel also facili- intersectoral coordination,active community involvement,and tatesthedisseminationof virusserotypesandstrainsbetween strong political commitment. vulnerablepopulations. A limited array oftools is available for vector control inter- Genetic variability is another element to be considered.The ventions,any one ofwhich can control at least part ofthe vec- genetic diversity of the viruses is increasing,with some geno- tor population or provide personal protection. However, types associated with severe disease (Cologna and Rico-Hesse approaches are converging,at least at the policy level,toward 2003;Leitmeyer and others 1999;Rico-Hesse and others 1997). application of vector control tools through social or commu- Recombination has been demonstrated in all four serotypes, nity mobilization. Consensus is growing that community- but the implications in terms ofpathogenesis are unknown.In based approaches are desirable and necessary,and many believe addition to recombination, mutations, gene flow, and other that only through such approaches can a degree ofsustainabil- factors could further influence the genetic diversity and selec- ity be accomplished in relation to dengue vector control.Even tion ofvirulent strains (Holmes and Burch 2000).At the same though few such interventions have expanded beyond the pilot time, in addition to initial observations of the higher risk of stage, the decentralization of budgetary and operational DHF in Caucasian than in those of African descent, a few responsibilities for program delivery appears to offer opportu- reports associate some human leukocyte antigen alleles with nities for strengthening and expanding this integrated vector disease severity (Bravo,Guzmán,and Kouri 1987;LaFleur and management approach. others 2002; Loke and others 2001; Paradoa, Trujillo, and Increasing levels of resistance of Ae. aegypti to temephos Basanta 1987; Stephens and others 2002). The sequence of imply shorter intervals between treatments. This situation is infecting viruses and, more recently, the longer interval alreadyarealityinsomecountries,includingBrazilandseveral between primary and secondary infection as a risk factor for Caribbeanislands(CarvalhoanddaSilva1999;Rawlins1998). DHF, add a new perspective to the problem (Guzmán and Resistanceofadultmosquitoestomalathionandtopyrethroids others 2002;Nisalak and others 2003). hasbeenreportedintheAmericasandinAsia(WHO1992)and is likely to reduce the efficacy of space spraying. Given the peridomestic ecology of Ae. aegypti in most regions and the Leishmaniasis widespreaduseofpyrethroidsforpublichealthpurposesandin household insecticide products, the rate of development of Because the primary control strategy against leishmaniasis is pyrethroidresistanceislikelytoaccelerate.Atthesametime,few basedoncasefindingandtreatment,thepriorityforcontrolis newinsecticideproductsarebecomingavailableinthepublic developing and implementing improved diagnostic methods health market because of the costs involved in
