Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


the rate of development of Because the primary control strategy against leishmaniasis is pyrethroidresistanceislikelytoaccelerate.Atthesametime,few basedoncasefindingandtreatment,thepriorityforcontrolis newinsecticideproductsarebecomingavailableinthepublic developing and implementing improved diagnostic methods health market because of the costs involved in development andbettertreatmentsthataremoreamenabletofielduse.Apar- and registration compared with the returns on investment allelrequirementisforthedevelopmentofmorecost-effective from the relativelysmallcommercialmarket.Thehighcostof drug delivery systems, especially ones that take advantage of re-registration of existing products is also contributing to the neworaldrugs,suchasmiltefosine,andtheplannedregistration withdrawalofsomeinsecticidesfromthemarket. andlocalproductionofaminosidineinIndia. Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis | 461 Improved Diagnostics and Treatment. Even though the Parasitological diagnosis,such as the miniature anion exchange new serological tests, such as the dipstick, lyophilized direct centrifugation test,is more expensive and complicated to use in agglutination test kit,and latex agglutination urine test,repre- field surveys despite the development ofa simplified sterile kit sent major improvements, they are not yet widely used in version.Molecular diagnostics are not yet developed to a level endemic countries.Moreover,they are indirect tests that can- appropriate for widespread field use. not provide direct parasitological confirmation ofinfection or ofcure immediately following treatment.Current parasitolog- Treatment. Despite the availability of drugs free of charge form; therefore, simple molecular-based tests would be an ization required and by the toxicity ofcurrently available drugs. advantage. In addition,inability to use the same drug in the early and late For leishmaniasis treatment, development of the oral VL stages of the disease complicates the treatment protocol. The drug,miltefosine,represents a substantial improvement,but it existing late-stage drug, melarsoprol, is unsafe, its secondary remains expensive and with a long treatment regimen and can- reactions are numerous, and the occurrence of a lethal not be administered to pregnant women because ofthe risk of encephalopathic syndrome in 5 to 10 percent of treated cases teratogenicity.Further clinical evaluation is required to estab- means that patients on melarsoprol must be hospitalized. A lish the possibility ofshorter treatment regimes and the poten- new oral drug for the early stage,soon to be registered,must be tial of combination therapy to inhibit the development and introduced in the field,which will take several years. spread of drug resistance.Another oral drug, sitamaquine, is Drug resistance is well established in animal trypanosomes. (paromomycin) are proceeding,and use ofthis drug against VL populations with multiple drug resistance (Geerts and Holmes may become widespread.An improved understanding of dis- 1998). Much less information is available on human path- ease pathogenesis would be helpful in refining the criteria for ogenic trypanosomes. The resurgence of human African cure and in improving patients’prognosis.
