Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


Much less information is available on human path- ease pathogenesis would be helpful in refining the criteria for ogenic trypanosomes. The resurgence of human African cure and in improving patients’prognosis. trypanosomiasis in recent years has been accompanied by increasing reports of treatment failure using melarsoprol. As Vaccine Development. The leishmaniases offer substantial earlyas1960,T.b.rhodesiensepatientsinUgandawerereported opportunities for vaccine development, and a crude vaccine to have relapsed after two or more courses ofmelarsoprol,and against CL has been widely used in parts of the Middle East. in 1977,a 40 percent melarsoprol relapse rate was reported in Trials of a second-generation vaccine that includes three the DRC. Leishmaniaantigens are currently in progress. Relapses after treatment with early-stage drugs remain rare. Whether relapses after melarsoprol treatment reflect parasite Vector Control. Control of domestic and peridomestic sand- drug resistance or host factors is unknown.Furthermore,even fly vectors will probably continue as an additional benefit though increasing rates of melarsoprol failure have been accruing to programs against other insect vectors using indoor observed in several countries, the magnitude and geographic residual spraying or insecticide-treated bednets. However, in distribution of the problem have not been determined. areas where dogs are among the main reservoir hosts,increased Analyses of existing data are complicated by the lack of a use of insecticide-treated dog collars would merit further standard treatment regimen and the range of clinical and appraisal.Such collars not only would reduce the likelihood of laboratory criteria used to define a relapse. new infections in dogs,but also could reduce the risk oftrans- mission from dogs to humans. Vector Control. Even though available techniques to control tsetse flies can be highly effective (Maudlin,Holmes,and Miles 2004),all are constrained by the difficulties of applying them African Trypanosomiasis on a large enough scale for long enough to achieve sustainable Improved Diagnostics. Serological diagnosis is reliable for results.Insecticide spraying is efficient but is difficult to sustain verifying infection;however,most district hospitals or periph- because of logistical constraints and high costs. Targets and expertise to perform and read serological tests. In the past, for long periods, and implementation through community serological diagnosis, based on indirect fluorescent antibody participation requires constant motivation and supervision to tests and ELISA, was restricted to central-level facilities or remain effective.To address these problems,the African Union specialized mobile teams.The card agglutination trypanosomi- has launched the Pan African Initiative (PATTEC), which asis test has substantially simplified the use of serology but focuses on identifying regions where elimination
