Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


specialized mobile teams.The card agglutination trypanosomi- has launched the Pan African Initiative (PATTEC), which asis test has substantially simplified the use of serology but focuses on identifying regions where elimination of the tsetse requires specifically equipped health units with a cold chain. fly may be feasible using currently available techniques. This 462 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | P. Cattand, P. Desjeux, M. G. Guzmán, and others initiative is designed as part ofa poverty reduction strategy that epidemic outbreaks rather than instigating emergency meas- aims at eliminating the problem of tsetseborne animal try- ures after an outbreak is in full crudescence.Moreover,because panosomiasis,but in several areas it will also reduce the risk of preemptive measures and emergency responses are competing human infections. strategies,analyses oftheir relative cost-effectiveness would be appropriate. SUMMARY Case finding and treatment for the leishmaniases and African trypanosomiases depend on the effectiveness of the For dengue, leishmaniasis, and African trypanosomiasis, the diagnostic and treatment packages.Such packages are available, longstanding problem is the lack of adequate specific treat- and research is required into the most cost-effective means for ment. For dengue, no specific treatment is available. For the large-scale implementation.Again,the management exercise is leishmaniases and African trypanosomiases,specific treatment to accept that some transmission will occur but to be aware that has long depended on antiquated drugs that would be consid- cases can be found and treated with minimal losses to healthy ered far too toxic for introduction under modern registration life. As with dengue, predictive surveillance will help focus systems.Even though progress is being made,especially in rela- attention on those areas where outbreaks seem most likely,and tion to the development ofnew oral drugs for leishmaniasis,in rapid,accurate diagnostics are crucial both to avoid the waste purely pragmatic terms what is currently available will and danger ofmistreatment and to minimize delays in admin- probably represent almost the entire therapeutic arsenal for the istering the specific treatment required. But should such given current requirements,take at least a decade. nosis and treatment teams be integrated into more general rent challenge is to make better use ofwhat is already available. demiological surveillance to be organized: disease and vector Dengue can be prevented with available vector control tools notification,geographic information system mapping,analysis, and strategies designed to reduce the risk oftransmission.This and prediction? method requires a sustainable surveillance system capable of For the leishmaniases, vector control seems unlikely to providing early warning and predictions based
