Chapter
KEYWORDS: dengue, control, vector, treatment, leishmaniasis, disease, trypanosomiasis, african, transmission, vector control, fever, journal, medicine, ofthe, million


designed to reduce the risk oftransmission.This and prediction? method requires a sustainable surveillance system capable of For the leishmaniases, vector control seems unlikely to providing early warning and predictions based on experience become a major component of disease control except where of factors predisposing to new epidemic outbreaks.To a large sandfly distribution overlaps with that of other vectors or extent, it becomes a management exercise that accepts that where use ofpersonal protection measures can be more widely some dengue transmission will occur but aims at preempting encouraged.For dengue,vector control is a major component, Table 23.2 Control Strategies, Major Challenges, and Research Needs of Each Disease Disease Principal control strategy Major problems and challenges Major research needs Dengue Interruption of transmission Lifestyles that provide abundant Vector control thresholds to interrupt through vector control artificial larval habitats transmission Patient management and Urban water infrastructure Behavioral changes conducive to supportive treatment and management dengue prevention Sustainable vector control Pathogenesis and disease prognosis Early diagnosis and treatment Vaccine development Vaccine development Leishmaniasis Case detection and treatment Rapid field diagnosis Molecular-based field diagnostic kits Deployment of oral drugs for treatment Effective, safe, oral drug treatments, Vaccine development including combination therapy Diagnosis and treatment strategies African Case detection and Rapid field diagnosis, including determination Molecular-based field diagnostic kits trypanosomiasis treatment of stage of infection Effective, safe, oral drug treatments Interruption of transmission Safer drug treatment regimens Vector population genetics to determine through vector control Sustainable large-scale vector control areas amenable to vector population elimination Source:Authors. Tropical Diseases Lacking Adequate Control Measures: Dengue, Leishmaniasis, and African Trypanosomiasis | 463 but unless Aedeseradication appears again on the agenda,pre- from Mexico and the United States.” American Journal of Tropical dicting the levels of control required in specific situations will Medicine and Hygiene 67:85–92. require much greater understanding oftransmission dynamics. Bravo, J. R., M. G. Guzmán, and G. P. Kouri. 1987. “Why Dengue Haemorrhagic Fever in Cuba? 1:Individual Risk Factors for Dengue Significant resources have been wasted on emergency dengue Haemorrhagic Fever/Dengue Shock Syndrome (DHF/DSS).” vector control,which has subsequently been seen to have had Transactions ofthe Royal Society ofTropical Medicine and Hygiene81: little more than a palliative effect,whereas sustained suppres- 816–20. sion ofvector populations may require changes in urban water Brengues,C.,N.J.Hawkes,F.Chandre,L.McCarroll,S.Duchon,P.Guillet, and others. 2003. “Pyrethroid and DDT Cross-Resistance in Aedes management and in human behavior that exceed the usual aegypti Is Correlated with Novel Mutations in the Voltage-Gated remit ofhealth
