Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing hypertension (high blood pressure), including pre-eclampsia, during pregnancy, labour and birth. It also includes advice for women with hypertension who wish to conceive and women who have had a pregnancy complicated by hypertension. It aims to improve care during pregnancy, labour and birth for women and their babies. We've created a series of visual summaries to explain assessment, treatment and other aspects of care for various conditions relating to hypertension in pregnancy. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Women who develop hypertension during pregnancy, who have hypertension and wish to conceive, and who have had a pregnancy complicated by hypertension, and their relatives and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Reducing the risk of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy Symptoms of pre-eclampsia 1.1.1 Advise pregnant women to see a healthcare professional immediately if they experience symptoms of pre-eclampsia. Symptoms include: • severe headache • problems with vision, such as blurring or flashing before the eyes • severe pain just below the ribs • vomiting • sudden swelling of the face, hands or feet. See the NICE guideline on antenatal care for advice on risk factors and symptoms of pre-eclampsia. [2010, amended 2019] Antiplatelet agents For the indication in recommendations 1.1.2 and 1.1.3, although its use is common in UK clinical practice, at the time of publication (June 2019), aspirin did not have a UK marketing authorisation. Community pharmacies cannot legally sell aspirin as a pharmacy medicine for prevention of pre-eclampsia in pregnancy in England. Aspirin for this indication must be prescribed. The prescriber should see the summary of product characteristics for the manufacturer's advice on use in pregnancy. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.1.2 Advise pregnant women at high risk of pre-eclampsia to take 75 mg to 150 mg of aspirin daily from 12 weeks until the birth of the baby. Women at high risk are those with any of the following: • hypertensive disease during a previous pregnancy • chronic kidney disease • autoimmune disease
