Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


be an increased risk of congenital abnormalities and neonatal complications if these drugs are taken during pregnancy • to discuss alternative antihypertensive treatment with the healthcare professional responsible for managing their hypertension, if they are planning pregnancy. [2010, amended 2019] 1.3.5 Advise women who take antihypertensive treatments other than ACE inhibitors, ARBs, thiazide or thiazide-like diuretics that the limited evidence available has not shown an increased risk of congenital malformation with such treatments. [2010, amended 2019] Treatment of chronic hypertension 1.3.6 Offer pregnant women with chronic hypertension advice on: • weight management • exercise • healthy eating • lowering the amount of salt in their diet. Provide this advice in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. [2019] 1.3.7 Continue with existing antihypertensive treatment if safe in pregnancy, or switch to an alternative treatment, unless: • sustained systolic blood pressure is less than 110 mmHg or • sustained diastolic blood pressure is less than 70 mmHg or • the woman has symptomatic hypotension. [2019] 1.3.8 Offer antihypertensive treatment to pregnant women who have chronic hypertension and who are not already on treatment if they have: • sustained systolic blood pressure of 140 mmHg or higher or • sustained diastolic blood pressure of 90 mmHg or higher. [2019] 1.3.9 When using medicines to treat hypertension in pregnancy, aim for a target blood pressure of 135/85 mmHg. [2019] 1.3.10 Consider labetalol to treat chronic hypertension in pregnant women. Consider nifedipine for women in whom labetalol is not suitable, or methyldopa if both labetalol and nifedipine are not suitable. Base the choice on any pre-existing treatment, side-effect profiles, risks (including fetal effects) and the woman's preference. [2019] At the time of publication (June 2019), some brands of nifedipine were specifically contraindicated during pregnancy by the manufacturer in its summary of product characteristics. Refer to the individual summaries of product characteristics for each preparation of nifedipine for further details. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.3.11 Offer pregnant women with chronic hypertension aspirin 75 mg to 150 mg once daily from 12 weeks. [2019] Although its use is common in UK clinical practice, at the time of publication (June 2019), aspirin did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. Community pharmacies cannot legally sell aspirin as a pharmacy medicine for prevention of pre-eclampsia in pregnancy in England. Aspirin for this indication must be prescribed. The prescriber should see the summary
