Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


BP) until BP is 135/85 mmHg or measurement less than 160/110 mmHg less Dipstick Once or twice a week (with BP proteinuria Daily while admitted testing measurement) Measure full blood count, liver Measure full blood count, liver Blood tests function and renal function at function and renal function at presentation and then weekly presentation and then weekly Carry out PLGF-based testing on Carry out PLGF-based testing on 1 occasion (in accordance with NICE 1 occasion (in accordance with NICE Placental growth factor (PLGF)- guidance, see recommendation guidance, see recommendation based testing 1.4.4) if there is suspicion of pre- 1.4.4) if there is suspicion of pre- eclampsia eclampsia Offer fetal heart auscultation at Offer fetal heart auscultation at every antenatal appointment every antenatal appointment Carry out ultrasound assessment of Carry out ultrasound assessment of the fetus at diagnosis and, if normal, the fetus at diagnosis and, if normal, repeat every 2 to 4 weeks, if repeat every 2 weeks, if severe Fetal assessment clinically indicated hypertension persists Carry out a cardiotocography (CTG) Carry out a CTG at diagnosis and only if clinically indicated then only if clinically indicated (For advice, see the section on fetal (For advice, see the section on fetal monitoring) monitoring 1.4.4 Offer placental growth factor (PLGF)-based testing to help rule out pre-eclampsia in women presenting with suspected pre-eclampsia (for example, with gestational hypertension) between 20 weeks and 36 weeks and 6 days of pregnancy. (See the NICE diagnostics guidance on PLGF-based testing to help diagnose suspected preterm pre-eclampsia.) [2019, amended 2023] 1.4.5 Consider labetalol to treat gestational hypertension. Consider nifedipine for women in whom labetalol is not suitable, and methyldopa if labetalol or nifedipine are not suitable. Base the choice on side-effect profiles, risk (including fetal effects) and the woman's preferences. [2010, amended 2019] At the time of publication (June 2019), some brands of nifedipine were specifically contraindicated during pregnancy by the manufacturer in its summary of product characteristics. Refer to the individual summaries of product characteristics for each preparation of nifedipine for further details. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.4.6 Do not offer bed rest in hospital as a treatment for gestational hypertension. [2010] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring and treatment of gestational hypertension. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are
