Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


with the NICE guideline on preterm labour and birth. [2010, amended 2019] 1.5.12 Decide on timing of birth in women with pre-eclampsia as recommended in table 3. [2019] Table 3 Timing of birth in women with pre-eclampsia Weeks of Timing of birth pregnancy Continue surveillance unless there are indications (see recommendation 1.5.7 in the section on timing of birth) for planned early birth. Offer intravenous Before 34 weeks magnesium sulfate and a course of antenatal corticosteroids in line with the NICE guideline on preterm labour and birth. Continue surveillance unless there are indications (see recommendation 1.5.7 in the section on timing of birth) for planned early birth. From 34 When considering the option of planned early birth, take into account the weeks to 36 weeks woman's and baby's condition, risk factors (such as maternal comorbidities, plus 6 days multi-fetal pregnancy) and availability of neonatal unit beds. Consider a course of antenatal corticosteroids in line with the NICE guideline on preterm labour and birth. 37 weeks Initiate birth within 24 to 48 hours. onwards For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring and treatment of pre-eclampsia and timing of birth. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: interventions for pre-eclampsia. Postnatal investigation, monitoring and treatment (including after discharge from critical care) Blood pressure 1.5.13 In women with pre-eclampsia who did not take antihypertensive treatment and have given birth, measure blood pressure: • at least 4 times a day while the woman is an inpatient • at least once between day 3 and day 5 after birth • on alternate days until normal, if blood pressure was abnormal on days 3 to 5. [2010] 1.5.14 In women with pre-eclampsia who did not take antihypertensive treatment and have given birth, start antihypertensive treatment if blood pressure is 150/ 100 mmHg or higher. [2010] 1.5.15 Ask women with pre-eclampsia who have given birth about severe headache and epigastric pain each time blood pressure is measured. [2010] 1.5.16 In women with pre-eclampsia who took antihypertensive treatment and have given birth, measure blood pressure: • at least 4 times a day while the woman is an inpatient • every 1 to 2 days for up to 2 weeks after transfer to community care until the woman is off treatment and has
