Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


milk, so the amounts taken in by babies are very small and would be unlikely to have any clinical effect • most medicines are not tested in pregnant or breastfeeding women, so disclaimers in the manufacturer's information are not because of any specific safety concerns or evidence of harm. Make decisions on treatment together with the woman, based on her preferences. [2019] 1.9.3 As antihypertensive agents have the potential to transfer into breast milk: • consider monitoring the blood pressure of babies, especially those born preterm, who have symptoms of low blood pressure for the first few weeks • when discharged home, advise women to monitor their babies for drowsiness, lethargy, pallor, cold peripheries or poor feeding. [2019] 1.9.4 Offer enalapril to treat hypertension in women during the postnatal period, with appropriate monitoring of maternal renal function and maternal serum potassium. [2019] 1.9.5 For women of black African or Caribbean family origin with hypertension during the postnatal period, consider antihypertensive treatment with: • nifedipine or • amlodipine if the woman has previously used this to successfully control her blood pressure. [2019] 1.9.6 For women with hypertension in the postnatal period, if blood pressure is not controlled with a single medicine, consider a combination of nifedipine (or amlodipine) and enalapril. If this combination is not tolerated or is ineffective, consider either: • adding atenolol or labetalol to the combination treatment or • swapping 1 of the medicines already being used for atenolol or labetalol. [2019] 1.9.7 When treating women with antihypertensive medication during the postnatal period, use medicines that are taken once daily when possible. [2019] 1.9.8 Where possible, avoid using diuretics or angiotensin receptor blockers to treat hypertension in women in the postnatal period who are breastfeeding or expressing milk. [2010, amended 2019] 1.9.9 Treat women with hypertension in the postnatal period who are not breastfeeding and who are not planning to breastfeed in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on antihypertensive treatment during breastfeeding. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: postnatal management of hypertension. 1.10 Advice and follow-up at transfer to community care Risk of recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy 1.10.1 Advise women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy that the overall risk
