Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


(approximately 1.5 (approximately 1.7 event approximately 2 1.5 to 3 times) to 3 times) times) times) Risk increased Risk increased Cardiovascular (up to (approximately (no data) (no data) mortality approximately 2 2 times) times) Risk increased Risk increased Risk increased (up to Risk may be Stroke (approximately (approximately 1.8 approximately increased 2 to 3 times) times) 1.5 times) Risk increased Risk increased Risk increased Hypertension (approximately 2 (approximately (approximately 2 to (not applicable) to 4 times) 2 to 5 times) 4 times) Notes: Risks described are overall estimates, summarised from risk ratios, odds ratios and hazard ratios. Increased risk is compared to the background risk in women who did not have hypertensive disorders during pregnancy. Absolute risks are not reported, because these will vary considerably, depending on the follow-up time (range from 1 to 40 years postpartum). 1.10.3 Advise women who have had a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy to discuss how to reduce their risk of cardiovascular disease, including hypertensive disorders, with their GP or specialist. This may include: • avoiding smoking, as recommended in the NICE guideline on tobacco • maintaining a healthy lifestyle, as recommended in the NICE guideline on cardiovascular disease • maintaining a healthy weight, as recommended in the NICE guideline on overweight and obesity management. [2019] 1.10.4 In women who have had pre-eclampsia or hypertension with early birth before 34 weeks, consider pre-pregnancy counselling to discuss possible risks of recurrent hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and how to lower them for any future pregnancies. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see rationale and impact section on risk of recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and long-term cardiovascular disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: advice at discharge. Body mass index and recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy 1.10.5 Advise women who have had pre-eclampsia to achieve and keep a BMI within the healthy range before their next pregnancy (18.5 to 24.9 kg/m2). See also the NICE guideline on overweight and obesity management. [2010, amended 2019] Inter-pregnancy interval and recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy 1.10.6 Advise women who have had pre-eclampsia that the likelihood of recurrence increases with an inter-pregnancy interval greater than 10 years. [2010, amended 2019] Long-term risk of end-stage kidney disease 1.10.7 Tell women with a history of pre-eclampsia who have no
