Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


recurrence increases with an inter-pregnancy interval greater than 10 years. [2010, amended 2019] Long-term risk of end-stage kidney disease 1.10.7 Tell women with a history of pre-eclampsia who have no proteinuria and no hypertension at the postnatal review (6 to 8 weeks after the birth) that although the relative risk of end-stage kidney disease is increased, the absolute risk is low and no further follow-up is necessary. [2010] Thrombophilia and the risk of pre-eclampsia 1.10.8 Do not routinely perform screening for thrombophilia in women who have had pre-eclampsia. [2010] Terms used in this guideline Chronic hypertension Hypertension that is present at the booking visit, or before 20 weeks, or if the woman is already taking antihypertensive medication when referred to maternity services. It can be primary or secondary in aetiology. Eclampsia A convulsive condition associated with pre-eclampsia. Gestational hypertension New hypertension presenting after 20 weeks of pregnancy without significant proteinuria. HELLP syndrome Haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelet count. Hypertension Blood pressure of 140 mmHg systolic or higher, or 90 mmHg diastolic or higher. [2019] Multi-fetal pregnancy A pregnancy with more than 1 baby (such as twins, triplets). Pre-eclampsia New onset of hypertension (over 140 mmHg systolic or over 90 mmHg diastolic) after 20 weeks of pregnancy and the coexistence of 1 or more of the following new-onset conditions: • proteinuria (urine protein:creatinine ratio of 30 mg/mmol or more or albumin:creatinine ratio of 8 mg/mmol or more, or at least 1 g/litre [2+] on dipstick testing) or • other maternal organ dysfunction: － renal insufficiency (creatinine 90 micromol/litre or more, 1.02 mg/100 ml or more) － liver involvement (elevated transaminases [alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase over 40 IU/litre] with or without right upper quadrant or epigastric abdominal pain) － neurological complications such as eclampsia, altered mental status, blindness, stroke, clonus, severe headaches or persistent visual scotomata － haematological complications such as thrombocytopenia (platelet count below 150,000/microlitre), disseminated intravascular coagulation or haemolysis • uteroplacental dysfunction such as fetal growth restriction, abnormal umbilical artery doppler waveform analysis, or stillbirth. Severe hypertension Blood pressure over 160 mmHg systolic or over 110 mmHg diastolic. Severe pre-eclampsia Pre-eclampsia with severe hypertension that does not respond to treatment or is associated with ongoing or recurring severe headaches, visual scotomata, nausea or vomiting, epigastric pain, oliguria and severe hypertension, as well as progressive deterioration in laboratory blood tests such as rising creatinine or liver transaminases or
