Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


made this recommendation for research, see the rationale and impact section on antihypertensive treatment during breastfeeding. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: postnatal management of hypertension. 5 Fetal monitoring In women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, what is the optimal fetal monitoring strategy to detect small for gestational age infants? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale and impact section on fetal monitoring. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: monitoring gestational hypertension. Other recommendations for research (from 2010 guideline) 6 Advice and follow-up at transfer to community care In women who have had hypertension during pregnancy, what interventions reduce the risk of a) recurrent hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and b) subsequent cardiovascular disease? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale and impact section on follow up after hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: advice at discharge. 7 Haematological and biochemical monitoring in women with gestational hypertension What is the role of assessing haematological or biochemical parameters at diagnosis of gestational hypertension and during surveillance of gestational hypertension? [2010] Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. They link to details of the evidence and a full description of the committee's discussion. Assessment of proteinuria Recommendations 1.2.1 to 1.2.7 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee were aware that there is often over-reliance on a proteinuria result in the diagnosis of pre-eclampsia, and agreed that healthcare professionals should use the results of a full clinical review, including severity of hypertension and other signs and symptoms, before making a diagnosis of pre-eclampsia. The committee amended the recommendation on automated dipstick tests from the 2010 guideline to emphasise that this should be used as a screening tool for proteinuria. The committee highlighted the importance of using automated dipstick analysis in secondary care rather than visual analysis, which they were aware from their experience has a higher error rate. Protein:creatinine ratio (PCR) and albumin:creatinine ratio (ACR) were both shown to have high specificity and high sensitivity at the chosen thresholds (30 mg/mmol and 8 mg/mmol respectively), and therefore either could be used depending on
