Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


the ACR measurement if there was ongoing clinical uncertainty about the diagnosis. No evidence was reviewed that examined the timing of repeat testing for either ACR or PCR, and so no recommendations could be made regarding this. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendation to take account of other clinical features when assessing women for suspected pre-eclampsia might lead to an increased need for follow-up and surveillance. However, this will also reduce the chance that a diagnosis of pre-eclampsia is missed by raising awareness of the multi-system nature of the disease, and so could reduce the number of women who go on to develop complications from undiagnosed pre-eclampsia. Not all secondary care units currently use automated dipstick analysis to screen for proteinuria, so the recommendations might increase the need for automated reagent-strip reading devices. However, the accuracy and reliability of screening will be improved, reducing the need for further investigations for some women and correctly identifying more women who need further testing or investigations. Moving from 24-hour urine collection to spot urine ACR or PCR will save time, with potential for faster diagnosis, and a reduction in inaccuracies because of incomplete samples. It is also likely to improve quality of life, as the process of completing a 24-hour urine collection is time-consuming and awkward. A PCR of 30 mg/mmol is already used routinely as a diagnostic threshold and therefore should not change practice. Currently units may use different ACR levels for diagnosis and so the recommendation to use 8 mg/mmol will standardise practice. Recommendations have been made for the use of either ACR or PCR allowing local decisions to use whichever test is available, so this should not affect practice. Repeating the PCR or ACR test may incur a small additional cost. However, this should reduce the false positive rate, and mean some women will avoid unnecessary follow-up or intensive monitoring (such as hospital admission) if their proteinuria resolves and is shown to be transient. Return to recommendations Treatment of chronic hypertension Recommendations 1.3.6 to 1.3.12 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that pregnant woman with chronic hypertension should be offered lifestyle advice similar to other adults with hypertension, and in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. There was very little evidence available on treatment initiation thresholds for chronic hypertension in pregnancy, so the committee based their recommendations on the values specified in
