Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


the recommendations might affect practice Based on these recommendations, a clear blood pressure target should now be set for women with chronic hypertension in pregnancy who need antihypertensive treatment to improve consistency of treatment targets. Starting treatment for hypertension and offering aspirin to women with chronic hypertension who are pregnant are standard care, so these recommendations are not expected to change practice significantly. Return to recommendations Monitoring and treatment of gestational hypertension Recommendations 1.4.3 and 1.4.4 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee updated the table from the previous guideline on the management of pregnancy with gestational hypertension. There was very little evidence available on treatment initiation thresholds for gestational hypertension in pregnancy, so the committee made recommendations using the values specified in the recent Control of Hypertension in Pregnancy Study (CHIPS). There was evidence for target blood pressure levels from the large CHIPS trial, so the committee made recommendations based on this. The committee made a new recommendation referring to the NICE diagnostics guidance on placental growth factor (PLGF) testing as this is applicable to women with gestational hypertension. The committee were aware of the link between gestational hypertension and both pre- existing and gestational diabetes, therefore they made an overarching recommendation at the beginning of the guideline to cross-refer to the existing NICE guideline on diabetes in pregnancy. There was no evidence on fetal monitoring in gestational hypertension, so the committee made a research recommendation on the optimal fetal monitoring strategy to detect small for gestational age infants. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current clinical practice in many units, but may help standardise practice across the NHS for units that currently use other blood pressure targets. Return to recommendations Assessment of women with pre-eclampsia Recommendations 1.5.2 to 1.5.4 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed, based on their clinical expertise, that women with pre-eclampsia should have a full clinical assessment at every antenatal appointment and should be admitted to hospital if there are any concerns about the wellbeing of the woman or her baby. The committee agreed that this would include (but was not limited to) reasons such as severe hypertension or other features of pre-eclampsia indicating increased risk of adverse outcomes. There was some evidence that the fullPIERS and PREP-S models can help identify women at different risks of adverse outcomes because of pre-eclampsia. There was more extensive validation of
