Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


outcomes. There was some evidence that the fullPIERS and PREP-S models can help identify women at different risks of adverse outcomes because of pre-eclampsia. There was more extensive validation of the fullPIERS model, and the validation studies were conducted in populations from a range of healthcare settings. The PREP-S model had been developed using a UK population, and validated using data from similar multinational settings. It was noted that further validation of PREP-S was unlikely to be conducted, because of the cost of conducting these studies. The committee therefore agreed that both models could be considered as options, in addition to a full clinical assessment, to help guide decisions relating to interventions and place of care. The tools predict adverse outcomes in women, but are not designed to predict outcomes for babies. The committee agreed it was important to highlight this. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of a full clinical assessment and validated models to predict risk may improve consistency in current practice with regard to admission to hospital for women with pre- eclampsia. Some centres offer admission to all women with pre-eclampsia, whereas others only offer it to a small proportion of women. The guidance might increase the number of women who are admitted to hospital in some centres if admission is not currently routine, but might decrease admission in other centres, thus standardising practice. Return to recommendations Monitoring and treatment of pre-eclampsia and timing of birth Recommendations 1.5.5, 1.5.7 and 1.5.12 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee updated the table from the previous guideline on the management of pregnancy with pre-eclampsia. There was limited evidence on the best place of treatment for women with pre-eclampsia. Because of this, the committee made recommendations based on other evidence they reviewed (see evidence review C), which showed that women should be admitted if there were concerns for the wellbeing of the woman or her baby, or a high risk of complications of pre-eclampsia predicted using the fullPIERS or PREP-S model. (See the section of the guideline on assessing pre-eclampsia and evidence review C for more details on the use of the fullPIERS and PREP-S models.) There was no evidence on treatment initiation thresholds or target blood pressure levels for pre-eclampsia, so the committee based their recommendations on the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults and the values specified in the Control of Hypertension In Pregnancy Study
