Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


pressure levels for pre-eclampsia, so the committee based their recommendations on the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults and the values specified in the Control of Hypertension In Pregnancy Study (CHIPS; see evidence review A), which included women with chronic or gestational hypertension. There was some very limited evidence of both benefits and harms for different pharmacological interventions. However, as there was not enough evidence to recommend one treatment over another, the committee adopted the choices from the previous guideline and recommended choosing a treatment based on previous treatments, side- effect profiles and the woman's preferences. Labetalol is specifically licensed for use in pregnancy and so is suggested as the first-line option, with nifedipine as the next alternative, and methyldopa as the third option (as it may lead to more side effects and be the least effective option of the 3). There was limited evidence on the benefits and harms of planned early birth compared with expectant management of pregnancy in women with pre-eclampsia, so the committee recommended that decisions about timing of birth should be based on whether the woman and baby are at risk of adverse outcomes if pregnancy is prolonged. These recommendations were based on those from the previous guideline, and expanded based on international guidelines, which were used by the committee in their clinical practice. Based on the data from HYPITAT-II study, the committee also agreed that pregnancies in women with pre-eclampsia could be managed with continued surveillance to 37 weeks, unless there were specific concerns or indications to offer a planned early birth before then. There was limited evidence to guide the best place of care for women with pre-eclampsia and their babies, so the committee made a research recommendation. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are in line with current best clinical practice, so are unlikely to cause a significant change in practice. Currently, some units admit all women with pre-eclampsia routinely, some only admit women who they believe to be at a high risk of complications, and some admit very few. Standardising practice could therefore increase or reduce the number of women who will be admitted, depending on a unit's current practice, but is likely to reduce unwanted variance between units. Return to recommendations Antihypertensive treatment during the postnatal period, including during breastfeeding Recommendations 1.9.1 to 1.9.7 and 1.9.9 Why the committee made the recommendations There was very little evidence on
