Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: women, hypertension, pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, treatment, birth, committee, recommendations, antihypertensive, evidence, risk, blood, amended, care, gestational


Return to recommendations Antihypertensive treatment during the postnatal period, including during breastfeeding Recommendations 1.9.1 to 1.9.7 and 1.9.9 Why the committee made the recommendations There was very little evidence on the efficacy and safety of antihypertensive agents in postnatal women, so the committee made recommendations based on the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults, with adaptations based on the potential effects of medicines on the baby. The committee therefore recommended the use of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor as first-line treatment, except in women of African or Caribbean family origin, in whom a calcium-channel blocker would be used first line. The choice of second-line medicine was modified from the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults as angiotensin receptor blockers, thiazide and thiazide-like diuretics are not recommended during breastfeeding. Therefore, the committee agreed that beta-blockers should be used as the second-line antihypertensive agent. The committee also agreed that the medicines with once-daily administration should be used wherever possible and for this reason the committee recommended enalapril in preference to captopril (which is taken 3 times daily) and atenolol as an alternative to labetalol (which is taken 2 to 4 times daily). Based on their experience, the committee made recommendations on advice for women who wish to breastfeed while taking antihypertensives, and on the monitoring of babies whose mothers are taking antihypertensives. As there was very little evidence on the effectiveness and safety of antihypertensives for postnatal use, the committee revised the research recommendation made in the 2010 guideline. How the recommendations might affect practice There is currently wide variation in practice over use of antihypertensive treatment in the postnatal period, and these recommendations may reduce variation in practice. The recommendations could lead to an increase in the use of atenolol instead of labetalol in the postnatal period. Return to recommendations Risk of recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and long-term cardiovascular disease Recommendations 1.10.1 to 1.10.4 Why the committee made the recommendations Long-term follow-up studies of women who have experienced hypertensive disorders during pregnancy showed an increased risk of long-term cardiovascular disease and a higher prevalence of hypertensive disorders in subsequent pregnancies compared with women unaffected by hypertensive disorders. There was no evidence on which interventions could reduce the risk of recurrence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy or future cardiovascular disease, so the committee made a research recommendation. How the recommendations might affect practice Providing guidance and advice to women
