NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, acute, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, jaundice, year, old, mdma, year old, failure, bilirubin, alt, developed


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amphetamines. [Updated 2021 Aug 25]. Bookshelf URL: Amphetamines Updated: August 25, 2021. OVERVIEW Introduction The amphetamines are indirect acting sympathomimetic amines and powerful central nervous system stimulants which are used in the therapy of attention deficit disorder, hyperactivity and narcolepsy. Amphetamines also have a potential for abuse and illicit forms of amphetamines constitute some of the most dangerous, but widely used drugs of abuse. High doses of amphetamines can be associated with liver injury and distinctive forms of clinically apparent liver injury which has been most commonly associated with methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA: “ecstasy”). Background The amphetamines (am fet' a meens) are potent central nervous system (CNS) stimulants that are believed to act by causing release of norepinephrine at CNS nerve terminals promoting neurotransmission. Oral therapy with amphetamine has been shown to increase cognitive abilities and improve psychological functioning and performance in children and adults with suspected attention deficit disorders. The amphetamines often have a paradoxical calming action in children with hyperactivity. Amphetamines are also used in the therapy of narcolepsy and formerly for the treatment of obesity. Several forms of amphetamine have been approved for use in the United States. Amphetamine is available in multiple forms for oral administration including capsules, tablets, oral solutions, and as extended-release and long-acting forms in concentrations varying from 2.5 to 54 mg in generic forms and under several brand names, including Adderall (dextroamphetamine and amphetamine), Dexedrine (dextroamphetamine), Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine), Desoxyn (methamphetamine), and Benzedrine (amphetamine). Transdermal formulations are also available. The usual dose in adults is 10 mg two or three times daily and average maintenance dosage is 40 to 60 mg daily. The dosage in children varies by formulation. Amphetamine is a controlled substance (Schedule II) and has major abuse potential. Common side effects include headache, insomnia, irritability, elation, agitation, confusion, palpitations, tachycardia, nasal stuffiness, and decreased appetite. Hepatotoxicity but monitoring of serum enzymes during large scale, long term trials of therapy have not been reported. More importantly, several amphetamines have been associated with clinically apparent and sometimes severe or even fatal instances of acute liver injury. These cases typically follow intravenous use, particularly when given in an excessive single dose. The synthetic amphetamine methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, but known familiarly as “ecstasy”) has been implicated in the largest number of cases, many of which were severe and led to 2
