NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, acute, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, jaundice, year, old, mdma, year old, failure, bilirubin, alt, developed


single dose. The synthetic amphetamine methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, but known familiarly as “ecstasy”) has been implicated in the largest number of cases, many of which were severe and led to 2 LiverTox acute liver failure and death. The onset of ecstasy associated hepatitis is generally 3 to 14 days after ingestion and the onset is typically abrupt with fatigue, weakness, jaundice and confusion. The pattern of serum enzyme elevations is typically hepatocellular and ALT and AST values may be markedly increased with similar increases in lactic dehydrogenase. Onset of symptoms within a day of exposure is most frequent with acute liver failure and prolongation of the prothrombin time and other organ injury often present (renal, cardiac, muscle) (Case 1). The clinical course and early histological features of ecstasy induced hepatitis are similar to the patterns that occur with ischemic hepatitis and liver injury due to hyperthermia. Other amphetamines (such as the "designer" amphetamine, methylone or "Explosion") can cause a similar pattern of hepatic injury, but usually only when given as an overdose. A second pattern of clinically apparent liver injury linked to amphetamines is more acute viral hepatitis-like, presenting with onset of fatigue, nausea and jaundice 1 to 2 weeks after an exposure or daily use (Case 2). These cases also can be severe, but are usually self-limiting. Immunoallergic features are uncommon and autoantibodies are usually not present. Recovery occurs with 1 to 3 months. Recurrence on reexposure has not been reported. However, a difficulty with analysis of cases of amphetamine induced liver injury is that the agent is often used illegally and patients are usually unwilling to return for long-term follow up (Cases 1 and 2). Likelihood score: A[HD] (well established cause of liver injury, but severe cases occur only with high doses). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which the amphetamines cause liver injury is unknown, but amphetamines undergo extensive hepatic metabolism largely by the hepatic P450 system (CYP 2D6) and generation of a toxic metabolite may be the cause of hepatic injury with high doses of amphetamines. In cases of hyperacute liver failure due to ecstasy and to intravenous amphetamine, hyperthermia, shock and ischemia may account for the early liver injury. Outcome and Management The liver injury due to the amphetamines is usually self-limited and resolves rapidly. However, the acute liver injury can be severe and may require emergency liver transplantation within days of presentation. Several cases of
