NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, ecstasy, acute, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, jaundice, year, old, mdma, year old, failure, bilirubin, alt, developed


to the amphetamines is usually self-limited and resolves rapidly. However, the acute liver injury can be severe and may require emergency liver transplantation within days of presentation. Several cases of chronic hepatitis apparently due to ecstasy have been described, usually in patients who continue to abuse MDMA. In these cases, liver biopsy shows features of chronic hepatitis with fibrosis, but cirrhosis has yet to be described and the co-occurrence of chronic hepatitis C among drug users may complicate the clinical picture. Patients with ecstasy induced hepatitis should be cautioned against its continued use, but the frequency of recurrence upon rechallenge is unclear. As with other amphetamines, the liver injury appears to be partially dose related. Central nervous system stimulants used for attention deficit disorder, narcolepsy or excessive sleepiness include methylphenidate, atomoxetine, modafinil, armodafinil and the amphetamines. Stimulants that are no longer used for medical conditions but that are abused include cocaine and ecstasy or methylenedioxymethamphetamine. Drug Class: Central Nervous System Stimulants CASE REPORTS Case 1. Acute hepatic necrosis after methylenedioxymethamphetamine (Ecstasy) use.(1) A 32 year old woman developed hallucinations and confusion a few hours after ingesting 100 to 150 mg of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and was brought to the emergency room with agitation, Amphetamines 3 disorientation and high fever. On examination, she had tachycardia (150/min), hypotension (90/50 mm Hg), o tachypnea (36/min) and fever (41.6 C). She had dilated pupils, nystagmus and hyperreflexia. Laboratory tests showed normal blood counts and liver tests with mild dehydration (creatinine 1.9 mg/dL), and serious hypoxemia (pO2 44 mm). She was admitted to an intensive care unit for ventilator support for 24 hours. Thereafter, she had weakness, anorexia and nausea, but improved over the next week and was discharged 10 days after admission. She had no previous history of liver disease or jaundice and took no other medications. She had used MDMA previously without complications. She denied injection drug use. During the course of her hospitalization, she developed elevations in serum enzymes and jaundice (Table). The prothrombin time became abnormal, but she remained stable and liver test abnormalities were markedly improved over the 10 day hospitalization. Analysis of the recovered powder that was taken demonstrated that it was 99% pure MDMA. Key Points Medication: Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA: “Ecstasy”) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=~100) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 3 days to jaundice Recovery: Rapid, not completely documented Other medications: None mentioned Laboratory Values Time After AST Alk P INR
