Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


Part Strengthening Health Systems • Strengthening Public Health Services • Strengthening Personal Health Services • Capacity Strengthening and Management Reform Chapter Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, Mark A. Anderson, Stephen B. Blount, Claire V. Broome, Tom M. Chiller, Victoria Espitia, Rubina Imtiaz, Dan Sosin, Donna F. Stroup, Robert V. Tauxe, Maya Vijayaraghavan, and Murray Trostle “What gets measured gets done.” —Anonymous analysis,and interpretation ofdata,closely integrated with the .Additionally,the guidelines for implementing timely dissemination of these data to those responsible for the2004draftrevisedInternationalHealthRegulationsrequire preventing and controlling disease and injury (Thacker and World Health Organization (WHO) member states to have Berkelman 1988). Public health surveillance is a tool to esti- key persons and core capacities in surveillance (http:// mate the health status and behavior of the populations served www.who.int/csr/ihr/howtheywork/faq/en/#draft). Because surveillance can directly measure what is going on in omists to provide quality technical analyses, they also need the population, it is useful both for measuring the need for competent staffmembers to provide scientifically valid surveil- interventions and for directly measuring the effects of inter- lance information and communicate the results as information ventions.The purpose of surveillance is to empower decision for action. Competent epidemiologists and surveillance staff makers to lead and manage more effectively by providing members are not a luxury in developing countries;they are a timely,useful evidence. necessity for rational planning,implementation,and interven- financeindevelopingcountriesanddonoragenciesarerecog- nizing that data from effective surveillance systems are useful fortargetingresourcesandevaluatingprograms.TheHIVand DEFINITIONS AND BASIC CONCEPTS severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemics under- scoredthecriticalroleof surveillanceinprotectingindividual In this chapter,we use the following definitions: nationsandtheglobalcommunity.Forexample,in2005,China rapidlybegantoexpanditssurveillanceandresponsecapacity • Indicator: a measurable factor that allows decision makers through its Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP); to estimate objectively the size of a health problem and BrazilandArgentinachosetouseWorldBankloanstodevelop monitor the processes, the products, or the effects of an surveillance capacity; and the U.S. Agency for International intervention on the population (for example, the number Development (USAID) redesigned its surveillance strategy to of new cases of diarrhea, the proportion of children fully immunized in a district, or the percentage of high school of cholera, or “rash illness” rather than measles). Because students who report that they smoke at least one cigarette a syndromic surveillance is inexpensive and is faster than sys- day). tems that require laboratory confirmation, it is often the • Active surveillance: a system employing staff members to first kind of surveillance begun
