Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


inexpensive and is faster than sys- day). tems that require laboratory confirmation, it is often the • Active surveillance: a system employing staff members to first kind of surveillance begun in a developing country. regularly contact heath care providers or the population to However,because of the lack of specificity (for example,a seek information about health conditions. Active surveil- “rash illness”could be anything from the relatively minor lance provides the most accurate and timely information, rubella to devastating hemorrhagic fevers),reports require but it is also expensive. more investigation from higher levels. Also an increase in • Passive surveillance:a system by which a health jurisdiction one disease causing a syndrome may mask an epidemic of receives reports submitted from hospitals, clinics, public another (for example, rotavirus diarrhea decreases at the tively inexpensive strategy to cover large areas,and it pro- In the specialized area ofsurveillance for biologic terror- vides critical information for monitoring a community’s ism,syndromic surveillance refers to active surveillance of people in different institutions to provide data,data quality biologic terrorists and sometimes refers to alternative meas- and timeliness are difficult to control. ures such as increases in the use of over-the-counter drugs • Routine health information system:a passive system in which or increases in calls to emergency departments. regular reports about diseases and programs are completed • Behavioral risk factor surveillance system(BRFSS): an active tem by which routine reports about financial,logistic,and alcohol use, unprotected sex, or lack of physical exercise). other processes involved in the administration ofthe public Because the aim ofmany intervention program strategies is • Categorical surveillance: an active or passive system that surveys provide a direct measure oftheir effect in the popu- an intervention program.These systems are useful for pro- expected. These surveys are useful for providing timely gram managers.However,they may be inefficient at the dis- measures of program effectiveness for both communicable trict or local level,at which staffmay need to fill out multi- and noncommunicable disease interventions. ple forms on the same patient (that is,the HIV program,the tuberculosis program, the sexually transmitted infections higher levels, allocating the few competent surveillance experts to one program may leave other programs under- Public health surveillance provides the scientific and factual served, and reconciling the results of different systems to databaseessentialtoinformeddecisionmakingandappropriate establish the nation’s official estimates may be difficult. publichealthaction.Thekeyobjectiveofsurveillanceistopro- • Integrated surveillance:a combination of active and passive vide information to guide interventions. The public health systems using a single infrastructure
