Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


health Source: Adapted from Thacker and Stroup 1998a, 119. servicesbytargetinginterventionsanddocumentingtheireffect onthepopulation. Figure 53.1 Elements in Establishing and Acriticalchallengeinthehealthsectorindevelopingcoun- Maintaining a Surveillance System tries is to ensure quality and effectiveness of surveillance and publichealthresponseinanenvironmentof decentralization. National-level program and surveillance system managers may lose control of the quality and timeliness of locally col- of use to top managers. Simple tables and graphs are most lected data. This situation can be avoided by training local useful for summarizing and presenting data.Timely dissemi- decision makers in how to use information to meet their nation of data to those who make policy and implement needs and negotiating with them over the core information intervention programs is critical to the usefulness of surveil- collected by each district local unit. National-level managers lance data. or donors can also improve information quality by sponsor- which deals with collection, classification, storage, retrieval, works, linking funding to provision of adequate data, and offers the potential for truly integrated public health surveil- reporting. If the responsibility for implementing programs is lancebasedondatastandardization,acommunicationsinfra- devolvedtolocalmanagers,thennational-levelmanagersneed structure,andpoliciesondataaccessandsharing.Surveillance onlyafewsummaryindicators,ratherthanthedetailedinfor- will benefit by incorporating a systematic approach to stan- mation they may be used to. District or local managers tend dards for data content. For example, the U.S. Centers for topreferintegratedsystemstominimizefillingoutredundant Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has used standards- forms. based systems to support automatic electronic reporting of Donors need surveillance data to target and evaluate their diagnostic laboratory results of notifiable diseases, thereby investments.If they perceive weakness in the national system, both increasing the number of cases reported and receiving they may create parallel nongovernmental surveillance systems resultsmorerapidly(Efflerandothers1999).Useofdatastan- to gather data directly to meet their needs. These systems over time (for example, measurement of effect of program most competent people in the government system may leave to interventions), across different surveillance approaches (for work for the parallel system. Although this system meets example, facility-based reporting compared with sample sur- donors’ short-term needs, it invariably weakens government veys),andacrosscountriesandregions.Tobecredible,astan- systems.Parallel systems may weaken the very ministries that dard should be developed through an open, participatory they are meant to help and may not be sustainable after exter- process,byaninternationallyrecognizedaccreditedstandards- nal funding ends. Therefore, parallel systems are inherently development organization that is also capable of long-term inequitable and should be used only as a last resort. 1000 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others Public health Data collection Response
