Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


used only as a last resort. 1000 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others Public health Data collection Response Data Data generation use hemisphere hemisphere Interpretation Analysis Source: Authors. Figure 53.2 Surveillance and Response Conceptual Framework SURVEILLANCE AS A TOOL TO IMPROVE capacityhaslimitedtheabilityofdevelopingcountriestobuild PUBLICHEALTH nationalsurveillancesystemsthatrespondtobothinternational publichealththreatsandlocalhealthconcerns.Thiscapability Managersneedfocused,timely,scientificallysoundinformation isessentialtothesustaineddevelopmentofcountries. thatprovidesevidencetomakedecisionsoninterventionsfor improving the health of the population in their jurisdiction. Role of Field Epidemiologists in Providing Evidence Simplycollectingdataandpresentingthemarenotenough. Developedcountrieshaveconstructedtheirpublichealthand disease control strategies by using the principles of field epi- Using Surveillance Information for demiology. Developing countries need to build and sustain Evidence-Based Decisions human capacity in field epidemiology. Strengthened field A major gap in promoting effective surveillance lies between epidemiologic capacity can serve a country in the following the production ofdata and the ability to convert those data into specificareas: usable information and then initiate the appropriate public health action. Surveillance and response can be described in • providing a response to acute problems terms ofa data generation hemisphere and a data use hemisphere • providing the scientific basis for program and policy . The data generation hemisphere is the tradi- decisions tional view ofsurveillance,whereas the data use hemisphere is • implementing disease surveillance systems the public health response that begins with interpretation of • supporting national health planning the data from the surveillance system (figure 53.2). • making resource allocation decisions Substantial attention and the accompanying resources in • allocating the human capacity base for national health surveillance have been devoted to the prompt and complete priorities. productionofsurveillancedata.Althoughdevelopingcountries Specific competencies that should be developed include,but experienceweaknessesinbothhemispheres,moreattentionis are not limited to,the ability to accomplish the following: neededtocreatingandstrengtheningthelocalcapacitywithin to disease outbreaks and public health conditions of national event thiscapacityhastobeimportedthroughshort-termexpatriate • design and conduct a scientific investigation assistance. Even when local capacity is developed, it is often • analyze and interpret data from an investigation otherareasproblematic.Thefailuretodevelopthisindigenous the analysis and interpretation ofdata Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions | 1001 • be proficient in all aspects of diseases of public health evidence gathered efficiently and presented effectively.Because importance (for example,HIV and AIDS,sexually transmit- these needs differ,depending on management’s needs,a num- ted diseases,malaria,tuberculosis,and zoonoses). ber ofdifferent strategies have been developed.Here are some ofthe most useful. These competencies need to be tailored to the various levels ofthe health care system. Since 1975, CDC and WHO have collaborated with more Sentinel Surveillance training
