Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


Laboratory-Based Surveillance the state level to coordinate the surveillance activities of the The methods used for infectious disease surveillance form a hundreds oflocal health workers throughout the states. spectrum that evolves with the economic development of a country. Foodborne disease (FBD) surveillance, for example, isdivided into four distinct levels of surveillance.Each level is SELECTED SURVEILLANCE STRATEGIES more complex and has greater capacity for controlling and Surveillance systems need to be designed and implemented to detecting disease, but it also depends on more resources and meet top management’s needs for focused, reliable, timely infrastructure (figure 53.3). 1002 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others and Tauxe 2002). A collaborative WHO program called Improving capacity and infrastructure Global Salm-Surv promotes the use of Salmonella serotyping internationally among countries that wish to upgrade their No formal Syndromic Lab-based Integrated national capacity for FBD surveillance ( surveillancea surveillanceb surveillancec food-chain surveillanced salmsurv/en). Molecular subtyping is now expanding the power of laboratory-based surveillance to detect outbreaks in the back- ground of sporadic cases by distinguishing the molecular Outbreak detection can occur at all levels, but ability increases along the spectrum “fingerprint”of an outbreak strain.CDC maintains PulseNet, an Internet-based network ofall U.S.public health laboratories that uses a standardized genotyping method called pulsed- Source: Authors. field-gel-electrophoresis (PFGE) as the basis for a national a. Without a formal surveillance, only large or unusual outbreaks can be detected. database of PFGE subtypes (Swaminathan and others 2001). b. Syndromic surveillance is based on groups of signs or symptoms indicative of a Standardized subtyping protocols have now been developed for common diagnosis, such as acute gastroenteritis. c. Laboratory-based surveillance relies on laboratory-confirmed pathogens, such as seven pathogens,and next-generation,gene-based technologies Salmonella or Shigella. d. Integrated food-chain surveillance uses data from across the food chain. are under development for the future. Similar networks are developing around the world, with PulseNet Europe and Figure 53.3 Spectrum of Case-Based Foodborne Disease PulseNet Canada already active and discussions rapidly Surveillance advancing for PulseNet Asia Pacific and PulseNet Latin America.As with Salmonellaserotyping itself,the global use of standard genotyping will facilitate the detection ofmulticonti- nent clusters. common method of surveillance in the developing world. Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response Surveillance of FBD outbreaks that are investigated by public health authorities is often a useful means of monitoring both The Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response (IDSR) the safety
