Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


and Response Surveillance of FBD outbreaks that are investigated by public health authorities is often a useful means of monitoring both The Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response (IDSR) the safety of the food supply and the activities of the public strategy,first developed in Africa,links epidemiologic and lab- health system. Although both surveillance for clinical syn- oratory data in communicable disease surveillance systems at the future in FBD is in laboratory-based surveillance. If surveillance with response (WHO 1993, 1998). Districts microbiologic diagnosis is sought routinely for a sample of wereidentified as a focus for strengthening efforts in collecting patients with acute gastroenteritis,then surveillance based on timely data,analyzing the collected data,and using the gener- those diagnoses is possible. For enteric bacterial pathogens atedinformationforpublichealthresponses.TheIDSRstrategy such as Salmonellaor Shigella,determining the serotype ofthe is based on core activities, including case-patient detection, strains in central reference laboratories allows more rapid and registration, and confirmation; reporting, analysis, use, and complete identification of epidemics, which may otherwise feedback ofdata;and epidemic preparedness and response (for lead to preventable death and disability. example, outbreak investigations, contact tracing, and public tory is essential for quality assurance and quality control and provision for infrastructure, including communication support.Such a laboratory-based system might begin with sys- (Nsubuga,Eseko,and others 2002). tematic referral of a sample of strains isolated at a sample of Key steps in implementing the IDSR strategy include sensi- systematic sampling scheme provides better data than a more ational analysis; preparing a strategic IDSR plan; identifying haphazard attempt at universal reporting. Regular sharing of and training a motivated, competent workforce; developing information between the public health microbiology laborato- national IDSR technical guidelines; implementing the plan; ry and epidemiologists is critical for the information to be used and monitoring and evaluating implementation to improve successfully. performance . Assessment of the existing The utility of serotyping as an international language national surveillance and response activities provides baseline forSalmonellasubtypeshasledtoitswidespreadadoption.Ina data to measure progress; to identify and build consensus on recentsurvey,61countriesreportedthattheyusedSalmonella the national priority communicable diseases; to identify serotypingforpublichealthsurveillance(Herikstad,Motarjemi, surveillance gaps ofthe selected priority diseases;to document Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions | 1003 Table 53.2 Steps in the Development of the Philippine National Epidemic Sentinel Surveillance System Steps Data side Human capacity side disease. 2. Determine who will make interventions. Involve users in design. 3. Determine information users’ need to make interventions. Involve users in design. 4. Decide how often decision makers
