Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


side disease. 2. Determine who will make interventions. Involve users in design. 3. Determine information users’ need to make interventions. Involve users in design. 4. Decide how often decision makers need reports. Involve users in design. 5. Identify who collects, tabulates, and analyzes reports and Identify manager and staff to analyze, report, and enter data. who disseminates information. 6. Design report. Involve users and staff in design. 7. Make table shells. Involve staff in design. 8. Design questionnaire. Involve staff in design. 9. Pilot questionnaire. Involve staff in implementation and evaluation. 10. Pilot data flow and analysis. Involve staff in implementation and evaluation. 11. Pilot system. Train staff in system and involve them in evaluation. 12. Run system. Involve staff in ongoing training and quality assurance monitoring. 13. Evaluate system: Was information used? Are data and Involve staff and users in design of external evaluation and in review of analysis of good quality? evaluator’s report. Source:Adapted from White and McDonnell 2000, 311. the strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities of the existing on the skills of the workforce, PDOH was able to avoid the systems; and to make appropriate recommendations. The duplications,inefficiencies,andsustainabilityproblemsofmul- WHO Regional Office for Africa, collaborating with its part- tipleverticalsystems(WhiteandMcDonnell2000). ners,has prepared tools and guidelines for implementation of IDSR at the country level.Indicators to monitor the perform- Informal Networks as Critical Elements ance of the surveillance and response systems have been pre- of Surveillance Systems pared and field tested and are now in use in Africa. WHOandotheragenciesfrequentlyreceivetelephonecallsor informalreportsabouturgenthealthevents.WHOpublishesan Example: The Philippine National Epidemic informallistofthese“rumors,”whichallowspublichealthwork- Surveillance System erstorespondtohealthriskspromptlyratherthanwaitingfor (PDOH), relying on its integrated management information atesofFETPs,PHSWOWs,andsimilarprogramsthatprovide of morethan60millionpeople.In1989,thePDOHdesigned makeuponeofthemostimportantinformalnetworks. theNationalEpidemicSentinelSurveillanceSystem,ahospital- FETPs and allied programs both train epidemiologists and based sentinel surveillance system that encompasses both the provide service to their ministries ofhealth.For example,a stu- flow of data and the personnel requirements needed to make dent in the Brazilian FETP was assigned to review routine data the surveillance system work effectively (table 53.2).After the on patients with leishmaniasis. She noted that some patients pilotstudydemonstratedpromisingresults,thePDOHcreated had symptoms of heavy metal poisoning, and further study personnel positions and a supervisory structure for sentinel indicated that a drug being used to treat leishmaniasis was con- physicians, nurses, and clerks in regional epidemiology and taminated with heavy metals.The drug was reformulated,and surveillance units (RESUs) integrated into the public health the problem was resolved.When this study was presented at a tigated about 80 outbreaks, including 25 bacteriologically
