Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


heavy metals.The drug was reformulated,and surveillance units (RESUs) integrated into the public health the problem was resolved.When this study was presented at a tigated about 80 outbreaks, including 25 bacteriologically Interventions Network (a network ofFETPs and allied training confirmed outbreaks of typhoid and 5 of cholera. As the programs),other countries banned the drug until it was refor- Philippines developed HIV serological and behavioral risk mulated . surveillance, the RESU staff conducted surveys in their com- Large categorical surveillance systems are expensive, and munities.Byintegratingsurveillancefunctionsthatwerebased staff members might become complacent, especially if the 1004 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others disease under surveillance is rare.For example,the polio sur- epidemiologic studies ( veillance system for acute flaccid paralysis in the Western outbreaks_e.html). Hemisphere detected no cases in July 2000.A trainee from the The success ofthis global effort to control the first new epi- FETP of the Dominican Republic, while investigating a case demic disease ofthe 21st century depended on a combination of suspected poisoning in a child, documented the first out- ofopen collaboration among scientists and politicians ofmany break of circulating vaccine-type poliovirus in the Western countries and the rapid and accurate communication of sur- Hemisphere since 1991.There were 13 confirmed cases in the veillance data within and among countries.Rapid global spread Dominican Republic and 8 cases in Haiti. Her investigation was recognized, and a global surveillance network was estab- led to national immunization days in both countries, which lished on the basis of an agreed-upon case definition that was raised immunization levels and stopped the outbreak (Kew sufficiently specific to ensure effective reporting. andothers 2002). Public health surveillance is critical to recognizing new cases of SARS and differentiating this disease from other causes of severe respiratory illness, especially influenza (Heymann and THE ROLE OF SURVEILLANCE IN Rodier 2004). Ongoing research into sources in the environ- MAJOROUTBREAKS will improve surveillance for this critical public health prob- It seems incredible that a disease as devastating as AIDS could lem.Notably,this highly contagious disease—for which there is have spread silently to many countries over many years before neither a vaccine nor a cure—was controlled by competent, it was detected and before effective control measures were dedicated health workers with access to excellent communica- implemented in the 1980s. In recent years, surveillance and tions. SARS presented a greater challenge than smallpox, for response systems at
