Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


they detected that the virus China Center for Disease Control, mobilized all 20 of its was being spread from human to human in a family.It is likely trainees,and they contributed substantially to the surveillance, that person-to-person transmission may have occurred in investigation,and control ofthe SARS outbreak,working with other countries,where field epidemiology was not used. most cases of SARS outside Asia, 8 of the 10 FETP residents (a) raising global awareness of the potential of a global catas- were involved in the SARS outbreak. They instituted surveil- trophe early enough that plans can be made to avert or decrease lance, conducted epidemiologic investigations, designed pre- harm and (b) demonstrating that, as with SARS, the disease vention and control guidelines, responded to inquiries from could be controlled with proven field epidemiologic methods the media and the public, and planned and implemented supplemented by good communications, without vaccines, Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions | 1005 Example: Ebola in Uganda, the Role of the PHSWOW Foundation, CDC, and WHO. Both students and graduates PHSWOW returned to Gulu district in northern Uganda for control this dangerous epidemic. Because the minister had with high fevers, diarrhea, and bleeding. He diagnosed viral and to bring in international teams before the disease spread hemorrhagic fever. He called the Ministry of Health in further.Partially because of the lessons learned from this epi- Kampala,where that weekend a graduate ofthe PHSWOW was demic, Uganda has become one of the leading countries in in charge of taking calls about epidemics. She agreed with implementing the IDSR program. his diagnosis and arranged for samples to be rushed to the WHO reference center for viral hemorrhagic fevers.When the SURVEILLANCE FOR SPECIFIC CONDITIONS minister ofhealth arrived at his office the next day,the gradu- ate briefed him. Recognizing the gravity of the situation, the Surveillance systems are important tools for targeting, moni- treated patients. meet those needs. Laboratory tests quickly confirmed that the illness was Ebola hemorrhagic fever,which usually kills more than 50 per- Environmental Public Health Surveillance cent of those infected .Public health surveil- lance was difficult for several reasons.Because the disease was Surveillance for environmental public health practice requires severe and rapidly fatal,rural villagers feared that they might be the collection,analysis,and dissemination of data on hazards, Some sought out traditional healers;others fled as soon as they others 1996). two other districts. Gulu was a politically unstable area, and injury,
