Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


the collection,analysis,and dissemination of data on hazards, Some sought out traditional healers;others fled as soon as they others 1996). two other districts. Gulu was a politically unstable area, and injury, and disability. However, relating those outcomes to some villages were difficult to reach because ofrebel or bandit specific environmental hazards and exposures is critical to activity. The Ugandan government mobilized its military to help with case finding and invited WHO, CDC, and other international teams to assist. Patients with Ebola infection Agent is a hazard require intense nursing and medical attention to control bleed- ing, diarrhea, and fevers. Some patients bleed easily, and all Agent is present in environment their secretions can be highly infectious.Hospitals in Gulu were Hazard desperately short ofsupplies to control the spread ofinfection surveillance from so many patients simultaneously.In spite ofthis situation, Route of exposure exists Ugandan health workers selflessly cared for the sick. By January23,2001,a total of425 cases had occurred,the largest Host is exposed to agent Ebola outbreak recorded.Only 53 percent of the patients had died,a proportion far less than the 88 percent reported in the Exposure 1976 EbolaoutbreakintheDemocraticRepublicofCongo(for- Agent reaches target tissue surveillance merlyZaire) and other previous epidemics (WHO Report ofan Agent produces adverse effect were infected.Because the team from the Ugandan Ministry of Outcome outbreaks,started when infected Gulu residents fled to distant Adverse effect becomes clinically apparent surveillance villages, were quickly detected and controlled. International Source: Thacker and others 1996. observers commented,“National notification and surveillance efforts led to the rapid identification ofthese foci and to effec- Figure 53.4 The Process of Adverse Effects and the tive containment”(CDC2001). Corresponding Surveillance 1006 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others environmental public health surveillance. Hazards include 5millionpersonseachyearandcausinghighratesofdisability. toxic chemical agents,physical agents,biomechanical stressors, People from all economic groups are at risk for injuries, but and biologic agents that are located in air,water,soil,food,and death rates caused by injury tend to be higher in developing other environmental media.Exposure surveillance is the mon- countries (Peden, McGee, and Sharma 2002). Injury surveil- itoring of members of the population for the presence of an lance includes monitoring the incidence,causes,and circum- environmental agent,its metabolites,or its clinically inappar- stancesoffatalandnonfatalinjuries.Injuriesareclassifiedbythe ent (for example,subclinical or preclinical) effects. intentionoftheactintotwogroups:unintentionalinjuriesand surveillance. First, the ability to link specific environmental andthePanAmericanHealthOrganization(Concha-Eastman causes to adverse outcomes is limited by our poor understand- andVillveces2001)havedevelopedguidelinesforestablishing ing of disease processes,long lead times,inadequate measures
