Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


the system. Niskar2004).Othernationshavedifferentsetsofprioritycon- For example,the Nicaraguan Ministry ofHealth,in collab- regardless of level of development, to establish and maintain Injury Surveillance Guidelines established by WHO (Holder, effectiveandcomprehensiveenvironmentalpublichealthsur- Peden,and Krug 2001).Under the system,a reportable case is veillancesystems.Asweinvestinunderstandingtheenlarging defined as a patient who died from or was treated for an injury threats in the global environment, we must overcome these in the ED.Cases include patients with unintentional and vio- challenges and establish improved surveillance systems. The lence-related injuries. healthoftheglobalcommunitydependsonthisinvestment. ED staff members identify cases and collect data in five hospitals in Nicaragua. Information used to complete the instrument is collected directly from the patients or their Injury Surveillance representatives. An ED admission clerk collects basic demo- Injuriesareamajorpublichealthproblemandareamongthe graphic data on the patient’s arrival.ED medical staffmembers 10 leading causes of death worldwide, killing an estimated (physicians and nurses) collect the remaining information Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions | 1007 (for example, location, mechanism of injury, nature, severity, discussed elsewhere in this chapter. These core surveillance and circumstances surrounding the injury) during triage and toolsshouldberobustbeforenewdatatypescanbeconsidered assessment. forsupplementingpublichealthsurveillance. The hospital epidemiologist collects data collection forms Syndromic surveillance is an investigational approach by from the ED staff if the forms are incomplete.The statistician data acquisition and generation of statistical signals (comput- reviews data daily.The country project coordinator also moni- erized algorithms), monitor disease indicators continually to tors the quality of the data periodically. Using Epi Info 2002 detect outbreaks of disease earlier and more completely than programs developed specifically for this project, the project might otherwise be possible with traditional reportable disease coordinators analyze trends and identify potential risk factors methods (Buehler and others 2004). (Noe and others 2004). The information is used to produce CDC’s list of biologic terrorism agents and diseases can be monthly reports for dissemination.Information is reported at found at and an updated list of refer- both the regional and the country levels. ences dealing with syndromic surveillance is at Injury prevention programs in Nicaragua use surveillance gov/epo/dphsi/syndromic/. data to assess the need for new policies or programs and to evaluate the effectiveness ofexisting policies and programs.For Complex Emergency Surveillance example, the municipality of León is using the information from the hospital to monitor the increase in suicide attempts The key elements in planning a disaster surveillance system are among youths abusing pesticides and to evaluate an intersec- establishing objectives,developing case definitions,determin- toral campaign to promote life that
