Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


Upper-middle income 3.68 6.41 ECONOMICS OF PUBLIC HEALTH Lower-middle income 2.58 5.63 SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS Low income 1.22 4.78 The outbreak of SARS in 2003 demonstrates the far-reaching Source:World Bank 2004. economic impact of not having an effective global public a. All World Bank member economies with populations of more than 30,000 are classified into income groups, divided according to 2003 gross national income per capita, calculated using the tion in real gross domestic product ofmore than US$1.0 billion US$766 to US$3,035; upper-middle income, US$3,036 to US$9,385; and high income, US$9,386 or more. in Canada and estimated income losses in the range of US$12.3 billion to US$28.4 billion for East and Southeast Asia as a whole . Public health surveillance is considered a global public good are reportedly the weak link in the global surveillance frame- , particularly when it is used for eradication of work,although they bear the greatest burden ofdisease,emerg- such diseases as poliomyelitis. As eradication campaigns ing and reemerging old pathogens, and drug-resistant decrease the number of cases,maintaining systems to find the pathogens (U.S.GAO 2001).The greatest need for surveillance last few cases becomes more expensive.Often,the majority of systems is in these countries,but most lack both the resources the costs for these systems fall on hard-pressed developing and the political will to build human capacity and finance the countries. This factor raises questions of fairness and equity. systems (table 53.3).Resource constraints and intense pressure nificant risk to national populations, whereas other diseases, authorities in the poorest countries to spend resources on such as malaria and diarrhea, typically are major causes of surveillance (U.S. GAO 2001). Because the costs and benefits morbidity and mortality.In such countries,it seems most fair derive from surveillance systems spilling across national bor- and efficient for the global community to finance eradication ders,donors should assist with capacity building in countries campaigns,leaving national systems free to address the diseases that have been unable to invest the human and material that most affect their populations. The negative impact of resources required. globally mandated eradication surveillance systems can be An interesting and unresolved feature ofthese global public mediated or reversed by leveraging on the eradication pro- goods—the solution to their adequate provision and supply gram’s infrastructure to gather surveillance data for diseases of rests at local, national, and sometimes regional levels—has others 2002). A similar case can be made for influenza early capacity building in developing countries rather than
