Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


data for diseases of rests at local, national, and sometimes regional levels—has others 2002). A similar case can be made for influenza early capacity building in developing countries rather than for con- warning systems in countries that gather information that will solidation ofthe fragmented systems at the global level (WHO be used to create vaccines that will benefit other populations 2002). but not their own. Equity demands that the countries that Standardtoolsofeconomicevaluation(Meltzer2001)have benefit from such systems finance them. been used to compare the benefits and costs of several public Public health surveillance systems serve an essential func- healthinterventions.Thepublicgoodcharacteristicsofsurveil- tion in preventing and controlling disease spread within and lancesystems,withbenefitsthatarenoteasytoquantify,make across national borders.Although the private sector benefits, theuseofsuchtoolsdifficulttoimplementinpractice.However, it lacks the incentive to invest in public health surveillance economic evaluation of laboratory surveillance systems to systems, and sovereign states depend on the contribution of detectspecificdisease-causingorganismshavebeenundertaken others ;this situation has important implications in the developed world by comparing benefits and costs now within national borders,the difficulty ofquantifying the bene- Theseevaluationshavenotbeendoneindevelopingcountries fits ofsurveillance systems for individual communities leads to andareneeded.Atbest,ananalysisofthebenefitsandcostsof neglect by local authorities,providing the economic rationale existingorproposedsurveillancesystemsisfeasible.Thisanaly- for funding by the national government.Developing countries sis requires an estimate of the cost of illness and answers the 1010 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter Nsubuga, Mark E. White, Stephen B. Thacker, and others questionof howmanycasesof aparticulardiseaseneedtobe Analysis of surveillance data can also be transformed by preventedbythesurveillancesystemtobeexactlyequaltothe using available technology. Software that is Web-enabled, expenditureonthesystem. together with the advances in geographic information system grams,one can,by using traditional econometric tools,apply with Internet access can potentially apply the latest version of the data on health outcomes from the surveillance systems as software running on a distant server in the national capital to inputs to economic analysis.Surveillance also clearly leads to a local data to generate up-to-date maps and graphs describing cost saving if it prevents the need for expenditure on treating health status in that jurisdiction. patients. Use of surveillance data can also be transformed. Sophisticated algorithms can be applied to data as it is collected to determine when (and how) an alert should be sent to local, need for immediate investigation. Increasingly sophisticated Publichealthagencies,ministriesoffinance,andinternational visual display techniques and creation ofcustom channels with donorsandorganizationsneedtotransformsurveillancefrom data of particular relevance to groups of data users are just dusty archives of laboriously collected after-the-fact statistics some ofthe tools already being used to put public health con- to
