Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


data of particular relevance to groups of data users are just dusty archives of laboriously collected after-the-fact statistics some ofthe tools already being used to put public health con- to meaningful measures that provide accountability for local tent on the desktop ofanyone with broadband,secure Internet healthstatusorthatdeliverreal-timeearlywarningsfordevas- access. tating outbreaks. This future depends in part on developing Realization ofthis future vision does not require technology consensus on critical surveillance content and developing beyond what is already feasible, but the following factors are commitment on the part of countries, funding partners, and needed: multilateralorganizationstoinvestinsurveillancesysteminfra- structureandtousesurveillancedataasthebasisfordecision • the organizational and political will to develop and coordi- making.Thisvisionofthefutureassumesacoherent,integrated nate the needed systems and standards that will enable those approachtosurveillancesystemsthatisbasedonmatchingthe systems surveillanceobjectivewiththerightdatasourceandmodality • appropriate attention to individual privacy and system and on paying attention to country-specific circumstances security whilemaintainingglobalattentiontodatacontentneeds. • removal ofthe financial and logistical barriers to broadband Information technology and informatics can help in attain- Internet access ing this vision.Specifically,technology can facilitate the collec- • a strategic multisectoral approach to accelerating national tion,analysis,and use ofsurveillance data,ifdata standards are infrastructure among the poorest developing nations. developed and compatible systems are established.Data collec- tion for surveillance would be an automatic by-product ofany electronic systems used to support clinical care.Under this sce- GLOBAL SURVEILLANCE NETWORKS nario, an automatic electronic message would be sent to the about the patient,provider’s name,patient’s home address,risk institutions focusing on particular disease conditions. WHO factors,previous immunizations,and treatments.Even before has described a “network of networks”(U.S.GAO 2001) that this ideal capacity becomes widespread,technology such as cell links existing regional,national,and international networks of phone–based systems could accelerate collection of key data laboratories and medical centers into a surveillance network (for example, occurrence of a viral hemorrhagic fever out- (figure 53.5). break). The rapid penetration of cell phones in developing Government centers of excellence (for example, CDC, the countries might obviate the need for prohibitively expensive French Pasteur Institutes,and FETPs) along with WHO coun- landline-based systems. An accelerated system of wireless try and regional offices also contribute to disease and health Internet access might also transform the capacities to which a condition reporting. Military networks, such as the U.S. local health post or a district health official might have access. Department of Defense’s Global Emerging Infectious Disease These systems should also be considered as means for collect- System, and Internet discussion sites, such as ProMed ing information beyond traditional data. For example, ( and Epi-X ( telemedicine
