Three
KEYWORDS: surveillance, health, data, disease, public, systems, public health, countries, information, developing, global, national, control, example, diseases


These systems should also be considered as means for collect- System, and Internet discussion sites, such as ProMed ing information beyond traditional data. For example, ( and Epi-X ( telemedicine access can permit views of a rash illness to be epix),also supplement the reporting networks.In 1997,WHO shared with national or international medical specialists. started the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network,and Public Health Surveillance: A Tool for Targeting and Monitoring Interventions | 1011 WHO collaborating centers and UNHCR laboratories Epidemiology and UNICEF training country networks offices National Military public laboratory health networks authorities WHO Global regional and Public Health country Intelligence offices Network Internet Non- discussion governmental sites organizations Media press Formal Informal Source: U.S. GAO 2001. a. UNHCR represents the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. b. UNICEF represents the United Nations Children’s Fund. Figure 53.5 Global Infectious Disease Surveillance Frameworks it was formally adopted by WHO member states in 2000.The capacity of both epidemiologists and laboratorians to collect, network has more than 120 partners around the world and use,and interpret surveillance and outbreak data (for example, identifies and responds to more than 50 outbreaks in develop- the collaborative WHO program in foodborne diseases called ing countries each year (Heymann and Rodier 2004). the WHO Global Salm-Surv) are also important components The International Health Regulations are the only binding in developing global surveillance networks. international agreements on disease control. The regulations provide a framework for preventing the international spread of RESEARCH AGENDA IN PUBLIC HEALTH disease through effective national surveillance coupled with the SURVEILLANCE international coordination of response to public health emer- gencies of global concern by using the guiding principle of Developing nations share surveillance needs with the rest ofthe maximum protection, minimum restriction . world, yet they are challenged by economic limitations,weak low fever;they require WHO member states to notify WHO of ofpoverty and disease.As a result,countries in the developing any cases of these diseases that occur in humans within their world often depend on the research efforts of others,or they territories and then give further notification when the territory collaborate with others to conduct the research necessary for is free ofinfection.The regulations are being revised to include their surveillance needs.Within individual countries, surveil- the development ofnational core capacities and national focal lance systems are essential in measuring disease and injury bur- persons who have the competencies ofgraduates ofFETPs and den as a first step in establishing
