NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apoaequorin, liver, hepatotoxicity, dietary, supplements, injury, liver injury, protein, reported, herbal, sclerosis, dietary supplements, adverse, review, memory


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Apoaequorin. [Updated 2019 Dec 11]. Bookshelf URL: Apoaequorin Updated: December 11, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Apoaequorin is a recombinant protein used as a dietary supplement that is purported to improve memory and verbal learning. Apoaequorin has not been associated with serum enzyme elevations during therapy nor with clinically apparent liver injury. Background Apoaequorin is a calcium binding protein found in luminescent jellyfish (Aequorea victoria). When the natural (apo) form of the protein is conjugated with coelenterazine, the resulting protein aequorin has natural bioluminescence when exposed to calcium. For this reason, it has been used as a research molecule to study intracellular physiology and regulation of calcium flux. Recombinant apoaequorin, developed for use in research studies, was subsequently evaluated for its potential to improve memory. The basis for this use of aequorin was its calcium binding characteristics which resembled those of calmodulin, an intracellular protein complex which appears to play a central role in memory. A single trial of oral apoaequorin in patients with memory problems found no overall differences in changes in measures of verbal learning in comparison to placebo, but slightly greater improvements were reported in a subset of patients with normal cognitive test values at baseline. These findings were questioned later because of the lack of evidence that apoaequorin is absorbed orally or can cross the blood-brain barrier. Nevertheless, apoaequorin is marketed as a dietary supplement that supports brain health and helps with aging-related memory loss. It has been used off label in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and multiple sclerosis. Apoaequorin is available in tablets of 10, 20 and 40 mg under the brand name Prevagen. It has not been approved by the FDA as therapy of memory loss or neurologic illnesses. Side effect s were not reported in the few prospective studies that have been published. Adverse events reported to the sponsor have been rare but have included headache, nausea, constipation, edema and hypertension. There have been anecdotal reports of serious adverse events in persons with multiple sclerosis taking apoaequorin including hypotension and depression with suicidal ideation. Hepatotoxicity Apoaequorin is considered generally safe and without major adverse effects. In the human studies that have been published there were no reports of serum enzyme elevations occurring during therapy and no mention of serious adverse events or hepatotoxicity. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause
