NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apoaequorin, liver, hepatotoxicity, dietary, supplements, injury, liver injury, protein, reported, herbal, sclerosis, dietary supplements, adverse, review, memory


studies that have been published there were no reports of serum enzyme elevations occurring during therapy and no mention of serious adverse events or hepatotoxicity. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury 2 LiverTox The mechanism by which apoaequorin might cause hepatotoxicity is unclear. Indeed, there is little evidence that apoaequorin is absorbed orally, most proteins being broken down in the stomach and intestines to individual amino acids or short polypeptides. Allergic reactions can occur with proteins taken orally but have not been reported with apoaequorin. The possibility of mislabeling or adulteration with hepatotoxic natural products is always an issue in commercial supplements. Drug Class: Herbal and Dietary Supplements PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Apoaequorin – Prevagen® DRUG CLASS Herbal and Dietary Supplements CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Apoaequorin 50934-79-7 Recombinant Protein Not Applicable ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 11 December 2019 Abbreviations used: HDS, herbal and dietary supplements; ALS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Zimmerman HJ. Unconventional drugs. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman, HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999: pp. 731-4. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; several herbals are discussed, including comfrey, germander, chaparral leaf, skullcap and valerian, but not apoaequorin). Seeff L, Stickel F, Navarro VJ. Hepatotoxicity of herbals and dietary supplements. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 631-58. (Review of hepatotoxicity of herbal and dietary supplements [HDS]; apoaequorin is not discussed). No authors listed. Apoaequorin. In, Natural medicines: comprehensive database. Available at: https:// naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com/databases/food,-herbs-supplements/professional.aspx? productid=1486. (Fact sheet on natural products mentions that apoaequorin is a protein that given orally is purported to improve effectiveness). Shimomura O. A short story of aequorin. Biol Bull 1995; 189: 1-5. 7654844 (Story of the discovery of aequorin using extracts of the light organ granules of Jellyfish [Aequorinae victoria] and the finding that the luminescence required calcium). Schiano TD. Hepatotoxicity and complementary and alternative medicines. Clin Liver Dis 2003; 7: 453-73. Apoaequorin 3 (Comprehensive review of herbal associated hepatotoxicity; apoaequorin is not listed as causing hepatotoxicity). Russo MW, Galanko JA, Shrestha R, Fried MW, Watkins P. Liver transplantation for acute liver failure from drug-induced liver injury in the United States. Liver Transpl 2004; 10: 1018-23. 15390328 (Among ~50,000 liver transplants reported to UNOS between 1990 and 2002, 270
