Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


IDSA GUIDELINES T 2026 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious P Diseases Society of America and the Pediatric Infectious I Diseases Society on The Management of CRommunity- acquired Pneumonia in Infants and ChildCren Older than 3 Months of Age: The Use of tpa and dnSase or tpa Alone for FibrinolysisU N Shawn D. St. Peter1, Krow Ampofo2, Thomas Brogan3, Michael D. Cabana4, Claudia Espinosa5, Todd A. Florin6, Jeffrey S. Gerber7, Michelle Gill8, Debra L. Palazzi9, Mark A Sawyer10, Angela M. Statile11, Derek J. Williams12, Sheena Patel13**, Mark I. Neuman14*, Samir S. Shah15* M 1Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas, USA; 2University of Utah, Utah, USA; 3University of T E C of Medicine, Texas, USA; 10Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, UC San Diego School of C A —————————————————————————————————————————— *co-senior authors, **lead methodologist Corresponding Author: Samir S. Shah (.) © The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact . DOI: Downloaded from by guest on May and Practice Guidelines, Infectious Diseases Society of America, Virginia, USA 14Division of T This paper is part of a larger clinical practice guideline on the diagnosis and management of P parapneumonic effusion and empyema in children, developed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society and the Infectious Diseases Society of America. In this report, tIhe panel provides recommendations for intrapleural fibrinolysis with tissue plasminogen acRtivator (tPA) alone over tPA and dornase alfa (DNase) in children (3 months to 18 years) with complicated parapneumonic C effusion and empyema. The panel’s recommendations are based upon evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized methSodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of U Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. N Key words. Parapneumonic empyema, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), dornase alfa (DNase) A In children (3 months to 18 years) with parapneumonic empyema, should tPA and DNase or tPA alone be used for chemical debridement? M Recommendation: In children (3 months to 18 years of age) with pneumonia-associated empyema, the panel suggests adm inistering tPA alone over tPA and DNase (conditional D recommendation, low certainty of evidence) A strong recommendationE means most informed people would choose the recommended course of action and only
