Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


inistering tPA alone over tPA and DNase (conditional D recommendation, low certainty of evidence) A strong recommendationE means most informed people would choose the recommended course of action and only a small proportion would not. T A conditional recommendation means the majority of informed people would choose the suggested P course of action but many would not. E C INTRODUCTION C Parapneumonic effusion refers to a purulent collection in the pleural space with or without Ainfection. As part of the management of complicated pneumonia, pleural fluid drainage with a thoracostomy tube and intrapleural fibrinolysis hastens clinical recovery. This paper is part of a larger clinical practice guideline on the diagnosis and management of parapneumonic effusion and empyema in children, developed by the Pediatric Infectious Disease Society (PIDS) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA), and has been endorsed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS). In this paper, the guideline panel provides recommendations for the use of fibrinolysis in the management of complicated parapneumonic effusion and empyema. These recommendations DOI: 2 Downloaded from by guest on May replace previous statements in the last iteration of this guideline . These recommendations are intended for use by healthcare professionals who care for children with parapneumonic effusion and empyema. T METHODS P The panel’s recommendation is based on evidence derived from a comprehIensive systematic literature review and adhere to a standardized methodology for rating the cRertainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, C Development, and Evaluation) approach . The recommendations are labeled as “strong” or “conditional” according to an evaluation of the certainty of evidence, the balance between benefits S and harms, patients’ values and preferences, resources/cost, and other factors such as acceptability, U feasibility, and equity. More details about the systematic review and guideline development processes are presented in the Supplementary Material. N A comprehensive literature search (through July 2024) was conducted as part of a systematic A review. Key eligibility criteria at both the topic and clinical question levels guided the search and selection of studies for inclusion. For this question, the panel considered patients 3 months to 18 M years of age with complicated parapneumonic effusion defined as empyema, undergoing pleural fluid drainage and interpleural fibrinolytics. Studies evaluating and comparing different fibrinolytics were included. StuDdies with adult populations were excluded, as well as international populations in resource-limited areas. Randomized controlled trials
