Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


fluid drainage and interpleural fibrinolytics. Studies evaluating and comparing different fibrinolytics were included. StuDdies with adult populations were excluded, as well as international populations in resource-limited areas. Randomized controlled trials and observational studies were screened for inclusion. E T Included studies were assessed for risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool . Included studies underwent critical appraisal according to the GRADE approach. An assessment of the P benefits and harms of care options informed the recommendation(s) . Details of the systematic E review and guideline development processes are available in the Supplementary material. C C SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE AA comprehensive literature search identified a single randomized controlled trial (RCT) that met the panel’s inclusion criteria . In this study, a total of 97 children with parapneumonic empyemas requiring pleural drainage were randomized to receive either tPA and placebo or tPA followed by DNase. Treatment with tPA and DNase was not associated with decreased hospital length of stay compared with tPA and placebo (mean [SD] length of stay, 9.0 [4.9] vs 9.1 [5.3] differences were observed for the need for additional intervention, such as repeat pleural drainage procedures (8% in the tPA plus DNase vs. 4% in the tPA plus placebo group; MD 4.0%; 95% CI DOI: 3 Downloaded from by guest on May -5.5 to 13.5; p=0.41). There were a similar number of adverse events across both groups (tPA and DNase, 24% vs tPA alone, 29%; p=0.64), and no deaths were reported in either group. The overall certainty of evidence for the reported outcomes is low because of imprecision due to the small sample size and wide confidence intervals. Refer to the Supplementary MatTerial for the GRADE Evidence Profiles which detail the exact judgments affecting certainty of evidence for P each outcome. I R RATIONALE FOR RECOMMENDATION(S) C While the single included RCT demonstrated similar outcomes when using tPA compared to tPA S plus DNase in children with parapneumonic empyema, the panel conditionally suggests giving U tPA alone over tPA and DNase. The panel discussed the cost of DNase is typically higher and it is not approved for intrapleural use in the United States, making the feasibility of its implementation N difficult. Further, the addition of DNase requires a second delivery of medication. Given that the RCT evidence showed no advantage to for the addition of DNase to tPA compared with saline A placebo, use of this
