Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


requires a second delivery of medication. Given that the RCT evidence showed no advantage to for the addition of DNase to tPA compared with saline A placebo, use of this additional medication is not currently justified. M IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONS D be local implementation bEarriers. A clinical setting with the ability to insert a thoracostomy tube should be able to administer tPA into the pleural space as part of management for parapneumonic T effusion and empyema. The panel carefully considered a potential subgroup effect across patients from diPfferent age groups i.e. less than 5 years; 5 to 13 years; 14 to 18 years, and across patient strata with pleural empyema. Nevertheless, the evidence from the existing literature did E not allow us to make recommendations for different patient categories. Therefore, this C recommendation applies to patients between 3 months to 18 years of age with either parapneumonic effusion or empyema. C A RESEARCH NEEDS The panel suggests the use of tPA alone (versus tPA plus DNase) as the preferred therapy for children (3 months to 18 years) with complicated parapneumonic effusion and empyema. Further research with fibrinolysis protocols may be valuable to test the protocols' effectiveness. There are no data on the effectiveness and safety of the management strategies on different subgroups. Therefore, more research is needed in this area. DOI: 4 Downloaded from by guest on May Acknowledgments: First, the panel would like to acknowledge the previous panel, under the leadership of John Bradley, for their work on the previous iteration of this larger guideline. The panel would like to acknowledge the contributions of Elena Guadagno, medical librarian, for the creation and execution of PICO-specific literature search(es). Rebecca Goldwater and Loretta T Dzanya provided project coordination. The panel would also like to acknowledge the following organizations and selected external reviewers for their review of the draft manuscript: the American P Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS), Drs. Annabelle De I St. Maurice, Jason Newland, Nanda Ramchandar, Pranavi Sreeramoju, and Surabhi (Sara) Vora. R Samir S. Shah is chair of the pediatric CAP guideline panel. Mark Neuman is the vice-chair of the C panel. Shawn St Peter and Krow Ampofo served as clinical leads for the questions addressed in this manuscript. Remaining panelists assisted with conceptSion and design of the analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the recommendations and manuscript, and final U approval of the
