Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


addressed in this manuscript. Remaining panelists assisted with conceptSion and design of the analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the recommendations and manuscript, and final U approval of the recommendations and manuscript to be published. Nigar Sekercioglu and Sheena Patel, methodologists, were responsible for general project management, designing and N performing the systematic review, and leading the panel according to the GRADE process. A Disclaimer: It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot always account for individual variation among patients. They are aMssessments of current scientific and clinical information provided as an educational service; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted and when it is published or read); should noDt be considered inclusive of all proper methods of care, or as a statement of the standard of care; do not mandate any course of medical care; and are not intended E to supplant clinician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding their T application to be made by the clinician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. P While IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, complete, and reliable information, these guidelines Eare presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) assume no responsibility for any loss, C damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential dCamages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. AThe guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of IDSA. All rights reserved. No part of these guidelines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of IDSA. Permission is granted to physicians and health care providers solely to copy and use the guidelines in their professional practices and clinical decision making. No license or permission is granted to any person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA is required to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative works of or software or any other software product. Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA
