Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


works of or software or any other software product. Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accordance DOI: 5 Downloaded from by guest on May with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular any use of the guidelines in any software product. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. T Possible conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential conflicts of interest is determined by a review process. The assessment of disclosed relationships for pPossible COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relationship (i.e., monetary amount) and the relevance I of the relationship (i.e., the degree to which an association might reasonably be interpreted by an R independent observer as related to the topic or recommendation of consideration). The following panelists have reported relationships with the indicated companiesC since 2018, when guideline development began; these relationships are unrelated to the topic of community-acquired S pneumonia (CAP). K.K.A. served as a scientific advisor for Merck; served as an advisor for Janssen Pharmaceuticals; received research funding fromU the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the State N Government of Utah; receives research funding from Merck. M.D.C. served as an advisor for BioGaia, Thermo Fisher, Genentech, Novartis, and Nestlé; engaged in activities with the A International Scientific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics (ISAPP); served as a member of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF); served as chair of the American Academy of M Pediatrics Committee on Pediatric Research; received research funding from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). C.E. served as an advisor for Sanofi, Janssen Association and Medavera for collaboration on the writing and publication of a manuscript E addressing the use of molecular techniques in respiratory infections; received research funding T (NIH), Melinta Therapeutics, Novavax, and Moderna; receives research funding from AHRQ, the P Pediatrics CEommittee of Infectious Diseases and as a Board Director (District III) for the AAP Florida Chapter. T.A.F. received honoraria from DiaSorin and Medscape/WebMD; served in C editorial roles with Pediatric Research and Pediatric Emergency Care; served as a council member for the Society for Pediatric Research; received research funding from the National Heart, Lung, C and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
