Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


Care; served as a council member for the Society for Pediatric Research; received research funding from the National Heart, Lung, C and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI); Aserved as strategy and operations officer for the Society for Pediatric Research; serves on the Pediatric Academic Societies Board of Directors. J.S.G. received research funding from AHRQ, NIH, CDC, and PCORI. M.G. served as president of the Society for Pediatric Research; served as a member of the Society for Pediatric Research Board of Directors; served as a member of the Pediatric Academic Societies Board of Directors; served as ambassador for North American Regional Societies for the Society for Pediatric Research; receives research funding from NIAID; receives research funding from the St. Louis Children’s Hospital Foundation. D.L.P. received royalties from UpToDate; received honoraria from the American Academy of Pediatrics: Pediatrics Review and Education Program (PREP) for Infectious Diseases, JAMA Pediatrics, and DOI: 6 Downloaded from by guest on May UpToDate; received honoraria from Lurie Children’s Hospital and the American Medical Association (AMA); received research funding from AHRQ and the Pew Charitable Trusts; owned intellectual property from Elsevier; served as associate editor for the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (JPIDS) and the American Academy of Pediatrics PREP ID; serves on the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS) Board of Directors and Executive TCommittee; serves as president of PIDS. M.S. received research funding from the County of San Diego Health P and Human Services Agency. A.M.S. received research funding from PCORI, the Children and I R Foundation; reported a family relationship in which a spouse served as a consultant for echocardiography study interpretation for the Midwest CardiovascCular Research and Education (MCORE) Foundation. D.J.W. received research funding from AHRQ and NIH for work related S to the Seattle-based Pediatric Health Information Partnership (P-HIP) initiative aimed at improving pediatric mental health care; serves on the Executive UCouncil for the Pediatric Research in Inpatient Setting (PRIS) Network; serves on the Editorial Board for the Journal of Hospital Medicine; receives research funding from AHRQ aNnd NIH. S.S.S. served in editorial roles with JAMA Pediatrics for the American Medical Association; served as senior deputy editor and then A editor-in-chief for the Journal of Hospital Medicine for the Society of Hospital Medicine; served as associate editor for the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society; served as a M Committee on Infectious Diseases member for the
