Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, pediatric, society, tpa, served, infectious, infectious diseases, diseases, received, children, panel, diseases society, evidence, research funding, funding


for the Society of Hospital Medicine; served as associate editor for the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society; served as a M Committee on Infectious Diseases member for the American Academy of Pediatrics; served as vice-chair for Pediatric Research in Inpatient Settings; received honoraria from the Society of D Department of Public Health. M.N. served as associate editor for Pediatrics for the American Academy of Pediatrics; reEceived research grants from Harvard University; serves as Co-Editor-in- Chief of Pediatric Emergency Care; receives honoraria from Wolters Kluwer for editorial roles T with UpToDate and Pediatric Emergency Care; provides medical expert consultation, including medical record rPeview and expert testimony in legal cases for law firms on issues not related to pneumonia. E The following panelists have reported relationships with the indicated companies since 2018, when C guideline development began; these relationships are related to the topic of community- aCcquired pneumonia (CAP). K.K.A. served in advisory roles involving patient enrollment for A ceftolozane/tazobactam, and bezlotoxumab (all such relationships are no longer active). D.L.P. served on a data safety monitoring board for Pfizer for a trial related to azithromycin; received honoraria from Medscape related to an educational podcast (relationship ended in 2024); owns intellectual property related to educational materials for Elsevier; receives other remuneration from the AMA. D.J.W. received research funding from NIH/NIAID for work related to Vanderbilt/ICE- CAP/R01AI125642 and Vanderbilt/VTEU/HHSN272201300023I, CDC for work related to Vanderbilt/NVSN/U01IP001063 and AHRQ for work related to R01HS029331, the Reducing Overuse of Antibiotics with Decision Support (ROADS) study aimed at testing the safety and effectiveness of clinical decision support to promote antibiotic stewardship in lower respiratory DOI: 7 Downloaded from by guest on May tract infections in children; received in-kind research support from bioMérieux for procalcitonin assays related to CAP decision-making (this relationship is no longer active); reported a family relationship in which a spouse is employed by Pfizer and the funds are paid directly to them. M.N. served as a member of the Guideline Development Group of the World Health Organization for the Diagnosis and Management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Children. All othTer authors reported no disclosures. P Additional Information: More detailed information on the analysis andI development of recommendations is available in the Supplementary file. R REFERENCES C 1. Bradley JS, Byington CL, Shah SS, et al. Executive summarSy: the management of community- acquired pneumonia in infants and children older than 3 months of age:
