RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: sofa, score, qsofa, patients, scores, sofa score, day, mortality, sofa qsofa, qsofa scores, il-, day mortality, hat, therapy, qsofa score


and preemptive AmBd therapy should be prioritized for patients with HAT who had high SOFA/qSOFA scores. Funding: The work was supported by The Prevention and control for Emerging and PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 1 / 14 Major Infectious Diseases- National Science and Technology Major Project, China (Grant Author summary number 2025ZD01905002). The funders had HIV-associated talaromycosis (HAT) is a life-threatening opportunistic infection in no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of people living with HIV, yet tools for early severity assessment and risk stratifica- the manuscript. tion remain limited. In this multicenter retrospective cohort study of 464 patients declared that no competing interests exist. sessment (SOFA) and quick SOFA (qSOFA) scores, and found that both scores were strongly associated with systemic inflammation, fungal dissemination, and clinical outcomes. High SOFA and qSOFA scores at admission correlated with el- evated inflammatory markers, shorter blood culture positivity time, and increased disease severity. Importantly, mortality rose sharply with increasing scores, and SOFA demonstrated strong predictive performance for 30-day mortality. Dynamic changes in SOFA scores also reflected responses to treatment, with improve- ment observed in survivors but deterioration in non-survivors. In addition, lack of amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmBd) induction therapy was independently associated with increased mortality. Our findings suggest that SOFA and qSOFA are practical tools for early bedside risk assessment and monitoring in HAT. Inte- grating these scoring systems into clinical decision-making may facilitate timely intervention and improve patient outcomes. Introduction Talaromyces marneffei (TM) is a fatal fungal pathogen that is endemic in South- east Asia, northeast India, and southern China [1–3]. HIV-1 infection is the predominant risk factor for disseminated TM infection, with mortality rates up to 20%-30% even under antifungal treatment . Thus, accurate assessment of HIV-associated talaromycosis (HAT) severity and identification of mortality risk factors are vital . The Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score evaluates six organ systems (PaO /FiO , mean arterial pressure, serum creatinine, bilirubin, platelet 2 2 number, and Glasgow Coma Scale), while the quick SOFA (qSOFA) provides a simplified bedside tool based on respiratory rate, Glasgow Coma Scale, and systolic blood pressure . Both are valuable prognostic tools in critical illness and infectious diseases [7–9]. HAT is typically characterized by disseminated infection, multiple organ dysfunc- tion, and high mortality rates . Given the frequent occurrence of multi-organ dys- function in patients with HAT, we hypothesized
