RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: sofa, score, qsofa, patients, scores, sofa score, day, mortality, sofa qsofa, qsofa scores, il-, day mortality, hat, therapy, qsofa score


HAT is typically characterized by disseminated infection, multiple organ dysfunc- tion, and high mortality rates . Given the frequent occurrence of multi-organ dys- function in patients with HAT, we hypothesized that higher SOFA and qSOFA scores stays, and higher 30-day mortality in patients with HAT. Therefore, we performed the present study to explore the associations between SOFA/qSOFA scores, inflamma- study, aiming to establish triage and bedside decision-making system in routine clinical care. PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 2 / 14 Materials and methods Ethical approval of the study protocol This study protocol was conducted in accordance with the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics The ethical Committee waived the consent of patient. All data were analyzed anonymously. Patient selection From January 2018 to December 2024, 575 patients with HAT from three hospitals in China were retrospectively analyzed. Patients who met the following criteria were included: (1) seropositive HIV status, (2) age ≥ 18 years, and (3) laboratory confirmation of TM infection. The exclusion criteria were: (1) prior antifungal treatment; (2) prior antiret- roviral therapy; (3) age < 18 years; (4) treatment abandonment; and (5) absence of necessary laboratory and clinical records. . Of those patients, 81 on antiviral treatment, 17 ceased treatments, 9 with malignances and 4 under 18 years were excluded from the cohort. A total of 464 patients were enrolled in the present multicenter retrospective cohort study. Routine blood test, biochemical test and T lymphocyte subgroup measurements Blood samples were drawn immediately upon admission. All samples were processed and examined immediately in the central laboratory of each hospital. The complete blood count was measured in Hematology analyzers (Beckman Coulter, CA, USA) and biochemical tests were measured using an Auto-biochemical Analyzer (Beckman Coulter, CA, USA). The number of CD4+ and CD8 + T cells were measured using flow cytometry (BD biosciences, NJ, USA). Chemokine and cytokine assay Interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels were quan- tified using flow cytometry. The detailed procedures were performed according to the manual for the Cytokine FCM kit (BD biosciences, NJ, USA) (S1 File). Diagnosis criteria Talaromycosis and fungemia. The diagnosis of Talaromycosis was established based on any of the following criteria: (1) positive TM culture from peripheral blood, bone marrow, alveolar lavage, or other specimens; (2) detection of typical yeast cells (2–3 µm in diameter with oval, round, or
