RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: sofa, score, qsofa, patients, scores, sofa score, day, mortality, sofa qsofa, qsofa scores, il-, day mortality, hat, therapy, qsofa score


following criteria: (1) positive TM culture from peripheral blood, bone marrow, alveolar lavage, or other specimens; (2) detection of typical yeast cells (2–3 µm in diameter with oval, round, or sausage-like shapes) on tissue sections stained by periodic acid-Schiff or Wright’s stain; and (3) identification of TM DNA sequences via metagenomics next-generation sequencing (mNGS) from body fluids or tissues . Fungemia was defined as the detection of TM in peripheral blood by either culture or mNGS in patient with HAT pre- senting with recurrent fever, rash, severe anemia, splenomegaly, or lymphadenopathy . SOFA and qSOFA score calculation. The calculation of SOFA score and qSOFA was performed according to the Sepsis-3 definition . The detailed score point can be referenced to S2 File. Antifungal therapy Antifungal therapy was administered to all patients immediately after the diagnosis of talaromycosis. The initial induction therapy involved intravenous amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmBd) (0.7 mg/kg/day), Voriconazole (8 mg/kg/day) (divided into two doses, with a loading dose of 12 mg/kg/day on the first day), or itraconazole (400 mg/day) (divided into two doses) for 2 weeks, followed by itraconazole (400 mg daily for 10 weeks) as consolidation therapy, and then maintenance PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 3 / 14 therapy with itraconazole (200 mg daily) until CD4 counts exceed 100 cells/mm³ for at least 6 months. The initial induction Follow-up and outcome of patients In China, most PLWH were registered in the electronic system of the National Free Antiretroviral Treatment Program both electronic medical records system (EMRS) of each hospital and NFATP. NFATP system provided a real-time and life- long data information of patients on ART regimen, CD4 count, HIV-RNA load and survival/death. In our study, the primary outcome was defined as overall 30-day mortality . Sample size calculation A total of 61 deaths (events) occurred among 464 patients. Multivariate Cox regression model was used to identify the risk factors related to 30-day mortality and 12 covariates were taken into the model. According to the commonly accepted rule of at least 10-time cases for per variable in Cox regression models, at least 120 cases should be reliably included in the multivariate model. In this study, the number of patients included in the final multivariate model far exceed this threshold, ensuring the robustness and stability of the regression estimates. Statistical analyses Continuous normally distributed variables were presented as the means ± standard deviations (SD) or medians
