RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: sofa, score, qsofa, patients, scores, sofa score, day, mortality, sofa qsofa, qsofa scores, il-, day mortality, hat, therapy, qsofa score


driver of disease severity and prognosis. The cytokine analysis revealed that IL-6, a pro- inflammatory cytokine, and IL-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine, has been linked to severe fungal infection and organ dysfunction, highlighting the complex balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory responses in critically ill patients. The principal component analysis (PCA) further elucidated that IL-6 and IL-10 contribute most significantly to the variation in inflammatory profiles, which may offer a new avenue for identifying patients at higher risk for poor out- comes. The study also confirmed the relationship between blood culture positivity and qSOFA/SOFA scores, offering dissemination, had significantly higher SOFA/qSOFA scores compared to those with negative blood cultures. This finding reinforces the notion that elevated SOFA scores reflect the severity of disseminated infection. Furthermore, the negative correlation between blood culture positivity time (CPT) and SOFA/qSOFA scores suggests that more severe fungemia is associated with greater organ dysfunction. These findings highlight organ dysfunction is closely related to inflammation and fungal dissemination in patients with HAT. Both SOFA and qSOFA scores significantly affect clinical outcomes in patients with HAT. Patients with higher SOFA foundly impacts recovery among survivors. Furthermore, mortality of patients significantly is increased with rising qSOFA scores (from 8.9% with qSOFA score = 0 to 55.0% with qSOFA score ≥2) and SOFA scores (from 4.5% with SOFA score 0–1 to 85.7% with SOFA score ≥8). Our study indicates a significant correlation between a qSOFA score ≥1 and high overall 30-day mortality rates in patients with HAT, highlighting qSOFA score as an effective, simple and rapid bedside tool for quickly identifying high-risk patients upon admission . stay, fungal burden and mortality in patients with HAT. In addition, sequential SOFA score closely reflects patient mortality; survivors exhibited significant declines in SOFA score at day 7 compared to day 0, whereas non-survivors show deteriora- tion in SOFA score at day 7. These findings suggest SOFA/qSOFA not only serve as indicators of severity of disease, but also as early indicator of response to effective antifungal therapy. PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 11 / 14 The effect of antifungal therapy, particularly AmBd induction, is a crucial aspect of this study. The univariate and mul- tivariate Cox regression analyses identify independent risk factors for 30-day mortality, including low BMI, high level of WBC count, LDH, SOFA and qSOFA scores, and non-AmBd induction therapy. Higher SOFA and qSOFA scores are both independently associated with increased
