RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: sofa, score, qsofa, patients, scores, sofa score, day, mortality, sofa qsofa, qsofa scores, il-, day mortality, hat, therapy, qsofa score


30-day mortality, including low BMI, high level of WBC count, LDH, SOFA and qSOFA scores, and non-AmBd induction therapy. Higher SOFA and qSOFA scores are both independently associated with increased overall 30-day mortality, confirming their value as prognostic markers in this population. More importantly, non-AmBd induction therapy is an independent risk factor for mortality, suggesting that alter- native antifungal therapies may not be as effective in reducing mortality in severe HAT cases, especially in those with high SOFA and qSOFA scores. Our recent study indicates that AmB is superior to Voriconazole as initial therapy on treatment of HAT with fungemia . These findings reinforce the current therapeutic guidelines recommending AmBd as the gold standard induction therapy for Talaromyces marneffei sepsis . Given these findings, our data strongly support that early empirical and aggressive antifungal therapy (AmBd) should be preferred for patients with HAT with high SOFA and qSOFA scores. Our study has some limitations: 1) The retrospective design introduces the potential for residual confounding. For example, the small size of patients with qSOFA ≥2 (n = 20) and patients who were antifungal-experienced treatment were excluded,which might produce some biases for study; 2) The impact of HIV-RNA on patient outcome is not assessed in our study. This is because HIV-RNA test is not included in NFATP during our study period; 3) Although many researches have revealed a close association between SOFA/qSOFA scores and ICU admission rates, this relationship was not observed in our study, due to the limited availability of ICU resources for PLWH in China; 4) Direct relationship between fungal burden (such as Colony-Forming Unit or Talaromyces marneffei DNA level in blood) and SOFA score was not observed in our study. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that the qSOFA score serves as a simple and rapid tool for identifying high-risk therapeutic strategies. AmBd induction therapy should be promptly initiated in patients with suspected talaromycosis with scoring into clinical triage and management pathways is necessary for patients with HAT during medical practice. Supporting information S1 File. Process of cytokine and chemokine assay by FCM. (DOCX) S2 File. The criteria for assessment of the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score and qSOFA scores. (DOCX) Acknowledgments We thank the staffs involved in this study at three hospitals. Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the writing process: During the preparation of this work, the authors used ChatGPT (V5.0) to increase the language
