Zhangetal.BMCNeurology (2018) 18:85
KEYWORDS: sle, showed, normal, level, patient, case, lupus, bilateral, fever, hematuria, proteinuria, puncture, liver, lumbar puncture, china


Zhangetal.BMCNeurology (2018) 18:85 CASE REPORT Open Access ’ Wilson s disease combined with systemic lupus erythematosus: a case report and literature review Yun Zhang1, Dongmei Wang2, Wei Wei3 and Xuejun Zeng1* Abstract Background: Wilson’sdisease (WD) is an inherited disorder in which defective biliary excretion ofcopper leads to itsaccumulation, particularly inthe liver and brain. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multi-system disorder that can manifest in any system. Cases with concomitant WD and SLE, unrelated to treatment with penicillamine, have been rarely reported. Case presentation: We report a case of a young womanwho had typical neuropsychiatric symptoms and laboratory tests results of WD. She also had concomitant massive hematuria and proteinuria, fever,multiple positive autoimmune antibodies, hypocomplementemia, abnormal lumbar puncture findings and evidence of Sjögren syndrome, which are allrarein WD.Hence, we considered thediagnosis of SLE. Taperingof steroid dosage also confirmed the diagnosis. for patients withhepatic,neurological, and psychiatric manifestations. Keywords: Wilson’sdisease,Systemic lupus erythematosus Background ago. Initially, her movements were slower, her hands Wilson’s disease (WD) is an inherited disorder with de- were clumsy,andshe couldnot speakclearly. Inthepast fective biliary excretion of copper that leads to its accu- 20 days, she gradually developed dysdipsia, unsteady mulation, particularly in the liver and brain. Systemic gait, dyskinesia, significantly increased involuntary lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multi-system disorder movements of limbs and fell >4 times. Cranial magnetic that can manifest in any system. We report a case of a resonance imaging (MRI) showed abnormal signals in young woman who had typical neuropsychiatric symp- bilateral basal ganglia and thalamus. Electroencephalog- toms of WD as well as other abnormalities unrelated to raphy (EEG) demonstrated diffused 4–6 Hz theta waves. WD. The diagnosis of SLE gradually emerged, although Slit-lamp examination showed Kayser–Fleischer (KF) cases with concomitant WD and SLE, unrelated to treat- ring in both eyes. Her serum ceruloplasmin concentra- mentwith penicillamine,havebeen rarelyreported. tion was 0.033 g/L (Normal range: 0.2–0.6). The symp- toms progressively worsened, and she had a fever, with Case presentation temperature between 37.5 and 38.0 °C, without chills, An 18-year-old female was admitted to Peking Union cough or diarrhea. The patient had difficulty in opening chief complaints of abnormal limb movements and hadoccasional torsion spasmatthetime ofadmission. slurred speech for two years, which worsened 20 days The patient had xerostomia, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, frequent oral ulcers, with no significant weight loss. *Correspondence: There was no history of other diseases, but her mother 1PublicationChineseAcademyofMedicalScience(CAMS)andPekingUnion recalledthatshetalkedless,hadbehavioralchanges,abnor- MedicalCollege(PUMC),Beijing100730,China Fulllistofauthorinformationisavailableattheendofthearticle mal gait, involuntary smile
