Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


reported or end of treatment provided useable da- (0) ta for this outcome Clinical efficacy - cure or improvement at See comment See comment Not estimable 0 See comment No study reported or follow-up (6 months) provided useable da- (0) ta for this outcome Adverse effects of treatment - any adverse 258 per 1000 227 per 1000 RR 0.88 874 ⊕⊕⊕⊝ effects (186 to 278) (0.72 to 1.08) (3 studies) moderate 2,3,4 *The basis for the assumed risk (e.g. the median control group risk across studies) is provided in footnotes. The corresponding risk (and its 95% CI) is based on the as- sumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) CI: Confidence interval; No.: Number; RR: Risk ratio GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. Moderate quality: Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. Low quality: Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Very low quality: We are very uncertain about the estimate. 1 The comparator fluoroquinolone was ciprofloxacin (Bundrick 2003; Zhang 2012) or prulifloxacin . 2 Bundrick 2003 - high risk of reporting bias. 3 Giannarini 2007 - high risk of reporting bias. 4 Zhang 2012 - high risk of performance bias, reporting bias and other bias (study design). 5 Zhang 2012 is the most likely source of increased heterogeneity (Analysis 7). Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews B A C K G R O U N D Symptoms of CBP and CP/CPPS frequently overlap. Since the Description of the condition given that there is no gold standard diagnostic test for the latter, CP/ CPPS is mainly diagnosed by excluding the presence of category II Prostatitis syndromes represent the most frequent urological CBP . diagnosis in men below 50 years of age, and they are the third most common diagnosis
