Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


and post- patient per year . prostatic massage voided urine (PPMT, or 'two-glass' assay) has been proposed as a simplified alternative to the four-glass test Chronic prostatitis syndromes are traditionally classified as . Although a study comparing the two tests in patients 'bacterial' or 'abacterial'. diagnosed with CP/CPPS showed that the PPMT could detect According to the most recent National Institutes of Health - uropathogens in fewer cases (44%) compared to the traditional (NIH-NIDDK) consensus definition, category II chronic bacterial alternative to simple urine or semen cultures. prostatitis (CBP) occurs when patients experience recurrent Description of the intervention symptomatic episodes of urinary tract infection caused by the same organism (usually E. coli, or another Gram-negative The therapy of CBP is based on the administration of antibacterial organism (for example, Klebsiella spp.,Proteus spp.,Pseudomonas agents for several weeks. spp.) or Enterococcus faecalis). Between symptomatic episodes of bacteriuria, lower urinary tract cultures can document an Fluoroquinolones are currently indicated as first-choice infected prostate gland as the focus of these recurrent infections antibacterial agents for treatment of category II CBP. International . Besides these commonly recognized pathogens, recommendations and guidelines indicate a four to 12-week Staphylococcus aureus is frequently included among the causative course of ciprofloxacin, lomefloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin or agents of CBP (for example, Naber 2008; British National norfloxacin for the eradication of susceptible pathogens (European Guidelines: www.bashh.org/guidelines). Other bacteria have been Association of Urology (EAU) Urological Infections Guidelines: investigated in recent years, but a general consensus on their www.uroweb.org/guidelines/online-guidelines/; United Kingdom pathogenic role in CBP is still awaited. (UK) National Guidelines: www.bashh.org/guidelines; Canadian guidelines: www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/std-mts/sti-its/guide-lignesdir- The vast majority of men with chronic prostatitis (about 90% eng.php; Lipsky 2010; Wagenlehner 2007). of all prostatitis cases) (Lipsky 2010; McNaughton-Collins 2007) present with pelvic pain and voiding symptoms without evidence Trimethoprim, combined or not with sulfamethoxazole, was of bacterial infection, and are diagnosed with chronic (abacterial) formerly the most prescribed drug for the treatment of CBP prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS, NIH-NIDDK . Due to the low eradication rates achieved with category III) (Krieger 1999; McNaughton-Collins 2007). CP/CPPS is trimethoprim, this drug is now indicated as a second-choice agent mainly characterized by pain in the perineum, prostate, rectum, in case of bacterial resistance to fluoroquinolones or in case penis, testicles and abdomen. It is often associated with dysuria of poor tolerability of the first-choice agents (EAU Guidelines: (painful voiding), with symptoms of obstruction on voiding
