Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


or in case penis, testicles and abdomen. It is often associated with dysuria of poor tolerability of the first-choice agents (EAU Guidelines: (painful voiding), with symptoms of obstruction on voiding (for www.uroweb.org/gls/pdf/18_Urological%20infections_LR.pdf). example, hesitancy, weak or intermittent stream), with irritative symptoms (for example, increased frequency, urgency, nocturia Macrolides and tetracyclines are also recommended for treatment (night-time urination)), and sometimes with sexual dysfunction of CBP, but their use is presently restricted to special indications (for . example, chlamydial infection) (EAU Guidelines: www.uroweb.org/ Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 8 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews gls/pdf/18_Urological%20infections_LR.pdf; Lipsky 2010; Nickel Fourthly, the efficacy of interventions different from established 2008b). long-term oral antibacterial regimens (for example, intraprostatic injection of antibacterial agents) is debated. The results of RCTs Patients with frequent recurrences may be placed on antibiotic involving alternative administration routes for antibiotics must be trimoxazole). However, evidence-based proof of efficacy of such a making and patient management. strategy is lacking. Finally, the world-wide increasing fluoroquinolone resistance in How the intervention might work Gram-negative pathogens poses new therapeutical problems also in the antibacterial treatment of CBP. For example, the activity of The number of antibacterial agents suitable for treatment of second-generation fluoroquinolones like ciprofloxacin is hampered category II CBP is very limited. Fluoroquinolones, trimethoprim by the novel resistance determinant aac (6')-Ib-cr, whereas unique and macrolides are among the few antibacterial agents that structural features make molecules like levofloxacin unaffected by can penetrate the prostate sufficiently to reach levels exceeding the minimal concentrations inhibiting the growth (MIC) of most past must be reviewed in a contemporary perspective. Moreover, infecting pathogens . studies published in the past may have lost relevance due to diffuse Lipophilicity and a high pKa (acid dissociation constant) are drug resistance. considered important features of antibacterial agents for the In conclusion, a systematic review may help improve current treatment of CBP . To achieve suitable prostatic therapeutic guidelines on the basis of the evidence available from concentrations, a drug must be sufficiently lipophilic to cross the many barriers separating the prostatic vasculature from the recommendations and the management of patients affected by target site of action, and to reach the pathogens infecting the CBP. prostatic glands and ducts and, in some cases, the intracellular compartments (Naber 2003; Perletti 2009). O B J E C T I V E S The pH at the site
