Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


prostatic glands and ducts and, in some cases, the intracellular compartments (Naber 2003; Perletti 2009). O B J E C T I V E S The pH at the site of action can also affect the pharmacodynamic To assess and compare the efficacy and harms of antimicrobial properties of antibacterial agents. The milieu of the infected treatments for CBP. human prostate is alkaline (pH = 8.34) . It has been demonstrated that alkalinization of the pH can significantly M E T H O D S decrease (10- to 30-fold) the MICs of fluoroquinolones against E. coli and other uropathogens (Aagaard 1991; Gesu 1987; Kamberi 1999). Criteria for considering studies for this review The activity of macrolides is also influenced by the pH at the site of action; for example, the MIC of azithromycin (pKa = 9.5) against Types of studies Staphylococcus aureus is 64, 1 and 0.03 at pH 6, 7 and 8, respectively All RCTs in which antimicrobial therapy was used to treat CBP. . Types of participants Why it is important to do this review Patients with category II (NIH-NIDDK) CBP , or with Firstly, most current therapeutic recommendations for CBP are CBP according to the earlier classification by Drach et al (Drach experts. The fact that contemporary guidelines are not based According to the Drach definition, CBP is diagnosed when on systematic reviews of the literature and the meta-analysis pathogenic bacteria are recovered in significant numbers from a of available data represents a major limitation in this regard. purulent prostatic fluid in the absence of concomitant urinary tract One example is 'suppressive' long-term therapy with low-dose infection or significant systemic signs . trimethoprim. This recommendation is not substantiated by clinical data. A clinical diagnosis of CBP is mainly based on three criteria: a Secondly, the current antibacterial dosing regimens for CBP are and laboratory evidence of prostatic infection in expressed mainly based on 'trial-and-error' empirical strategies, regimens prostatic secretions or post-massage voided urine. adopted for other infectious diseases, or on safety data. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters for the Studies focusing on patients affected by category I acute bacterial treatment of CBP, focusing on dosage issues, are almost non- prostatitis, category III CP/CPPS, or category IV asymptomatic existent. The results of studies comparing different doses of inflammatory prostatitis (NIH-NIDDK criteria), or by acute bacterial antibacterial agents or different durations of therapy should be prostatitis, chronic non-bacterial prostatitis or
