Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


The results of studies comparing different doses of inflammatory prostatitis (NIH-NIDDK criteria), or by acute bacterial antibacterial agents or different durations of therapy should be prostatitis, chronic non-bacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia analyzed and reviewed. (Drach 1978 classification) were excluded. Thirdly, the adjuvant effect of compounds administered in Studies not providing microbiological findings from adequate combination with antibacterials (for example, alpha-adrenoceptor lower urinary tract segmented tests (Meares and Stamey '4-glass' blockers) is controversial. Few of these combinations have been test, '2-glass' pre- and post-massage test) were excluded. Studies tested in the framework of randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The including patients with poorly defined infections or conditions (for results of these studies must be thoroughly analyzed to improve example, unclassified 'prostatitis' or 'chronic prostatitis'; 'prostato- clinical decision-making and patient management. Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 9 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews epididimo-vesiculitis'; 'genital tract infection including prostatitis'; 3. '(prostato-vesic*[Title/Abstract]) OR (prostatovesic*[Title/ etc.) were excluded. Abstract]) OR (prostato ADJ vesic*[Title/Abstract])' 4. '(vesiculo-prostat*[Title/Abstract]) OR (vesiculoprostat*[Title/ Types of interventions Abstract]) OR (vesiculo ADJ prostat*[Title/Abstract])' 1. We considered all randomized controlled comparisons of 5. '(prostate OR prostate[MeSH Terms]) AND (bacterial infections one antimicrobial agent versus placebo, versus a different and mycoses[MeSH Terms])' antimicrobial agent, or versus two or more combined 6. #1 OR #2 OR #3 OR #4 OR #5 antimicrobial agents. 2. Trials comparing different doses, different treatment The specialized PROSTATE register of the Cochrane Prostatic durations, different dosing frequencies, or different routes of Diseases and Urologic Cancers Group, Cochrane Central Register of administration of antimicrobial agents were also considered to Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and EMBASE databases were searched be acceptable for inclusion, as these regimens are likely to differ in an analogous fashion. in their pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties and Searching other resources thus may differ in their efficacy. 3. We also considered randomized controlled comparisons of The meta-register of Current Controlled Trials (controlled- antimicrobial agents alone with antimicrobial agents combined trials.com) and the US registry of clinical trials (clinicaltrials.gov) with non-antibacterial drugs or physical interventions aimed at were searched for protocols and results of RCTs on CBP. improving the microbiological or clinical efficacy of therapy as well as drug pharmacokinetics. International and national databases (for example, LILACS, Panteleimon, IMSEAR, WPRIM, IndMed, KoreaMed, PASCAL, Types of outcome measures Australasian Medical Index, Eastern-Mediterranean Index Medicus) were also searched. Primary outcomes Handsearching was performed on the
