Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


databases (for example, LILACS, Panteleimon, IMSEAR, WPRIM, IndMed, KoreaMed, PASCAL, Types of outcome measures Australasian Medical Index, Eastern-Mediterranean Index Medicus) were also searched. Primary outcomes Handsearching was performed on the web pages containing the 1. Microbiological efficacy, defined as yielding at test-of-cure (TOC) abstracts of all scientific contributions presented at international visit sterile cultures of expressed prostatic secretions or post- meetings of the European Association of Urology (http:// massage urine, or positive cultures with a bacterial load inferior www.uroweb.org/), American Urological Association (http:// to a defined threshold (e.g., 103 colony-forming units (CFU)/mL). www.auanet.org/), International Society of Chemotherapy (http:// www.ischemo.org/), and the International Continence Society signs and symptoms of CBP at the TOC visit or at follow-up, ( The general or assessed with strategies based on subjective or objective term 'prostatitis' was used for the abstract search. findings: bother scores, quality of life (QoL) scores, global urinary or 2008). This review was also searched for studies. systemic symptom reports, or patient self-declared status (e.g., improved, unchanged or worsened); Data collection and analysis b. objective clinical outcomes included the results Selection of studies of urodynamic or sonographic evaluations, prostate examination (tenderness, size, consistency, symmetry), 1. The titles and abstracts obtained with the search strategy microscopy of specimens of lower urinary tract segmented described above were screened independently by two review tests (white blood cell counts), biochemical markers (e.g., authors (GP, EM). Studies deemed to be not eligible for the prostate-specific antigen (PSA)). systematic review were excluded. Reviews or manuscripts that 3. Adverse effects of treatment subgrouped or not for type, might include relevant data or information on studies were severity, or drug class. retained initially. 2. Two review authors (GP, FMEW) independently assessed the Secondary outcomes retrieved abstracts and, if necessary, the full text of these studies to determine which studies satisfied the inclusion criteria. Microbiological recurrence, defined as reappearance of a pathogen or increase of its load over a defined threshold (for example, > 103 3. Discrepancies in the eligibility of retrieved studies were resolved CFU/mL) after (apparent) eradication, assessed at the TOC visit. by discussion. If necessary, the Cochrane Prostatic Diseases and Urologic Cancers Group was involved for arbitration. Search methods for identification of studies Data extraction and management Electronic searches Data extraction was performed independently by two review to 8 August 2012) by crossing the sensitivity-maximizing version extraction form provided by the Cochrane Renal Group. of the Cochrane highly
