Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


searches Data extraction was performed independently by two review to 8 August 2012) by crossing the sensitivity-maximizing version extraction form provided by the Cochrane Renal Group. of the Cochrane highly sensitive search strategy for identifying randomized trials in MEDLINE (2008 revision) with Studies were eligible if they were randomized, involved a placebo the Boolean logic structure (item #6 of the following list): control group or an active drug comparison group, involved patients with CBP diagnosed according to NIH or Drach 1978 1. 'prostatitis[MeSH]', (including all subheadings) criteria, and if diagnosis at enrolment was performed using an 2. '(prostatitis) NOT (prostatitis[MeSH Terms])' Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 10 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews adequate lower urinary tract segmented bacteriological test (4- Both dichotomous and categorical outcomes were expressed with glass or 2-glass). 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Discrepancies or disagreements were resolved by discussion and, if Unit of analysis issues necessary, by arbitration involving the Cochrane Prostatic Diseases Cluster-randomized trials were excluded from the meta-analysis and Urologic Cancers Group. Studies reported in non-English as they are in general more prone to bias and, in the context language journals were tentatively translated before assessment, of meta-analysis, they may cause overestimation of the effect of asking for the collaboration of the original authors of the reports. interventions due to the tendency to show narrow CIs and smaller Any further information required from the original authors was P values (Chapter 16.3.1, Higgins 2011). obtained by correspondence and, if relevant, was included in the review. Where more than one publication of one trial was found, Cross-over trials were planned to be incorporated in meta-analyses reports were grouped together and the most complete data set was by including only data from the very first period of randomized used. treatment (for continuous outcomes). In addition, cross-over trials were planned to be assessed for risk of bias by analyzing the Assessment of risk of bias in included studies following items in the report and the protocol of the study. The risk of bias of included studies was assessed by two independent review authors (FMEW, GP), without blinding to 1. Was use of a cross-over design appropriate? authorship or journal. The following items were assessed using 2. Is it clear that the order of receiving treatments was the Cochrane Collaboration tool for assessing risk of bias (Higgins randomized? 2011). 3.
