Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


The following items were assessed using 2. Is it clear that the order of receiving treatments was the Cochrane Collaboration tool for assessing risk of bias (Higgins randomized? 2011). 3. Can it be assumed that the trial was not biased from carry-over effects? 1. Random sequence generation. 4. Are unbiased data available? 2. Allocation concealment. 5. Are results of the second treatment period concealed? 3. Blinding of participants and personnel. 4. Blinding of outcome assessment. If multiple treatments were compared within a single study, indirect 5. Incomplete outcome data. comparisons were planned to be performed to provide an indirect estimate of the relative effect of the single interventions. The limits 6. Selective reporting. of this approach were taken into account during evaluation of the 7. Other sources of bias. quality of evidence, according to GRADE criteria . 'Risk of bias' tables were generated for each included study and Dealing with missing data were summarized in a 'Risk of bias' summary figure. Missing studies In the present review, risk of bias was a fundamental component The comprehensive search strategy described above has been of the analysis of the quality of evidence according to the GRADE designed to minimize missing studies. approach . Quality of the evidence was graded as high, moderate, low or very low. In the case of low risk of bias, Missing outcomes no downgrading of a study was deemed necessary. In the case of unclear risk of bias, or in the presence of biases raising doubts about Studies not reporting information on a primary outcome were not the estimate of the effect and the results, a study was downgraded excluded from the present systematic review. The lack of relevant one level (for example, 'moderate' to 'low'). In the case of high outcomes from a study of interest was addressed in the discussion risk of bias, the quality of the evidence was downgraded one or section and during 'Risk of bias' assessment. two levels (for example, 'moderate' to 'very low') depending on the severity of biases seriously weakening confidence in the results. Missing data or missing individuals We attempted to request relevant missing data from the original Measures of treatment effect authors or trialists. If data were apparently missing at random, we For dichotomous outcomes (for example, microbiological efficacy analyzed only the available information. (number of patients showing eradication versus persistence), clinical efficacy (number of patients undergoing cure or
