Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


at random, we For dichotomous outcomes (for example, microbiological efficacy analyzed only the available information. (number of patients showing eradication versus persistence), clinical efficacy (number of patients undergoing cure or Because imputation strategies may significantly increase improvement versus failure), adverse effects (number of patients heterogeneity, we limited our analysis to participants for whom showing the adverse effect)) results were expressed as risk ratios outcomes were obtained (available case analysis). (RRs). A high risk of selective reporting bias was assigned to trials when In the presence of ordinal outcomes (for example, mild, moderate study outcomes were described in the methods paragraph but were or severe symptoms), these were dichotomized (for example, mild not reported in the results section of the same article. versus moderate or severe symptoms). Assessment of heterogeneity Where non-dichotomous scales were used to assess the effects of Evidence of heterogeneity was initially assessed by visual treatment (for example, symptom, bother or QoL scores), the mean inspection of the forest plots. Heterogeneity was analyzed by difference (MD) was calculated. If different scales were adopted for calculating the I2 statistic. A 50% threshold was set for further the same outcome, the standardized mean difference (SMD) was investigation of heterogeneity by subgroup analysis. used for analysis. Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 11 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Combined endpoints (for example, 'any adverse effects', including Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) or other symptom scores, bother different lists of adverse effects for each trial) were assessed by the scores, QoL scores, or patient self-declared status) (e.g., NIH- random-effects model. CPSI total score < 15 versus ≥ 15) ; 4. type, sensitivity or specificity of microbiological diagnostic tests Assessment of reporting biases (4-glass versus 2-glass); To identify reporting biases, we performed a comprehensive search 5. previous antibacterial treatment (naïve versus heavily or of clinical trials registers ( www.controlled- chronically pretreated participants); trials.com) in order to compare the original protocols with 6. duration of antibacterial treatment (< 4 weeks versus ≥ 4 weeks); published reports of the same trials. Reporting bias was assessed 7. duration of follow up (< 1 month versus ≥ 1 month); by generating funnel plots in RevMan 5.1 and by testing for funnel 8. different criteria for microbiological outcome (e.g., different plot asymmetry (for example, Egger test). These tests were planned bacterial load cutoff to define pathogen eradication, for to be performed
