Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


funnel 8. different criteria for microbiological outcome (e.g., different plot asymmetry (for example, Egger test). These tests were planned bacterial load cutoff to define pathogen eradication, for to be performed if at least 10 studies were included in the meta- example, 105 versus 103 CFU/mL); analysis. Data synthesis versus International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)). We compared dichotomous as well as non-dichotomous outcomes Subgroup analysis was performed only in the presence of an at the endpoint. We assessed effect size inconsistency as well as adequate number of studies and if subgroup data were available. clinical study design and statistical heterogeneity. Sensitivity analysis We used a fixed-effect model to compare microbiological efficacy as standardized pathogen cultures performed on patients' biological Sensitivity analysis was used to explore the robustness of the meta- samples evaluate exactly the same effect, and variations in this analysis in the presence of I2 values beyond the 50% threshold. case are likely to be due to sampling issues. Conversely, a random- into account the diverse strategies used in the included studies number of included studies by repeating the analysis taking into improvement definitions). Adverse effects were also analyzed using 1. specific parameters of study quality (e.g., low versus moderate a random-effects model. Finally, data analyzed with a fixed-effect or high risk of bias); model were analyzed using a random-effects model to investigate heterogeneity among studies. 2. different measures of effect size (secondary analysis performed with odds ratios (ORs) in the case of the primary analysis questionnaire scores) by comparing the SMDs. We were aware that 3. different statistical models (secondary analysis performed with a limitation to this kind of analysis is the fact that the scores of a random-effects model in the case of the primary analysis clinical questionnaires are often based on ordinal scales. performed using a fixed-effect model). For both continuous and dichotomous outcomes we calculated R E S U L T S 95% CIs. Description of studies Relevant data from pooled analyses were reported in 'Summary of findings' tables. See: Characteristics of included studies; Characteristics of excluded studies. Subgroup analysis and investigation of heterogeneity Results of the search Where substantial heterogeneity was found among pooled studies evaluated with a fixed-effect model, we repeated the analysis using We identified 3394 potential studies from the article databases and a random-effects model. 12 potential studies from the online congress abstract databases. The databases searched and the number of retrieved
