Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


in attenuating clinical agents for CBP. The results of four out of five studies directly symptoms at the test-of-cure (TOC) visit, equivalent numbers of comparing two different fluoroquinolones indicate substantial participants were asymptomatic at the same time point. Similarly, equivalence between levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin, prulifloxacin fluoroquinolones (ofloxacin) and tetracyclines (minocycline) show and levofloxacin, lomefloxacin and ofloxacin, and lomefloxacin and comparable microbiological and clinical efficacy and an equivalent ciprofloxacin. Equivalence was shown both at the microbiological safety profile in ureaplasmal prostatitis . the end of treatment and at follow-up (Bundrick 2003; Giannarini In summary, macrolides appear to be the most effective agents against CBP caused by intracellular pathogens. Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 21 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Combination therapy - all pathogens a confounding factor for the resulting evidence since certain antimicrobials are more active against a particular family or group Combination of a fluoroquinolone with a phosphodiesterase-5 of pathogens (for example, first-generation fluoroquinolones are inhibitor (levofloxacin plus vardenafil) neither improves less active against Gram-positive bacteria than fourth-generation microbiological eradication nor attenuates pain or voiding agents). symptoms when compared to therapy with the fluoroquinolone alone. However, the impact of the disease on patients' QoL is Three out of 18 included studies were double-blinded (Bundrick significantly improved by the sole fluoroquinolone when compared 2003; Giannarini 2007; Smith 1979), and one was single-blinded to therapy with the fluoroquinolone plus phosphodiesterase-5 . Four studies assessed clinical symptoms using inhibitor on-demand, though the difference was not observed an internationally validated scoring system (NIH-CPSI) (Aliaev when the phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor was administered at a 2008; Cai 2009; Cai 2010; Giannarini 2007). The remaining fixed daily dose (10 mg once daily) . studies adopted non-validated qualitative evaluation systems (for example, 'cure' versus 'failure'). Only two studies reported in detail Combination of a fluoroquinolone (prulifloxacin) with various the randomization procedure or the system adopted for allocation herbal preparations may attenuate clinical symptoms without concealment (Bundrick 2003; Giannarini 2007). increasing the rate of adverse effects . A clinical outcome was absent in two studies (Koff 1996; Smith Overall completeness and applicability of evidence 1979), and adverse effects of treatment were not reported in three The evidence resulting from this systematic review is applicable studies (Aliaev 2008; Ohkawa 1993; Paulson 1986). Eradication data to patients broadly fulfilling the specific inclusion and exclusion at the TOC visit (end of therapy)
