Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


this systematic review is applicable studies (Aliaev 2008; Ohkawa 1993; Paulson 1986). Eradication data to patients broadly fulfilling the specific inclusion and exclusion at the TOC visit (end of therapy) were not disclosed in one study criteria of the study. . Patients should be diagnosed and classified according to the NIH In general, most of the included studies were characterized by a or Drach's criteria . very low sample size. The microbiological diagnosis should be based on correctly Meta-analysis was performed to compare levofloxacin versus performed standard lower urinary tract segmented tests (for ciprofloxacin (two studies: Analysis 1.1; Summary of findings example, 4-glass or 2-glass tests) for the isolation of causative for the main comparison), lomefloxacin versus a comparator pathogens from expressed prostatic secretions or post-massage fluoroquinolone (Analysis 5.1; Summary of findings 2), urine. A diagnosis of CBP based on the sole sperm or midstream ciprofloxacin versus a comparator fluoroquinolone (Analysis 6.1; urine culture is doubtful and methodologically incorrect. Summary of findings 3), and levofloxacin versus a comparator fluoroquinolone (Analysis 7.1; Summary of findings 4). Three out The antimicrobial agents described in this review must be of four pooled analyses (Analysis 1.1; Analysis 6.1; Analysis 7.1) administered at the correct doses, and the therapy should be long- showed very high heterogeneity of microbiological outcomes (I2 = term, as demonstrated in all included studies. This is an essential 94, 91 and 89, respectively). The Zhang 2012 study was identified as requirement for correct and effective applicability of the evidence the likely source of heterogeneity. This trial included a fraction of described in this review. participants with CBP caused by ciprofloxacin-resistant pathogens (about 40% of the isolated pathogens). In the same patient The massive worldwide onset of chemoresistance that occurred population, 21% of isolates were resistant to levofloxacin. Thus, in the last two decades has likely hindered the relevance each group randomized to ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin contained and applicability in contemporary practice of evidence derived unbalanced fractions of ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin resistant from studies focusing on drugs like co-trimoxazole or extended- cases, and the lower eradication rate achieved by ciprofloxacin spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) targeted beta-lactam antibiotics. in this study is the probable source of substantial heterogeneity This should be taken into account in clinical decision-making and in the meta-analysis. When the Zhang study was excluded from therapy design processes. meta-analysis of microbiological efficacy, heterogeneity became zero in pooled analyses 6.2.2 and 7.2.2.
