Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


in clinical decision-making and in the meta-analysis. When the Zhang study was excluded from therapy design processes. meta-analysis of microbiological efficacy, heterogeneity became zero in pooled analyses 6.2.2 and 7.2.2. In addition, microbiological Quality of the evidence efficacy lost significance in pooled analyses 1, 6 and 7 when the The overall quality of the evidence described in this review is original fixed-effect model was changed to a random-effects model affected by the methodological limitations of the included studies. (Analysis 1.2; Analysis 6.2; Analysis 7.2). In particular, the more recent and better-designed trials on novel fluoroquinolones (levofloxacin, lomefloxacin, prulifloxacin) were Agreements and disagreements with other studies or de facto characterized by equivalency or non-inferiority designs. reviews It is well-known that non-inferiority studies have a number of A single systematic review focusing on both chronic bacterial and inherent weaknesses compared to superiority studies . abacterial prostatitis was retrieved from the PubMed database . This systematic review included both randomized Seven out of 18 studies described antimicrobial treatment against and observational trials and did not contain a meta-analysis. The CBP caused by a single pathogen: five studies were focusing on primary outcomes of this review were symptom improvement, chlamydial infections (Cai 2010; Skerk 2002; Skerk 2003; Skerk urodynamics, QoL, rates of bacteriological cure and adverse effects 2004a; Skerk 2004b), and two studies included only participants of treatment. The quality of the evidence was rated according to with CBP caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum (Ohkawa 1993; the GRADE criteria . EMBASE, CENTRAL and PubMed Skerk 2006). The remaining 11 studies included participants international databases were searched. with infection caused by any pathogen (Gram-positive or Gram- negative). Pooled pathogens may represent a limitation and Antimicrobial therapy for chronic bacterial prostatitis (Review) 22 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews The Bundrick 2003, Giannarini 2007 and Naber 2002 4. Alternative antimicrobial agents tested for treatment of CBP comparisons between different fluoroquinolones were analyzed. caused by traditional pathogens are co-trimoxazole, beta- The conclusions drawn in the Erickson paper and in the present lactams and tetracyclines, tested for four and six weeks review are similar: lomefloxacin or levofloxacin are as effective duration. The studies were underpowered, therefore no as ciprofloxacin at increasing bacteriological cure rates, and conclusive evidence can be drawn regarding the role of non- prulifloxacin and levofloxacin are equally effective at increasing fluoroquinolone antibiotics in the treatment of CBP caused by
