Cochrane
KEYWORDS: analysis, versus, treatment, studies, prostatitis, therapy, efficacy, microbiological, fluoroquinolone, study, comparison, effects, adverse, risk, outcome


cure rates, and conclusive evidence can be drawn regarding the role of non- prulifloxacin and levofloxacin are equally effective at increasing fluoroquinolone antibiotics in the treatment of CBP caused by microbiological eradication rates in men with chronic bacterial traditional pathogens. prostatitis . 5. In patients with CBP caused by intracellular pathogens, macrolides had higher microbiological and clinical cure rates The Erickson review included a randomized study by Hu compared to fluoroquinolones at treatment durations of three and coworkers focusing on intraprostatic administration of weeks. There are no significant differences regarding adverse aminoglycosides . We excluded the study from the present effects. There are no significant differences in microbiological review because the description of the microbiological diagnostic and clinical efficacy and adverse effects between oral methods was considered insufficient. azithromycin and clarithromycin in chlamydial prostatitis. The present review differed from Erickson 2008 concerning the 6. There are also no significant differences in microbiological and evaluation of the quality of evidence according to the GRADE clinical efficacy and adverse effect rates between macrolides system. In general, the quality rating given to the included and tetracyclines (viz., azithromycin versus doxycycline) in studies is lower in the present systematic review. We attribute patients with CBP caused by facultative or obligate intracellular this differential evaluation to the downgrading effect of selection, pathogens. performance, detection, attrition and reporting biases, assessed 7. There is inconclusive randomized controlled evidence with the Cochrane Collaboration risk of bias tool. regarding the role of combination treatments of CBP with antimicrobial and non-antimicrobial substances, such as Beta-lactams were shown in two studies to be not inferior to phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors or herbal preparations. fluoroquinolones (ofloxacin) or tetracyclines (minocycline) at the microbiological and clinical levels (Cox 1989; Paulson 1986). This Implications for research evidence appears to be in contrast with more recent findings Further RCTs are required to determine the microbiological and demonstrating very limited distribution, and hence low activity, of clinical efficacy in the treatment of: beta-lactam antibiotics into the prostatic tissue (Charalabopoulos 2003). • CBP caused by traditional pathogens with non-fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agents; A U T H O R S ' C O N C L U S I O N S • CBP caused by fluoroquinolone-resistant pathogens with non- Implications for practice fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agents in the light of the increasing fluoroquinolone resistance reported in CBP isolates; The following implications for practice in the treatment of patients and with chronic bacterial
