e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


e-ISSN 1941-5923 © Am J Case Rep, 2019; 20: 1057-1062 DOI: Received: 2019.04.27 Intestinal Perforation in Children as an Important Accepted: 2019.05.26 Published: 2019.07.20 Differential Diagnosis of Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome ABCDE 1,2 Jonathan Emerson Kohler Manuscript Preparation E Literature Search F Funds Collection G Corresponding Author: Jonathan Emerson Kohler, e-mail: Conflict of interest: None declared Patient: Male, 6 Final Diagnosis: Colonic perforation secondary to vascular Ehlers Danlos Syndrome Symptoms: Abdominal pain • constipation Medication: — Clinical Procedure: Loop colostomy followed by total colectomy and ileostomy Specialty: Surgery Objective: Unusual clinical course Background: Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is a group of connective tissue disorders with heterogeneous clinical features as- sociated with varying genetic mutations. EDS type IV, also known as vascular EDS (vEDS), is the rarest type but has fatal complications, including rupture of major vasculature and intestinal and uterine perforation. Intestinal perforation can be spontaneous or a consequence of long-standing constipation, a common symptom among patients with EDS. Case Report: We present a case of a 6-year-old boy with the previous diagnosis of vEDS who presented with colonic per- foration from a stercoral ulcer. He underwent diagnostic laparoscopy and loop colostomy, with an uneventful postoperative course. Unfortunately, he developed a second colonic perforation 14 months after the initial ep- isode and underwent total abdominal colectomy with end ileostomy. Conclusions: Intestinal perforation is a well-documented and devastating complication of vEDS. However, spontaneous in- testinal perforation is extremely rare in a young child. Therefore, the diagnosis of vEDS should be included in the differential diagnosis if a child presents with intestinal perforation. There is no clear guideline available for surgical management of colonic perforation in patients with vEDS, but total abdominal colectomy appears to provide the best chance of preventing recurrent perforation. MeSH Keywords: Constipation • Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome • Intestinal Perforation Full-text PDF: 2421 1 1 54 This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] 1057 NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Park K.Y. et al.: Colonic perforation in a 6-year-old boy © Am J Case Rep, 2019; 20: 1057-1062 Background compared to his siblings, as well as delayed wound healing (Table 1). Later, he was also noted to have mild hindfoot val- Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is a group of connective tis- gus, joint weakness and hyperflexibility, and mild telecanthus, sue disorders associated with several identified genetic mu- as
