e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


have mild hindfoot val- Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is a group of connective tis- gus, joint weakness and hyperflexibility, and mild telecanthus, sue disorders associated with several identified genetic mu- as well as bilateral lower lid ptosis. Initially, he was evaluated Hypermobile joints, easy bruising, and fragile skin are the disease and hemophilia, but the results were normal. Given well-known features of EDS. Depending on the subtype, signs these results and his features, he then underwent genetic and symptoms can vary, including characteristic facial fea- work up for EDS when he was 3 years old. He was found to tures of thin lips, small chin, thin nose, and large eyes, short have a COL3A1 mutation with an exon 28 skip, resulting in stature, clubfoot, delayed walking, mitral valve prolapse and the lack of 18 amino acids in the pro-a1(III) chains, and was other solid organ prolapse, spontaneous pneumothorax, and diagnosed with vEDS. He had no family members affected inguinal hernia. Classical EDS results most commonly from the with EDS or any other connective tissue disorder. His previ- mutation of COL5A1 gene on chromosome 9q34.3 or COL5A2 ous surgical history included bilateral inguinal hernia repair gene on 2q32.2 and is associated with mutation of type IV and orchidopexy at 4 weeks of age, before his diagnosis, and collagen . Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (vEDS) is the no difficulty with bleeding or healing was noted at that time. rarest subtype, occurring in about 1 in 100 000 live births , He had taken aminocaproic acid (Amicar®) for bruising and but is the most morbid form of EDS. Vascular EDS is associated bloody bowel movements in the past, but at presentation he with a genetic defect in type III collagen formation localized to was only taking daily vitamin C. the COL3A1 gene on chromosome 2q32.2, which affects the proteins . The inheritance pattern is predominantly autoso- mild to moderate distress, and multiple bruises throughout his mal dominant, although biallelic variants and de novo variants body. On the abdominal exam, he had a soft, non-distended have been reported . Median survival with vEDS has been abdomen with mild tenderness throughout, hypoactive bowel reported to be 48 years, with death often occurring from rup- sounds, and no rebound or guarding. An abdominal plain film ture of major vessels or complications from intestinal perfo- was unremarkable. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed ration or uterine rupture during delivery
