e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


rebound or guarding. An abdominal plain film ture of major vessels or complications from intestinal perfo- was unremarkable. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed ration or uterine rupture during delivery . Most intestinal small to moderate intraperitoneal free fluid with peripheral perforations are spontaneous, with colonic perforation being edema just below the kidneys and scattered foci of extralu- the most common. However, given the rarity of the disorder, minal gas along the left paracolic gutter, suggesting diffuse there is no clear guideline regarding the optimal management peritonitis (Figure 1). The appendix appeared normal in cali- of colonic perforation in these patients. ber, but an appendicolith was present. He was transferred to our facility for surgical management. The average age of patients with reported intestinal perforation is 22 years old. Here, we present a case of a 6-year-old white Upon our evaluation, he was tachycardic but normotensive and boy who suffered potentially preventable initial colonic perfo- afebrile. He was awake and alert but had tenderness to percus- ration from heavy stool burden followed by a second colonic sion, pain with movement, and voluntary guarding. Although perforation. We also review the literature for optimal surgi- he had multiple bruises, especially along his shins, he did not cal management of colonic perforation in patients with vEDS. have the characteristic facial features of patients with EDS, was normal in height (82th percentile) and weight (75th per- centile), and had normal-appearing skin. His laboratory stud- Case Report ies were unremarkable, without leukocytosis. However, given his radiographic finding of free air, he was taken to the oper- The patient was a 6-year-old white boy with a history of vEDS ating room for urgent exploratory laparoscopy. who presented to a local emergency room with severe general- ized abdominal pain. He and his parents described generalized Initial inspection revealed a copious amount of purulent fluid abdominal pain that had started 4 days previously and acutely with some feculent particulates throughout his abdomen, worsened, especially with movement, on the morning of his especially along the left lateral abdomen. The appendix was presentation. The patient did not have nausea, vomiting, fever, visualized in the right lower quadrant and appeared normal. melena, or hematochezia. According to his parents, he had re- The small bowel and ascending and transverse colons were ported to them that he had daily bowel movements including likewise inspected laparoscopically and appeared normal. a “normal” bowel movement the
