e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


function test; INR – international normalized ratio; AST – aspartate aminotransferase; ALT – alanine aminotransferase; VWD – Von Willebrand disease; PTT – partial thromboplastin time; TTE – transthoracic echocardiogram; EDS – Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; CT – computed tomography. exteriorized through the midline umbilical incision. His tissues proteins interacting with collagen , and there is some evi- were very friable and elastic. A 1-cm perforation of the colon dence suggesting malabsorption in patients with EDS, we as- was identified on the lateral mesenteric border of the descend- sessed albumin, pre-albumin, total protein, and c-reactive pro- ing colon. No other perforations were found. The compromised tein (CRP) levels. His albumin was 2.0 g/dL, total protein of segment of the bowel was brought out through the abdominal 4.5 g/dL, and pre-albumin of 8.2 mg/dL, with normal CRP. Due wall to form a loop colostomy. Because of significant capillary to the slow return of bowel function with ongoing nausea and bleeding, aminocaproic acid was administered intraoperatively emesis, he was started on parenteral nutrition on postopera- and for 24 h postoperatively. Postoperatively, the patient’s INR tive day 3. He was able to tolerate oral diet slowly starting on rose to 1.7 but normalized in 2 days after vitamin K was ad- postoperative day 6, and was able to wean off of parenteral ministered. Since mutation of COL3A1 gene has been known nutrition on postoperative day 11. Before discharge, he was to alter structure and production of collagen, as well as other having stool output from the colostomy and was discharged This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] 1059 NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Park K.Y. et al.: Colonic perforation in a 6-year-old boy © Am J Case Rep, 2019; 20: 1057-1062 8.4 g/dL to 6 g/dL postoperatively. He had an unremarkable postoperative course, with the return of bowel function on postoperative day 4, and was discharged home on postoper- ative day 7. The patient recovered without any postoperative complications. Eleven months after the second operation, the patient and his parents elected to restore bowel continuity to improve his quality of life. Therefore, after extensive discus- sions and preoperative workup including consultation with a pediatric hematologist, the patient underwent laparoscopic ileostomy takedown, ileorectal anastomosis, and diverting il- eostomy. Once the patient has fully recovered from this oper- ation, the ileostomy will
