e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


consultation with a pediatric hematologist, the patient underwent laparoscopic ileostomy takedown, ileorectal anastomosis, and diverting il- eostomy. Once the patient has fully recovered from this oper- ation, the ileostomy will be taken down. Discussion Figure 1. Axial contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen just below the kidneys demonstrates edema in the periphery Intestinal perforation is a well-documented and potentially of the abdominal cavity, consistent with peritonitis. life-threatening complication of vEDS. There are 203 reported Scattered foci of extraluminal gas along the left cases in the English literature of spontaneous intestinal per- paracolic gutter (arrows). Rounded foci of gas along foration in EDS. However, it is very unusual for this to happen ascending colon were confirmed to be within haustral in a young child, with the average age at the time of initial folds on reformatted images. perforation being 21.8±13.5 years old. Among 149 patients whose demographics were reported, 79 patients were female home on postoperative day 11. His wound continued to heal and 70 patients were male. The most common site is the sig- without complications and he was having regular ostomy out- moid colon, with 74 patients [6,8–40], but perforations of the put with a daily regimen of polyethylene glycol. colon other than sigmoid, small intestine, rectum, stomach, and esophagus have been reported . Out of 154 After extensive discussions and second opinions, the patient patients with a reported survival outcome, 35 deaths were and his parents were satisfied with the loop colostomy and de- reported. Eleven patients died after the initial perforation, cided not to pursue the restoration of bowel continuity given 4 patients died from vascular complications, 4 patients died the risks of a second operation. from multiorgan failure or subsequent infection, 4 patients died from the anastomotic leak, 2 died from recurrent perfo- Fourteen months after the initial presentation, the patient pre- ration, 1 patient died from evisceration, 1 patient died from sented to a local emergency room with sudden onset abdom- splenic rupture, and 8 patients died from unspecified causes. inal pain along with non-bloody, non-bilious emesis. He was Among the reported cases of “spontaneous” colonic perfora- afebrile but appeared to be ill, and he was tachycardic, with tion, 12 patients were documented as presenting with consti- a leukocytosis of 18 000 cells/µL. An abdominal CT scan pation . showed pneumoperitoneum and foci of extraluminal air most prominently near the splenic flexure where the previous per-
