e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


consti- a leukocytosis of 18 000 cells/µL. An abdominal CT scan pation . showed pneumoperitoneum and foci of extraluminal air most prominently near the splenic flexure where the previous per- Given the relative rarity of vEDS, there is no clear guideline foration was. The patient was transferred to our facility for regarding prevention and management of intestinal perfora- further care, and he was taken to the operating room emer- tion in patients with vEDS. However, given our patient’s heavy gently. There was no frank fecal contamination, but the dif- stool burden and hard stool in the left colon, the initial perfo- fuse cloudy purulent-appearing fluid was noted throughout ration in his case could have been compounded by stercoral the abdomen. Upon closer inspection of the colon, there was ulceration. Constipation is a commonly associated gastrointes- an obvious but very small perforation at the splenic flexure tinal manifestation of EDS . Reviewing our patient’s med- proximal to his loop colostomy. The entire small bowel was ex- ical history, he was treated for constipation starting at age 3, amined, and no other abnormality or perforation was found. but treatment was discontinued. He self-reported his bowel Based on the discussion with the parents before the opera- movements to his parents and told them they were “normal” tion, the patient underwent total abdominal colectomy with but they said they had not seen his stool for several years. end ileostomy. During the operation, he again was noted to Constipation is a common problem in children, and most of acid. The following day, he was given 1 unit of packed red in patients with a diagnosis of vEDS, given the potentially life- blood cells for tachycardia and decrease in hemoglobin from threatening and morbid consequences of intestinal perforation, 1060 This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Park K.Y. et al.: Colonic perforation in a 6-year-old boy © Am J Case Rep, 2019; 20: 1057-1062 it is especially important for parents and pediatricians to be creation (57 out of 112 colonic perforations), with eventual aware of the potential dangers of constipation and to remain colostomy reversal (44 out of 52 reported subsequent opera- vigilant about bowel management and monitoring. tion) or total abdominal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (11 out of 52). Eight patients did not undergo
