e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


(44 out of 52 reported subsequent opera- vigilant about bowel management and monitoring. tion) or total abdominal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (11 out of 52). Eight patients did not undergo a reversal pro- Although our patient had a relatively uncomplicated recov- cedure, 7 patients had bowel continuity restored at the time ery after both surgeries, there are multiple reports of patients of the first operation, and 3 patients had total abdominal col- with vEDS after surgical repair of bowel perforation suffer- ectomy and end ileostomy at the time of the initial operation. ing catastrophic consequences from poor wound healing and Out of 35 patients with reported recurrent perforation, 27 pa- wound dehiscence . Several case reports tients (77.1%) had a remaining colon. Out of 14 patients who note tissue fragility found during operations in patients with underwent TAC either as an initial operation or subsequent vEDS, as seen in our patient. At the time of the initial opera- operation, 2 patients (14.2%) suffered recurrent small bowel tion, he was found to have poor nutritional status and elevated perforation. One patient who underwent TAC and ileorectal INR, although he was reported to have a good appetite and to anastomosis developed anastomotic stricture and 1 patient have eaten normal meals. It has been suggested that intestinal developed anastomotic leak and fistula. Based on these re- dysmotility seen in patients with EDS may lead to dilatation ports, total abdominal colectomy appears to have the highest of the GI tract, bacterial overgrowth, and malabsorption . chance of reducing recurrent perforation, as non-colonic perfo- Given the close reciprocal relationship between intestinal mo- ration is extremely rare. However, given some risks of anasto- tility and gut microbiota and its effect on nutritional and im- motic leak, bleeding, and tissue fragility, the benefits and risks mune regulation , it is possible that malnutrition is not un- of restoring intestinal continuity in pediatric patients should common in patients with EDS. However, the effect of low levels be considered on an individual basis. of albumin, pre-albumin, and protein on wound healing in this patient population has not been described. Although there is no strong evidence supporting the benefit of a high-protein Conclusions diet in patients with EDS, there is some evidence suggesting daily high-dose vitamin C therapy aids wound healing when Intestinal perforation is a well-documented and serious compli- recovering from injuries . cation of vEDS. Spontaneous intestinal perforation
