e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: perforation, patients, patient, veds, intestinal, eds, abdominal, bowel, colonic, reported, intestinal perforation, initial, normal, colon, given


some evidence suggesting daily high-dose vitamin C therapy aids wound healing when Intestinal perforation is a well-documented and serious compli- recovering from injuries . cation of vEDS. Spontaneous intestinal perforation is extremely rare in young patients; therefore, vEDS should be considered In addition to poor wound healing and tissue fragility, we and in the differential diagnosis if pediatric patients present with others have noted easy intraoperative bleeding . symptoms of intestinal perforation. If a patient with a known Although our patient did not require any transfusion, he re- diagnosis of vEDS presents with signs and symptoms of intes- ceived aminocaproic acid intraoperatively. While there are tinal obstruction, the provider should have heightened aware- few guidelines regarding perioperative use of anti-fibrinolytic ness of potential perforation, given the fragility of the tissues. agents in patients with vEDS, some reports noted successful Although there is no clear guideline regarding the optimal sur- use of these agents, as well as desmopressin and factors VII gical management of intestinal perforation in patients with and VIII, to control bleeding [50–53]. Moreover, studies show- vEDS, based on our literature review, total abdominal colec- ing platelet dysfunction and coagulation factor deficiency in tomy may reduce potential reperforation. Decisions regard- patients with vEDS may further support their use when un- ing the restoration of intestinal continuity should be made af- usual bleeding is noted . ter careful discussions between the surgeon and the patient, given the potentially devastating complications reported in Unfortunately, our patient suffered a second colonic perforation this population. 14 months after his initial perforation. Recurrent bowel per- foration has been reported in 49 out of 187 patients (26.2%). Conflict of interest The most common operation performed at the initial injury is resection or primary repair of the perforation with colostomy None.
