Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders
KEYWORDS: valve, patients, mechanical, valves, anticoagulation, valvular, mitral, atrial fibrillation, aortic, blood, atrial, fibrillation, stenosis, left, ventricle


treatment for many years. In general, neither lifestyle measures nor medications alter the natural history of valvular lesions. Intervention is usually indicated when a moderate or severe valvular lesion causes symptoms or cardiac dysfunction. Because patients may not recognize symptoms due to their slow onset, many clinicians use exercise testing to help monitor patients. The intervention may involve valvuloplasty (valve repair), or valve replacement, which may be performed percutaneously or surgically. Investigation of different valvular interventions, including percutaneous valve replacement, has led to an increasing number of therapeutic options and evidence on how to choose one. For clinicians, the increase in complexity requires a multidisciplinary heart valve team composed of surgeons, cardiologists, and other specialists to help decide which intervention is best for a given patient. If coronary artery bypass surgery is being performed, it is usual to surgically treat (during the same operation) any moderate or severe valve lesions, even if asymptomatic. Endocarditis prophylaxis is indicated when there is a history of endocarditis and for patients with prosthetic heart valves. Choice of cardiac valve prosthesis Two kinds of cardiac valve prostheses are used: Bioprosthetic (porcine, bovine, or homograft) Mechanical (manufactured) Both types have similar survival rates and rates of valve thrombosis. Mechanical prostheses have a higher rate of bleeding complications, and bioprostheses are more likely to require re-intervention because they deteriorate more rapidly than mechanical valves. A mechanical valve is usually used (1) in patients who are not contemplating becoming pregnant and who meet one or more of the following criteria: Already taking a vitamin K antagonist (eg, for atrial fibrillation) and adhering well to therapy Under age 50 years (for aortic valve) Under age 65 years (for mitral valve) A bioprosthetic valve is recommended to replace the aortic valve for patients > 65 years. For patients aged 50 to 65 years, the recommendations are guides only because patients' preferences may deviate, particularly depending on how they perceive bleeding complications versus need for re-intervention. Anticoagulation for patients with prosthetic cardiac valves or native valve disease Anticoagulation is indicated to prevent thromboembolism after valve replacement, and in patients with atrial fibrillation or other indications for anticoagulation. The duration and medication used differ depending on the type of prosthetic valve or specific native valve affected and the presence of underlying atrial fibrillation. Anticoagulation for patients with prosthetic cardiac valves Mechanical valve: Lifelong anticoagulation with a vitamin K antagonist (VKA) is needed
