Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders
KEYWORDS: valve, patients, mechanical, valves, anticoagulation, valvular, mitral, atrial fibrillation, aortic, blood, atrial, fibrillation, stenosis, left, ventricle


specific native valve affected and the presence of underlying atrial fibrillation. Anticoagulation for patients with prosthetic cardiac valves Mechanical valve: Lifelong anticoagulation with a vitamin K antagonist (VKA) is needed as per the international normalized ratio [INR] targets below. Bioprosthetic valve: Lifelong aspirin is recommended (those at low bleeding risk may have 3 to 6 months anticoagulation with a VKA before changing to aspirin). Transcatheter aortic valve: Lifelong aspirin is needed. Addition of either clopidogrel or a VKA (INR target 2.5) may be considered for 3 to 6 months after implantation for patients with increased thrombosis risk. Bioprosthetic valve (including transcatheter) in patients with atrial fibrillation: Direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) is preferred over VKA, unless a thromboembolism has occurred while taking a DOAC. (see also Prevention of thromboembolism) (1, 2, 3). DOAC (also called non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants or NOAC) are ineffective for mechanical prostheses and should not be used. Target INR for most modern mechanical bileaflet prostheses is 2.5, increasing to 3.0 with any of the following: Atrial fibrillation Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 35% Mitral or tricuspid position Previous thromboembolism Patients who self-monitor their INR or follow up with dedicated anticoagulation clinics have less variability in their INR and fewer adverse events. If patients have thromboembolism despite an adequate INR, consider adding low-dose aspirin. When VKA treatment is interrupted, bridging with unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin is indicated, except in patients with a bileaflet (mechanical) aortic valve replacement and no other risk factors for thrombosis (previous thromboembolism, atrial fibrillation, LVEF < 35%, > 1 mechanical valve —1). Atrial Fibrillation CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc Score for Stroke Risk Pearls & Pitfalls Warfarin is the only appropriate oral anticoagulant for thromboembolism prevention in patients with mechanical valves. Women who require valve replacement and plan to become pregnant must balance the teratogenic risk due to warfarin when mechanical valves are used against the risk of accelerated valve deterioration when bioprosthetic valves are used. Teratogenic risks can be reduced by use of heparin instead of warfarin in the first 12 weeks and last 2 weeks of the pregnancy, but management is difficult, complications are increased, and careful discussion is required before surgery. Anticoagulation for patients with atrial fibrillation and native valve disease Patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis should undergo anticoagulation with a VKA. For those with other native valve disease, DOACs are an alternative to VKAs and may be preferred in some patient
