ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS ANDCHEMOTHERAPY, Feb. 1984, p. 276-278 Vol. 25, No. 2
KEYWORDS: patients, urinary, ofthe, augmentin, infections, treatment, tract, week, brumfitt, hamilton-miller, follow-up, urinary tract, rate, cure, urine


0066-4804/841020276-03$02.00/0 Amoxicillin Plus Clavulanic Acid in the Treatment of Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections W. BRUMFITT* AND J. M. T. HAMILTON-MILLER of Hampstead, London, N.W.3, UnitedKingdom Received4May 1983/Accepted 14November 1983 Forty-four patients (43 female, 1 male), all with a history of recurrent urinary tract infections, were treated with 250mgofamoxicillin plus 125 mgofclavulanic acid (onetabletofAugmentin)every8 hfor7 days. The microbiological cure rates were 84% 1 week afterthe end oftreatment and 67% 1 month later. Side effects, which were reported by 20% ofthe patients, were mild and in no case caused interruption of treatment. Inviewoftheincreasingtrendinresistancetoagentscommonlyusedforthetreatmentofurinary tractinfectiobs inoutpatients, thecombinationofamoxicillinandclavulanicacidmaynowbeconsidereda first-lime drug in patients with recurrent urinary tract infections. The incidence ofresistance toamoxicillin amongbacteria Bacteriological methods. Quantitative counts were made causingurinarytractinfectionshasincreasedovertheyears, from MSUs within 20 min after they were passed, by and in our area the figure reached about 20%o during 1980- methods previously described (10), onto cystine-lactose- 1981 (6, 7). This resistance is due for the most part to the electrolyte-deficient agar. Susceptibility testing was carried presence ofthe TEM plasmid (16, 19), which results in the outonIsoSensitestagar(OxoidLtd.,Basingsioke, England) production of a p-lactamase which destroys amoxicillin. withaninoculumof104coloniesperplatewiththefollowing Thistypeofj-lactamase isinhibitedbyclavulanic acid(18); disks: 200,ugofsulfafurazole, 5 ,ugoftrimethoprim, 30,ugof as aresult, these resistant strains are almost all susceptible Augmentin (20 ,ug of amoxicillin plus 10 jig of clavylanic toAugmentin,thecombinationofamoxicillinandclavulanic acid), 30 ,ug of ampicillin, 30 jig of cephradine, 200 jig of acid which has recently been marketed in the United King- nitrofurantoin, 30 jig of tetracycline, and 30 jig of mecil- dom. There is, as yet, little information on the efficacy of linam. Bacteria were identified to the species level by the Augmentin in the treatment ofrecurrent urinary tract infec- API 20E system, and Escherichia coli strains were further tions (14). Therefore, we decided to carry out a trial ofthis defined by 0 serotyping (2) andbiotyping (11). preparation in patients who suffer recurrent urinary tract Thepresenceofantibody-coatedbacteriaintheurinewas infections and whopose difficult therapeutic problems. lookedforby atechnique developed in this laboratory (12). If1%oftheorganismsintheurinewascoatedwithantibody, MATERIALS AND METHODS thetest was regarded as positive. Patients. Patientsattendingthe Urinary InfectionClinicat Definitions. Definitionsfollowtherecommendationsofthe family doctors oraconsultant fromthishospital. All havea were determined from the results of the MSU cultures history ofrecurrent attacks of symptoms referrable to the collected atthe 2-weekandthe6-weekfollow-up. Curewas urinary tract, such asfrequency, dysuria, and urgency. Not defined as the disappearance ofthe original inifecting orga- allsymptomaticattacksareaccompaniedbybacteriuria,nor nismfromtheurine. Iftheoriginalinfectingorganismswere are all bacteriurne episodes symptomatic. Forentry into the present in the 2-week follow-up MSU, this was recorded as trial, patients
