ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS ANDCHEMOTHERAPY, Feb. 1984, p. 276-278 Vol. 25, No. 2
KEYWORDS: patients, urinary, ofthe, augmentin, infections, treatment, tract, week, brumfitt, hamilton-miller, follow-up, urinary tract, rate, cure, urine


as the disappearance ofthe original inifecting orga- allsymptomaticattacksareaccompaniedbybacteriuria,nor nismfromtheurine. Iftheoriginalinfectingorganismswere are all bacteriurne episodes symptomatic. Forentry into the present in the 2-week follow-up MSU, this was recorded as trial, patients hid to satisfy the following criteria: at least persistence and regarded as a treatment failure. Reinfec- fourattacksduringthepreceding 12monthsandatleastone tion-the appearance ofadifferentpathogen eitherat2 or6 with a previously documented significant bacteriuria, no weeks-was regarded as a bacteriological cure, since the allergy to p-lactam antibiotics, and an infecting organism antibiotic had successfully removed the original infecting susceptible to Augmentin. A full history was taken, and a pathogen. Relapse was defined as the reappearance ofthe clinical examination was carried out on all patients. Full original pathogen afterit hadbeenclearedfromtheurine at details ofthe management ofpatients attending the Urinary the 2-week follow-up and was recorded as a treatment Infection Clinic have been described elsewhere (10). failure. The relapse rate was calculated asthe proportion of Treatment and follow-up. Patients with a105 bacteria per patients apparently cured at 2 weeks who subsequently ml in a properly taken mid-stream urine specimen (MSU) relapsed. Symptomatic cure rates were assessed by direct were treated with Augmentin, one tablet (250 mg ofamoxi- questioning ofpatients with a standardized questionnaire. cillin plus 125 mg ofpotassium clavulanic acid) every 8 h. Particularattentionwaspaidtoensurethatpatientscleansed RESULTS themselves thoroughly. Patients were asked to attend the Patients. Forty-fourpatientswereenteredintothetrial; 43 clinic within 7 days after finishing the treatment (a 2-week werefemale, 1 was male. The mean age ofthe patients was follow-up) and again 1 month later (a 6-week follow-up). 47.4 (±18.3, standard deviation). Of 39 patients, 12 (31%) They were questioned about side effects and symptoms. showed abnormal radiology; 4 had residual urine, 5 had chronic pyelonephritis, 2 had a duplex system, 1 had a * Corresponding author. ureteric diverticulum, and 1 had a bladder pouch. Of 29 VOL. 25, 1984 AUGMENTIN IN URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS 277 patients, 9 (31%) showed the presence of antibody-coated DISCUSSION bacteria. Of the 44 patients, 5 (11%o) showed a presence of chemical or hematological abnormalities; when treatment Patients with ahistory ofrecurrent urinary tract infections started, 2 had a raised aspartate transaminase, 1 had raised usually respond well in the very short term to conventional ureaand creatinine, 1 had raised ureaonly, and 2 had raised antibiotic treatment; the cure rate 1 weekaftertreatment has erythrocyte sedimentation rates. None became further ele- end ranges between 70 and 86% (7). The success rate at this vated during therapy. A relatively
