ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS ANDCHEMOTHERAPY, Feb. 1984, p. 276-278 Vol. 25, No. 2
KEYWORDS: patients, urinary, ofthe, augmentin, infections, treatment, tract, week, brumfitt, hamilton-miller, follow-up, urinary tract, rate, cure, urine


the cure rate 1 weekaftertreatment has erythrocyte sedimentation rates. None became further ele- end ranges between 70 and 86% (7). The success rate at this vated during therapy. A relatively high proportion of the time should thus be similar to those observed (2) in simple infections (36%) were asymptomatic when bacteriuria was dysuria and frequency associated with infection (85 to 90%) detected: thesepatients wereattendingtheclinicforperiodic and in bacteriuria in pregnancy (70 to 80%). monitoring. The symptomatic patients complained of fre- However, although cure rates for the latter two groups quency (61%), dysuria (54%), loin pain (25%), urgency hardly changed at the 6-week follow-up, a characteristic (21%), suprapubicpain (14%), fever(11%), andnausea(4%). feature of the "difficult" patients, such as those treated Infecting organisms and resistance patterns. Thirty-seven here, was that many relapsed during the month afterthe end ofthe organisms isolated from infected patients (82%) were of therapy. This means that cure rates at 6 weeks were E. coli. The rest ofthe infections were due equally to gram- substantially lowerthan those at 2 weeks and may be as low positive cocci (two Staphylococcus epidermidis, one Strep- as40%(6). We now have some evidence that points towards tococcus milleri, oneS.faecalis) andtogram-negative bacilli certain antibiotic regimens as being superior to others in other than E. coli (two Proteus mirabilis, one Klebsiella respect to the rate of relapse observed in difficult patients. pneumoniae, one Acinetobacter odorans). All the infecting Thus, trimethoprim alone (7), trimethoprim-sulfamethox- strains were susceptible to Augmentin but only 64% were azole (10), and cephradine (1 g every 12 h) (3) all give a susceptible to ampicillin. The incidence of resistance to relapse rate of less than 15%, as did Augmentin in the other antibiotics tested were: mecillinam, 2%; nitrofuran- present study. On the other hand, other antibiotic regimens toin, 4%; cephradine, 7%; tetracycline, 33%; sulfonamide, may give relapse rates as high as 30%. The most likely 51%; and trimethoprim, 49%. The reason for the high explanation for relapse is that not all the original infecting incidence oftrimethoprim resistance is discussed below. organisms are completely eliminated by the antibiotic but Cure rates. (i) Eradication ofinfection. At 1 week after the persistwithinthe tissues ofthe urinary tract so that the urine end oftreatment, 30 ofthe 44 patients had sterile urine. Of contains <103 organisms per ml at the 2-week follow-up. the 14 who had significant bacteriuria, 7 had an organism However, during the following month, the residual orga-
