ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS ANDCHEMOTHERAPY, Feb. 1984, p. 276-278 Vol. 25, No. 2
KEYWORDS: patients, urinary, ofthe, augmentin, infections, treatment, tract, week, brumfitt, hamilton-miller, follow-up, urinary tract, rate, cure, urine


sterile urine. Of contains <103 organisms per ml at the 2-week follow-up. the 14 who had significant bacteriuria, 7 had an organism However, during the following month, the residual orga- otherthanthatwhichhadcausedtheoriginalinfection;these nisms multiply in the bladder urine to reach significant 7hadthereforebecomereinfectedandwerescoredashaving numbers once again. been cured, in view of the fact that the original infecting On this hypothesis, it is attractive to suppose that those species had been eliminated. The microbiological cure rate antibiotics which give rise to the lower rate of relapse are at 2 weeks was therefore 37 of44 (84%). Ofthe 30 patients those which most often bring about complete sterilization of who had sterile urine at the 2-week follow-up, 28 attended the urine during the course of the 7 days oftreatment. It is the6-weekfollow-up; 21 provedto have sterile urine. Ofthe interesting that in a study (6) carried out with the same seven patients with significant bacteriuria at this time, three protocol as that used in the present investigation, in which had become reinfected and four had relapsed. Thus, the an almost exactly identical group of patients was treated, microbiological cure rateat6weeks was 24 of35 (67%), and amoxicillin alone (250 mg, every 8 h; the same dose as is the relapse rate was 4 of 28 (14%). The 14 patients who had given when one tablet ofAugmentin is taken every 8 h) did significantbacteriuriaatthe 2-weekfollow-upwere retreated not give such good results. The relapse rate with amoxicillin (not necessarily in the context ofthe present study). alone was 33% compared with 14%here. Clavulanic acidisa (ii)Disappearance ofsymptoms. There was agood (but not weakantibacterialagentin itsownright(9), andasynergistic absolute) correlation between reliefofsymptoms and eradi- activity with amoxicillin may occuroverand above its effect cationofbacteriuria. Ofthe28patientswhohadbeentreated ofinhibiting P-lactamase (13). for a symptomatic infection, 20 reported at the 2-week Many physicians who lack a rapid laboratory service are follow-up that their symptoms had gone (usually within 3 compelled to treat symptomatic patients with an antibiotic days of starting the treatment). Ofthe 20, 17 were abacter- selected on a "best-guess" basis; i.e., the antibiotic most iuric atthis point, whereas 2 patients had become reinfected likely to be active against the type of pathogen most com- asymptomatically. In the remaining patient, the original monly isolated from urinary tract infections. infecting organism had persisted even though the symptoms We found a very high incidence of resistance (49%) to were nolongerpresent. Eightpatients were still symptomat- trimethoprim in this study. We assume
