ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS ANDCHEMOTHERAPY, Feb. 1984, p. 276-278 Vol. 25, No. 2
KEYWORDS: patients, urinary, ofthe, augmentin, infections, treatment, tract, week, brumfitt, hamilton-miller, follow-up, urinary tract, rate, cure, urine


infecting organism had persisted even though the symptoms We found a very high incidence of resistance (49%) to were nolongerpresent. Eightpatients were still symptomat- trimethoprim in this study. We assume this is because the ic at the 2-week follow-up; one was abacteriuric, two had patients we treated had beengiven many courses oftrimeth- been reinfected, andfive still had significantbacteriuriawith oprim-sulfamethoxazole in the fairly recent past, which has their original infecting organism. selected forresistant bacteria. Bycontrast, in an unselected Sideeffects. Ninepatients (20%) reported mild sideeffects. population, we have found the incidence of trimethoprim There werefourcomplaints ofvaginal irritation ordischarge resistance among urinary isolates to be 13% from hospital (yeasts were isolated from high vaginal swabs taken from patients and 6% from patients outside the hospital (8). two of these patients), three complaints of gastrointestinal Resistance to amoxicillin has now risen to about 30% in problems (diarrhea, nauseaand indigestion, andupset stom- ourexperience butvirtually allresistant strainsare suscepti- ach, respectively), and three complaints of a neurological ble to Augmentin (4). The latter must therefore be a good type (sleepiness, slightblurringofvision, andproblems with candidateforbest-guesstherapy. Themostcommonurinary balance, respectively). In no case did a patient have to stop pathogens that we found to be resistant to Augmentin are taking the prescribed treatment because of side effects, Enterobacter spp. (5), which comprise only 2.5% of the which were thereforejudged to have been mild. Side effects organisms isolated from urine samples in this laboratory. ofa neurological type are well recognized as occurring in a Other bacterial species which are resistant to Augmentin, small proportion ofpatients taking amoxicillin (1, 17). suchasindole-positive Proteae, Citrobacterfreundii, Serra- 278 BRUMFITT AND HAMILTON-MILLER ANTIMICROB. AGENTS CHEMOTHER. tia marcescens, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are in our 8. Brumfitt, W., J. M. T. Hamilton-Miller, and A. Wood. 1983. experience evenless common thanEnterobacter spp. Thus, Evidenceforaslowingintrimethoprimresistanceduring1981- in view ofits broad spectrum and great efficacy, combined a comparison with earlier years. J. Antimicrob. Chemother. with a low incidence and mild nature of side effects, we 11:503-509. 9. Comber, K. R., R. Horton, S. J. Layte, A. R. White, and R. considerthatphysicianscouldreasonably use Augmentinas Sutherland. 1980. Augmentin: antibacterialinvitroandinvivo, afirst-line treatmentforpatientswithrecurrenturinarytract p. 19-38. In G. N. Rolinson and A. Watson (ed.), Augmentin. infections. An alternative choice would be one of the oral Excerptamedica (ICS no. 544). Amsterdam. cephalosporins, which are broad spectrum and clinically 10. Cooper,J.,W.Brumfitt,andJ. M. T.Hamilton-Miller. 1980. A effective(3, 10). However, Augmentinisnotasexpensive as comparative trial ofco-trimoxazole and cephradine in patients oral cephalosporins
