Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, negative, injury, patient, liver injury, dili, history, case, damage, herbal, antibody, organ, organ damage, dlst, taking


to diagnose as it presents with a wide variety of clinical manifestations and there is no established specific biomarker . However, clinicians require expertise in diagnosing DILI as it can lead to critical illness, is relatively common, and can be caused by a variety of drugs, herbal medicines, and supplements. Patient history taking is of utmost importance. Engel and Morgan described the medical interview as "the today, after half a century . Moreover, the significance of patient medical history is remarkable, having been reported to lead to a final diagnosis in 76% of internal medicine patients . In this report, we describe a case of severe drug-induced organ damage caused by an over-the-counter (OTC) herbal drug. This was initially managed as a liver disorder of an undetermined cause; however, after repeated patient history taking, a hidden etiology was revealed. Case Presentation and was taking telmisartan (40 mg) and amlodipine besylate (5 mg) for the long term. He had no history of allergies, drank approximately 80 grams of alcohol equivalent daily, had a desk job, and played baseball on his days off. He had not recently eaten shellfish or wild game meat and had not ingested any toxic plants. Abdominal ultrasonography, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) were performed to investigate the cause of jaundice; however, no morphological abnormalities were observed in the hepatobiliary system (Figure 1). As such, he was diagnosed with a bacterial infection due to organ damage with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). He was treated with cefotiam 1 g twice daily. However, on the third day of hospitalization, his liver care. How to cite this article Satoh K, Okuyama M, Hirasawa N, et al. (January 09, 2023) Severe Drug-Induced Liver Injury From Over-the-Counter Medication. Cureus 15(1): e33558. DOI FIGURE 1: Imaging studies of the hepatobiliary system (A) Ultrasonography, (B) magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography, and (C) non-enhanced computed tomography. No morphological abnormality was found in the hepatobiliary system (arrows). During the physical examination, his blood pressure, pulse rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature were 115/55 mmHg with little norepinephrine (maximum: 0.08 μg/kg/min), 120 beats/minute with atrial fibrillation, 30 breaths/minute, 98%, and 38.0°C, respectively. A small dose of norepinephrine was required; however, there was no prolonged shock. There were no specific physical findings in the abdomen; however, he had marked jaundice all over his body and localized urticaria on the right anterior chest. The laboratory tests
