Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, negative, injury, patient, liver injury, dili, history, case, damage, herbal, antibody, organ, organ damage, dlst, taking


antigen: negative Hepatitis E (HEV) IgA-HEV antibody: negative Epstein-Barr virus VCA-IgG: 1:40, VCA-IgM: negative, EA-IgG: negative, EBNA: 1:20 Cytomegalovirus Serological test: IgG (+), IgM (-) Autoimmunological investigation Serum immunoglobulin level IgG, IgG4, IgM: all within normal limit Antinuclear antibodies Negative Anti-GBM antibody Negative PR-3 ANCA Negative MPO-ANCA Negative Anti-mitochondria antibody Negative TABLE 2: Results of the investigation for the cause of liver and kidney impairment Unless otherwise specified, serological tests were all taken during the acute phase. * Taken before antibiotic administration. IG, immunoglobulin; PCR, polymerase chain reaction; HA, hepatitis A; HB, hepatitis B; HCV, hepatitis C virus; HEV, hepatitis E virus; VCA, virus capsid antigen; EA, early antigen; EBNA, Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen; GBM, glomerular basement membrane; PR-3 ANCA, proteinase-3-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; MPO-ANCA, myeloperoxidase antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody. On day seven of hospitalization, the patient recalled taking an OTC flu medication, Maoto and Kaigen® Japanese herbal medicine composed of Ephedra herb, apricot kernel, cinnamon bark, and Glycyrrhiza root. Kaigen is a combination of herbs (Glycyrrhiza root, cinnamon bark, and ginger rhizome), acetaminophen, dl- methylephedrine hydrochloride, and caffeine anhydrous. We suspected DILI due to Maoto or Kaigen and subsequently performed a drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test (DLST), which was positive for Kaigen. DLSTs for acetaminophen, dl-methylephedrine hydrochloride, and anhydrous caffeine were all negative. The Digestive Disease Week Japan (DDW-J) 2004 score was calculated as six points, indicating a high likelihood of DILI due to Kaigen . patient, and both his laboratory data and fever improved spontaneously (Figure 2). The patient's condition was stable; therefore, he was discharged on day 15 of hospitalization. At the outpatient follow-up visit 61 days after discharge, the patient's liver injury, kidney injury, and inflammatory findings had all normalized. 2023 Satoh et al. Cureus 15(1): e33558. DOI 4 of 6 FIGURE 2: Overview of the clinical course The clinical course of the patient. Both the laboratory findings and the patient’s fever improved spontaneously. Discussion In this case, we learned the following lessons when investigating liver injury. Firstly, liver injury can be severe even with OTC drugs. Secondly, while the DLST is available for investigating DILI, false positives, especially for medicinal herbs, should be noted, and it is necessary to adequately rule out other diseases. Finally, when the cause of liver injury is unclear, patient history taking should be repeated carefully. In previous reports, DILI is most often caused by conventional medical care in the United States (US) and Europe,
