Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, negative, injury, patient, liver injury, dili, history, case, damage, herbal, antibody, organ, organ damage, dlst, taking


liver injury is unclear, patient history taking should be repeated carefully. In previous reports, DILI is most often caused by conventional medical care in the United States (US) and Europe, while traditional medical preparations caused DILI most often in Asia . In this patient, the OTC herbal medication “Kaigen” was suspected to be responsible for DILI. Traditional Japanese herbal medicines, commonly referred to as "Kampo," are widely available in Japan and follow the same legal, regulatory, and logistical schemes as other conventional Western medicines. Some Kampo requires a doctor's prescription, while others, such as Kaigen, may be purchased by patients at their own discretion at drugstores. It has been shown that approximately 10% of patients with drug-induced jaundice die or require liver transplantation . This was a case of cholestatic DILI with jaundice, which was potentially life-threatening. Due to the accompanying renal impairment, this case was classified as severe according to both the US Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network criteria and the International DILI Expert Working Group criteria . Adverse events associated with herbal medications and OTC medicines are often underestimated; however, as in this case, clinicians should be vigilant. In the present case, DLST was positive for Japanese herbal medicine . Generally, DLST is an in vitro method that is useful for diagnosing drug hypersensitivity. However, it should be noted that false positives for DLST in Japanese herbal medicine are frequent . Therefore, it is essential to carefully rule out diseases that mimic DILI, especially when herbal medicines are involved. When determining whether the liver injury is drug-induced, it is important to consider whether medication exposure precedes liver injury onset, whether causes of liver disease are ruled out, whether liver injury improves upon discontinuation of the drug, and whether repeated exposure to the drug causes severe recurrence . This case met the first three of these four important factors. Moreover, other causes of liver injury were excluded according to the DDW-J 2004 criteria , and other infections and autoimmune diseases that can cause SIRS and organ damage were carefully ruled out. The DDW-J 2004 score was developed by modifying the Roussel Uclaf Causality Assessment Method (RUCAM) scale , which is an international diagnostic criterion for DILI. The DDW-J 2004 score includes the DLST as an evaluation component. We concluded that the etiology of this case was non-infectious due to the lack of response to the antibiotics, which prompted their discontinuation.
