Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, negative, injury, patient, liver injury, dili, history, case, damage, herbal, antibody, organ, organ damage, dlst, taking


includes the DLST as an evaluation component. We concluded that the etiology of this case was non-infectious due to the lack of response to the antibiotics, which prompted their discontinuation. With time, the SIRS and organ damage resolved for differential diagnosis. Nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue, weakness, anorexia, fever, chills, and abdominal pain should also be considered manifestations of DILI, and these symptoms seem to influence poor outcomes and make the differential diagnosis of sepsis challenging . If the etiology of liver injury is unclear, repeated history-taking is of utmost importance, as there may be an undisclosed history of drug ingestion. Medical history is also significant for obtaining key details to diagnose DILI such as drug intake preceding liver injury, improvement of liver injury after drug cessation, and exclusion of other causes of liver injury . Clinicians asking patients to summarize and prioritize their information they should be relaying . Therefore, a single medical history interview is insufficient. In this case, we asked the patient and his family repeatedly about their recent dietary, outdoor activity, and 2023 Satoh et al. Cureus 15(1): e33558. DOI 5 of 6 medication history. One week after admission, the patient recalled having taken OTC medications prior to examining problems after finding an appropriate conclusion . In this case, the patient was brought to us with a diagnosis of organ damage due to sepsis; however, we resisted premature closure and continued the investigation. It is clinically useful to withhold the diagnosis and declare the case "NYD (not yet diagnosed).” With herbal and non-prescription medications especially, the patient may be unaware that they have ingested medications . If there is a possibility that DILI is present but not clear, a patient history should be obtained, and without premature closure of other diagnoses. Conclusions The organ damage caused by OTC drugs and herbs can be difficult to diagnose and is potentially fatal. The DLST is informative for herb-induced organ damage, but false positives should be noted. Repeated history- taking and exclusion of other diseases are crucial for definitive diagnosis. Furthermore, the appropriate recognition of organ damage due to non-prescription drugs requires careful attention to avoid the premature termination of differential diagnoses. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have
