International Journal o f
KEYWORDS: gut, brain, microbiota, axis, gut brain, gut microbiota, depression, cid, cid cid, dysfunction, brain gut, microbiota gut, brain axis, hpa, immune


the brain and gut through several pathways including nerves, the HPA and the immune system . Factors such as psychological stress and disease impairing one or axis,andtheimmunesystem. Factorssuchaspsychologicalstressanddiseaseimpairingone more pathways of the brain–gut axis probably induce brain–gut axis dysfunction and result in or more pathways of the brain–gut axis probably induce brain–gut axis dysfunction and result in depression . Following the development of gut microbiota, researchers not only focus on depression. Followingthedevelopmentofgutmicrobiota,researchersnotonlyfocuson the top–down effects of the brain–gut axis (from brain to gut), but they also pay close attention to the thetop–downeffectsofthebrain–gutaxis(frombraintogut), buttheyalsopaycloseattentionto down–top influences (from gut to brain) . The functions of many a system, including thedown–topinfluences(fromguttobrain). Thefunctionsofmanyasystem,including metabolism, the immune system, the endocrine system, and the nervous system, are all closely metabolism,theimmunesystem,theendocrinesystem,andthenervoussystem,areallcloselyrelated related with the gut brain. Changes of the gut brain such as gut microbiota abnormalities influence withthegutbrain. Changesofthegutbrainsuchasgutmicrobiotaabnormalitiesinfluencethebrain the brain and behavior, and brain changes regulate the function and construction of the gut brain. andbehavior,andbrainchangesregulatethefunctionandconstructionofthegutbrain. Combining Combining the brain and gut brain will probably become the new tendency of neuroscience, and thebrainandgutbrainwillprobablybecomethenewtendencyofneuroscience,andtargetingthe targeting the gut microbiota will possibly be a promising area for the therapy of mental disorders gutmicrobiotawillpossiblybeapromisingareaforthetherapyofmentaldisordersandneurological and neurological diseases [18,63–71]. diseases[18,63–71]. According to the gut microbiota hypothesis, the gut microbiota can influence the brain and According to the gut microbiota hypothesis, the gut microbiota can influence the brain and behavior through the gut–brain axis, which is also called microbiota–gut–brain axis to emphasize the behaviorthroughthegut–brainaxis,whichisalsocalledmicrobiota–gut–brainaxistoemphasizethe importance of the microbiota. It plays a crucial part in mental disorders . Gut microbiota is a importanceofthemicrobiota. Itplaysacrucialpartinmentaldisorders. Gutmicrobiotaisakey key component of the gut brain. It regulates the common functions and build-up of the gut brain [52– componentofthegutbrain. Itregulatesthecommonfunctionsandbuild-upofthegutbrain[52–55], 55], influences the development and maturation of the HPA axis [72–75], affects the development and influences the development and maturation of the HPA axis [72–75], affects the development and function of the immune system [76–78], regulates the construction of the blood–brain barrier , function of the immune system [76–78], regulates the construction of the blood–brain barrier , influences the synthesis and recognition of neurotransmitters , affects neurogenesis , the influencesthesynthesisandrecognitionofneurotransmitters,affectsneurogenesis,the development and function of neuralgias , and the formation of myelination , and impresses developmentandfunctionofneuralgias,andtheformationofmyelination,andimpresses the development and function of the brain . Thus, regulating gut microbiota cannot only thedevelopmentandfunctionofthebrain. Thus,regulatinggutmicrobiotacannotonly improve gut brain dysfunction but also alleviate abnormalities in the immune system, HPA axis, and improvegutbraindysfunctionbutalsoalleviateabnormalitiesintheimmunesystem,HPAaxis,and brain. All
