Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


ABSTRACT Symptomatic and overt atherosclerosis in children is rare. The earliest lesion of atherosclerosis develops in childhood, but may not correlate with traditional markers of atherosclerosis. Children are considered low risk populations for atherosclerosis. The use of non-invasive imaging can have a role to identify early subclinical vascular changes. Imaging techniques are becoming useful adjuncts in conjunction with traditional lipid markers. These techniques have been extensively used in children and have provided indirect evidence for premature atherosclerosis, risk stratification, treatment effectiveness, and longitudinal tracking of adult cardiovascular risk. Use of imaging may be a useful adjunct in combination with traditional cardiovascular risk factors to assess dyslipidemia in children. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Medical imaging is an important modality used to create visual representation of the body for clinical analysis and interventions. The use of imaging in children can play an important role identifying subclinical disease of dyslipidemia. Identification can be clinically useful for risk stratification and treatment intervention. The use of imaging in children was previously reserved for research but with improved methodologies have been shown to be a prospective clinical tool for children with dyslipidemia. The combination of imaging and traditional risk assessment has improved our knowledge of the natural history of atherosclerosis in children and adolescents. Symptomatic atherosclerosis rarely occurs in children with the exception of children with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Vascular progression in children with atherosclerosis is usually minor and clinically asymptomatic. Longitudinal studies have demonstrated that the atherosclerosis process can be accelerated in individuals with multiple risk factors or high-risk conditions. Early identification would allow for early intervention to delay the natural process of atherosclerosis. Multiple non-invasive imaging modalities have been used in children for the assessment of subclinical vascular changes, such as vessel endothelium thickening (cIMT), mechanical changes (pulse wave velocity), physiological changes (flow-mediated dilation), and arterial structure changes (CT and MRI). Non-invasive techniques do not require radiation exposure and is preferred over imaging techniques that utilize radiation. Table 1. Imaging Modalities to Assess for Subclinical Atherosclerosis View in own window Technique Abbreviation Principle Invasive Radiation Carotid intimal & medial thickness cIMT Arterial wall thickness No No Pulse-waved velocity Pulse-wave analysis PWV PWA Stiffness in arteries No No Flow mediated dilation FMD Endothelial function No No Echocardiogram ECHO Anatomical changes No No Ultrasound U/S Velocity, Size No No Coronary artery calcification
