Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


PWV PWA Stiffness in arteries No No Flow mediated dilation FMD Endothelial function No No Echocardiogram ECHO Anatomical changes No No Ultrasound U/S Velocity, Size No No Coronary artery calcification CAC Plaque composition No Yes Computed Tomography CT Stenosis, composition No Yes Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Stenosis, composition No No Coronary Angiography CA Stenosis Yes Yes The use of non-invasive methods has improved our knowledge and ability to risk stratify children and track longitudinal vascular changes into adulthood. It has been established that children that enter adulthood with multiple risk factors will have premature progression of atherosclerosis as a young adults and adults. The i3C meta-analysis demonstrated the number of abnormal childhood CV risk factors was predictive of elevated adult cIMT measurements. SUBCLINICAL ATHEROSCLEROSIS IN CHILDREN Autopsy studies have demonstrated that atherosclerosis substrate begins in childhood ( 1 ). The initial process is microscopic lesions and transitions to macroscopic changes particularly in places that are prone to the development of atherosclerosis. Areas are predisposed to atherosclerosis include arterial bifurcation sites in the common carotid, coronaries, and abdominal aorta. The accumulation of lipid substrate is deposited in the intima of arteries and forms the fatty streak. These early lesions are generally non-occlusive lesions. The Bogalusa heart study demonstrated the prevalence of fatty streak in coronary arteries in children 2-15 years of age with 50% of surface vessel involvement ( 2 ). The degree of progression increased with greater number of risk factors in the Pathological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) study ( 3 ). Subclinical atherosclerotic changes in children can manifest as dysfunctional arterial vasodilation, alterations of arterial elasticity (compliance and distensibility), and thickening of arterial walls. The arterial wall consists of three layers ( figure 1 ). The tunica externa or tunica adventitia (outermost layer) is composed of connective tissue and collagen. The tunica media (middle layer) is made up of smooth muscle cells and elastic tissues. The pediatric arterial vessel is composed of more elastin than collagen. The tunica intima (innermost layer) consists of endothelial cells. The endothelium is a single cell layer lining the vascular lumen and has an important role in maintaining vascular integrity. Figure 1. Components of the endothelial arterial wall. (Reprinted): Reference 38 . Atherosclerosis is characterized by the formation of lipid substrates, calcium, and other substances in the arterial wall that results in arterial wall thickening and progression to arterial plaques ( figure
