Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


Atherosclerosis is characterized by the formation of lipid substrates, calcium, and other substances in the arterial wall that results in arterial wall thickening and progression to arterial plaques ( figure 2 ). The pathological substrate for vascular dysfunction is mediated by endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial changes are a complex mechanism, but is composed of oxidative stress, loss of vasoactive substrates, inflammatory substances, and prothrombotic state. This cluster of harmful stimuli accelerates and compounds the mechanism of endothelial dysfunction. This process is the underlying mechanism of clinical myocardial infarctions and stroke. Figure 2. Arterial progression model of atherosclerosis. Earliest substrate manifest as “fatty streak” in children. Further progression is accelerated by additional cardiac risk factors. The substrate of atherosclerosis develops in childhood as the fatty streak. Development of the fatty streak can be evident by 3 years of age. Premature progression can be accelerated by additional risk factors. Our understanding of the atherosclerotic natural process in children is based on imaging studies in individuals with autosomal dominant Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH). Familial hypercholesterolemia is a disease of increased LDL cholesterol plasma concentrations that accumulates in the arterial vessel wall. This process has been accelerated in children with homozygous FH. Children with homozygous FH manifest as early endothelial dysfunction and have been observed to have increased carotid intimal-media thickness. Carotid intimal thickness has been used as a surrogate end-point marker with statin intervention in children with FH. RISK FACTORS FOR PREMATURE ATHEROSCLEROSIS The prevalence of obesity in children has stabilized over the recent years. However, the rate of morbid obesity continues to increase ( 4 ). Obesity is associated with an increased metabolic demand. Arterial stiffness is impacted by increased blood volume (preload) and alterations of afterload. Previous studies have demonstrated a linear relationship between obesity in childhood and increased cIMT in young adults ( 5 ). Indirect measure of subclinical atherosclerosis measured by cIMT and FMD have been observed in obese adolescents and young adults ( 6 ). Individuals with the largest increase in BMI during childhood and adolescents that remained obese had greatest changes in cIMT ( 7 ). Chronic elevated blood pressure has an important role in vascular changes. Elevated blood pressure is a complex relationship that is affected by several factors including the sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, and stimulation of vascular smooth muscle proliferation. Children with hypertension have evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), increased LV mass, carotid intima-medial
