Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


factors including the sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, and stimulation of vascular smooth muscle proliferation. Children with hypertension have evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), increased LV mass, carotid intima-medial thickening (CIMT), and vascular endothelial dysfunction. Increased LV mass is a prominent imaging marker for clinical evidence of target-organ damage ( 8 ). A left ventricular mass index above 51 g/m 2.7 has been associated with a greater risk of adverse cardiovascular outcome ( 9 ). The combination of insulin resistance and hyperglycemia are linked with endothelial dysfunction and mediators of inflammation. Children with diabetes compared with those without diabetes are at increased risk for other atherogenic factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia. Mixed dyslipidemia pattern is characterized by high Apo-B (increased small dense LDL particles and cholesterol ester rich VLDL remnants) and low Apo-A (low HDL particles) ( 11 ). The TG/HDL-c ratio is a surrogate atherogenic index of mixed dyslipidemia. TG/HDL-c ratio was shown to be an independent determinant of arterial stiffness in obese adolescents using brachial artery distensibility (BrachD) and carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) ( 10 ). Metabolic syndrome (MS) has been established as a cluster of CV risk factors including hypertension, overweight/obesity, dyslipidemia (high triglycerides, low HDL), and insulin resistance. However, the relationship between childhood metabolic syndrome and CVD events are not well characterized and there has been no consensus in the pediatric population ( 11 ). The components of MS are considered independent risk factors associated with vascular dysfunction ( 12 ). NON-INVASIVE IMAGING TECHNIQUES Carotid Intima-Media Thickness (CIMT) The use of cIMT technique is a useful surrogate technique to assess vessel intimal thickness in children with dyslipidemia. Subclinical changes in children are manifested as diffuse thickening of the intima-media space rather than a discrete lipid core or an advance lipid lesion. The imaging method utilizes high resolution B-mode 2-dimensional (2D) ultrasonography with a high-frequency (7 to 12-MHz) linear array transducer for assessment of carotid intimal and medial vessel. Imaging measurements are traditionally conducted on the common carotid artery at the far-wall of the vessel. Changes to the intimal-medial thickness in the far-wall have correlated with direct histological examination. Most pediatric studies have focused on assessment of the carotid artery far wall. The distance between the leading edge of the first echo-bright line (lumen-intima interface) and the leading edge of the second echo-bright line (media-adventitia interface) is defined as the carotid intimal-media interface (
