Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


between the leading edge of the first echo-bright line (lumen-intima interface) and the leading edge of the second echo-bright line (media-adventitia interface) is defined as the carotid intimal-media interface ( figure 3 ) ( 13 ). An abnormal cIMT is a thickened sub-intimal layer due to atherogenic particle deposition and inflammatory process. Figure 3. Carotid endothelial structures by B-mode ultrasound. Imaging acquisition is obtained with 2D grayscale imaging along the longitudinal axis of the artery. Measurement values should be recorded at end diastole and calculated by mean IMT measurement. Reproducibility of the fall-wall in the carotid artery has been validated and reproducible in previous pediatric studies. Several studies have demonstrated indirect evidence for early development of atherosclerosis in children. Increased cIMT has been demonstrated in pediatric patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), hypertension, obesity, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome ( 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 ). The use of cIMT has been used to evaluate cardiovascular risk in pediatric populations with high-risk conditions and chronic medical conditions, such as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, end-stage renal disease, and Kawasaki disease ( 19 , 20 , 21 ). The use of cIMT has been utilized to show treatment effectiveness of statins in children with familial hypercholesterolemia. In a study of 214 children with heterozygous FH who were 8-18 years of age, were randomly assigned to the pravastatin treated group and compared with the placebo group. After 2 years of treatment with a statin, cIMT showed significant regression in the pravastatin group. Longitudinal follow-up of 186 children with early initiation of statin in children with FH after 4.5 years delayed the progression of cIMT changes. Data indicated that early treatment with a statin delayed the progression of atherosclerosis in adolescents and young adults ( 22 ). The CHARON study assessed the effect of 2-year treatment with rosuvastatin on cIMT in children with HeFH. The result of the study showed a significant reduction in the progression of atherosclerosis, as assessed by cIMT in children with HeFH compared with untreated, unaffected siblings ( 23 ). Numerous longitudinal studies have demonstrated the association between CV risk factors developed in childhood and premature atherosclerotic changes into adulthood. In the Bogalusa study, childhood measurements of LDL-C levels and BMI positively predicted increased cIMT in a cohort of 486 adults aged 25-37 years ( 24 ). The Muscatine study demonstrated childhood total cholesterol levels and BMI predicted cIMT
