Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


and BMI positively predicted increased cIMT in a cohort of 486 adults aged 25-37 years ( 24 ). The Muscatine study demonstrated childhood total cholesterol levels and BMI predicted cIMT changes in a cohort of 725 adults ( 25 ). In a meta-analysis of i3C study (International Childhood Cardiovascular Cohort Consortium), a combined analysis of prospective studies showed the number of abnormal childhood CV risk factors (i.e., cholesterol, triglycerides, blood pressure, BMI) were longitudinally predictive of adult cIMT. This process was the greatest in children with risk factors developed at 9 years of age or greater ( 26 ). Arterial Stiffness There are several indices of arterial stiffness measurements. Functional measurement such as pulse wave velocity (PWV), pulse wave analysis (PWA), ambulatory arterial stiffness index (24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring), and assessment of endothelial dysfunction (flow-mediated dilation). Stiffer arterial vessels require greater force to expand and accommodate flow to perfuse tissues and organs. Arterial distensibility and compliance changes are a complex mechanism of hemodynamic factors, extrinsic factors and intraluminal influences. Pulse wave velocity measures the speed of the pressure pulse from the heart as it circulates through the blood vessels. Measurement of the pulse wave (indicator of blood flow) to travel a given distance between 2 sites (carotid to femoral) in the arterial system is measured and recorded ( figure 4 ) . A faster PWV is an indicatory of stiffer arterial vessel. PWA is an indirect measure of arterial stiffness that analyzes arterial waveform reflections. PWA is a supplement to PWV analysis. Augmentation index is a parameter derived from systolic peak differences. Risk factors associated with higher PWV include BMI, blood pressure, heart rate, dyslipidemia ( 27 ). Figure 4. Tonometric pulse wave velocity. The arterial time difference between two sites is calculated as the PWV. Arterial stiffness is associated with traditional CV risk factors and metabolic alterations including obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, and dyslipidemia. Risk stratification using triglyceride to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio (TG/HDL-C) was tested as an independent predictor of arterial stiffness in obese children. The cohort of 893 subjects aged 10 to 26 years old that demonstrated higher TG/HDL-C ratio had the stiffest vessels measured by brachial artery distensibility (BrachD), augmentation index, and carotid-femoral pulse-wave velocity ( 28 ). In young individuals with T1DM with poor glycemic control, higher levels of traditional CV risk factors were independently associated with accelerated arterial aging using PWV and augmentation
