Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


( 28 ). In young individuals with T1DM with poor glycemic control, higher levels of traditional CV risk factors were independently associated with accelerated arterial aging using PWV and augmentation index ( 29 ). Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is a technique used to assess peripheral macrovascular endothelial function. Endothelial dysfunction is characterized by a complex imbalance of proatherogenic factors such as vasoconstriction, platelet alterations, cellular dysfunction, and inflammation. Endothelial changes are an early reversible stage in the progression of atherosclerosis. The technique measures the nitric oxide-mediated vasodilation produced by increased blood flow after a period of ischemia (Reactive hyperemia). The method requires inflating upper extremity blood pressure at suprasystolic pressures for a short period of time that occludes blood flow. After a period of time, the occlusion is released and functional increased shear stress is generated as signal amplitude. Both diameter and blood velocity are assessed before and after occlusion with results being reported as a percent change from baseline. A lower index measurement indicated poor endothelial function. A lower artery reactivity has been identified in children with obesity, family history of premature coronary disease and type I DM ( 30 , 31 , 32 ). A study of 50 children (aged 9 to 18 years) with FH were randomized to simvastatin or placebo for 28 weeks. A control group of 19 non-FH children were matched. Baseline FMD was impaired in the children with FH compared to non-FH group. After treatment there was a significant improvement of endothelial dysfunction towards normal values after short term statin therapy ( 33 ). Echocardiography Traditionally transthoracic echocardiography is an image modality that utilizes an ultrasound beam to acquire anatomical images through m-mode imaging and 2D imaging. The use of echocardiogram can be useful to assess subclinical changes of epicardial fat mass, valvular changes, and aortic vessel stenosis. Subclinical adipose changes to epicardial thickness may have a role in the development of cardiovascular disease. Studies in children with greater epicardial adipose tissue is associated with larger left ventricular mass, higher blood pressures, and atherogenic lipid profiles ( 34 ) Epicardial fat thickness can be visualized using standard parasternal long-axis and short-axis imaging planes of the right ventricle ( figure 5 ). The epicardial fat is the echo-free space between the outer wall of the myocardium and visceral layer of the pericardium. The thickness is measured perpendicularly on the free wall of the right ventricle at
