Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


the echo-free space between the outer wall of the myocardium and visceral layer of the pericardium. The thickness is measured perpendicularly on the free wall of the right ventricle at end-systole. Echocardiographic measurement might serve as a simple tool for the assessment of cardio-metabolic risk stratification ( 35 ). Figure 5. Epicardial fat thickness by 2D echocardiogram in modified parasternal view. (Dashed lines represent epicardial fat structure). A cohort of 33 young patients with homozygous FH were found to have subclinical FH valvulopathy present in 64% of patients ( 36 ). Most commonly on the aortic valve and mitral valve. The majority of the patients with valvular changes did not have valvular calcification. Isolated case studies in homozygous FH individuals have presented with heart failure and new systolic murmurs. Echocardiogram is useful in demonstrating supravalvular aortic stenosis due to endothelial dysfunction. Some cases required surgical aortic root replacement ( 37 ). Stenosis occurred despite patients receiving aggressive statin treatment and apheresis. Advance Imaging Modalities Advance imaging modalities such as cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (C-MRI) and computed tomography (CT) imaging are useful methods in understanding anatomical changes and tissue characterization. Clinical decision to utilize CT or MRI in pediatrics is debated on the risk of radiation exposure (CT imaging) and the imaging resolution limitations of each modality. The use of CT or MRI is generally not a useful tool to assess subclinical changes in the pediatric population with dyslipidemia. MRI has demonstrated abdominal aorta atheroma formation in adolescents with severe dyslipidemia ( 38 ). The use of MRI is being considered as potential research technique for assessment of subclinical abdominal aortic wall changes. Coronary artery calcification with electron-beam computed tomography (CT) is used to assess the presence and extent of calcified plaque in the coronary arteries that is associated with atherosclerosis. The coronary artery calcium (CAC) score is a helpful prognostic tool and used as a method to assess risk classification for adult atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). The use of CAD is not recommended as a subclinical technique since the development of calcification generally does not occur until the fourth decades of life. CAC has been utilized in a study of children with familial hypercholesterolemia ( 39 ). The use of CAC technique has been limited in pediatrics. Myocardial perfusion imaging is reserved for adults with advanced cardiovascular risk and disease. The use of perfusion imaging in children is not recommended.
