Non-Invasive Techniques in Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: children, atherosclerosis, risk, pubmed, arterial, imaging, factors, changes, carotid, cardiovascular, risk factors, thickness, study, free, childhood


CAC technique has been limited in pediatrics. Myocardial perfusion imaging is reserved for adults with advanced cardiovascular risk and disease. The use of perfusion imaging in children is not recommended. Myocardial perfusion is helpful in children with Kawasaki ( 40 ) and congenital heart defects with coronary artery manipulation. Invasive coronary angiography is the “gold standard” and direct assessment of coronary arterial stenosis. Utilization of angiography should be reserved to children with presumed advance atherosclerosis, such as homozygous FH or rare genetic dyslipidemia. Angiography technique is not a useful modality for subclinical evaluation in children. Ultrasound Imaging The use of sound waves is a useful non-invasive imaging modality in the evaluation of pediatric subclinical atherosclerosis. Ultrasound can contribute to early detection of renal artery changes and risk stratification attributed to atherosclerosis. Early atherosclerosis stress and inflammation affect the proximal renal arteries causing increased velocity shear stress and longitudinal narrowing. Long term pathological changes develop into atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) in the adult population. Arterial vascular changes are characterized by increased systolic blood pressure an indicator of preclinical atherosclerosis in children. Renal size (length) is a marker of kidney mass and renal function. Carotid-IMT has been shown to be a surrogate maker for renal function. Ultrasound parameters in 515 prepubertal children (lean, overweight, obese) demonstrated renal size and associated carotid-IMT and systolic BP may play a role in the assessment of renal vascular function and early assessment of cardiovascular risk in children ( 41 ). SUMMARY Utilizing imaging techniques in children with dyslipidemia has been extensively used and a valuable tool in our understanding of atherosclerosis process in children. Imaging has been shown to be safe, reliable, and reproducible. With further developments and research, imaging may provide a useful practical tool in the general evaluation of children with dyslipidemia. In combination with family history, traditional CV risk factors, and biochemical markers the use of imaging techniques will refine our clinical awareness for better cardiovascular health metrics and promotion of ideal cardiovascular health in children. REFERENCES 1. McGill HC Jr, McMahan CA, Zieske AW, Sloop GD, Walcott JV, Troxclair DA, Malcom GT, Tracy RE, Oalmann MC, Strong JP. Associations of coronary heart disease risk factors with the intermediate lesion of atherosclerosis in youth. The Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) Research Group. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Bio. 2000; 20 (8):1998. [ PubMed : 10938023 ] 2. Li S, Chen W, Srinivasan
