Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


slow rates of pacemaker activity) Very rapid initial depolarization rates (and thus rapid conduction velocity) Loss of refractoriness coincident with repolarization (and thus short refractory periods and the ability to conduct repetitive impulses at high frequencies) Slow-channel tissues (SA and AV nodes) have a low density of fast sodium channels and action potentials characterized by More rapid spontaneous diastolic depolarization (and thus more rapid rates of pacemaker activity) Slow initial depolarization rates (and thus slow conduction velocity) Loss of refractoriness that is delayed after repolarization (and thus long refractory periods and the inability to conduct repetitive impulses at high frequencies) Normally, the SA node has the most rapid rate of spontaneous diastolic depolarization, so its cells produce spontaneous action potentials at a higher frequency than other tissues. Thus, the SA node is the dominant automatic tissue (pacemaker) in a normal heart. If the SA node does not produce impulses, tissue with the next highest automaticity rate, typically the AV node, functions as the pacemaker. Sympathetic stimulation increases the discharge frequency of pacemaker tissue, and parasympathetic stimulation decreases it. There is an inward sodium/potassium current, termed the "funny current," that travels through a hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel (HCN-channel) in sinus node cells that accounts for a large part of their automaticity. Inhibition of this current prolongs the time it takes to achieve critical spontaneous depolarization of pacemaker cells, and thus lowers the heart rate. Normal cardiac rhythm The resting sinus heart rate in adults is usually 60 to 100 beats/minute. Slower rates (sinus bradycardia) occur in young children, adolescents, and young adults, particularly athletes, and during sleep. Faster rates (sinus tachycardia) occur during exercise, illness, or periods of intense emotion through sympathetic neural and circulating catecholamine drive. Normally, a marked diurnal variation in heart rate occurs, with lowest rates just before early morning awakening. A slight increase in rate during inspiration with a decrease in rate during expiration (respiratory sinus arrhythmia) is also normal; it is mediated by oscillations in vagal tone and is particularly common among healthy children and adolescents. The oscillations lessen but do not entirely disappear with age. Absolute regularity of the sinus rhythm rate is pathologic and occurs in patients with autonomic denervation (eg, in advanced diabetes) or any heart disorder severe enough to decrease parasympathetic cardiac (vagal) tone and activate sympathetic tone. Thus, measures of heart rate variability have been suggested, but not conclusively demonstrated, to
