Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


or any heart disorder severe enough to decrease parasympathetic cardiac (vagal) tone and activate sympathetic tone. Thus, measures of heart rate variability have been suggested, but not conclusively demonstrated, to be useful general measures of cardiovascular health (2). Most cardiac electrical activity is represented on the electrocardiogram (ECG—see figure Diagram of the Cardiac Cycle), although SA node, AV node, and His-Purkinje depolarization do not involve enough tissue to be detected (3, 4). The P wave represents atrial depolarization. The QRS complex represents ventricular depolarization, and the T wave represents ventricular repolarization. The PR interval (from the beginning of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS complex) is the time from the beginning of atrial activation to the beginning of ventricular activation. Much of this interval reflects slowing of impulse transmission in the AV node. The R-R interval (time between 2 QRS complexes) is inversely related to the ventricular rate by the formula 60/RR interval (in seconds) = heart rate. The QT interval (from the beginning of the QRS complex to the end of the T wave) represents the combined duration of ventricular depolarization and repolarization. Normal values for the QT interval are slightly longer in women; they are also longer in patients with a slower heart rate. The QT interval is corrected (QTc) for the influence of heart rate. The most common formula (all intervals in seconds) (5) is CLINICAL CALCULATORS QT Interval Correction (EKG) The corrected QT interval should be interpreted with caution with particularly high, low, or variable heart rates and with medication-induced QT changes. Pathophysiology of Arrhythmias Rhythm disturbances result from abnormalities of impulse formation, impulse conduction, or both. Bradyarrhythmias result from decreased intrinsic pacemaker function or blocks in conduction, principally within the AV node or the His-Purkinje system. Most tachyarrhythmias are caused by reentry; some result from enhanced normal automaticity or from abnormal mechanisms of automaticity (1). Reentry Reentry is the circular propagation of an impulse around 2 interconnected pathways with different conduction characteristics and refractory periods (see figure Mechanism of Typical Reentry). Mechanism of Typical Reentry Atrioventricular nodal reentry is used here as an example. Two pathways connect the same points. Pathway A has slower conduction and a shorter refractory period. Pathway B conducts normally and has a longer refractory period. I. A normal impulse arriving at 1 goes down both A and B pathways. Conduction through pathway A is slower and finds
