Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


conducts normally and has a longer refractory period. I. A normal impulse arriving at 1 goes down both A and B pathways. Conduction through pathway A is slower and finds tissue at 2 already depolarized and thus refractory. A normal sinus beat results. II. A premature impulse finds pathway B refractory and is blocked, but it can be conducted on pathway A because its refractory period is shorter. On arriving at 2, the impulse continues forward and retrograde up pathway B, where it is blocked by refractory tissue at 3. A premature supraventricular beat with an increased PR interval results. III. If conduction over pathway A is sufficiently slow, a premature impulse may continue retrograde all the way up pathway B, which is now past its refractory period. If pathway A is also past its refractory period, the impulse may reenter pathway A and continue to circle, sending an impulse each cycle to the ventricle (4) and retrograde to the atrium (5), producing a sustained reentrant tachycardia. 7/14 Initiation of an Atrioventricular Nodal Reentry Tachycardia There is an abnormal P wave (P′) and atrioventricular nodal delay (long P′R interval) before onset of the tachycardia. Under certain conditions, typically precipitated by a premature beat, reentry can cause continuous circulation of an activation wavefront, causing a tachyarrhythmia (see figure Initiation of an Atrioventricular Nodal Reentry Tachycardia). Normally, reentry is prevented by tissue refractoriness following stimulation. However, 3 conditions favor reentry: Shortening of tissue refractoriness (eg, by sympathetic stimulation) Lengthening of the conduction pathway (eg, by hypertrophy or abnormal conduction pathways) Slowing of impulse conduction (eg, by ischemia) Pathophysiology reference 1. Antzelevitch C, Burashnikov A. Overview of Basic Mechanisms of Cardiac Arrhythmia. Card Electrophysiol Clin 2011;3(1):23-45. doi:10.1016/j.ccep.2010.10.012 Symptoms and Signs of Arrhythmias Arrhythmia and conduction disturbances may be asymptomatic or cause palpitations (sensation of skipped beats or rapid or forceful beats), symptoms of hemodynamic compromise (eg, dyspnea, chest discomfort, presyncope, syncope), or cardiac arrest. Occasionally, polyuria results from release of atrial natriuretic peptide during prolonged supraventricular tachycardias (SVTs). Palpation of pulse and cardiac auscultation can determine ventricular rate and its regularity or irregularity. Examination of the jugular venous pulse waves may help in the diagnosis of AV blocks and tachyarrhythmias. For example, in complete AV block, the atria intermittently contract when the AV valves are closed, producing large ("cannon") a waves in the jugular venous pulse. There are few other physical findings of
