Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


complete AV block, the atria intermittently contract when the AV valves are closed, producing large ("cannon") a waves in the jugular venous pulse. There are few other physical findings of arrhythmias. Diagnosis of Arrhythmias ECG Ambulatory rhythm monitoring (eg, Holter, event, or other monitors) 8/14 History and physical examination may detect an arrhythmia and suggest possible causes, but diagnosis requires a 12-lead ECG or, less reliably, a rhythm strip, preferably obtained during symptoms to establish the relationship between symptoms and rhythm. The ECG is approached systematically; calipers measure intervals and identify subtle irregularities. The key diagnostic features are Rate and regularity of atrial activation Rate and regularity of ventricular activation The relationship between the two Irregular activation signals are classified as regularly irregular or irregularly irregular (no detectable pattern). Regular irregularity is intermittent irregularity in an otherwise regular rhythm (eg, premature beats) or a predictable pattern of irregularity (eg, recurrent relationships between groups of beats, as in sinus arrhythmia and second-degree heart blocks). A narrow QRS complex (< 0.12 seconds) indicates a supraventricular origin (above the His bundle bifurcation). A wide QRS complex (≥ 0.12 seconds) indicates a ventricular origin (below the His bundle bifurcation), or a supraventricular rhythm conducted with an intraventricular conduction defect or with ventricular preexcitation in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Ambulatory rhythm monitoring methods such as Holter or event monitors are also used to diagnose arrhythmias. The methods or devices are selected based on the frequency, duration and nature of the patient's symptoms as well as the potential consequences of worsening of the, as yet, undiagnosed arrhythmia. Bradyarrhythmias Bradyarrhythmias have a slow ventricular rate (< 60 beats/minute in adults). ECG diagnosis of bradyarrhythmias depends on the presence or absence of P waves, morphology of the P waves, and the relationship between P waves and QRS complexes (1, 2). Atrioventricular (AV) block is partial or complete interruption of impulse transmission from the atria to the ventricles. There are 3 degrees of AV block: first, second, and third. In first-degree AV block, each P wave is followed by a QRS complex but the PR interval is > 0.2 seconds. First-degree AV block does not itself cause bradycardia but often coexists with other conditions that do. In second-degree AV block, some normal P waves are followed by QRS complexes, but some are not. Bradycardia may or may not be present. In Mobitz type I second-degree AV block (also called Wenckebach
