Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


some normal P waves are followed by QRS complexes, but some are not. Bradycardia may or may not be present. In Mobitz type I second-degree AV block (also called Wenckebach second-degree AV block), the PR intervals prolong progressively during the conducted atrial events prior to each nonconducted atrial event and are typically the result of AV nodal dysfunction. In Mobitz type II second-degree AV block, the PR remains constant during conducted atrial events and is typically the result of His-Purkinje system dysfunction. 9/14 Third-degree AV block is indicated by a bradyarrhythmia with no relationship between P waves and QRS complexes and more P waves than QRS complexes; the escape rhythm can be Junctional with normal AV conduction (narrow QRS complex) Junctional with aberrant AV conduction (wide QRS complex) Ventricular (wide QRS complex) A regular QRS bradyarrhythmia with a 1:1 relationship between P waves and QRS complexes indicates a sinus or other supraventricular bradycardia without second- or third-degree AV block. If P waves are normal, this is sinus bradycardia, even if first-degree AV block is present; if P waves are abnormal, the rhythm is sinus arrest/bradycardia with an atrial escape bradycardia. P waves after QRS complexes indicate sinus arrest with a junctional or ventricular escape rhythm and retrograde atrial activation. A ventricular escape rhythm results in a wide QRS complex; a junctional escape rhythm usually has a narrow QRS (or a wide QRS with bundle branch block or pre-excitation). When the QRS rhythm is irregular, P waves usually outnumber QRS complexes; some P waves produce QRS complexes, but some do not (indicating second-degree AV block). An irregular QRS rhythm with a 1:1 relationship between P waves and the following QRS complexes usually indicates sinus arrhythmia with gradual acceleration and deceleration of the sinus rate (if P waves are normal). Pauses in an otherwise regular QRS rhythm may be caused by blocked premature P waves (an abnormal P wave can usually be discerned just after the preceding T wave or distorting the morphology of the preceding T wave), sinus arrest or sinus exit block, as well as by second-degree AV block. Tachyarrhythmias Tachyarrhythmias have a rapid ventricular rate (> 100 beats/minute in resting adults) and may be divided into 4 groups, defined by the QRS complexes: Visibly regular vs irregular QRS complexes Narrow vs wide QRS complexes Irregular, narrow QRS complex tachyarrhythmias include the following 4 rhythms. Differentiation is based on atrial
