Overview of Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: qrs, atrial, ventricular, conduction, block, rhythm, waves, rate, tachycardia, heart, sinus, impulse, complexes, qrs complexes, qrs complex


Criteria for Ventricular Tachycardia). When in doubt, the rhythm is assumed to be VT because some medications for SVTs can worsen the clinical state if the rhythm is VT; however, the reverse is not true. Pearls & Pitfalls Assume a regular, wide-complex tachyarrhythmia is ventricular tachycardia until proven otherwise. 11/14 Modified Brugada Criteria for Ventricular Tachycardia *With RBBB QRS: 12/14 In V1, monophasic R, or QR, or RS In V6, R/S < 1 or monophasic R or QR *With LBBB QRS: In V1, R > 30 milliseconds wide or RS > 60 milliseconds wide In V6, QR or QS AV = atrioventricular; LBBB = left bundle branch block; msec = millisecond; RBBB = right bundle branch block; VT = ventricular tachycardia. Data from Brugada P, Brugada J, Mont L, Smeets J, Andries EW. A new approach to the differential diagnosis of a regular tachycardia with a wide QRS complex. Circulation. 1991;83(5):1649-1659. doi:10.1161/01.cir.83.5.1649 Treatment of Arrhythmias Treatment of cause Sometimes antiarrhythmic medications, pacemakers, cardioversion-defibrillation, catheter ablation, or surgery The need for treatment varies; it is guided by symptoms and risks of the arrhythmia. Asymptomatic arrhythmias without serious risks do not require treatment even if they worsen. Symptomatic arrhythmias may require treatment to improve quality of life. Potentially life-threatening arrhythmias require treatment. 13/14 Treatment is directed at causes. If necessary, direct antiarrhythmic therapy is used. Direct antiarrhythmic therapy includes, either alone or in combination: Antiarrhythmic medications Cardioversion-defibrillation Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) Pacemakers (and a special form of pacing, cardiac resynchronization therapy) Catheter ablation Surgery Patients with arrhythmias that have caused or are likely to cause symptoms of hemodynamic compromise may have to be restricted from driving until response to treatment has been assessed. Surgery for cardiac arrhythmias Surgery to remove a focus of a tachyarrhythmia has become less necessary due to advances in less invasive ablation techniques. But surgery is indicated when an arrhythmia is refractory to ablation or when another indication requires a cardiac surgical procedure, most commonly when patients with atrial fibrillation require valve replacement or repair or when patients with ventricular tachycardia require revascularization or resection of a left ventricular aneurysm.
