www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534 Review Non-coding RNAs, the Trojan horse in two-way communication between tumor and stroma in colorectal and hepatocellular carcinoma Cristina- Sorina Cătană1, Martin Pichler2, Gianluigi Giannelli3, Robert M. Mader4 and Ioana Berindan-Neagoe5,6,7 Medical School, Bari, Italy Medfuture Research Center for Advanced Medicine, Cluj-Napoca, Romania Correspondence to: Ioana Berindan-Neagoe, email: Keywords: tumor microenvironment, microRNA, long non-coding RNA, CRC, HCC which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. ABSTRACT In a continuous and mutual exchange of information, cancer cells are invariably exposed to microenvironment transformation. This continuous alteration of the genetic, molecular and cellular peritumoral stroma background has become as critical as the management of primary tumor progression events in cancer cells. The communication between stroma and tumor cells within the extracellular matrix is one of the triggers in colon and liver carcinogenesis. All non- codingRNAs including long non-coding RNAs, microRNAs and ultraconserved genes play a critical role in almost all cancers and are responsible for the modulation of the tumor microenvironment in several malignant processes such as initiation, progression and dissemination. This review details the involvement of non codingRNAs in the evolution of human colorectal carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma in relationship with the microenvironment. Recent research has shown that a considerable number of dysregulated non- codingRNAs could be valuable diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in cancer. Therefore, more in-depth knowledge of the role non- codingRNAs play in stroma-tumor communication and of the complex regulatory mechanisms between ultraconserved genes and microRNAs supports the validation of future effective therapeutic targets in patients suffering from hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma, two distinctive entities which share quite a lot common non-coding RNAs. INTRODUCTION ncRNAs (lncRNAs; between 200 nt and > 100 kb), which are relatively less well-described, and small ncRNAs Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are a heterogeneous (sncRNAs; 18-200 nt) . class of transcribed RNA molecules from non-(protein)- In recent years, the study and understanding of the coding regions, which lack an open reading frame and tumor microenvironment has become as important as the consequently have no apparent protein-coding ability. modulation of cancer cell progression itself . Colorectal Based on the size of the functional RNA molecule, carcinoma (CRC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) regulatory ncRNAs are classified analytically as long represent two cancer types highly refractory to therapy. www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29519 Oncotarget HCC is the third leading cause of cancer- related
