www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) regulatory ncRNAs are classified analytically as long represent two cancer types highly refractory to therapy. www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29519 Oncotarget HCC is the third leading cause of cancer- related death growth and tumor proliferation. Consequently, targeting worldwide whereas the overall survival of CRC patients the angiogenin signaling pathway with small-molecule seems not to be substantially improved in the last decade inhibitors such as non- coding RNAs could be required . to cancel the activating capacity of HSCs and thus control Although advancements have been made with HCC progression . regard to available therapy benefits, there are only modest Lately it has become obvious that the dialogue improvements in the survival rates of CRC and HCC between stroma and tumor cells is not simply composed patients due to the lack of early detection and excellent of cell-matrix adhesion and signaling secreted proteins. prognostic indicators . Lipid membrane bound exosomes are recognized vesicular Molecules secreted by HCC, the most frequent transporters secreted from both stromal and cancer cells liver tumor type, lead to the activation of hepatic stellate that control the gene expression of neighboring cells. cells (HSCs) that remodel peritumoral stroma and the Generally, exosomes deliver their protein and RNA load composition of the extracellular matrix (ECM) . and adjust gene expression in the recipient cells. Among The mutual and symbiotic interconnections between their cargo miRNAs emerge as important players because anabolic CRC cells and highly abundant catabolic stromal they are almost stable compared to proteins and mRNA. fibroblasts or cancer- associated fibroblast (CAFs) favor Furthermore, they accumulate to a level that can generate the development of tumors and metastases . Moreover, a durable biological effect . Thus, non-coding RNAs substantial studies recognize HSCs as the main matrix- could represent important signaling mediators, likely producing cells in liver fibrosis . superior to secreted proteins such as growth factors and In addition, the communication between stroma chemokines. and tumor cells within the ECM opens the way to CRC and HCC share common non-coding RNAs carcinogenesis in the liver and colon. Besides the despite major differences between them in terms of cells are an important determinant of hepatic pro- are emerging as key potential biomarkers in both types inflammatory cytokines such as transforming growth of cancer thus providing us with a new perspective to factor- beta (TGF-β), platelet-derived growth factor our understanding of their molecular mechanisms, at the (PDGF), hepatocyte growth factor
