www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


transforming growth of cancer thus providing us with a new perspective to factor- beta (TGF-β), platelet-derived growth factor our understanding of their molecular mechanisms, at the (PDGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), connective same time also providing new therapeutic opportunities. tissue growth factor (CTGF), fibroblast growth factor This review presents a genomic standpoint on the (FGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). alterations of non-coding RNAs in liver and CRC tumor They also recruit immunoinflammatory cells, mono- microenvironment. It also highlights the significance of and polimorphonuclear leukocytes which, in their turn, the interaction between tumor and stromal cells through produce certain chemokines including C-C chemokine the activation of HSCs / CAFs, which have a key role in receptor type (CCR5), Regulated on Activation Normal tumor initiation and development. T Cell Expressed and Secreted (RANTES), monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) and CC chemokine ligand DYSREGULATION OF CERTAIN KEY 21 (CCL21) . LONG NON-CODING RNAS (LNCRNAS) Moreover, targeting the microenvironment AND MIRNAS INVOLVED IN HCC/ CRC containing CAFs, endothelial cells, adipocytes, immune cells and cancer stem cells (CSC), particularly the The lncRNAs family contains multiple classes crosstalk between tumor cells and stromal cells, has of RNAs, which are nuclear RNAs greater than 200 emerged as an encouraging cancer therapeutic approach nucleotides involved in the regulation of cellular processes (CAFs derived from both stromal/ mesenchymal cells such as apoptosis, proliferation and metastases and local fibroblast). This strategy would be relevant for (Figure 2, 3). both HCC and CRC, which frequently develop in a setting Conversely, microRNAs are an abundant class of of chronic inflammatory process and microenvironment endogenous small RNA molecules, 20-25 nucleotides in redesign, especially associated with hepatic fibrosis to length, which act as oncogenes and tumor suppressors which HSC and CAFs greatly contribute and thus have crucial roles in carcinogenesis . (Figure 1). Similar to miRNAs, the dysregulation of lncRNAs is Thereby, the HSC “metamorphosis” represents associated with human colorectal and hepatocellular a key cell-reprogramming event that favors tumor cancers and defines their phenotypes. Therefore, progression. Additionally, the amount of activated HSCs lncRNAs and microRNAs (miRNAs), which are long and from the tumorigenic HCC environment after surgical small non-coding RNA molecules involved in the post- resection could predict early recurrence and poor clinical transcriptional regulation of gene expression and in target outcome in HCC patients. The angiogenin secreted gene translation, may become non-invasive diagnostic by HCC cells binds directly to the promoter
