www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


clinical transcriptional regulation of gene expression and in target outcome in HCC patients. The angiogenin secreted gene translation, may become non-invasive diagnostic by HCC cells binds directly to the promoter region of biomarkers and powerful tools in cancer prevention and DNA, thus inducing the biogenesis of angiogenic factors treatment . such as VEGF and FGF-2, which are important in cell www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29520 Oncotarget miRNAs commonly involved in HCC and CRC miRNA- 26a is a new HCC and CRC angiogenesis suppressor and a possible therapeutic target influencing the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) - cMet pathway. It also Recent research revealed two key roles of miRNAs inhibits the expression of the vascular endothelial growth in the dynamics of tumor microenvironment: in tumor factor A (VEGFA) in cancer cells. Moreover, the miR- cells, they modify the peritumoral stroma and the 26 down-regulation increases the angiogenic potential of composition of the ECM through their own mechanisms these types of cancers. HGF was identified as a target of while in neighboring cells, they imprint cancer hallmark miR-26a and its activation antagonizes the effects induced (Figure 2). Molecular modulators from the tumor by the up-regulation of miR-26a . microenvironment represent the most promising core Therefore, miR-26a partially exerted its anti- targets of miRNAs (Table 1). These miRNAs suppress the angiogenesis effect by blocking the HGF-receptor (cMet) expression of multiple genes involved in tumor- stromal and its signaling pathway, thus consequently suppressing interactions, immune invasion and tumor angiogenesis VEGFA production in HCC cells and modifying vascular (Figure 1). endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2)-signaling Previous studies indicated that miR-34a inhibits in endothelial cells. In conclusion, HCC patients with low tumor growth, miR-21 promotes apoptosis resistance hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), low VEGFA, high miR- of tumor cells proliferation while the miR-200 family 26a levels or low microvessel density in tumor cells have is strongly associated with the epithelial- mesenchymal a better prognosis with longer overall survival and time to transition (EMT) . In human and murine HCC and recurrence. In multivariate analysis, it was demonstrated CRC experimental models, extracellular vesicles (EVs) that miR-26a, alone or in combination with HGF, is an generated by metastatic breast cancer transferred miR-200 independent prognostic indicator for time to recurrence to non-metastatic cells, thus modifying gene expression and overall survival in HCC patients (Figure 1). programs and promoting metastasis (Figure 1, 2). Figure 1: CRC and HCC- associated microRNAs with an essential impact
