www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


thus modifying gene expression and overall survival in HCC patients (Figure 1). programs and promoting metastasis (Figure 1, 2). Figure 1: CRC and HCC- associated microRNAs with an essential impact on the functions of cancer- associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor microenvironment. www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29521 Oncotarget miR- 26a also decreases the glucose metabolism Thereafter, miR-195 directly decreases the expression of CRC cells by direct targeting of the pyruvate of the proangiogenic VEGF and the prometastatic dehydrogenase protein X component (PDHX), which factors VAV2 and CDC42 from the Rho-family GTP- blocks the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A in ases, which activates cellular actin dynamics in many the Krebs cycle. The overexpression of miR-26a in tumor cellular functions (Figure1). In addition, the cells strongly improved the accumulation of pyruvate and restoration of miR-126-3p expression could be another reduced the production of acetyl coenzyme A. At the same example of an efficient strategy in HCC treatment, by time, the inhibition of miR-26a expression developed suppressing angiogenesis and tumor metastasis through opposite biological effects . low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) Another promising HCC biomarker with a ) and Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase, Regulatory Subunit 2 considerable therapeutic potential is inflamma-miR-195, (PIK3R2) specific targets. Recent research has suggested which suppresses HCC angiogenesis and metastasis if that the core target genes of miR-126 associated with overexpressed in tumor tissues. Both loss-of-function anti-metastatic activity and tumor-endothelial interactions and gain-of-function research of in vitro models showed include a set of eight genes such as c-Mer tyrosine kinase that miR-195 not only suppresses the ability of HCC receptor (MERTK), insulin-like growth factor binding cells to develop the migration and capillary formation of protein 2 (IGFBP2) and encoding phosphatidylinositol endothelial cells but also directly decrease the ability of transfer protein, cytoplasmic 1 (PITPNC1) . Notably, HCC cells to migrate and invade the ECM gel . the miR-126 expression decreased in metastatic CRC lines The down-regulation of miR-195 elevated and, by targeting multiple signaling pathways, it could CARMA3 protein expression, whereas miR-195 up- represent a potential biomarker for CRC liver metastasis regulation abolished the Caspase recruitment domain . (CARMA3 also known as CARD10) protein expression In mouse models of hepatocarcinogenesis, the role in CRC cells through NF-kB activity. Research based on of miR-122 loss was confirmed, its expression being mouse models indicated that induced expression of miR- decreased especially in non-viral HCCs. This miR is also 195 dramatically reduced tumor microvessel
