www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


of miR-122 loss was confirmed, its expression being mouse models indicated that induced expression of miR- decreased especially in non-viral HCCs. This miR is also 195 dramatically reduced tumor microvessel densities down-regulated in CRC. Complete conservation of mature and inhibited both pulmonary and intrahepatic metastasis. miR-122 in all vertebrates reflects its great potential in Figure 2: Role of miRNAs in the complex interactions between the tumor and stromal cells in its micro-environment. www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29522 Oncotarget diagnosis, prognosis of liver disease, and therapy both as (MMP2) activation . miR- 145- 5p expression was miRNA mimic and Antimir . down-regulated in HCC and CRC tissues . The In contrast, the up-regulation of miR-21 expression polycistronic miR-17-92 cluster was the first microRNA in HCC tissues promotes tumorigenesis as well as cluster described to be involved in liver tumorigenesis. resistance to antitumor 5FU and interferon α combination The microRNAs encoded by this cluster were grouped therapy . Moreover, serum miR-21 serve as a based on seed sequences into four families: miR-92, miR- diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in CRC . In 17, miR-18 and miR-19 contrast, miR-30a-3p was reported to also be down- There are some examples of microRNAs with an regulated in HCC, acting as a tumor suppressor in vitro. In essential impact on angiogenesis and ECM remodeling. addition, miR-30a-5p acts as a tumor-suppressing miRNA Equally, miR-155 has a pivotal role in modulating liver- in colon cancer cells by targeting DTL (denticleless cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cell (LC-MSCs), protein homolog) and modulating the cell cycle . the invasion promoting effect being attenuated by a miR- Metastasis is responsible for the rapid progress and 155 antagonist . MiR-155-/- mice were found to have death by HCC. miR-100 down-regulation in HCC and a better activation of the transforming growth factor β CRC tissues was strongly associated with venous invasion, (TGF β)/(intracellular proteins that transduce extracellular poorer cell differentiation and shorter recurrence-free signals from TGF β ligands to the nucleus where they survival (Figure 1). Conversely, the restoration of miR- activate downstream gene transcription (SMAD) 100 inhibits cell growth and invasion. It also induces signaling pathway, which was correlated with expanded apoptosis, which renders it a potential target for cancer tumorigenesis, although the anti- tumorigenic response is therapy. miR- 100 directly blocked the expression of unclear as the limited pre-clinical data available remains ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) and controversial . isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (ICMT) Another
