www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


promote CRC progression) /low by affecting the endothelial cells. This effect is due to an E-cadherin (which has a key role in cell adhesion) than increase in MMP-2 expression, which promotes VEGFR that of tumor tissues with low PROX1/high E- cadherin signaling in the endothelial cells . miR- 224 also . plays an oncogenic role in HCC tumor formation and miR- 135b up-regulation in HCC tissues facilitates hepatoma cell migration through silencing its target gene the generation of an IL-17- producing immunophenotype named SMAD Family Member 4 (Smad4) . by interfering with the normal lymphocyte differentiation Understanding the two-way communication between program. Additionally, the reversion-inducing-cysteine- stroma and tumor is essential because extracellular rich protein with kazal motifs (RECK) and ecotropic viral miRNAs could inhibit tumor development and prognosis integration site 5 (EVI5) were identified as the functional in the HCC microenvironment . miR-122, miR-30a- and direct targets of miR-135b in HCC. Likewise, heat 3p, miR-145-5p and miR-29b are circulating miRNAs that shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) directly activates may be used as non-invasive biomarkers for the detection the miR-135b expression, consequently enhancing HCC of cancer. Moreover, the transfer of secretory exosomal invasiveness . miRNAs to a recipient cell may suppress target gene The miR-135b blockage in CRC experimental expression . mouse models diminishes tumor evolution by suppressing For instance, miR-210 and miR-155, which are the genes involved in proliferation, apoptosis and invasion. overexpressed in HCC and CRC, promote the metastatic Recent research identified miR-135b as a key effector potential of HCC cells by targeting the vacuole membrane of oncogenic pathways and a promising target for CRC protein 1 (VMP1), in this way being an example of tumor- therapy . The development of new therapeutics against to- stroma communication (Figure 1) . An HCC could be thus facilitated by the recently identified example of tumor- stroma communication is provided by HSF1/miR-135b/RECK&EVI5 axis in the mechanisms of the S100A4-miR155-SOCS1-MMP9 axis. SOCS1 is a HCC metastasis [17; 44]. Additionally, it was shown that suppressor of liver fibrosis while protein S100A4 secreted serum miRNA-210 could be a predictive biomarker for from liver cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells (LC- treatment response and prognosis in HCC patients . MSCs) speeds up HCC cell proliferation and invasion thus www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29524 Oncotarget Table 2: Similarities and differences between lncRNAS associated with CRC and HCC Commonly altered lncRNAs in CRC and HCC lncRNAs associated with HCC Target lncRNA Role Target
