www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


including both cancer and tumor the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) or by promoting angiogenesis (Figure 2). www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29525 Oncotarget Examples of ncRNAs included in exosomes are: this way, a novel molecular mechanism of c-Met regulation miRNAs and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), which in HCC was highlighted and methods to increase miR- are powerful regulators of cell signaling pathways, small 181a5p level proved to support the inhibitory effects of nuclear RNA (snRNA), small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA), c-Met blockers. miR- 181a expression level is associated long intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA), ribosomal with poor survival in patients with CRC. Moreover, miR- RNA (rRNA), piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA), circular 181a expression might predict progression-free survival RNA (circ RNA) and transfer RNA (tRNA) . in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) - targeted Research demonstrated that like hormones, therapy in CRC patients (Table 1). exosomal miRNAs secreted by a donor cell were taken up by a recipient cell and remained functional both in COMMON AND SPECIFIC LNCRNAS vivo and in vitro studies. On the one hand, the intravenous INVOLVED IN HCC AND CRC administration of B-cell derived exosomes loaded with miR-155 correlated with significantly increased miR-155 Similar to miRNAs, tissue expression levels of expression in the liver of miR-knockout mice compared lncRNAs are deregulated in hepatocarcinogenesis and with controls . On the other hand, transiently CRC where they target multiple signaling pathways. transfected human embryonic kidney cells were used This indicates that they could serve as novel diagnostic to set up exosomes loaded with let-7a, a crucial tumor and prognostic biomarkers in both types of cancer, as suppressor miRNA that is down-regulated in breast well as new replacement therapy without side effects for cancer . A stromal- to- tumor MVs- mediated personalized treatment (Table 2). In order to establish transfer from macrophages to HCC cells transported a more personalized therapy and a better prognosis, it miR-142-3p. More interestingly, a miR-142-3p inhibitor is very important to create a novel HCC classification named Propofol blocked tumor growth in mice through based on the lncRNAs signature, which is more specific macrophage activation, and also stimulated tumor- in assessing the risk of tumor recurrence and prognosis associated macrophages (TAMs) to produce MVs, which after liver transplantation. For this purpose, the tissue secreted miR-142-3p to HCC cells, resulting in the expression of the following lncRNAs were used: the long inhibition of HCC cell migration . non-coding RNA HOX-class I homebox genes-transcript
