www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


a lncRNA functioning as an oncogene miR-200 signaling prevents the permeation of CRC cells which is dramatically up-regulated in HCC liver tissue into adjacent epithelia and contributes to organ integrity compared with normal tissue and can be used as a non- . invasive plasma biomarker for HCC diagnosis and Recent studies demonstrated for the first time that prognosis (Figure 3). c-Met is a miR-181a-5p functional target gene and that MALAT1 has an important function as an oncogene loss of miR-181a-5p expression leads to the activation of in HCC and CRC prognosis as it is associated with c-Met-mediated oncogenic signaling pathway in HCC. In metastasis and disease recurrence. A vital anticancer www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget 29526 Oncotarget therapy might be the silencing of MALAT1 activity up-regulated in this type of cancer while LncRNA-down- through siRNA knockdown in order to decrease cell regulated expression by hepatitis B virus X-HBx- protein proliferation and invasion (Figure 3, Table 2). (DREH) is down-regulated especially in HBV-related Certain exosomes- enriched lncRNAs such as H19 HCC tissues and is also dramatically decreased in HCC and GAS5, which are overexpressed in HCC and CRC, patients with poor prognosis [89-91]. could suppress cancer metastasis and cause epithelial- The expression of maternally expressed gene 3 mesenchymal transition (EMT). H19 alters the activation (MEG3), which is down-regulated in HCC, may be of miR-200 in cooperation with a specific protein regulated by microRNA-29. LncRNA- low expression complex . Working together with miR-675, H19 in tumor (LET) is also down-regulated in HCC and promotes HCC invasion so that this type of lncRNA will contributes to hypoxia-mediated invasion. ATB- lncRNA be a therapeutic target and a potent diagnostic biomarker activated by TGF-β is highly expressed in HCC and for hepatocarcinoma . H19 also promotes cell strongly associated with poor prognosis in HCC patients proliferation and cell-cycle progression in CRC by up- . regulating specific regulatory genes such as cyclin E1, D1 Therefore, the discovery of the impact of non-coding and Cyclin- dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) (Figure 3; RNAs in HCC and CRC has led to useful applications Growth arrest specific transcript 5 (GAS5) was being represented by a cocktail of T-cell modulators and significantly associated with HCC and CRC prognosis, vaccines enriched with the molecular targets of blockers it is used as a potential and independent biomarker for in cancer-signaling pathways [68, 89; 92-97]. GAS5 is a tumor suppressor associated with HCC and Specific lncRNAs in CRC
