www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


blockers it is used as a potential and independent biomarker for in cancer-signaling pathways [68, 89; 92-97]. GAS5 is a tumor suppressor associated with HCC and Specific lncRNAs in CRC . GAS5 is a multi-functional lncRNA in CRC cells In contrast to miRNAs, which were largely studied as it induces cell cycle arrest and tumor cell apoptosis for their roles in carcinogenesis, lncRNAs are less by enhancing the G1 cell cycle through the cyclin- described. However, this review reveals the most specific dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) pathway . In HCC, the non-coding RNAs in CRC and underlines their potential overexpression of GAS5 significantly promoted the role in prevention and early detection (Table 2). apoptosis of hepatoma cells by negatively regulating the c- Myc (a well-known transcription factor) activates vimentin expression, a well-defined intermediate filament the gene expression of lncRNA CRC-associated transcript that has been linked to a more aggressive status in this 1 and 2 (CCAT1 and CCAT2), thus contributing to CRC tumor (Figure 3). tumorigenesis and metastasis. It is also a potential target for lncRNA direct therapy, being able to modify the Specific lncRNAs in HCC Pseudogenes of transcripts such as myosin light HCC- derived exosomes have selective enrichment chain kinase pseudogene 1 (MYLKP1), octamer binding of lncRNA, especially in lnc-RNA TUC339 and lnc- transcription factor 4 pseudogene 1 (POU5F1P1) RNA regulator of reprogramming (ROR), which are and phosphatase and tensin homolog 1 pseudogene 1 involved in tumor cell reprogramming. These lncRNAs (PTENP1) which target the tumor stroma in HCC are were demonstrated to modulate cellular responses to often deregulated in cancer tissues compared to normal chemotherapy and target cell behavior thus offering cells. They are normally involved in CRC progression promise for their potential as disease biomarkers [30, and significantly associated with survival time in the third 84-85]. A high lncRNA-human plasmocytoma variant stage of cancer . translocation 1 (hPVT1) expression is strongly associated Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) in CRC and HCC with poor HCC prognosis (Table 2). Another oncogenic lncRNA, HEIH is significantly SnoRNAs are a subclass of small non-coding RNAs associated with HCC evolution and works as an (sncRNAs) (60 - 300 nt) involved in the adjustment independent biomarker for predicting disease progression of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) and transcribed by in HCC patients . LncRNA- HEIH promotes RNA polymerase II. Certain snoRNAs have different proliferation in HCC and could be considered an expressions in many human
