www.impactjournals.com/oncotarget/ Oncotarget, 2017, Vol. 8, (No. 17), pp: 29519-29534
KEYWORDS: hcc, mir-, crc, cells, tumor, expression, growth, cancer, factor, cell, protein, associated, non-coding, rna, metastasis


uc 230, uc 292, uc 339, uc 34, uc 388, stimulating the secretion of soluble factors such as the uc 399 and uc 420. Furthermore, the intensity of uc 73 transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) or the hepatocyte effects on survival and tumor cell proliferation in CRC growth factor. CAFs also secret fibroblast growth factor-2 corresponded to the degree of down-regulation by specific (FGF-2) that activates angiogenesis and induces the siRNAs. This UCG acts as an oncogene which raises the metastatic capability and invasiveness of the cancer cells. number of malignant cells as a result of reduced apoptosis Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a cellular rate in CRC cells . program leading to cancer cell metastasis that is promoted HCC and CRC cell- derived exosomes contain by CAFs in both CRC and HCC. Exosomes containing ucRNAs and could be taken up by other HCC and microRNAs are secreted from both cancers and stromal CRC cells resulting in ucRNA intercellular transfer cells and they suppress the gene expression of neighboring with consequent adjustment of cellular behavior . cells. Moreover, lncRNAs-UCGs represent potential targets of The tumor microenvironment (TME) is composed miRNAs while these complex regulatory mechanisms of fibroblasts, blood vessels, support cells, signaling between UCGs and miRNAs may have prognostic molecules, immune cells and the extracellular matrix significance for HCC and CRC patients . (ECM). Cancer cells (CC) grow in TME that favors LncRNA-TUC338 and LncRNA-TUC339 were also tumor growth and contributes to therapy resistance. Major identified as two ucRNAs with an altered gene expression cell types in the tumor microenvironment are cancer- in HCC in order to activate modified cell growth in associated fibroblasts (CAFs), endothelial cells and hepatocytes. However, TUC 339 is more enhanced immune cells, all of which communicate with cancer cells. within extracellular MVs released by hepatic cells than One way that these cell types promote angiogenesis is by TUC 338, which has different functions. Therefore, the altering the expression of miRNAs either in associated role of exosomes containing lncRNAs in intercellular normal cells or in cancer cells. Up-and down-regulation communication and the transfer of constituents could in miRNA expression can occur even through the direct be extended as biologically active signaling carriers. communication between cells through exosomal miRNAs. Moreover, the exosomes-mediated transfer of ucRNAs Chronic inflammation driven by the NF-kB such as TUC339 represents a particular mechanism by signaling pathway is a critical component of cancer which HCC
