Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


a smelter may Corvalan, and Kjellstrom 1999). These estimates include be quite different from those for people living near a tannery or infectious diseases related to drinking water, sanitation, and a brewery. For detailed information about industry-specific Table43.1 Selected Industrial Sectors and Their Contribution to Air and Water Pollution and to Workplace Hazards Industrial sector Air Water Workplacea Base metal and iron ore mining PM Toxic metal sludge Silica Cement manufacturing PM Sludge Silica Coalmining and production PM, coal dust Sludge Coal dust, silica Copper smelting Arsenic Arsenic Arsenic, cadmium Electricity generation PM, SO Hot water SO 2 2 Foundries PM Solvents Silica, solvents Iron and steel smelting PM Sludge Carbon monoxide, nickel Lead and zinc smelting PM, SO, lead, cadmium, arsenic Lead, cadmium, arsenic PM, SO, lead, cadmium, arsenic 2 2 Meat processing and rendering Odor High biological oxygen demand Infections Oil and gas development SO, carcinogens Oil Hydrocarbons Pesticide manufacturing Pesticides and toxic intermediates Pesticides and toxic intermediates Pesticides and toxic intermediates Petrochemicals manufacturing SO Oil Hydrocarbons Petroleum refining SO Sludge, hydrocarbons Hydrocarbons Phosphate fertilizer plants PM Nutrients Pulp and paper mills Odor High biological oxygen demand, mercury Chlorine Tanning and leather finishing Odor Chromium, acids Chromium, acids Textile manufacturing Toxic dyes Source:World Bank 1999. a. In all the cases, the workplaces are subject to risk of injury, noise, dust, and excessively hot or cold temperatures. pollution control methods,see the Web sites ofindustry sector charcoal, natural gas, and so on); solvents; paints; glues; and organizations, relevant international trade union organiza- other products commonly used at work or at home.Volatile tions,and the organizations listed above. organic compounds include such chemicals as benzene, toluene, methylene chloride, and methyl chloroform. Emis- sions ofnitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons react with sunlight Air Pollution to eventually form another secondary pollutant, ozone, at matter (PM) (dusts,fumes,mists,and smokes);gaseous pollu- ozone in the upper atmosphere, which occurs naturally and tants (gases and vapors);and odors. protects life by filtering out ultraviolet radiation from the sun. Suspended PM can be categorized according to total sus- pended particles:the finer fraction,PM ,which can reach the Sources of Outdoor Air Pollution. Outdoor air pollution is alveoli,and the most hazardous,PM (median aerodynamic caused mainly by the combustion of petroleum products or 2.5 diameters of less than 10.0 microns and 2.5 microns, respec- coal by motor vehicles,industry,and power stations.In some tively). Much of the PM consists of secondary pollutants countries, the combustion of wood
