Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


of less than 10.0 microns and 2.5 microns, respec- coal by motor vehicles,industry,and power stations.In some tively). Much of the PM consists of secondary pollutants countries, the combustion of wood or agricultural waste is 2.5 created by the condensation ofgaseous pollutants—for exam- another major source.Pollution can also originate from indus- ple,sulfur dioxide (SO ) and nitrogen dioxide (NO ).Types of trial processes that involve dust formation (for example,from 2 2 suspended PM include diesel exhaust particles; coal fly ash; cement factories and metal smelters) or gas releases (for wood smoke;mineral dusts,such as coal,asbestos,limestone, instance,from chemicals production).Indoor sources also con- and cement;metaldustsandfumes;acidmists(forexample,sul- tribute to outdoor air pollution,and in heavily populated areas, furicacid);and pesticide mists. the contribution from indoor sources can create extremely Gaseous pollutants include sulfur compounds such as SO high levels ofoutdoor air pollution. and sulfur trioxide; carbon monoxide; nitrogen compounds Motor vehicles emit PM, nitric oxide and NO (together such as nitric oxide,NO ,and ammonia;organic compounds referred to as NO), carbon monoxide, organic compounds, 2 x such as hydrocarbons;volatile organic compounds;polycyclic and lead.Lead is a gasoline additive that has been phased out in aromatic hydrocarbons and halogen derivatives such as alde- industrial countries, but some developing countries still use hydes; and odorous substances. Volatile organic compounds leaded gasoline. Mandating the use of lead-free gasoline is 818 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Tord Kjellstrom, Madhumita Lodh, Tony McMichael, and others Box 43.1 The Bhopal Catastrophe The Bhopal plant, owned by the Union Carbide The dominating nonlethal effects ofthis emission were Corporation,produced methyl isocyanate,an intermedi- severe irritation of the eyes, lungs, and skin. Effects on ate in the production of the insecticide carbaryl. On the nervous system and reproductive organs were also December 2,1984,a 150,000-gallon storage tank contain- reported. The reaction of methyl isocyanate with water ing methyl isocyanate apparently became contaminated had a corrosive effect on the respiratory tract, which with water,initiating a violent reaction and the release of resulted in extensive necrosis, bleeding, and edema. a cloud of toxic gas to which 200,000 people living near Treatment was impeded by the unknown and disputed the plant were exposed. Low wind speed and the high composition of the gas cloud and a lack of knowledge vapor pressure ofmethyl isocyanate exacerbated the sever- about its health effects and about antidotes. ity of toxic exposure,resulting in the immediate death of at least 6,000 people. Source:Dhara and Dhara 2002. vehicle-related
