Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


ofmethyl isocyanate exacerbated the sever- about its health effects and about antidotes. ity of toxic exposure,resulting in the immediate death of at least 6,000 people. Source:Dhara and Dhara 2002. vehicle-related lead pollution and permits the use of catalytic dust or hazardous fumes at the worksite (table 43.1). Such converters,which reduce emissions ofother pollutants. industries include coalmining,mineral mining,quarrying,and Catastrophic emissions oforganic chemicals,as occurred in cement production.Developed countries have shifted much of consequences (McGranahan and Murray 2003;WHO 1999). 1992).This shift creates jobs in the developing countries,but at Another type ofair pollution that can have disastrous con- the price of exposure to air pollution resulting from outdated sequences is radioactive pollution from a malfunctioning technology. In addition, specific hazardous compounds, such nuclear power station, as occurred in Chernobyl in 1986 as asbestos,have been banned in developed countries (Kazan- .Radioactive isotopes emitted from the burning Allen 2004),but their use may still be common in developing reactor spread over large areas ofwhat are now the countries of countries. Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine, causing thou- sands ofcases ofthyroid cancer in children and threatening to Impacts on Health. Epidemiological analysis is needed to cause many cancer cases in later decades. quantify the health impact in an exposed population. The major pollutants emitted by combustion have all been associ- Exposure to Air Pollutants. The extent ofthe health effects of ated with increased respiratory and cardiovascular morbidity air pollution depends on actual exposure.Total daily exposure and mortality (Brunekreef and Holgate 2002). The most is determined by people’s time and activity patterns, and it famous disease outbreak of this type occurred in London in elderly people may travel less during the day than working prematurely in a single week because of severe air pollution, adults,and their exposure may therefore be closely correlated followed by another 8,000 deaths during the next few months with air pollution levels in their homes.Children are particu- (Bell and Davis 2001). larly vulnerable to environmental toxicants because of their In the 1970s and 1980s, new statistical methods and possibly greater relative exposure and the effects on their improved computer technology allowed investigators to study growth and physiological development. mortality increases at much lower concentrations ofpollutants. Meteorological factors, such as wind speed and direction, A key question is the extent to which life has been shortened. are usually the strongest determinants ofvariations in air pol- Early loss of life in elderly people,who would have died
