Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


key question is the extent to which life has been shortened. are usually the strongest determinants ofvariations in air pol- Early loss of life in elderly people,who would have died soon lution, along with topography and temperature inversions. regardless of the air pollution,has been labeled mortality dis- Therefore,weather reports can be a guide to likely air pollution placement,because it contributes little to the overall burden of levels on a specific day. disease (McMichael and others 1998). Workplace air is another important source of air pollution Long-term studies have documented the increased cardio- exposure (chapter 60). Resource extraction and processing vascular and respiratory mortality associated with exposure industries, which are common in developing countries, emit to PM (Dockery and others 1993; Pope and others 1995). Air and Water Pollution: Burden and Strategies for Control | 819 A 16-year follow-up ofa cohort of500,000 Americans living in and 1 percent of respiratory infections,adding up to 7.9 mil- different cities found that the associations were strongest with lion disability-adjusted life years based on mortality only.This PM and also established an association with lung cancer burden of disease occurs primarily in developing countries, 2.5 mortality (Pope and others 2002).Another approach is ecolog- with China and India contributing the most to the global bur- ical studies of small areas based on census data,air pollution den.Eastern Europe also has major air pollution problems,and 2004), with adjustments for potential confounding factors, ofthe total disability-adjusted life years from mortality. including socioeconomic status.Such studies indicate that the The global burden of disease caused by lead exposure mortality increase for every 10 micrograms per cubic meter includes subtle changes in learning ability and behavior and ((cid:1)g per m3) of PM ranges from 4 to 8 percent for cities in other signs of central nervous system damage (Fewthrell, 2.5 developed countries where average annual PM levels are 10 Kaufmann, and Preuss 2003). WHO (2002) concludes that 2.5 to 30 (cid:1)g/m3.Many urban areas of developing countries have 0.4 percent of deaths and 0.9 percent (12.9 million) of all similar or greater levels ofair pollution. disability-adjusted life years may be due to lead exposure. The major urban air pollutants can also give rise to signifi- cant respiratory morbidity .For instance,Romieu Water Pollution and others (1996) report an exacerbation of asthma among increased risk of respiratory symptoms in middle-aged non- because such waterways are often used directly as drinking smokers in Beijing. water sources or
