Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


(1996) report an exacerbation of asthma among increased risk of respiratory symptoms in middle-aged non- because such waterways are often used directly as drinking smokers in Beijing. water sources or connected with shallow wells used for drink- In relation to the very young,Wang and others (1997) find ing water. In addition, waterways have important roles for that PM exposure,SO exposure,or both increased the risk of washing and cleaning, for fishing and fish farming, and for low birthweight in Beijing,and Pereira and others (1998) find recreation. that air pollution increased intrauterine mortality in São Paulo. Another major source of drinking water is groundwater, Other effects of ambient air pollution are postneonatal which often has low concentrations of pathogens because the mortality and mortality caused by acute respiratory infections, water is filtered during its transit through underground layers as well as effects on children’s lung function,cardiovascular and ofsand,clay,or rocks.However,toxic chemicals such as arsenic functional damage of the heart muscle .Asthma groundwater.Direct contamination can also occur from badly is another disease that researchers have linked to urban air pol- designed hazardous waste sites or from industrial sites.In the lution (McConnell and others 2002; Rios and others 2004). United States in the 1980s,the government set in motion the Ozone exposure as a trigger of asthma attacks is of particular Superfund Program, a major investigation and cleanup pro- concern.The mechanism behind an air pollution and asthma gram to deal with such sites (U.S. Environmental Protection link is not fully known,but early childhood NO exposure may Agency 2000). Leaded gasoline creates high lead exposure conditions in because of local contamination of fish or shellfish—for urban areas,with a risk for lead poisoning,primarily in young instance, the mercury contamination of fish in the infamous children.The main concern is effects on the brain from low- Minamata disease outbreak in Japan in 1956 . level exposure leading to behavioral aberrations and reduced or Seawater pollution with persistent chemicals,such as polychlo- delayed development of intellectual or motoric ability (WHO rinated biphenyls (PCBs) and dioxins,can also be a significant 1995).Lead exposure has been implicated in hypertension in health hazard even at extremely low concentrations (Yassi and adults,and this effect may be the most important for the lead others 2001). burden of disease at a population level . Other pollutants of concern are the carcinogenic volatile organic Sources of Chemical Water Pollution. Chemicals can enter compounds,which may be related to an increase in
