Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


at a population level . Other pollutants of concern are the carcinogenic volatile organic Sources of Chemical Water Pollution. Chemicals can enter compounds,which may be related to an increase in lung can- waterways from a point source or a nonpoint source. Point- cer,as reported by two recent epidemiological studies (Nyberg source pollution is due to discharges from a single source,such and others 2000;Pope and others 2002). as an industrial site.Nonpoint-source pollution involves many Urban air pollution and lead exposure are two of the envi- small sources that combine to cause significant pollution.For ronmental hazards that WHO (2002) assessed as part of its instance, the movement of rain or irrigation water over land 2002.The report estimates that pollution by urban PM causes cides and carries them into rivers, lakes, reservoirs, coastal as much as 5 percent of the global cases of lung cancer,2 per- waters, or groundwater. Another nonpoint source is storm- cent ofdeaths from cardiovascular and respiratory conditions, water that collects on roads and eventually reaches rivers or 820 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Tord Kjellstrom, Madhumita Lodh, Tony McMichael, and others lakes. Table 43.1 shows examples of point-source industrial neurological disease or more subtle functional damage to the chemical pollution. nervous system (Murata and others 2004). Paper and pulp mills consume large volumes of water and Runofffrom farmland,in addition to carrying soil and sed- discharge liquid and solid waste products into the environ- iments that contribute to increased turbidity,also carries nutri- ment. The liquid waste is usually high in biological oxygen ents such as nitrogen and phosphates,which are often added in demand, suspended solids, and chlorinated organic com- the form ofanimal manure or fertilizers.These chemicals cause pounds such as dioxins (World Bank 1999). The storage and eutrophication (excessive nutrient levels in water), which in- transport of the resulting solid waste (wastewater treatment creases the growth ofalgae and plants in waterways,leading to sludge, lime sludge, and ash) may also contaminate surface an increase in cyanobacteria (blue-green algae). The toxics waters.Sugar mills are associated with effluent characterized by released during their decay are harmful to humans. biological oxygen demand and suspended solids,and the efflu- The use of nitrogen fertilizers can be a problem in areas ent is high in ammonium content.In addition,the sugarcane where agriculture is becoming increasingly intensified. These rinse liquid may contain pesticide residues.Leather tanneries fertilizers increase the concentration of nitrates in groundwa- produce a significant
