Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


in ammonium content.In addition,the sugarcane where agriculture is becoming increasingly intensified. These rinse liquid may contain pesticide residues.Leather tanneries fertilizers increase the concentration of nitrates in groundwa- produce a significant amount of solid waste, including hide, ter, leading to high nitrate levels in underground drinking hair, and sludge. The wastewater contains chromium, acids, water sources,which can cause methemoglobinemia,the life- sulfides,and chlorides.Textile and dye industries emit a liquid threatening “blue baby” syndrome, in very young children, effluent that contains toxic residues from the cleaning of which is a significant problem in parts ofrural Eastern Europe equipment. Waste from petrochemical manufacturing plants (Yassi and others 2001). contains suspended solids,oils and grease,phenols,and ben- Some pesticides are applied directly on soil to kill pests in zene. Solid waste generated by petrochemical processes con- the soil or on the ground.This practice can create seepage to tains spent caustic and other hazardous chemicals implicated groundwater or runoff to surface waters.Some pesticides are in cancer. applied to plants by spraying from a distance—even from air- Another major source of industrial water pollution is min- planes.This practice can create spray drift when the wind car- ing.The grinding of ores and the subsequent processing with ries the materials to nearby waterways.Efforts to reduce the use water lead to discharges offine silt with toxic metals into water- ofthe most toxic and long-lasting pesticides in industrial coun- ways unless proper precautions are taken, such as the use of tries have largely been successful,but the rules for their use in sedimentation ponds. Lead and zinc ores usually contain the developing countries may be more permissive,and the rules of mium is not retrieved, major water pollution can occur. from pesticide water pollution are higher in such countries Mining was the source of most of the widespread cadmium . poisoning (Itai-Itai disease) in Japan in 1940–50 (Kjellstrom Naturally occurring toxic chemicals can also contaminate 1986). groundwater,such as the high metal concentrations in under- Other metals, such as copper, nickel, and chromium, are ground water sources in mining areas. The most extensive essential micronutrients,but in high levels these metals can be problem of this type is the arsenic contamination of ground- production can be a source of exposure to these metals. The Mexico, Nepal, Taiwan (China), and parts of Eastern Europe presence of copper in water can also be due to corrosion of and the United States . Fluoride is another drinking water pipes. Soft
