Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


(China), and parts of Eastern Europe presence of copper in water can also be due to corrosion of and the United States . Fluoride is another drinking water pipes. Soft water or low pH makes corrosion substance that may occur naturally at high concentrations in more likely. High levels of copper may make water appear parts of China, India, Sri Lanka, Africa, and the eastern bluish green and give it a metallic taste.Flushing the first water Mediterranean.Although fluoride helps prevent dental decay, out ofthe tap can minimize exposure to copper.The use oflead exposure to levels greater than 1.5 milligrams per liter in drink- pipes and plumbing fixtures may result in high levels oflead in ing water can cause pitting of tooth enamel and deposits in piped water. bones.Exposure to levels greater than 10 milligrams per liter Mercury can enter waterways from mining and industrial can cause crippling skeletal fluorosis . premises. Incineration of medical waste containing broken Water disinfection using chemicals is another source of medical equipment is a source of environmental contamina- chemical contamination ofwater.Chlorination is currently the tion with mercury.Metallic mercury is also easily transported most widely practiced and most cost-effective method ofdisin- through the atmosphere because of its highly volatile nature. fecting large community water supplies.This success in disin- Sulfate-reducing bacteria and certain other micro-organisms in fecting water supplies has contributed significantly to public mercury, increasing its toxicity. Methylmercury accumulates However,chlorine reacts with naturally occurring organic mat- and concentrates in the food chain and can lead to serious ter in water to form potentially toxic chemical compounds, Air and Water Pollution: Burden and Strategies for Control | 821 Box 43.2 Arsenic in Bangladesh The presence of arsenic in tube wells in Bangladesh This number increases to 46 million to 57 million if the because ofnatural contamination from underground geo- WHO guideline level of 10 micrograms per literis used. logical layers was first confirmed in 1993. Ironically, the The most common sign of arsenic poisoning in United Nations Children’s Fund had introduced the wells Bangladesh is skin lesions characterized by hyperkeratosis in the 1960s and 1970s as a safe alternative to water con- and melanosis.Other effects reported,but not epidemio- taminated with microbes, which contributed to a heavy logically confirmed, include cancer (particularly of the diarrheal disease burden. Estimates indicate that 28 mil- skin, lungs, and bladder); liver damage; diabetes; hyper- lion to 35 million people of Bangladesh’s population
