Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


confirmed, include cancer (particularly of the diarrheal disease burden. Estimates indicate that 28 mil- skin, lungs, and bladder); liver damage; diabetes; hyper- lion to 35 million people of Bangladesh’s population of tension;and reproductive effects (spontaneous abortions 130 million are exposed to arsenic levels exceeding and stillbirths).Cancer and vascular effects are the domi- 50micrograms per liter,the prescribed limit for drinking nating effects in other arsenic-polluted areas (WHO water in Bangladesh (Kinniburgh and Smedley 2001). 2001). known collectively as disinfection by-products (International bone diseases ofchronic cadmium poisoning (Itai-Itai disease), Agency for Research on Cancer 2004). and the circulatory system diseases ofnitrate exposure (methe- moglobinemia) and lead exposure (anemia and hypertension). Exposure to Chemical Water Pollution. Drinking contami- Acute exposure to contaminants in drinking water can cause nated water is the most direct route of exposure to pollutants irritation or inflammation ofthe eyes and nose,skin,and gas- the amount ofwater consumed,usually 2 to 3 liters per day for effects are due to chronic exposure (for example,liver toxicity) an adult,with higher amounts for people living in hot areas or to copper,arsenic,or chromium in drinking water.Excretion of people engaged in heavy physical work.Use of contaminated chemicals through the kidney targets the kidney for toxic water in food preparation can result in contaminated food, effects,as seen with chemicals such as cadmium,copper,mer- most chemical contaminants. Pesticides and other chemical contaminants that enter Inhalation exposure to volatile compounds during hot waterways through agricultural runoff,stormwater drains,and showers and skin exposure while bathing or using water for industrial discharges may persist in the environment for long recreation are also potential routes ofexposure to water pollu- periods and be transported by water or air over long distances. tants.Toxic chemicals in water can affect unborn or young chil- They may disrupt the function ofthe endocrine system,result- dren by crossing the placenta or being ingested through breast ing in reproductive,developmental,and behavioral problems. milk. The endocrine disruptors can reduce fertility and increase the Estimating actual exposure via water involves analyzing the occurrence of stillbirths, birth defects, and hormonally level of the contaminant in the water consumed and assessing dependent cancers such as breast,testicular,and prostate can- daily water intake .Biological monitoring using cers.The effects on the developing nervous system can include blood or urine samples can be a precise tool for measuring total impaired mental and psychomotor development, as well as exposure from water,food,and air (Yassi and others 2001). cognitive impairment and behavior abnormalities (WHO and
