Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


be a precise tool for measuring total impaired mental and psychomotor development, as well as exposure from water,food,and air (Yassi and others 2001). cognitive impairment and behavior abnormalities (WHO and International Programme on Chemical Safety 2002).Examples global burden of disease resulting from the overall effects of alkylphenols,phytoestrogens (natural estrogens in plants),and chemical pollutants in water.The burden in specific local areas pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics and synthetic sex hor- may be large,as in the example cited in box 43.2 of arsenic in mones from contraceptives. Chemicals in drinking water can drinking water in Bangladesh. Other examples of a high also be carcinogenic. Disinfection by-products and arsenic local burden of disease are the nervous system diseases of have been a particular concern (International Agency for methylmercury poisoning (Minamata disease),the kidney and Research on Cancer 2004). 822 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Tord Kjellstrom, Madhumita Lodh, Tony McMichael, and others INTERVENTIONS less hazardous materials.Interventions at the level of the state of the environment would include air quality monitoring The variety of hazardous pollutants that can occur in air or linked to local actions to reduce pollution during especially wateralsoleadstomanydifferentinterventions.Interventions polluted periods (for example,banning vehicle use when pol- pertaining to environmental hazards are often more sustain- lution levels reach predetermined thresholds).Interventions at ableif theyaddressthedrivingforcesbehindthe pollutionat the exposure level include using household water filters to thecommunitylevelratherthanattempttodealwithspecific reduce arsenic in drinking water as done in Bangladesh.Finally, exposures at the individual level. In addition, effective meth- interventions at the effect level would include actions by health ods to prevent exposure to chemical hazards in the air or services to protect or restore the health ofpeople already show- watermaynotexistattheindividuallevel,andtheonlyfeasi- ing signs ofan adverse effect. ble individual-level intervention may be treating cases of illness. Figure 43.1shows five levels at which actions can be taken to Interventions to Reduce Air Pollution prevent the health effects of environmental hazards. Some Reducing air pollution exposure is largely a technical issue. would label interventions at the driving force level as policy Technologies to reduce pollution at its source are plentiful,as instruments. These include legal restrictions on the use of a are technologies that reduce pollution by filtering it away from toxic substance,such as banning the use oflead in gasoline,or the emission source (end-of-pipe solutions; see, for example, community-level policies,such as boosting public transporta- Gwilliam,Kojima,and Johnson 2004).Getting these technolo- tion and reducing individual use ofmotor vehicles. gies applied in practice requires
