Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


Fernandez 2002; McMichael, Kjellstrom, and Smith 2001; WHO 2000. atmosphere acidic . Large combined emissions Interventions to Reduce Water Pollution from industry and power stations in the eastern United States Water pollution control requires action at all levels ofthe hier- drift north with the winds and cause damage to Canadian archical framework shown in figure 43.1.The ideal method to ecosystems. In Europe, emissions from the industrial belt abate diffuse chemical pollution of waterways is to minimize across Belgium, Germany, and Poland drift north to Sweden or avoid the use of chemicals for industrial,agricultural,and and have damaged many lakes there. The convergence of air domestic purposes.Adapting practices such as organic farming pollutants from many sources and the associated health effects and integrated pest management could help protect waterways have also been documented in relation to the multiple fires in . Chemical contamination of waterways Indonesia’s rain forest in 1997 (Brauer and Hisham-Hashim from industrial emissions could be reduced by cleaner produc- 1998);the brown cloud over large areas ofAsia,which is mainly tion processes . Box 43.4 describes one project related to coal burning;and a similar brown cloud over central aimed at effectively reducing pollution. Europe in the summer, which is caused primarily by vehicle Other interventions include proper treatment ofhazardous emissions. waste and recycling ofchemical containers and discarded prod- Managing air pollution interventions involves monitoring ucts containing chemicals to reduce solid waste buildup and air quality, which may focus on exceedances of air quality leaching oftoxic chemicals into waterways.A variety oftechni- guidelines in specific hotspots or on attempts to establish a spe- cal solutions are available to filter out chemical waste from cific population’s average exposure to pollution.Sophisticated industrial processes or otherwise render them harmless. modeling in combination with monitoring has made it possi- Changing the pH ofwastewater or adding chemicals that floc- ble to start producing detailed estimates and maps ofair pollu- culate the toxic chemicals so that they settle in sedimentation tion levels in key urban areas (World Bank 2004),thus provid- ponds are common methods.The same principle can be used ing a powerful tool for assessing current health impacts and at the individual household level. One example is the use of estimated changes in the health impacts brought about by iron chips to filter out arsenic from contaminated well water in defined air pollution interventions. Bangladeshi households (Kinniburgh and Smedley 2001). 824 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries |
