Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


iron chips to filter out arsenic from contaminated well water in defined air pollution interventions. Bangladeshi households (Kinniburgh and Smedley 2001). 824 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Tord Kjellstrom, Madhumita Lodh, Tony McMichael, and others Box 43.4 Water Pollution Control in India In 1993, the Demonstration in Small Industries for environmental regulations in a cost-effective manner. Reducing Wastes Project was started in India with support Pressure from the public to improve environmental from the United Nations Industrial Development performance and the need to conserve water, especially Organization. International and local experts initiated during the summer, added urgency to the project. The waste reduction audits in four pulp and paper plants,four company implemented 24 waste minimization options, textile dyeing and finishing factories, and four pesticide with13additionaloptionsunderconsideration,resulting production units. The experts identified priority areas, in net annual savings of about US$160,000.The payback estimated the likely reduction in the pollutant load, and period for the implemented options was less than seven came up with more than 500 pollution prevention months,andtheannualsavingswillcontinue. options.The 12 companies spent a total ofUS$300,000 to The project demonstrated that waste minimization can implement pollution prevention options and saved US$3 cut pollution and business costs at the same time, espe- million in raw materials and wastewater treatment costs. cially when the environmental protection effort is directed Themostimpressivesavingswereinthepulpandpaper toward the production process itself rather than to end- sector.Forinstance,theAshokaPulpandPaperCompany of-pipe treatment.The key to success lies in the sustained participated in the project with the dual objectives involvement of local experts and committed factory of reducing production costs and complying with managers. Source: United Nations 1997. INTERVENTION COSTS AND others (1995)doesnotreporttheextenttowhichthevarious COST-EFFECTIVENESS interventionswereimplementedinexistingpollutioncontrolor This chapter cannot follow the detailed format for the eco- interventionsareprobablyalreadyinwideuse.Thereviewdid nomic analysis ofdifferent preventive interventions devised for createagooddealofcontroversyintheUnitedStates,because effects, and interventions are too varied and because of the environmental field accused the authors of overestimating lack of overarching examples of economic assessments. the costs and underestimating the benefits of controls over Nevertheless, it does present a few examples of the types of chemicals(see,forexample,U.S.Congress1999). analyses available. Costs and Savings in Relation to Pollution Control Comparison of Interventions A number of publications review and discuss the evidence A review ofmore than 1,000 reports on cost per life year saved on the costs and benefits of different pollution control in the United States for 587 interventions in the environment interventions in industrial countries (see, for example, U.S. and other fields
