Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


on the costs and benefits of different pollution control in the United States for 587 interventions in the environment interventions in industrial countries (see, for example, U.S. and other fields (table 43.2) evaluated costs from a societal per- Environmental Protection Agency 1999).For developing coun- spective.The net costs included only direct costs and savings. tries, specific data on this topic are found primarily in the Indirect costs,such as forgone earnings,were excluded.Future so-called gray literature: government reports, consultant costs and life years saved were discounted at 5 percent per year. reports,or reports by the international banks. Interventions with a cost per life year saved ofless than or equal to zero cost less to implement than the value ofthe lives saved. Air Pollution. Examples of cost-effectiveness analysis for Each of three categories of interventions (toxin control, fatal assessing air quality policy include studies carried out in injury reduction, and medicine) presented in table 43.2 Jakarta, Kathmandu, Manila, and Mumbai under the World includes several extremely cost-effective interventions. Bank’s Urban Air Quality Management Strategy in Asia The cost-effective interventions in the air pollution area (Grønskei and others 1996a,1996b;Larssen and others 1996a, could be of value in developing countries as their industrial 1996b;Shah,Nagpal,and Brandon 1997).In each city,an emis- and transportation pollution situations become similar to sions inventory was established, and rudimentary dispersion the United States in the 1960s. The review by Tengs and modeling was carried out. Various mitigation measures for Air and Water Pollution: Burden and Strategies for Control | 825 Table 43.2 Median Cost Per Life Year Saved, Selected Relatively Low-Cost Interventions (1993 U.S. dollars) Intervention Cost per life year saved Toxin control Control coal-fired power plant emissions through high chimneys and other means (cid:2) 0 Reduce lead in gasoline from 1.1 to 0.1 grams per gallon (cid:2) 0 Ban amitraz pesticide on apples (cid:2) 0 Introduce a chloroform emission standard at selected pulp mills (cid:2) 0 Control SO by desulfuring residual fuel oil (cid:2) 0 Initiate sedimentation, filtration, and chlorination of drinking water 4,200 Introduce radon remediation in homes with levels greater than 21.6 picocuries per liter 6,100 Ban asbestos in brake linings 29,000 Set arsenic emission standards at selected copper smelters 36,000 Fatal injury reduction Make motorcycle helmet laws mandatory (cid:2) 0 Install automatic seat belts in cars (cid:2) 0 Require bad drivers to attend driving improvement schools (cid:2) 0 Pass a law requiring smoke detectors in homes (cid:2) 0 Improve
