Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


the approach.Inthatstudy,themajormonetizedbenefitsresulted cumulative. fromreducedmortalitycosts. Aunan and others (1998) assessed the costs and benefits of Air implementing an energy saving and air pollution control pro- gram in Hungary. They based their monetary evaluation of The broadest analysis ofthe implementation ofcontrol strate- benefits on local monitoring and population data and took gies for air pollution was conducted by the U.S.Environmental exposure-response functions and valuation estimates from Protection Agency in the late 1990s (Krupnick and Canadian,U.S.,and European studies.The authors valued the Morgenstern 2002).The analysis developed a hypothetical sce- average total benefits of the interventions at US$1.56 billion nario for 1970 to 1990,assuming that the real costs for pollu- per year (with 1994 as the base year),with high and low bounds tion control during this period could be compared with the at US$7.6, billion and US$0.4 billion, respectively. They esti- benefits ofreduced mortality and morbidity and avoided dam- mated the cost-benefit ratio at 1 to 3.4, given a total cost of age to agricultural crops brought about by the reduction of interventions ofUS$0.46 billion per year.Many ofthe benefits major air pollutant levels across the country during this period. resulted from reduced mortality in the elderly population and The study estimated reduced mortality from dose-response from reduced asthma morbidity costs. relationships for the major air pollutants,assigning the cost of Misra (2002) examined the costs and benefits ofwater pol- each death at the value of statistical life and the cost of mor- lution abatement for a cluster of 250 small-scale industries in bidity in relation to estimated health service utilization. The Gujarat, India. Misra’s assessment looked at command-and- study used a variety of costing methods to reach the range of control, market-based solutions and at effluent treatment as likely present values presented in table 43.4.It assumed that the alternatives.In a cost-benefit analysis,Misra estimated the net reduction ofair pollution resulted from the implementation of present social benefits from water pollution abatement at the federal Clean Air Act of1970 and associated state-level reg- theNandesari Industrial Estate at Rs 0.550 billion at 1995–96 ulations and air pollution limits. market prices using a 12 percent social discount rate. After The analysis showed a dramatically high cost-benefit ratio making corrections for the prices of foreign exchange, and inspired debate about the methodologies used and the unskilled labor,and investment,the figure rose to Rs 0.62 bil- results. One major criticism was of the use of the value of lion.It rose still further to
