Chapter
KEYWORDS: pollution, water, air, control, exposure, air pollution, interventions, disease, countries, costs, health, water pollution, levels, effects, benefits


find an analysis for water similar to the tries may not be appropriate,because exposed populations in broad analysis presented for air,but the examples ofwater pol- developing countries may have a different burden of preexist- lution with mercury, cadmium, and arsenic described earlier ing diseases,malnutrition,and other factors related to poverty. indicate the economic benefits that can be reaped from effec- Research on specific vulnerabilities and on relevant dose- tive interventions against chemical water pollution. Since the response relationships for different levels ofeconomic develop- pollution disease outbreaks ofmercury and cadmium poison- ment and for various geographic conditions would therefore ing in Japan, serious mercury pollution situations have been be valuable for assessing risks and targeting interventions. In identified in Brazil, China, and the Philippines, and serious addition,global chemical exposure concerns,such as endocrine cadmium pollution has occurred in Cambodia,China,the Lao disruptors in air, water, and food, require urgent research to People’s Democratic Republic, and Thailand. Arsenic in establish the need for interventions in both industrial and groundwater is an ongoing, serious problem in Bangladesh, developing countries. India, and Nepal and a less serious problem in a number of An important research topic is to clearly describe and quan- other countries. tify the long-term health effects of exposure to air pollution. WHO has analyzed control strategies for biological water The existing literature indicates that long-term exposure may pollution and water and sanitation improvements in relation to have more adverse health effects than short-term exposure the Millennium Development Goals (Hutton and Haller 2004). and,hence,have higher cost implications.Another topic is to The analysis demonstrated the considerable benefits of water assess the health issue pertaining to greenhouse gases and and sanitation improvements:for every US$1 invested,the eco- climate change,which are related to the same sources as urban nomic return was in the range ofUS$5 to US$28 for a number air pollution (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of intervention options. Careful analysis of the same type is 2001). Research and policy analysis on how best to develop required for populations particularly vulnerable to chemical interventions to reduce health risks related to climate change water pollution to assess whether control ofchemical pollution need to be considered together with the analysis of other air can also yield significant benefits. pollutants. Air and Water Pollution: Burden and Strategies for Control | 829 Evidence shows that a number of chemicals that may be disease related to chemical air and water pollution at local,
