Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT) Prevention
KEYWORDS: patients, dvt, risk, surgery, stockings, ipc, anticoagulants, use, effective, lmwh, undergoing, venous, prophylaxis, compression, dvt prophylaxis


heparin; IPC = intermittent pneumatic compression. Adapted with permission from Geerts WH, Heit JA, Clagett GP, et al: Prevention of venous thromboembolism. Chest 119:132S–175S, 2001. Treatment in DVT Prevention DVT prophylaxis can involve one or more of the following: Mechanical therapy (eg, compression devices or stockings, venous filters) Pharmacologic therapy (including low-dose unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparins, warfarin, fondaparinux, direct oral anticoagulants) Choice depends on patient’s risk level, type of surgery (if applicable), projected duration of preventive treatment, contraindications, adverse effects, relative cost, ease of use, and local practice. Mechanical therapy for DVT prophylaxis After surgery, elevating the legs and avoiding prolonged immobility, which places the legs in a dependent position thereby impeding venous return, can help. The benefit of graded compression stockings is questionable except for low-risk surgical patients and selected hospitalized medical patients. However, combining stockings with other preventive measures may be more protective than any single approach. Intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) uses a pump to cyclically inflate and deflate hollow plastic leggings, providing external compression to the lower legs and sometimes thighs. IPC may be used instead of or in combination with anticoagulants after surgery. IPC is recommended for patients undergoing surgery associated with a high risk of bleeding in whom anticoagulant use may be contraindicated. IPC is probably more effective for preventing calf DVT than proximal DVT. IPC is contraindicated in some patients who have obesity and may be unable to apply the devices properly. For patients who are at very high risk of DVT and bleeding (eg, after major trauma), IPC is recommended until the bleeding risk subsides and anticoagulants can be given. The use of inferior vena cava filters should be avoided unless DVT has been confirmed, except in highly selected patients. 5/8 Pharmacologic therapy for DVT prophylaxis Pharmacologic thromboprophylaxis involves use of anticoagulants. The role of aspirin for DVT prophylaxis is largely limited to patients undergoing total hip or knee replacement surgery (1). Low-dose unfractionated heparin (UFH) 5000 units subcutaneously is given 2 hours before surgery and every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 to 10 days or until patients are fully ambulatory. Patients who bedbound but are not undergoing surgery are given 5000 units subcutaneously every 12 hours until risk factors are reversed. LMWHs are more effective than low-dose UFH for preventing DVT and PE (2, 3, 4), but widespread use is limited by cost. Enoxaparin 30 mg subcutaneously every
