Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT) Prevention
KEYWORDS: patients, dvt, risk, surgery, stockings, ipc, anticoagulants, use, effective, lmwh, undergoing, venous, prophylaxis, compression, dvt prophylaxis


factors are reversed. LMWHs are more effective than low-dose UFH for preventing DVT and PE (2, 3, 4), but widespread use is limited by cost. Enoxaparin 30 mg subcutaneously every 12 hours, dalteparin 5000 units subcutaneously once a day, and tinzaparin 4500 units subcutaneously once a day appear to be equally effective. Fondaparinux 2.5 mg subcutaneously once a day is at least as effective as LMWH in patients who are undergoing nonorthopedic surgery and is possibly more effective than LMWHs after orthopedic surgery (5). Warfarin, using a target international normalized ratio (INR) of 2.0 to 3.0, is proven to be effective in orthopedic surgery but is being used less frequently because alternative anticoagulants such as LMWHs and direct oral anticoagulants are easier to administer. Direct oral anticoagulants (eg, dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban) are at least as effective and safe as LMWH for preventing DVT and PE after hip or knee replacement surgery but are more expensive than warfarin, and their cost-effectiveness requires further study (3). With DVT prophylaxis, there is always a risk of bleeding during use of anticoagulants. DVT prophylaxis in selected populations For hip and other lower extremity orthopedic surgery, selected direct oral anticoagulants (eg, rivaroxaban, apixaban), LMWH, fondaparinux, or adjusted-dose warfarin is recommended. For patients undergoing total knee replacement and some other patients at high risk in whom anticoagulants cannot be given because of a high risk of bleeding, IPC is also beneficial. For orthopedic surgery, preventive treatment may be started before or after surgery and continued for at least 14 days. Fondaparinux 2.5 mg subcutaneously once a day appears to be more effective to prevent DVT than LMWH for patients undergoing orthopedic surgery but may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding (5). For elective neurosurgery, spinal cord injury, or multiple trauma, low-dose LMWH, as the first option, or low-dose UFH is recommended. For patients undergoing neurosurgery, physical measures (IPC, elastic stockings) have been used because intracranial bleeding is a concern; however, LMWH appears to be an acceptable alternative. Limited data support the combination of IPC, elastic stockings, and LMWH in patients with spinal cord injury or multiple trauma. 6/8 Preventive treatment is also indicated for patients who have a major medical illnesses that require bed rest (eg, myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, heart failure). Low-dose UFH or LMWH is effective in patients who are not already receiving IV heparin or thrombolytics; IPC, elastic stockings, or both
