Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


ABSTRACT Aldosterone is crucial for regulating sodium conservation in the kidney, salivary glands, sweat glands, and colon. This adrenal steroid hormone acts via the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) to promote active transport of sodium and potassium excretion in its target tissues, through activation of specific amiloride-sensitive sodium channels (ENaC) and a Na-K ATP-ase pump. Defective aldosterone biosynthesis or action results in various clinical and laboratory test manifestations, such as hypotension, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and acidosis. Primary adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal hypoplasia are discussed in other chapters. In this chapter the mechanisms underlying aldosterone-deficient conditions, such as hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism, primary hypoaldosteronism, including aldosterone synthase deficiency (ASD), acquired forms of the disease, and pseudohypoaldosteronism, an aldosterone resistance syndrome due to insensitivity of target tissues to aldosterone, are reviewed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Aldosterone is crucial for sodium conservation in the kidney, salivary glands, sweat glands, and colon. Aldosterone is synthesized exclusively in the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal gland. Destruction or dysfunction of the adrenal gland in conditions such as primary adrenal insufficiency, congenital adrenal hypoplasia, isolated mineralocorticoid deficiency, acquired secondary aldosterone deficiency (hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism), acquired primary aldosterone deficiency, and inherited enzymatic defects in aldosterone biosynthesis cause clinical symptoms and laboratory characteristics owing to aldosterone deficiency. Pseudohypoaldosteronism is an aldosterone resistance syndrome i.e. a condition due to the insensitivity of target tissues to aldosterone. In this chapter, aldosterone-deficiency conditions other than primary adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal hypoplasia are reviewed. ALDOSTERONE BIOSYNSTHESIS All human steroid hormones are derived from cholesterol. Aldosterone is synthesized in the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex through four enzymes, cholesterol desmolase (CYP11A1), 21-hydroxylase (CYP21A2), aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2), and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD) ( Figure 1 ). CYP11A1, CYP21A2 and CYP11B2 are cytochrome 450 enzymes (CYP), which are membrane-bound, heme-containing enzymes that accept electrons from NADPH through accessory proteins and use molecular oxygen to perform hydroxylation or other oxidative conversions ( 1 ). CYP11A1, which is a side-chain cleavage enzyme, cleaves the side chain from C21 of cholesterol, converting cholesterol to pregnenolone in adrenal mitochondria and this is the first step in steroidogenesis. The CYP11A1 gene is located on the long arm of human chromosome 15q24-q25 ( 2 ). Pregnenolone is returned to the cytosolic compartment and is converted to progesterone by 3β-HSD. Progesterone is then hydroxylated at C21 by CYP21A2, an enzyme located in the
