Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


binding activities of NR4A1 and NR4A2 with Ad5 by 30% and 50%, respectivly ( 10 ). Ang II infusion in the rat decreased the methylation ratio of CYP11B2 gene and increased gene expression in the adrenal gland ( 10 ). A low-salt diet induced hypomethylation of rat CYP11B2 and increased CYP11B2 mRNA levels parallel with aldosterone synthesis ( 10 ). REGULATION OF ALDOSTERONE SECRETION Aldosterone secretion is regulated by multiple factors. The renin-angiotensin system and potassium ion are the major regulators, whereas ACTH and other POMC peptides, sodium ion, vasopressin, dopamine, ANP, β-adrenergic agents, serotonin and somatostatin are minor modulators. The Renin-Angiotensin System Renin is a 430 amino acid enzyme that cleaves renin substrate or angiotensinogen, which is a 453 amino acid alpha-globulin product of the liver, to produce the decapeptide, angiotensin I. Angiotensin I is rapidly cleaved by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the lung and other tissues to form the octapeptide, angiotensin II. Moreover, angiotensinase cleaves the NH2-terminal Asp residue from angiotensin II and produces the heptapeptide, angiotensin III, then to the hexapeptide angiotensin IV. The circulating levels of angiotensin III are 15 to 25% of those of angiotensin II. Angiotensin II, III and IV stimulate aldosterone secretion and vasoconstriction, while angiotensin II is more potent for vasoconstriction. The angiotensins are inactivated within minutes by tissue and plasma peptidase. The levels of the circulating renin are the rate-limiting factor in this process. Renin is synthesized by the juxtaglomerular cells in the renal cortex and its secretion is controlled by renal arterial blood pressure, sodium concentrations of tubular fluid sensed by the macula densa, and renal sympathetic nervous activity ( 11 ). Factors that decrease renal blood flow, such as hemorrhage, dehydration, salt restriction, upright posture, and renal artery narrowing, increase renin levels. In contrast, factors that increase blood pressure, such as high salt intake, peripheral vasoconstrictors, and supine posture, decrease renin levels. Hypokalemia increases and hyperkalemia decreases renin release. The effect of angiotensin II and III on the adrenal glomerulosa is initiated by binding to G-protein coupled receptors. The first mechanism of the intracellular signal transduction is activation of phospholipase C, which hydrolyzes PIP2 to IP3, which then releases intracellular calcium ions ( 12 ). Interestingly, angiotensin II does not stimulate adenylate cyclase activity. Angiotensin II stimulation leads to increased transfer of cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane and increased conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and corticosterone to aldosterone
