Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


not stimulate adenylate cyclase activity. Angiotensin II stimulation leads to increased transfer of cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane and increased conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and corticosterone to aldosterone ( 13 ). Potassium Potassium directly increases aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex and aldosterone then lowers serum potassium by stimulating its excretion by the kidney. High dietary potassium intake increases plasma aldosterone and enhances the aldosterone response to a subsequent potassium or angiotensin II infusion ( 12 ). The primary action of potassium for stimulating aldosterone secretion is to depolarize the plasma membrane, which activates voltage-dependent calcium channels, that permit influx or efflux of extracellular calcium ( 12 – 14 ), leading to the activation of calmodulin and calmodulin-dependent kinase, subsequently. The activated kinase phosphorylates both activating transcription factor and members of CRE-binding protein family which bind to 5’ flanking promotor regions of the CYP11B2 gene and trigger gene transcription in the zona glomerulosa, followed by increased aldosterone biosynthesis ( 13 , 14 ). Pituitary Factors ACTH and possibly other POMC-derived peptides, including α-MSH, α-MSH, β-LPH, and β-END, influence aldosterone secretion, however, the role of ACTH in aldosterone secretion is minor ( 12 ). ACTH increases aldosterone secretion by binding to glomerulosa cell-surface melanocortin-2 receptor, by activating adenylate cyclase, and increasing intracellular cAMP ( 15 ). Like other agents, ACTH stimulates the same two early and late steps of aldosterone biosynthesis. Vasopressin has a modest and transient stimulatory effect on aldosterone secretion from zona granulosa cells in vitro. This effect is probably mediated via V2 receptors and phospholipase C generating IP3 and diacylglycerol ( 16 ). Sodium Sodium intake influences aldosterone secretion by an indirect effect through renin and to a minor extent by direct effects on zona glomerulosa responsiveness to angiotensin II. High sodium intake increases vascular volume, which suppresses renin secretion and angiotensin II generation and decreases the sensitivity of aldosterone response to angiotensin II. Inhibitory Agents Dopamine inhibits aldosterone secretion in humans by a mechanism that is independent of the effects of prolactin, ACTH, electrolytes, and the renin-angiotensin system ( 17 , 18 ). This inhibitory effect may involve binding to D2 receptors on glomerulosa cells ( 19 ). Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) directly inhibits aldosterone secretion and blocks the stimulatory effects of angiotensin II, potassium and ACTH, at least in part, by interfering with extracellular calcium influx ( 20 ). MECHANISMS OF ALDOSTERONE ACTION Effect
