Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


secretion and blocks the stimulatory effects of angiotensin II, potassium and ACTH, at least in part, by interfering with extracellular calcium influx ( 20 ). MECHANISMS OF ALDOSTERONE ACTION Effect of Aldosterone Aldosterone is crucial for sodium conservation in the kidney, salivary glands, sweat glands, and colon. Aldosterone promotes active sodium transport and excretion of potassium in its major target tissues. It exerts its effects via the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and the resultant activation of specific amiloride-sensitive sodium channels (ENaC) and the Na-K ATP-ase pump ( 21 ). Aldosterone and the MR may be involved in the regulation of genes coding for the subunits of the amiloride sensitive sodium channel and the Na-K ATP-ase pump, serum and glucocorticoid regulated kinase (SGK), channel-inducing factor, as well as of other proteins ( 22 , 23 ). Activated SGK1 phosphorylates the neural precursor cell-expressed, developmentally down-regulated protein 4-2 (Nedd4-2) which allows binding of 14-3-3 proteins ( 24 ). Then, the interaction of Nedd4-2 and ENaC causes an accumulation of ENaC at the plasma membrane and enhances epithelial sodium transport by increasing open probability of ENaC. In a later phase translation and allocation of ENaC, basolateral Na-K ATP-ase and apical K channel (ROMK) are enhanced in its target tissues ( 25 – 27 ). On the other hand, rapid effects in response to aldosterone but independent of the MR were described as so-called non-genomic or rapid signaling of aldosterone. The G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) [previously known as G protein-coupled receptor 30 (GPR30)], a member of the seven transmembrane domain family of cell surface receptors, has been reported to be a membrane receptor for aldosterone ( 28 ). The expression of GPER is ubiquitous, including in vascular cells (both endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells) and is required for rapid MR-independent effects of aldosterone in vascular smooth muscle cells ( 28 ). Aldosterone has both vasodilator and vasoconstrictor effects. The effect of aldosterone on endothelial function would vary depending on the balance between GPER and MR expression. In vascular endothelial cells, aldosterone activation of GPER mediates vasodilation, while activation of endothelial MR has been linked to enhanced vasoconstrictor and/or impaired vasodilator response ( 28 – 30 ). Mineralocorticoid Receptor The mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) is found in the cytoplasm and nucleus and the sodium channels are expressed in the apical membrane of epithelial cells of the distal convoluted tubule as well as in cells of
