Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


found in the cytoplasm and nucleus and the sodium channels are expressed in the apical membrane of epithelial cells of the distal convoluted tubule as well as in cells of other tissues involved with conservation of salt, such as colon, sweat glands, lung, and tongue. MR is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily. Together with the glucocorticoid, progesterone, and androgen receptors, MR forms the steroid receptor subfamily ( 30 ). Steroid receptors display a modular structure comprised of five regions (A-E). The N-terminal A/B region harbors an autonomous activation function. The central C region, corresponding to the DNA-binding domain, is highly conserved and is composed of two zinc fingers involved in DNA binding and receptor dimerization. The D region is a hydrophilic region and it forms a hinge between DNA-binding domain and ligand-binding domain. The E region corresponds to the C-terminal ligand-binding domain and mediates numerous functions, including ligand binding, interaction with heat-shock proteins, dimerization, nuclear targeting, and hormone-dependent activation ( 31 ) ( Figure 2 ). The human MR (hMR) and human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) have almost identical DNA-binding domains (94% homology in the amino acid) and very similar ligand-binding domains (57%), but divergent N-terminal A/B regions (<15%) ( 32 ). The hMR gene was mapped on chromosome 4q31.1-31.2 ( 33 , 34 ) and hMR cDNA encodes a 107 kilodalton polypeptide with 984 amino acids ( 32 ). The hMR gene consists of 10 exons, including two exons 1 that encode different 5'-untranslated sequences ( 35 ). Expression of the two different hMR variants is under the control of two different promoters that contain no obvious TATA element, but multiple GC boxes. Both hMRα and hMRβ mRNAs are expressed at approximately the same level in the mineralocorticoid target tissues ( 36 ). Figure 2. The linearized structures of the mineralocorticoid receptor gene, mRNAs and protein. The MR gene consists of 10 exons. The MR has two exons 1 (exon 1α and exon 1β), each with an alternative promoter; however, the finally translated MR protein is the same. Exons 1 are untranslated regions, exon 2 codes for the immunogenic domain (A/B), exons 3 and 4 for the DNA-binding domain (C), and exons 5-9 for the hinge region (D) and the ligand-binding domain (E) ( 37 ) Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms of the Aldosterone Action MRs in its unliganded state is located in the cytoplasm, as part of hetero-oligomeric
