Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


and the ligand-binding domain (E) ( 37 ) Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms of the Aldosterone Action MRs in its unliganded state is located in the cytoplasm, as part of hetero-oligomeric complexes containing heat shock proteins 90, 70 and 50 ( 38 ). Upon binding with their ligand, the receptor-ligand complex dissociates from the heat shock proteins, homo- or heterodimerizes and translocates into the nucleus. Homodimers or heterodimers of the MR interact with hormone-responsive elements (HRE) and/or other transcription factors in the promoter regions of target genes, including the subunits of the ENaC or other proteins related to this channel and sodium transport in general, and modulates the transcription rates of these genes ( 39 ) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Mechanism of aldosterone action on sodium reabsorption at the distal convoluted tubule of the nephron. Aldosterone binds to the MR, which is located in the cytoplasm in complex with heat shock proteins 90, 70 and 50. After binding, the receptor-ligand complex translocates into the nucleus, binds to hormone-responsive elements (HRE) of target genes where it modulates their transcription rate. Amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC) subunits or other related proteins may be targets of such regulation ( 40 ). Pre-Receptor Regulation Since cortisol circulates at plasma concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than those of aldosterone does, and since it has a high affinity for the MR, it would be expected to overwhelm this receptor in mineralocorticoid target tissues and cause mineralocorticoid excess. A local enzyme, 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11β-HSD2), however, converts active cortisol to inactive cortisone, and protects the MRs from the effects of cortisol ( 40 ) 11β-HSD catalyzes the inter-conversion of hormonally active C11-hydroxylated corticosteroids (cortisol in humans or corticosterone in rodents) and their inactive C11-keto metabolites (cortisone in humans or 11-dehydrocorticosterone in rodents). Two isozymes of 11β-HSD have been identified, 11β-HSD type 1 (11β-HSD1) and 11β-HSD2, which differ in their biological properties and tissue distributions. 11β-HSD2, a potent NAD-dependent 11β-hydrogenase, rapidly inactivates glucocorticoids. The human 11β-HSD2 gene encodes 405 amino acids and its molecular weight is approximately 40-kilodalton ( 41 ). 11β-HSD2 has a hydrophilic N-terminal domain that is thought to anchor the protein into membranes ( 42 ). 11β-HSD2 is localized as a dimer in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells of the cortical collecting duct and colon ( 42 , 43 ). Prednisolone and prednisone are substrates for both 11β-HSD isozymes ( 44 ,
