Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells of the cortical collecting duct and colon ( 42 , 43 ). Prednisolone and prednisone are substrates for both 11β-HSD isozymes ( 44 , 45 ) and dexamethasone is metabolized slightly by 11β-HSD2 ( 46 ). Licorice derivatives, such as glycyrrhizic acid, and the hemisuccinate derivative carbenoxolone are inhibitors of 11β-HSD2. Inhibition of 11β-HSD2 with such agents, confers mineralocorticoid potency to physiologic concentrations of endogenous glucocorticoids in the kidney and colon ( 47 ). Thus, in normal physiology, 11β-HSD2 protects the MR by converting cortisol to the inactive cortisone and allows aldosterone-selective access to the inherently nonselective MR in mineralocorticoid target tissues. Amiloride-Sensitive Sodium Channel (Epithelial Sodium Channel; ENaC) The cDNA of the α-subunit of the ENaC (αENaC) was cloned from the rat colon in 1993 ( 48 ) and soon after the cDNAs of the β- and γ-subunits of this channel were cloned for the same species ( 49 ). The human α-, β- and γ-subunits of ENaC were also cloned ( 50 , 51 ). In vitro studies demonstrated that the α subunit of the ENaC itself had the majority of Na channel function, while, the β- and γ- subunits alone were not shown to play as major a role in sodium transport ( 48 ). However, the β- and γ-subunits enhanced the function of the α-subunit and all subunits are required for full ENaC activity ( 52 ). It appears then that this channel consists of the α-, β- and γ-subunits and an amiloride-binding protein ( Figure 4 ). Aldosterone increases transcription of αENaC but not β- and γ-subunits, resulting enhanced channel assembly and transported from endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi ( 53 ). In Golgi, furin proteolytically cleaves specific sites in the extracellular domains of α- and γ-ENaC, resulting in channel activation. At the cell surface, Nedd4-2 binds to ENaC, increasing endocytosis and degeneration ( 54 ).The proline-rich region of the C-terminal of the αENaC is important for binding to α-spectrin and for stabilization of the sodium channel in the membrane ( 55 ). Recently, several studies demonstrated abnormalities of the β- and γ-subunits of the ENaC in patients with Liddle's syndrome, characterized by mineralocorticoid excess (hypertension and hypokalemic alkalosis), and suppressed aldosterone secretion ( 56 – 59 ). The truncation caused by these mutations influenced the PY motif at the N-terminal of the molecule. This motif is responsible for the
