Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


suppressed aldosterone secretion ( 56 – 59 ). The truncation caused by these mutations influenced the PY motif at the N-terminal of the molecule. This motif is responsible for the binding of the channel subunits with NEDD4, a carrier protein facilitating clearance of the channel ( 60 ). Moreover, a point mutation of the αENaC gene, located close to the N-terminal of the protein, was reported to cause a decrease of the probability of an open sodium channel, resulting in defective reabsorption ( 40 , 61 ). The ENaC-Regulatory Complexes in Aldosterone-Mediated Sodium Transport Aldosterone-induced trans-epithelial Na+ transport via ENaC involves the coordinate functioning of stimulatory signaling proteins such as serum- and glucocorticoid-induce kinase-1 (SGK1) ( 23 , 62 ), glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper protein-1 (GILZ1) ( 63 ) and connector enhancer of kinase suppressor of Ras 3 (CNK3) ( 64 ), with inhibitory proteins, such as neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally downregulated protein (Nedd4-2) ( 24 ) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 ( 23 , 24 , 62 , 65 ). SGK1 is an aldosterone-regulated protein kinase that stimulates renal ENaC through many mechanisms. First, SGK1 phosphorylates the E3 ubiquitin ligase and Nedd4-2, and inhibits its actions. Nedd4-2 interacts with the C-terminal tail of ENaC subunits, decrease surface expression of the channel via channel ubiquitinoylation ( 23 , 24 , 62 ). Second, SGK1 phosphorylates kinase with no lysine (WNK) 4 and prevents ENaC endocytosis ( 66 ). Third, SGK1 directly phosphorylates alpha ENaC and transforms silent ENaC channels to active ones ( 67 ). Then, SGK1 alters ENaC expression, trafficking and activity, and stimulates Na+ transport in the kidney cortical collecting duct (CCD) ( 68 ). However, SGK1 is a short-lived protein. Following synthesis, SGK1 is rapidly targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where ER-associated ubiquitin ligases CHIP and HRD1 aid in its ubiquitinoylation and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation ( 69 ). Another aldosterone-induced ENaC-regulator, GILZ, which protects SGK1 from rapid ER-associated degradation by controlling protein-protein interaction (53.6). In kidney CCD, GILZ1 is robustly induced by aldosterone ( 70 ). GILZ1 stimulates ENaC cell surface expression and activity at least in part by inhibiting ERK1/2, which abrogates ENaC function ( 65 , 71 , 72 ). The recently identified MR target gene CNKSR3 (connector enhancer of kinase suppressor of Ras 3), commonly referred as CNK3, is highly expressed in the connecting tubule (CNT) and the CCD ( 73 ).
