Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


MR target gene CNKSR3 (connector enhancer of kinase suppressor of Ras 3), commonly referred as CNK3, is highly expressed in the connecting tubule (CNT) and the CCD ( 73 ). CNK3, like SGK1 and GILZ1, is rapidly induced by physiological concentrations of aldosterone ( 64 ). CNK3 acts to assembly various ENaC-regulatory components in close vicinity of the channel and thereby exerts its stimulatory effects on channel function ( 74 ). Epigenetic Control of ENaC Transcription by Aldosterone-Sensitive Dot1A-Af9 Complex Chromatin regulates gene transcription by the post-translational modification of histone N-terminal tails such as acetylation and methylation. The histone H3 Lys 79 methyltransferase disruptor of telomeric silencing alternative splice variant a (Dot1a) methylates histone H3 Lys79, which resides in the globular domain ( 75 ). ALL-1 fused gene from chromatin 9 (Af9), putative transcription factor, physically and functionally interact with Dot1a to form a nuclear repressor complex that directly or indirectly binds specific site of the alpha ENaC promoter. Aldosterone reduces the level of Af9 mRNA and protein. Then, Af9 overexpression induces hypermethylation of histone H3 Lys 79 and repression of alpha ENaC transcription ( 76 ). Aldosterone impairs the formation of Dot1a -Af9 complex associated with alpha ENaC promoter by 1) decreasing abundance of Dot1a and Af9; 2) attenuating the interaction between Dot1a and Af9 via Sgk-1-catalyzed phosphorylation of Af9 at Ser 435; 3) counterbalancing the repression through binding to mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and facilitating its translocation into the cell nucleus, where MR and Dot1a compete for binding to Af9. These are aldosterone-dependent and -independent mechanisms for Dot1a-Af9-mediated repression of alpha ENaC transcription. While aldosterone -independent de-repression achieved through the action of ALL-1 fused gene from chromatin 17 (Af17), Af17 upregulates alpha ENaC transcription by decreasing Af9 binding to Dot1a and relieving Dot1a-Af9-mediated repression of ENaC ( 77 ). 4) SGK1 phosphorylates Af9, thus, down-regulating Dot1a-Af9 complex, and relieving the basal repression on alpha ENaC transcription ( 67 , 78 ). Figure 4. Model of a putative amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC). The amiloride-sensitive sodium channel appears to consist of the α-, β- and γ- subunits and an amiloride-binding protein. This channel is located at the apical site of the renal epithelium and plays a role in passive sodium transport, which is mainly regulated by mineralocorticoids ( 79 ). THE RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN-ALDOSTERONE SYSTEM IN NEWBORNS AND INFANTS Aldosterone secretion rate of newborns and infants was similar to that of older children
