Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


which is mainly regulated by mineralocorticoids ( 79 ). THE RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN-ALDOSTERONE SYSTEM IN NEWBORNS AND INFANTS Aldosterone secretion rate of newborns and infants was similar to that of older children and adults. Therefore, the aldosterone secretion rate corrected by body surface was much higher in infancy than later in life ( 80 ). Urinary aldosterone at birth depends on gestational age and increases progressively, concurrently with the levels of plasma aldosterone. Plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone and urinary excretion rate of aldosterone decrease with age ( 81 ). At birth, human kidneys display tubular immaturity leading to sodium wasting and impaired ability to reabsorb water. Past studies showed that plasma potassium concentrations were significantly higher in newborns than in their respective mothers, while neonatal and maternal plasma sodium concentrations were closely related. Aldosterone and renin levels in newborns differs significantly from the corresponding maternal concentrations ( 82 ). The aldosterone-renin ratio significantly increases with gestational age. Thus, neonatal partial aldosterone resistance was previously suggested because of the high urinary sodium loss in the presence of hyperactivity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system ( 83 ). Previous study found that the highest aldosterone levels detected in the cord blood originated from de novo synthesis by the fetal adrenal glands ( 84 ). In addition, neonatal aldosterone resistance was associated with weak or undetectable renal MR expression at birth. MR mRNA is transiently expressed between 15 and 24 weeks of gestation, but it is undetectable in late gestational age and neonatal kidney ( 85 ). 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11 beta HSD2) and alpha ENaC are closely correlated with cyclic MR expression. CLASSIFICATION OF HYPOALDOSTERONISM Various syndromes are characterized by or associated with hypoaldosteronism. Hypoaldosteronism is classified in three large categories, defective stimulation of aldosterone secretion, primary defects in adrenal synthesis or secretion of aldosterone, and aldosterone resistance, according to their pathophysiology and summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Causes of Hypoaldosteronism and Hormonal Profiles View in own window Causes of Hypoaldosteronism Hormonal Profiles DEFECTIVE STIMULATION OF ALDOSTERONE ❖ Congenital keep tablehyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism ❖ Acquired hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism Associated with diabetes mellitus Associated with nephropathy Glomerulonephritis Gouty nephritis Pyelonephritis Nephropathy associated with multiple myeloma Nephropathy associated with systemic lupus erythematosa Mixed cryoglobulinemia Nephrolithiasis Analgesic nephropathy Renal amyloidosis Iga nephropathy ❖ Associated with autonomic insufficiency ❖ Associated with liver cirrhosis ❖ Associated with sickle cell anemia ❖ Associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ❖
