Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


includes the syndromes of congenital and acquired hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism. One of these conditions is due to a defect of renin secretion such as hyporeninemia resulting from β-blockers, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors, and calcium channel blockers. Another condition is due to decrease in the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II mediated by converting enzyme inhibitor medications and is associated with hyperreninemia. Primary Defects in Adrenal Biosynthesis or Secretion of Aldosterone The second category of conditions, which are characterized by primary defects in adrenal synthesis or secretion of aldosterone, includes all causes of primary adrenal insufficiency and primary hypoaldosteronism caused by aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) deficiency or as an acquired state. Primary adrenal insufficiency causes include congenital adrenal hypoplasia, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, adrenoleukodystrophy/ adrenomyeloneuropathy, acquired adrenal insufficiency due to autoimmune, infectious and infiltrative disease, bilateral adrenalectomy and use of adrenolytic agents and enzyme inhibitors that block cortisol and aldosterone biosynthesis. These conditions are usually combined with defective cortisol synthesis. Aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) deficiency (ASD) leads to reduced aldosterone production associated with low or high levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone, referred to as CMO I or CMO II deficiency, respectively. Several conditions may be associated with aldosterone biosynthetic activity. Heparin suppresses aldosterone synthesis. Critically ill patients with persistent hypovolemia and hypotension also have inappropriately low plasma aldosterone concentrations in relation to the activity of the renin-angiotensin system. Isolated primary hypoaldosteronism in occasionally associated with metastatic cancer of the adrenal gland. Defective Aldosterone Actions The third category which is characterized by defective aldosterone action includes syndromes of aldosterone resistance such as pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 and sodium-wasting states resulting from excessive amounts of circulating mineralocorticoid antagonists, such as spironolactone and its analogues, and synthetic progestin or natural agonists, such as progesterone or 17-hydroxyprogesterone. These mineralocorticoid antagonists may antagonize aldosterone at the levels of mineralocorticoid receptor ( 86 ) and frequently, these states are compensated for by elevated concentrations of plasma aldosterone. HYPORENINEMIC HYPOALDOSTERONISM The most common form of isolated hypoaldosteronism is caused by impaired renin release from the kidney. Hudson et al. first described this syndrome in 1957 ( 87 ), however, hyporeninemia was first recognized in 1972 ( 88 ) ( 89 ). The typical patient is 50 to 70 years old and usually presents with chronic and asymptomatic hyperkalemia and mild to moderate renal insufficiency with a 40-70% decrease in the glomerular filtration rate when compared to that of age matched healthy subjects. Hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis
