Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


and asymptomatic hyperkalemia and mild to moderate renal insufficiency with a 40-70% decrease in the glomerular filtration rate when compared to that of age matched healthy subjects. Hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis is seen in approximately half of the patients. This acidosis is classified as a renal tubular acidosis type IV ( 90 ). The acidosis is a consequence of decreased renal ammonia neogenesis, reduced hydrogen ion-secretory capacity in the distal nephron, and mild reduction in the proximal tubular threshold for bicarbonate reabsorption. Occasionally, muscle weakness or cardiac arrhythmias are present in some patients. More than a half of the patients have diabetes mellitus ( 91 ). Other frequently associated states include autonomic neuropathy, hypotension, and various nephropathies such as glomerulonephritis, gouty nephropathy, and pyelonephritis. Also, this syndrome is associated with nephropathies associated with multiple myeloma and systemic lupus erythematosus, mixed cryoglobulinemia, nephrolithiasis, analgesic nephropathy, renal amyloidosis, IgA nephropathy, cirrhosis, sickle cell anemia, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M protein and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome, lead poisoning, excess sodium bicarbonate, and Sjogren’s syndrome ( 90 , 92 – 101 ) . Moreover, this syndrome occurs transiently in association with use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cyclosporin A, mitomycin C, cosyntropin, and other agents in susceptible individuals ( 102 – 104 ). Pathophysiology Urinary aldosterone excretion is low under basal conditions and fails to increase after sodium restriction. Plasma renin activity is also low and does not increase appropriately during sodium restriction, periods of prolonged upright posture, or diuretic administration ( 88 ). Interstitial renal disease and damage to the juxtaglomerular apparatus seems the most likely cause for the primary defect in renin generation or release and secondary deficiency of aldosterone. However, in some patients with this syndrome there is an absent or blunted aldosterone response to angiotensin II ( 94 , 104 ), suggesting a coexisting primary defect in aldosterone secretion or it reflects atrophy of the zona glomerulosa caused by chronic renin deficiency. There are various mechanisms to be explained for the hyporeninemia. First possible mechanism is the hypervolemia. The expanded extracellular fluid volume due to hypertension may suppress renin. In fact, long-term sodium restriction and diuretic administration increase plasma renin activity in these patients, however, the increments of plasma renin activity are less than those of normal subjects ( 97 ). A second possible mechanism is insufficiency of the autonomic nervous system, particularly in patients with diabetic neuropathy.
