Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


plasma renin activity are less than those of normal subjects ( 97 ). A second possible mechanism is insufficiency of the autonomic nervous system, particularly in patients with diabetic neuropathy. Impaired adrenergic response to postural change may contribute to insufficient renin release. Besides, these patients exhibit decreased sensitivity to β-adrenergic agonists, suggesting defects in both production and action of catecholamines ( 96 ). A third proposed mechanism is secretion of abnormal forms of renin, such as a defect in the conversion of prorenin to renin. Insufficiency of autonomic nervous system may be associated with impaired conversion of prorenin to renin. Indeed, patients with diabetes mellitus and autonomic neuropathy have elevated plasma levels of prorenin ( 105 ). A fourth possibility is prostaglandin deficiency. Production of prostaglandin I2 (prostacyclin), which mediates renin release, is apparently diminished in patients with hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism as assessed by measurement of the stable urinary metabolite 6-keto-prostaglandin F1α ( 95 ). Furthermore, the prostaglandin I2 in these patients was unresponsive to the potent stimulator’s norepinephrine and calcium. Prostaglandin I2 deficiency may cause hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism by causing defects in the conversion of prorenin to renin and renin release ( 106 ). Diagnosis The diagnosis of hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism must be considered in any patient with unexplained hyperkalemia. Excess potassium intake from food or drugs does not cause sustained hyperkalemia, if renal function is normal. Renal function should be evaluated and drugs that impair renal potassium excretion should be excluded as a cause. The clinical diagnosis is confirmed by low plasma renin activity and low plasma concentrations or urinary aldosterone excretion under conditions that activate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis by maintenance of upright posture and/or furosemide administration. A low random plasma renin concentration associated with a normal ratio of aldosterone to plasma renin activity is also useful for the diagnosis ( 94 ). Therapy The therapeutic approach should be chosen after taking into consideration the age of the patients and other concurrent disorders. Only monitoring potassium concentrations is enough for patients with moderate hyperkalemia and without electro-cardiographic changes. Drugs that promote hyperkalemia, such as β-adrenergic antagonists, cyclooxygenase inhibitors, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, heparin, and potassium-sparing diuretics, should be avoided. Dietary potassium intake should be reduced, if possible. Diuretics are the initial treatment for patients who have disorders associated with sodium retention, such as hypertension and congestive heart failure. Mineralocorticoid replacement with fludrocortisone is reserved for patients with severe hyperkalemia without hypertension and
