Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


for patients who have disorders associated with sodium retention, such as hypertension and congestive heart failure. Mineralocorticoid replacement with fludrocortisone is reserved for patients with severe hyperkalemia without hypertension and congestive heart failure. PRIMARY HYPOALDOSTERONISM- ALDOSTERONE SYNTHASE DEFICIENCY (ASD) Congenital hypoaldosteronism is a rare inherited disorder transmitted as either an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant trait with mixed penetrance. This disorder was previously termed "corticosterone methyloxidase (CMO)” deficiency and subdivided into two types according to the relative levels of aldosterone and its precursors in an affected person. Patients with "corticosterone methyloxidase I (CMO I)" deficiency have elevated serum levels of corticosterone and low levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone and aldosterone. In contrast, patients with "corticosterone methyloxidase II (CMO II)" deficiency have high levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone, the immediate precursor of aldosterone ( 107 ). With greater understanding of structure-activity relationships in the CYP11B2 enzyme, this disorder may be better considered a spectrum of hormonal deficiencies, depending on the nature of the CYP11B2 gene defect ( 108 ). Two steps of aldosterone biosynthesis from corticosterone previously proposed to be catalyzed by separate enzymes, CMO I and II, previously, are known to involve only one enzyme substrate interaction ( 6 ). Isolated aldosterone deficiency results from loss of activity of aldosterone synthase encoded by CYP11B2 gene ( 109 – 118 ). Therefore, the term aldosterone synthase deficiency type 1 (ASD1) and type 2 (ASD2) reflects more appropriately the molecular basis of this disease. In both ASD1 and 2, glomerulosa zone corticosterone is increased and aldosterone decreased, but 18-hydroxycorticosterone is increased in ASD2 ( 108 ). ASD1 is associated with loss of both 18-hydroxilation and 18-oxidation enzyme activities. In ASD2, the ability to convert corticosterone (B) to 18-hydorxytetrahydro11-dehydrocorticosterone (18-OH-B) is preserved with failure of further oxidation of 18-hhdroxicorticosrerone to aldosterone ( 119 ). The deficiency of aldosterone is much more severe in ASD1. In contrast, aldosterone may reach normal levels under intense stimulation of renin-angiotensin system in ASD2 ( 108 ). The clinical presentations of these deficiencies are otherwise similar. Clinical Presentation The clinical presentation is typical of aldosterone deficiency, including electrolyte abnormalities such as a variable degree of hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis, with poor growth in childhood, but there are usually no symptoms in adults ( 107 , 120 ). Miao et al. reviewed 45 ASD patients (20 of ASD1, 12 of ASD2, 13 of undefined subtype) ( 121 ). From their review, 95%
