Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


be inactive because they lack critical active site residues as well as the hormone-binding site. However, this case displays biochemical features intermediate between those of ASD1 and 2 (CMO I and II). Some cases of ASD without causative mutations in CYP11B2 have also been reported ( 116 , 119 ). Figure 5. Relative positions of CYP11B1 and CYP11B2 on chromosome 8 and mutations of CYP11B2. A, The relative positions of CYP11B1 and CYP11B2 on chromosome 8q22. Arrows indicate direction of transcription. B, Mutations of CYP11B2 in reported patients with CYP11B2 deficiency are summarized in the figure ( 109 , 121 , 126 , 128 ). ACQUIRED FORMS OF PRIMARY HYPOALDOSTERONISM Several conditions may be associated with aldosterone biosynthetic defects. The administration of heparin causes natriuresis and hyperkalemia ( 129 ). Heparin preparations suppress aldosterone synthesis, leading to a compensatory rise in plasma renin activity. However, it has been demonstrated that this suppression of enzyme activity is attributable to chlorbutol (1,1,1-trichloro-2-methyl-2-propanol), the preservative used in commercial heparin, rather than to pure heparin ( 130 ). Persistently hypotensive, critically ill patients with sepsis, pneumonia, peritonitis, cholangitis and liver failure, also have inappropriately low plasma aldosterone concentrations in relation to elevated plasma renin activity ( 131 ). The defect is at the level of the adrenal but has not been associated with any particular disease or therapy. Plasma cortisol levels are high, reflecting the stressed state. The response to angiotensin infusion is impaired, and the ratio of plasma 18-hydroxycorticosterone to aldosterone is increased, suggesting selective insufficiency of CMO II. It is possible that the hypoxia causes a relative zona glomerulosa insufficiency ( 132 ). ALDOSTERONE RESISTANCE Pseudohypoaldosteronism (PHA) Type 1 Mineralocorticoid resistance (pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1, PHA1) results from inability of aldosterone to exert its effect on its target tissues and was first reported by Cheek and Perry as a sporadic occurrence in 1958 ( 133 ). This disease, usually presents in infancy with severe salt-wasting and failure to thrive, accompanied by profound urinary sodium loss, severe hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, acidosis, hyperreninemia, and paradoxically markedly elevated plasma and urinary aldosterone concentrations. Usually, renal and adrenal functions are normal. This disease has been reported in over 70 patients ( 134 ). The prevalence, as estimated from recruitment through a genetic laboratory at the Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou in France, which is a national reference center for a rare disease, is ~1 per 80,000 newborns ( 135
