Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


recruitment through a genetic laboratory at the Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou in France, which is a national reference center for a rare disease, is ~1 per 80,000 newborns ( 135 )( 136 ). Approximately one fifth of these cases are familial, and both an autosomal dominant and a recessive form of genetic transmission have been observed. A previous study found that all patients had renal tubular unresponsiveness to aldosterone, while some had involvement of other mineralocorticoid target-tissues, including the sweat and salivary glands, and the colonic epithelium, as well. Autosomal recessive PHA1 presents in the neonatal period with hyponatremia caused by multi-organ salt loss, including kidney, colon, and sweat and salivary glands. Autosomal recessive PHA1 persists into adulthood and shows no improvement over time. However, literature regarding follow-up of these patients after diagnosis is insufficient. In contrast, autosomal dominant PHA1 is characterized by an isolated renal resistance to aldosterone, leading to renal salt loss. Particularly autosomal dominant form of PHA1 typically shows a gradual clinical improvement during childhood, allowing the cessation of sodium supplementation. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The mechanism(s) by which aldosterone controls sodium transport in its target tissues involves the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and proteins that are associated with the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC). The latter proteins are expressed in the apical membrane of epithelial cells of the distal convoluted tubule and in the membranes of cells of other tissues involved in the conservation of salt, such as colon, sweat gland, lung and tongue. Thus, the MR and the ENaC were considered as potential candidate molecules for the pathogenesis of PHA1. In fact, mutations of α- and β-subunits of the ENaC were reported in PHA patients from autosomal recessive kindreds ( 61 , 137 ). Mutations of the MR were also reported in the patients with autosomal dominant PHA1 ( 138 , 139 ). However, no molecular defects were found in either MR or ENaC in some patients with PHA1, especially in those with the sporadic form PHA1, which suggests molecular heterogeneity in PHA1 ( 79 , 140 – 144 ). DIAGNOSIS Electrolyte profiles suggest mineralocorticoid deficiency or end-organ resistance, along with hyperkalemia, hyponatremia and metabolic acidosis associated with profound urinary salt loss. Renal and adrenal function is normal. The diagnosis is confirmed by the markedly elevated plasma aldosterone concentrations and plasma renin activity. The differential diagnosis of PHA1 includes salt-wasting states due to hypoaldosteronism, including several forms of congenital adrenal
