Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


is confirmed by the markedly elevated plasma aldosterone concentrations and plasma renin activity. The differential diagnosis of PHA1 includes salt-wasting states due to hypoaldosteronism, including several forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, isolated hypoaldosteronism due to corticosterone methyloxidase (CMO) I and II deficiencies and congenital adrenal hypoplasia. Normal cortisol and excessive aldosterone responses to adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) are expected in patients with congenital PHA. THERAPY The standard treatment of PHA has been replacement with high doses of salt, with a variable response among patients ( 134 ). Recently, carbenoxolone, an 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor, was employed as therapy in PHA1 and an ameliorating effect was observed which was attributed to mediation by the MR ( 140 ). We studied a 17-yr-old male patient with congenital multifocal target-organ resistance to aldosterone. We examined his clinical response to carbenoxolone, expected to increase the intracellular level of cortisol in the kidney by preventing local conversion of cortisol to cortisone, and to high doses of fludrocortisone, a synthetic mineralocorticoid. Subsequently, and for a brief period of time, we administered dexamethasone, which has no intrinsic salt-retaining activity, in addition to carbenoxolone, to suppress endogenous cortisol, along with its intrinsic mineralocorticoid activity. Figure 6. Effect of carbenoxolone, carbenoxolone plus dexamethasone, and fludrocortisone (top panel) on the serum sodium (middle panel) and potassium (bottom panel) concentrations of a patient with PHA. Carbenoxolone normalized plasma electrolytes, addition of dexamethasone reversed this effect, while fludrocortisone at high doses also normalized plasma electrolytes ( 140 ). Carbenoxolone normalized the patient's serum electrolyte concentrations and decreased his urinary excretion of sodium within a week ( Figure 6 ). Subsequent long-term therapy of this patient with carbenoxolone (450 mg/day p.o.) maintained his electrolyte concentrations within the normal range. His urinary 24 h free cortisol was increased during carbenoxolone therapy. Addition of dexamethasone suppressed his urinary free cortisol excretion and reversed the beneficial effect of carbenoxolone on serum and urinary electrolytes ( Figure 6 ). These data suggest that an increase in urinary free cortisol observed during carbenoxolone therapy was due to a localized effect of this drug on the kidney rather than on tissues involved in the negative feedback effect of glucocorticoids. The effect of carbenoxolone does not seem to be mediated by GR but seems to be exerted purely via the MR ( Figure 7 ). There were no adverse effects of long-term carbenoxolone therapy in this patient. He also reported increased stamina, a
