Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


seems to be exerted purely via the MR ( Figure 7 ). There were no adverse effects of long-term carbenoxolone therapy in this patient. He also reported increased stamina, a better ability to concentrate and less anxiety. On treatment, the patient grew 6 cm/y and progressed from -4SD to -3SD scores for mean height for age. He also progressed in his pubertal development from Tanner stage III to IV for pubic hair, while his bone age advanced from 12 to 14 y. Figure 7. Mechanism of the effect of carbenoxolone. Carbenololone inhibits of conversion of cortisol to cortisone in the kidney, resulting in the enhancement of the effect of cortisol as a ligand for MR. Dexamethasone suppressed cortisol production and reversing the beneficial effect of carbenoxolone in our patient with PHA1. Both carbenoxolone and fludrocortisone normalized the serum electrolytes of our patient, suggesting the presence of a functional, albeit possibly defective, renal MR. Interestingly, the same patient was unresponsive to intravenous infusion of aldosterone and fludrocortisone (up to 3 mg/day) when studied in infancy ( 145 ), suggesting that the clinical improvement that has been noted in the majority of PHA patients with age may be related to changes in their responsiveness to mineralocorticoid. On the other hand, another study reported that carbenoxolone did not show any significant salt-retaining effect in two patients with multiple PHA, while carbenoxolone significantly suppressed the renin-aldosterone system in a patient with renal-form PHA ( 146 ). This difference of responsiveness to carbenoxolone may be due to an age-dependent change on mineralocorticoid responsiveness. Additionally, the different mineralocorticoid responsiveness of renal and multisystem PHA patients indicates a difference in their MR function. The partial response to carbenoxolone in renal PHA suggests that there is at least a partly functional MR. This is also supported by the observation that spironolactone, a mineralocorticoid antagonist, aggravated sodium loss in several patients with renal PHA ( 147 ). MOLECULAR MECHANISM(S) OF PSEUDOHYPOALDOSTERONISM TYPE 1 In 1996, a study reported homozygous mutations introducing a stop codon or frame shift in the αENaC gene of affected members of families with autosomal recessive PHA ( 61 ). To date, worldwide more than 40 different mutations have been described in the coding region of ENaC subunit genes ( 148 – 150 ). The majority of mutations appear in the αENaC gene SCNN1A, most frequently in exon 8 ( 61 , 150 – 152 ).
