Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


multi-organ PHA1 of Ashkenazi family in Israel ( 154 ). These mutations produce shortened βENaC subunits with 253 and 317 residues respectively instead of the 640 residues present in βENaC subunit. Expression of cRNA carrying these mutations in Xenopas oocytes showed that the either mutation drastically reduced to only 3% of normal ENaC activity ( 154 ). An African American female with PHA, who had persistent and symptom hyperkalemia, had compound heterozygous mutation in the βENaC gene: c.1288delC in exon 9, a one-base deletion that generated a frameshift mutation, and c.1466+1 G>A, an intronic base substitution in intron11 that leaded to a splice site mutation ( 158 ). To date more than 50 different mutations in the human MR gene (NR3C2) causing autosomal dominant PHA1 have been described. NR3C2 mutations were found in 62% of patients with renal PHA1 referred to a genetics laboratory at the Hôpital Européen Georges Prompidou in France ( 135 ). Nonsense mutations, frameshift mutations, splice site mutations, and deletions of whole or part of the gene lead to gross change of the MR protein. Nonsense mutations are found in all exons and lead to truncated MR protein. A past study. reported families with autosomal dominant PHA, who had molecular defects of the MR resulting in non-expression of one of the 2 alleles ( 138 ) ( Figure 8 ). In addition, another study reported a sporadic patient with PHA who had a heterozygous mutation in exon 9 of the MR that introduced a premature stop codon ( 144 ) ( Figure 8 ). These results, may suggest that expression of only one allele of the MR is insufficient to prevent salt loss. Another case study did not identify any abnormalities of the MR in PHA patients from two families with the autosomal dominant form of the disease ( 144 ), while other authors reported a heterozygous missense mutation in exon 8 of the MR gene identified in PHA patients from a Japanese autosomal dominant family ( 139 ) ( Figure 8 ). A heterozygous nonsense mutation in exon 2 (S163X, C436X) and in exon 9 (R947X) of the MR, leading to a premature stop codon of the MR gene were found in other patients with autosomal dominant PHA ( 159 – 161 ). It was previously reported a heterozygous splice acceptor site mutation, which results in exon 7 skipping and subsequently in premature termination in
