Aldosterone Deficiency and Resistance
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, journal, sodium, gene, mutations, patients, channel, mineralocorticoid, plasma, deficiency, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal, activity


lupus erythematosus( 170 ). Secondary PHA has been also related to drugs like non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and potassium-sparing diuretics ( 170 – 172 ). This state occurs in male infants more frequently than female infants because of the higher incidence of urinary tract infections and obstructive uropathy in male infants rather than in female infants( 169 ). Patients present poor feeding, poor weight gain or failure to thrive, vomiting, diarrhea, polyuria, and dehydration. Acute worsening of their general condition may occur, with severe weight loss, peripheral circulatory failure, rise in serum urea and creatinine levels, and occasional life-threatening hyperkalemia ( 169 ). The laboratory features are hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, elevation of plasma aldosterone concentrations and plasma renin activity, and inappropriately increased sodium and decreased potassium excretion in urine ( 173 ). The aldosterone resistance of secondary PHA is transient and usually reverts with the resolution of the infection. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The very high ratio of plasma aldosterone to potassium, together with diminished urinary K/Na values, strongly suggests that hyponatremia and hyperkalemia result from a lack of response of the renal tubule to endogenous mineralocorticoids ( 174 ). The intrarenal expression of several cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin (IL) 1, IL-6, transforming growth factor beta-1, angiotensin II, endothelin, thromboxane A2, and prostaglandins, are increased in cases of urinary tract infections. These changes result in inhibition of aldosterone action through reduction of its expression and/or impairment of its receptor, vasoconstriction and reduction of glomerular filtration rate, increased natriuresis and/or decreased Na + -K + -ATPase activity( 173 ) . A past study found that the number of mineralocorticoid receptors in obstructive uropathy were low in the acute phase but returned to normal after successful surgical correction of the obstruction ( 175 ). This suggests that a reduced aldosterone effect can also reflect down-regulation of the receptor sites, due to highly elevated aldosterone levels ( 175 ). THERAPY The clinical and laboratory findings improve within one or two days and disappear after the completion of medical treatment of urinary tract infection and/or surgical correction of obstructive uropathy, usually within a few days to one week after beginning of treatment ( 173 ). However, in some patients, sodium bicarbonate and/or sodium chloride supplementation may be necessary for a week or month ( 173 ) REFERENCES 1. Miller WL. Molecular biology of steroid hormone synthesis. Endocrine Reviews. 1988; 9 (3):295–318. [ PubMed
