American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


REVIEW Anaerobe-Driven Inflammation and Epithelial Barrier Disruption in Genital HIV Acquisition Shirley Constable1 Yasamin Minazadeh1 Lane B. Buchanan1 Henryroger Ssemunywa1 Ronald M. Galiwango2 Rupert Kaul3 Jessica L. Prodger1 , 4 Correspondence: Jessica L. Prodger ( ) Received: 18 November 2025 Revised: 16 April 2026 Accepted: 21 April 2026 Keywords: anaerobe | barrier integrity | genital microbiome | HIV | inflammation ABSTRACT Background: Genital microbiome dysbiosis is an important risk factor for the sexual acquisition of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in both the male and female genital tracts. The vaginal, penile and urethral mucosae are distinct microenvironments with characteristic microbiome compositions. However, all three sites can be colonised by a group of strictly anaerobic bacteria that are strongly associated with mucosal inflammation and HIV risk. Our understanding of the relationship between genital anaerobes and HIV acquisition has largely focused on mucosal target cell density and activation. Yet, genital anaerobes disrupt epithelial barrier integrity, a crucial component of mucosal defence. Objective: To comprehensively evaluate the influence of genital anaerobes on epithelial barrier integrity in the context of HIV acquisition, across the penile, vaginal, and urethral mucosae. mechanisms of mucosal barrier disruption, including mucus degradation, epithelial cell damage and junction protein cleavage, have been identified and linked to HIV risk. The effects of these same bacteria are less defined in the context of the penile and urethral epithelia, despite their prevalence and association with HIV acquisition. Conclusions: Further investigation of genital anaerobe-mediated barrier disruption in both sexes is needed to elucidate shared and site-specific mechanisms influencing HIV transmission. This knowledge is essential to understanding HIV risk and developing effective prevention strategies. 1 Introduction partner per act of coitus . Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) that disrupt epithelial barriers are well known to increase risk Heterosexual transmission remains the most common mode of of HIV acquisition, and in vitro studies show that, within his- human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 acquisition globally . tologically intact epithelia, virions preferentially traverse regions However, penile-vaginal transmission is inefficient as virions with reduced junctional protein expression, emphasising the must traverse the robust, highly specialised urogenital epithelia importance of a robust and intact epithelial barrier . to access susceptible CD4 + /CCR5 + cells in the underlying sub- mucosa . In the absence of antiretroviral treatment, there is There is accumulating evidence that the microbes colonising merely a 0.04% chance for a male to transmit HIV-1 to a female mucosal tissues influence
