American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


suprabasal penile, vaginal and urethral epithelia in the context of sexual layers also express characteristic cytokeratins (K1, K4, K5 and HIV transmission. Understanding the role of anaerobes in the K13) that contribute to mechanical stability of the epithelium [ 15, genital microenvironment provides insight into epithelial barrier 16 ]. The stratified structure of the vaginal mucosa provides some function and mechanisms of disruption—critical factors in HIV protection to barrier disruption by mechanical stress compared transmission risk and potential targets for prevention strategies. to single-layered epithelia, such as the rectal mucosa, which may be more susceptible to injury that permits virions to pass through the epithelial barrier and access target cells . As 2 Epithelial Structure: Comparison of the Penile vaginal epithelial cells progress to the apical layer, they undergo Skin, Vagina and Urethra programmed cell death and form a layer of loosely connected dead cells . Cell turnover is rapid, with a layer of cells sloughed off The penile, vaginal and urethral epithelia all function to protect every 4 h . Importantly, this shedding process releases cellular the body from external factors and, to varying degrees, to prevent components, including rich intracellular stores of glycogen, an water loss. All three mucosae are also major sites of viral entry essential carbon source for lactobacilli . Frequent loss of in penile-vaginal HIV transmission. Infection studies in female apical epithelial cells [which are subsequently carried away rhesus macaques demonstrate that, while the entire reproductive by cervicovaginal mucus (CVM)] also functions as a defence tract is susceptible to HIV infection, most viral infection occurs mechanism, discouraging attachment and invasion of pathogens, within the vaginal epithelium . In the male genital tract, including HIV. The thickness and glycogen content of the vaginal in vitro explant studies show that while virions can traverse epithelium is strongly influenced by oestrogen, exemplified by the epithelium of the glans and outer foreskin, higher viral vaginal thinning observed in post-menopausal women . penetration occurs in the inner foreskin and urethra . Although the vaginal, foreskin and urethral epithelia share many In addition to the cellular barrier, the vaginal epithelium is structural similarities, key differences influence their barrier covered by CVM secreted by the endocervical epithelium . function and the bacteria that colonise their surfaces (Figure 1 ). CVM is a hydrogel composed primarily of water ( > 95%) and 2of11 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 gel-forming mucins, which are highly glycosylated proteins ules. Keratohyalin
