American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


that colonise their surfaces (Figure 1 ). CVM is a hydrogel composed primarily of water ( > 95%) and 2of11 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 gel-forming mucins, which are highly glycosylated proteins ules. Keratohyalin granules deliver filaggrin to the stratum that polymerise via disulfide bonds to provide elasticity and corneum which aggregates keratin filaments, providing rigidity viscosity . CVM also contains many antimicrobial immune and structural integrity that helps exclude environmental factors components including IgG, IgM and secretory IgA, as well and prevents water loss. The dry, cornified surface of the penile as antimicrobial peptides (including α- and β-defensins and epithelium distinguishes it from other genital mucosa, such as the lactoferrin) . CVM contributes to barrier function vagina and urethra, which are wet and covered by a protective by coating epithelial cells and trapping and/or neutralising mucus layer. Functionally, the penile stratum corneum provides pathogens; in the context of HIV, CVM interactions with the an abiotic, highly impermeable layer that prevents viruses from viral envelope impede virion access to host cells . CVM also accessing the living cells below. The lipid matrix surrounding cor- contains sloughed epithelial cells, nucleic acids, fatty acids and neocytes derives from lamellar granules and serves as a nutrient lipids that are nutrient sources for vaginal bacteria. source for lipophilic commensals such as Corynebacterium and contains antimicrobial free fatty acids that help to control the In addition to secreted immune factors in the CVM, vaginal skin’s bacterial load and prevent colonisation by pathogens such epithelial cells are primed to detect and respond to damage and as Staphylococcus aureus . Ceramides, abundant within pathogens. Epithelial cells contribute directly to innate defence the stratum corneum, also possess anti-HIV activity, preventing by producing antimicrobial peptides that control bacterial load, membrane fusion and viral entry . expressing Toll-like receptors (TLRs) that recognise microbial ligands and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) that Similarly to vaginal epithelial cells, penile keratinocytes also recognise signs of physical damage, and releasing cytokines that contribute to immune defences. They express TLRs and DAMPs, initiate immune responses . Secreted antimicrobial peptides and produce cytokines, chemokines and antimicrobial peptides include lactoferrin, secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) that regulate bacterial abundance and mount early responses to and ß-defensins, all of which have direct inhibitory effects on HIV-1 . Penile keratinocytes produce antimicrobial peptides HIV virions in the early stages of HIV-1 infection [ 28–30 ]. The that are protective against HIV-1, such as cationic
