American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


effects on HIV-1 . Penile keratinocytes produce antimicrobial peptides HIV virions in the early stages of HIV-1 infection [ 28–30 ]. The that are protective against HIV-1, such as cationic peptide LL-37 and CD8 + T RM cells), antigen-presenting cells (dendritic cells and CD8 + T cells, plasma cells and mast cells . As in the and macrophages) and innate populations such as mucosal- vagina, most HIV target cells are found within the dermis, associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, natural killer (NK) cells and protected from virions by the multilayered keratinocyte barrier innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) . Within the epithelium itself, . Langerhans cells extend dendritic processes to sample the envi- ronment and present antigens, providing frontline surveillance . Although these tissue-resident immune cells play an impor- tant role in shaping the vaginal microbiota and providing fast and 2.3 Urethral Epithelium robust responses to invading pathogens, the density of immune cells bearing the HIV co-receptors CD4 and CCR5 is a key Compared to the penile and vaginal epithelia, less is known determinant of mucosal susceptibility, as demonstrated in animal about the urethral epithelium and its characterisation has largely models of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) . Thus, the relied on post-mortem samples due to challenges in obtaining ulations are central to the balance between protective mucosal Nevertheless, available studies have provided information on the immunity and heightened HIV susceptibility. structural organisation along the urethral length and identified key sex-based differences. 2.2 Penile Skin Epithelium The external opening of the urethra is lined by a stratified squamous epithelium. In males, this begins as soft-cornified The epithelia of the foreskin, coronal sulcus and glans of the penis tissue continuous with the penile skin, but quickly transitions are all composed of soft cornified, stratified squamous tissue, to a non-cornified stratified squamous epithelium in the fossa similar to skin at other anatomical sites except for the absence navicularis , whereas the urethral orifice in females is entirely of hair follicles and eccrine glands. As in the vaginal epithe- non-cornified . In both sexes, this squamous epithelium thins lium, proliferative keratinocytes reside in the stratum basale, and transitions into a pseudostratified columnar epithelium that which is anchored to the underlying dermis by the basement lines most of the urethra before giving way to the transitional membrane. As basal keratinocytes divide, they are displaced epithelium of the upper urinary tract . upward and differentiate, forming the stratum
