American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


of the urethra before giving way to the transitional membrane. As basal keratinocytes divide, they are displaced epithelium of the upper urinary tract . upward and differentiate, forming the stratum spinosum and stratum granulosum, where keratinocytes are linked by a net- The distal urethral epithelium is structurally similar to the vaginal like structure of desmosomes and adherens junction proteins. epithelium, including the production of glycogen, presence of Ultimately, keratinocytes differentiate into corneocytes, which oestrogen receptors (especially in the distal portion of the female form the outermost layer of the epithelium . urethra) and secretion of mucus . Urethral mucus contains both membrane-associated mucins and the secreted gel-forming Penile corneocytes are dead, enucleated cells characterised by a mucin, MUC5AC and it coats the epithelial surface in both dense cornified envelope surrounded by a hydrophobic, acidic males and females. The mucus layer is further fortified with lipid matrix . During epithelial differentiation, cells within antimicrobial factors, including antimicrobial peptides, IgG and the stratum granulosum secrete keratohyalin and lamellar gran- secretory IgA . AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 3of11 types (CSTs); four of which are distinguished by their dominant Lactobacillus species: L. crispatus (CST I), L. gasseri (CST II), L. iners (CST III) and L. jensenii (CST V) . CST IV has low Lactobacillus abundance and instead is enriched for strict anaer- obes, including Prevotella, Gardnerella, Fannyhessea, Finegoldia, Mobiluncus, Peptoniphilus and Sneathia . CST IV is associated with increased vaginal pH, local inflammation, decreased barrier integrity and the clinical symptomology of bacterial vaginosis (BV). CST IV is a well-established risk factor for HIV and other STIs, as well as adverse reproductive outcomes such as preterm birth and pelvic inflammatory disease. 3.2 The Penile Microbiota The composition of the penile microbiome is highly dependent on an individual’s circumcision status. In uncircumcised males, the hypoxic sub-preputial space between the glans and inner foreskin supports a highly diverse community of strict anaerobes—many overlapping with vaginal CST IV, including Finegoldia, Prevotella, Peptoniphilus, Porphyromonas, Peptostreptococcus, Anaerococcus FIGURE 2 Common bacterial genera of the coronal sulcus, vaginal and Dialister . Circumcision induces a profound shift in and urethral microbiomes. Inflammatory anaerobes associated with the penile microbiome, reducing strict anaerobes and promoting bacterial vaginosis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) risk are increased abundance of skin commensals, such as Staphylococcus shared between all three mucosal sites. The urethral microbiome contains and Corynebacterium . genera characteristic of both the vaginal and penile microbiomes, and a uniquely
