American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


skin commensals, such as Staphylococcus shared between all three mucosal sites. The urethral microbiome contains and Corynebacterium . genera characteristic of both the vaginal and penile microbiomes, and a uniquely high abundance of Streptococcus . A high abundance of penile anaerobes, including Prevotella , Peptostreptococcus and Dialister , is associated with inflammation and an increased risk of HIV and other STIs . Mul- The resident immune cells of the urethral mucosa are not as tiple randomised controlled trials show that male circumcision well-characterised as those of penile and vaginal tissue. However, reduces risk of penile HIV acquisition by > 60% [ 52–54 ], and while limited studies show the urethral epithelium contains CD8 + T the protective mechanisms continue to be illuminated, reduced cells, while the lamina propria contains CD4 + and CD8 + T cells, anaerobe burden accompanied by reduced local inflammation IgA and IgM producing plasma cells, macrophages and dendritic and HIV target cell density is a likely contributor . A cells . Despite the general acceptance of the urethra as a recent randomised trial found that reduction of coronal sulcus major site of HIV entry in the male genital tract (especially anaerobes by topical metronidazole or clindamycin reduced local in circumcised men), our mechanistic understanding of viral inflammation (proinflammatory cytokines and HIV target cells) penetration and infection in urethral tissue is limited. One study and increased epithelial barrier integrity . There is also reports efficient translocation of cell-associated HIV across the evidence that genital bacteria can be transmitted between the pseudostratified epithelium of proximal urethral explant tissues, vagina and penis: in a cohort of 47 Ugandan men, Gardnerella leading to preferential infection of resident macrophages but not vaginalis was only detected in participants who reported prior T cells . vaginal sex , and men with a higher abundance of BV- associated bacteria are more likely to have partners with BV . In line with this, circumcision and male-partner topical 3 The Urogenital Microbiome: Key Components clindamycin reduce female-partner BV. Interestingly, inflamma- tion associated anaerobes in the reproductive tract have also Each urogenital mucosa houses a unique microbiota adapted been associated with HIV risk in the rectal mucosa. In the to its niche. These microbial communities are shaped by envi- rectal microbiome of rhesus macaques, abundance of Prevotella is ronmental conditions (moisture, pH, oxygen and nutrient avail- associated with CD4 + CCR5 + T cell activation . Enrichment
