American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


by envi- rectal microbiome of rhesus macaques, abundance of Prevotella is ronmental conditions (moisture, pH, oxygen and nutrient avail- associated with CD4 + CCR5 + T cell activation . Enrichment ability) and host factors (sexual behaviour, genetics, hormones of Peptostreptococcus in a population of young men who have and immunology). Although the penile, vaginal and urethral sex with men was correlated with activation of Type I interferon microbiota are compositionally distinct, they share commonali- pathways, suggesting that these bacteria may be involved in HIV ties, especially anaerobic taxa associated with inflammation and acquisition risk outside of the genital tract . compromised barrier integrity (Figure 2 ). 3.3 The Urethral Microbiota 3.1 The Vaginal Microbiota The urethral microbiota shares similarities with the vaginal The vaginal microbiome is unique among human body sites in microbiota, likely driven by their similar epithelial compositions that it is optimally dominated by a single species of Lactobacillus . (non-keratinised and glycogen-containing). The urethra of both Vaginal microbiota can be classified into five community state males and females has a higher prevalence and abundance 4of11 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 of Lactobacillus and BV-associated bacteria ( Gardnerella and participants with a lactobacillus-dominant microbiota lowered Fannyhessea ) than penile skin, albeit lower than the vagina HIV infectivity, whereas cells treated with CVM from participants . It also shares skin commensals ( Staphylococcus and with BV had significantly increased vulnerability to infection . Corynebacterium ) with circumcised penile sites, while uniquely supporting high relative abundance of Streptococcus . If the CVM barrier is degraded, underlying epithelial cells become vulnerable to HIV and bacterial virulence factors. Several BV- Inflammation-associated anaerobes ( Prevotella, Sneathia, Dial- associated bacteria express sialidases that hydrolyse sialylated ister, Veillonella, Finegoldia, Peptoniphilus and Porphyromonas ) components of mucus, including mucins and IgG. This activ- common to the vagina and penis are also found in the urethra ity was previously attributed entirely to Gardnerella ; however, , and urethral Sneathia is associated with non-gonococcal production of sialidases has recently been identified in other urethritis and increased neutrophils in males . Interestingly, BV-associated bacteria, including Prevotella bivia and Hoylesella circumcision has only a modest effect on the male urethral timonensis (previously Prevotella timonensis ) . H. timonensis microbiota, and, unlike at the coronal sulcus, circumcision does contributes the majority of sialidase transcripts in vaginal meta- not reduce urethral inflammation . Persistence of urethral transcriptomes and also produces fucosidases that cleave mucin anaerobes post-circumcision
