American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


sulcus, circumcision does contributes the majority of sialidase transcripts in vaginal meta- not reduce urethral inflammation . Persistence of urethral transcriptomes and also produces fucosidases that cleave mucin anaerobes post-circumcision and increased anaerobe prevalence α-1,2-linked fucose residues in mucins . amongst men who report vaginal sex suggest that the urethra may serve as a reservoir for BV-associated bacteria . Although less These enzymatic processes erode mucus structure, degrading its studied than penile skin or vaginal microbiota, urethral anaerobe physical barrier function and enabling attachment to host cells, enrichment has also been linked to increased STI risk . while also releasing nutrients that support anaerobe growth and promote biofilm formation. Mucus degradation also facilitates HIV-1 virion penetration in the female genital tract, as shown by 4 Influence of Urogenital Bacteria on Barrier Carias et al., who observed significantly higher viral penetration Integrity and HIV Acquisition in endocervical explant tissues exposed to sialidases compared to those with an intact mucus barrier . In vitro treatments Although the effects of inflammation and BV-associated anaer- with purified G. vaginalis sialidases also increase HIV entry into obes on cytokine production and HIV target cell density are well cells, suggesting that they can directly influence HIV infectivity established , we are only recently beginning to appre- . BV-associated bacteria can also alter host mucin expression: ciate how urogenital inflammatory anaerobes affect epithelial exposure of an endometrial model to H. timonensis or Prevotella barrier integrity and, in turn, influence HIV susceptibility at these corporis increased MUC3 and MUC4 , while Fannyhessea sites. vaginae upregulated MUC1 and MUC3 in a vaginal model . Given these changes are in response to known pathogens, it is likely they represent compensatory responses to mucin 4.1 Mucus Degradation degradation rather than beneficial homeostatic regulation. Mucus provides a critical first line of defence in both the vaginal Although bacterial mucin degradation has not been directly and urethral mucosa by trapping pathogens, limiting access to investigated in the urethral mucosa, Gardnerella , Prevotella and the epithelium, retaining secreted antimicrobial defences and Hoylesella are common urethral residents. It is therefore plausible supporting commensals. There are two primary types of mucins: that their sialidase and fucosidase activities would similarly membrane-associated, which form a glycocalyx on the surface degrade the urethral mucus barrier, increasing susceptibility to of epithelial cells, and secreted (gel-forming) mucins, which invading pathogens. create the viscoelastic hydrogel that overlies the epithelium . Membrane-associated mucins
