American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


surface degrade the urethral mucus barrier, increasing susceptibility to of epithelial cells, and secreted (gel-forming) mucins, which invading pathogens. create the viscoelastic hydrogel that overlies the epithelium . Membrane-associated mucins protect the epithelium by discouraging bacterial attachment and can also initiate intra- cellular signalling. Cytoplasmic domain cleavage activates β- and γ-catenin pathways that regulate epithelial inflammation, 4.2 Epithelial Cell Adherence and Damage proliferation, differentiation and survival . Vaginal epithelial cells primarily express the membrane-associated mucin MUC1, Effective colonisation depends on bacterial adhesion to epithe- while in the urethra a variety of membrane-associated mucins lial surfaces, which resists clearance by mucus flow, urination have been detected including MUC1, MUC4, MUC13, MUC15, and epithelial cell shedding. Commensals such as Lactobacillus MUC17 and MUC20 . efficiently adhere to vaginal epithelial cells without damaging them. Similarly, Staphylococcus epidermidis expresses the fibrillar Secreted mucins are highly O-glycosylated and polymerise via surface protein, Aap, which allows it to attach to skin corneocytes disulfide bonds, contributing to the viscous nature of mucus that . In contrast, BV-associated anaerobes exploit adhesion as aids in trapping pathogens. In the vaginal mucosa, Lactobacillus the first step in epithelial disruption. G. vaginalis and P. bivia species thrive in the CVM, metabolising glycogen released from attachment to epithelial cells initiates the biofilm formation shed epithelial cells into lactic acid, which maintains an acidic characteristic of BV . Other anaerobes, including Porphy- environment that discourages pathogen colonisation. CVM com- romonas , use fimbriae to bind to epithelial cells and extracellular position and pH are highly influenced by the residing microbes matrix components, such as fibrinogen, fibronectin and collagen. and can directly influence HIV susceptibility as HIV is efficiently This facilitates penetration through the apical epithelium into trapped by acidic, but not neutralised by CVM . In vitro the basal layers, where they are less susceptible to shedding or treatment of a reporter cell line (TZM-bl) with CVM donated from immune clearance . AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 5of11 Pathogen adherence often induces epithelial cytotoxicity, allow- the epithelial layer . Other BV-associated bacteria have been ing access to deeper layers of the mucosa. G. vaginalis secretes implicated in increased MMP activity: Gardnerella induces MMP- the cholesterol-dependent cytolysin vaginolysin, which binds to 9 production by cervical and vaginal epithelial cells, and P. the host receptor CD59 and forms pores in the cell membrane, bivia abundance correlates with MMP-9 levels in cervicovaginal leading to cell lysis . Interestingly, vaginolysin appears
