American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


cells, and P. the host receptor CD59 and forms pores in the cell membrane, bivia abundance correlates with MMP-9 levels in cervicovaginal leading to cell lysis . Interestingly, vaginolysin appears to fluid . Increased levels of MMP-9 within cervicovaginal act synergistically with inerolysin, a related cytolysin produced lavage are associated with abundant proinflammatory cytokines by Lactobacillus iners , potentially contributing to the “transi- characteristic of the high HIV-risk phenotype in the female tional”nature of CST III vaginal communities . Conversely, genital tract . L. crispatus suppresses vaginolysin expression, emphasising the influence of an individual’s existing microbiome in determining In addition to manipulating host proteases, bacteria produce their resilience to invading bacteria . Other anaerobes also have own junction-degrading proteases. This has been well charac- direct cytopathic effects: Prevotella disiens is highly cytotoxic to terised in periodontal disease, where Porphyromonas gingivalis endometrial epithelial cells , and some strains of P. bivia are secretes the cysteine protease gingipain that cleaves junctional cytotoxic to vaginal epithelial cells . Additional anaerobes proteins, allowing binding to extracellular matrix components found within the vaginal and penile microbiome that show including fibrinogen, fibronectin, laminin and collagen Type V cytopathic effects in vitro include Megasphaera micronuciformis , and facilitating tissue invasion . Vaginal species of Porphy- Veillonella montpellierensis and Sneathia amnii . Although romonas, Prevotella and Sneathia secrete a variety of collagenases epithelial cytotoxicity has not been directly investigated in the and other proteases capable of degrading epithelial substrates urethral epithelium, many of these anaerobes are also present in . urethral communities, suggesting that similar cytopathic mech- anisms may be relevant there. BV-mediated cytotoxicity disrupts In vivo evidence links these proteolytic activities to barrier the apical epithelium, not only facilitating easier translocation of compromise relevant to HIV penetration. In a cohort of 116 men HIV virions but also leading to inflammation, which perpetuates undergoing elective circumcision, P. bivia abundance in coronal further barrier disruption. sulcus swabs was associated with decreased tissue expression of E-cadherin and claudin-1 . Furthermore, penile isolates of P. bivia and their conditioned media directly degraded recom- 4.3 Junction Protein Cleavage binant human E-cadherin in vitro, supporting a causal role for bacterial proteases . E-cadherin cleavage releases a soluble A critical feature of the epithelial barrier is the presence of cell– extracellular fragment (sE-cadherin), which has been identified cell junctions that tightly link adjacent epithelial cells, providing as a biomarker of genital inflammation and correlates
