American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


barrier is the presence of cell– extracellular fragment (sE-cadherin), which has been identified cell junctions that tightly link adjacent epithelial cells, providing as a biomarker of genital inflammation and correlates positively mechanical stability and regulating paracellular movement of with anaerobe abundance across penile, vaginal and urethral extracellular molecules. These junctions are also essential in epithelia . preventing the invasion of pathogens, including viruses such as HIV. Three major junctional complexes maintain tissue integrity: In addition to cleaving existing junctional proteins, several adherens junctions, tight junctions and desmosomes. Adherens anaerobes, such as Porphyromonas , Gardnerella and Prevotella , junctions, formed by transmembrane cadherins such as E- also downregulate host expression of junctional proteins, further cadherin, mediate homophilic intercellular binding and link weakening barrier function [ 101–103 ]. Despite these observations, to the actin cytoskeleton via catenins . Catenin–cadherin relatively little is known about the mechanisms of junction junctions are intricately involved in epithelial tissue homeostasis, protein cleavage in the genital tract and direct effects on HIV including regulation of cytoskeletal organisation, differentiation, penetration. Given the extensive protease repertoires in genital proliferation and NF- κB-mediated inflammatory signalling . anaerobe genomes (for instance, Prevotella encodes 68 unique Tight junctions are formed by transmembrane proteins, includ- proteases), this is a critical knowledge gap in our understanding ing claudins and occludin, which are anchored to the actin of how anaerobes facilitate HIV susceptibility . cytoskeleton by zonula occludens (ZO) and control paracellular diffusion . Desmosomes connect intermediate filaments in adjacent cells, helping to maintain epithelial tensile strength 4.4 Inflammation-Driven Epithelial Disruption . Under homeostatic conditions, junctional proteins undergo controlled turnover mediated by sheddases, including ADAM- Inflammatory anaerobes can also indirectly influence epithelial matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), allowing for proliferation and cells. Langerhans cells can protect the vaginal mucosa by cap- tissue remodelling . turing and eliminating HIV virions; however, exposure to H. timonensis converts these cells into viral reservoirs, promoting However, these proteolytic processes can be hijacked by bacteria target cell infection both in vitro and ex vivo . to promote barrier breakdown and facilitate invasion. A prime example of this is found in atopic dermatitis, where S. aureus α- In the genital tract, elevated levels of IL-1 α, IL-1 β, TNF α, toxin activates host ADAM-10, causing E-cadherin cleavage and IL-6, IL-8, GM-CSF, MIP-1 β, MCP-1, IP-10 and IFN γ in CVM skin barrier disruption . There are also examples of sheddase prospectively correlate with
