American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, vaginal, epithelial, hiv, barrier, penile, urethral, epithelium, cell, human, genital, journal, mucosal, microbiome, bacteria


ADAM-10, causing E-cadherin cleavage and IL-6, IL-8, GM-CSF, MIP-1 β, MCP-1, IP-10 and IFN γ in CVM skin barrier disruption . There are also examples of sheddase prospectively correlate with increased HIV acquisition in manipulation by urogenital bacteria. In vitro, soluble products females, and increased IL-8 and MIG (CXCL9) in coronal sulcus from F. vaginae increase MMP-7, -9, -10 and -13 production by swabs predict risk in males . In addition to recruiting endocervical epithelial cells, leading to decreased transepithelial HIV target cells, many of these cytokines can remodel epithelial resistance and increased migration of cells containing HIV across architecture; transient increases in epithelial permeability allow 6of11 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 immune-cell infiltration during normal defence and repair. Together, these findings support a model in which colonising Conversely, sustained signalling driven by persistent microbial or genital anaerobes cause sustained cytokine release and immune immune stimuli leads to chronic barrier loss. This phenomenon cell infiltration, which in turn weakens epithelial junctions. The is well described in the gut, where microbiome dysbiosis resulting environment is both structurally compromised and produces a “leaky” epithelium characteristic of inflammatory contains abundant activated target cells, likely highly permis- bowel disease . In the intestinal mucosa, TNF α (produced sive to HIV entry and early replication. Further studies using by macrophages and dendritic cells) and IFN γ(produced by Th1 physiologically relevant penile and urethral models are needed to cells) downregulate the tight-junction scaffolding protein ZO-1, clarify how bacteria initiate inflammation in penile and urethral reducing transepithelial resistance and promoting permeability epithelia. [ 108–110 ]. In genital epithelial monolayers, HIV-1 exposure triggers a similar loss of barrier integrity that is reversed by TNF α inhibition, suggesting that TNF αplays an important role in bar- 5 Conclusions rier disruption in the setting of HIV transmission . Elevated IL-1 β, MIP-3 αand IL-8 in cervicovaginal fluid are associated with Genital anaerobes play an important role in compromising a distinctive proteome signature of tissue remodelling, neutrophil urogenital mucosal defences, with major implications for sexual protease activity and loss of junctional integrity . However, HIV transmission. Extensive literature links these bacteria to despite the strong associations between IL-8 and prospective HIV HIV risk and delineates multiple, interconnected direct and risk in both males and females, the direct effect of IL-8 on genital indirect mechanisms of mucosal disruption, including mucus barrier integrity remains unexplored. degradation, epithelial cytotoxicity, junctional proteolysis and inflammation ‑driven remodelling. The resulting environment
