Screening for Sports Participation
KEYWORDS: risk, sports, history, athletes, participation, screening, disorders, cardiomyopathy, syndrome, people, examination, physical, adults, heart, disease


physically mature late are assumed to be at greater risk of injury in contact sports if competing against larger and stronger children. People with overweight or obesity are at increased risk of musculoskeletal problems because of excess body weight and associated forces on the joints and tissues. One risk is overuse injury and soft-tissue inflammation, particularly if people increase intensity and duration of exercise too rapidly. A long-term risk is osteoarthritis affecting weight-bearing joints. Another risk may be injury due to sudden stops and starts if they participate in activities that require jumping or high levels of agility. Athletes, particularly adolescents and young adults, should be asked about use of illicit and performance-enhancing drugs. (Visit the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency.) In girls and young women, screening should detect delayed onset of menarche. Girls and young women should be screened for the presence of the female athlete triad (eating disorders, amenorrhea or other menstrual dysfunction, and diminished bone mineral density). Two questions are validated screening measures for eating disorders: Have you ever had an eating disorder? Are you happy with your weight? Contraindications to Sports Participation Other than certain cardiovascular disorders, there are almost no absolute contraindications to sports participation. Exceptions in children include Acute splenic enlargement or recent infectious mononucleosis (Epstein-Barr virus infection) because splenic rupture is a risk Symptomatic or persistent fevers, which may decrease exercise tolerance, increase risk of heat-related disorders, and be a sign of serious illness Possibly significant diarrhea and/or recent significant vomiting because dehydration is a risk In adults, relative contraindications are more common and lead to recommendations for precautions or for participation in some sports rather than others, for example: 4/5 People with a history of frequent and easily triggered dislocations or multiple concussions should participate in noncollision sports. Males, particularly those with a single testis, should wear a protective cup for most contact sports. People, particularly those at risk of heat intolerance and dehydration (eg, those with diabetes, cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease or trait, or previous heat-related illness), should hydrate frequently during prolonged activity. People with suboptimal seizure control should avoid swimming, weight lifting, and, to prevent injury to others, sports such as archery and riflery. People who have asthma need to monitor their symptoms closely. Key Points Screen younger participants (children through young adults) with history and physical examination; those with abnormal findings or positive family history should have ECG and/or echocardiography.
