Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


Case report Late anastomotic perforation of the ileum 3 years after intestinal resection Nikhita Shrimanker,1 Nathan P Heller,1 Fabiola Souza,2 Daniel E Kim 3 1Department of Medicine, SUMMARY Connecticut, USA threatening complication following intestinal resection. 2Department of Pathology, We present a unique case of a woman in her 60s with a history of appendiceal carcinoid tumour, who underwent Connecticut, USA 3Department of Surgery, Yale a right hemicolectomy. Positron emission tomography Connecticut, USA and no recurrent malignancy. Three years postoperatively, she presented with severe abdominal pain. CT revealed Correspondence to a perforation along the ileal wall of the ileocolonic Dr Daniel E Kim; anastomosis. She underwent emergent resection and daniel. e. kim@ yale. edu repeat ileocolonic anastomosis. We conclude that the Figure 1 Abdominal CT suspicious for anastomotic Accepted 26 July 2024 patient had subclinical ischaemia of the anastomosis, perforation as evidenced by pneumoperitoneum which eventually progressed to perforation 3 years later. (arrowhead) adjacent to the anastomotic ring of staples We discuss a literature review on late small intestinal (arrow). anastomotic perforations and their associated risk factors. Our case and literature review emphasise the CASE PRESENTATION importance of considering delayed anastomotic leak A woman in her 60s presented to the emergency cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, Roux-e n- Y inal pain, her right side worse than the left. She enteroenterostomy or side-t o- side anastomosis. reported fever, nausea and vomiting. Her medical history included hypertension, asthma, gastro- oesophageal reflux disease and diverticulosis. The patient never smoked tobacco, had not recently BACKGROUND consumed alcohol, nor used recreational drugs. An intestinal anastomotic perforation, leak, or fistula Three weeks prior to the current presentation, is a defect in the intestinal wall, leading to a commu- she was hospitalised for uncomplicated sigmoid nication between the intraluminal and extraluminal diverticulitis that presented with left lower quad- compartments at the anastomosis.1 2 Diagnosis rant pain. CT of her abdomen showed sigmoid can be made by contrast radiography, endoscopy diverticulitis and diverticulosis throughout the or surgical exploration. The incidence of intes- colon. She completed a 1- week course of antibiotics tinal anastomotic leaks is 1%–39%, depending on with resolution of her symptoms. the location along the gastrointestinal tract.3 The Three years prior, the patient underwent lapa- highest rates occur in low colorectal or anal anas- roscopic right hemicolectomy with lymph node tomoses while small intestinal anastomoses have a dissection to resect an appendiceal carcinoid neuro- lower risk of anastomotic
