Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


in low colorectal or anal anas- roscopic right hemicolectomy with lymph node tomoses while small intestinal anastomoses have a dissection to resect an appendiceal carcinoid neuro- lower risk of anastomotic leak.4–6 The incidence of endocrine tumour. During the surgery, the distal small intestinal anastomotic perforation is reported to be between 0.5% and 1%.7–9 Ileocolonic anasto- motic leak rates are similarly between 0.02% and 4%.10 Anastomotic leaks are typically diagnosed in the first 5–12 days after surgery.9–12 Leaks that occur in the early postoperative period, within 6 months, are likely due to a technical failure of the operation.6 13 Late onset leaks are very rare and may reflect the © BMJ Publishing Group presence of an underlying disease process or other Limited 2024. No commercial predisposing factors.13 14 re- use. See rights and Herein, we present a case of a 3- year delayed permissions. Published by BMJ. anastomotic perforation after a right hemicolec- To cite: Shrimanker N, tomy for a carcinoid tumour. We discuss a liter- Heller NP, Souza F, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2024;17:e260668. ature review on reports of late small intestinal doi:- anastomotic leaks, in search of associated risk Figure 2 Laparoscopic image of a suction catheter tip 260668 factors. inside an ileal perforation. Shrimanker N, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2024;17:e260668. doi: 1 Case report Figure 3 Resected specimen of a side- to- side stapled ileocolonic anastomosis with a perforation at the ileal wall opposite to the Figure 5 Gross specimen of an ileocolonic anastomosis showing a anastomosis. perforation (orange ink) at the mesenteric side of the ileum. ileum was anastomosed to the proximal transverse colon with quadrant with infiltration of fat, and a small amount of fluid mechanical staplers in a side-t o- side, functional end-t o- end with multiple air bubbles surrounding the ileal anastomotic site, orientation. Pathology revealed a 5.9 cm, pT3 pN1, G1, well- which suggested a perforation in the ileum (figure 1). The CT differentiated appendiceal carcinoid with 1 of 13 positive lymph also showed interval resolution of her sigmoid diverticulitis. nodes. A whole body positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose was performed at 3 weeks demonstrating normal postoperative changes and no evidence of malignancy. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS She did not receive adjuvant therapy. The patient’s postopera- Perforated diverticulitis was our leading differential diagnosis tive recovery was unremarkable, except that she had intermittent due to her recent hospitalisation. Recurrence of the neuroen- episodes
