Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


therapy. The patient’s postopera- Perforated diverticulitis was our leading differential diagnosis tive recovery was unremarkable, except that she had intermittent due to her recent hospitalisation. Recurrence of the neuroen- episodes of right lower quadrant aches and diarrhoea. Surveil- docrine tumour was also suspected as the perforated intestine lance CT scans at 21 and 30 months revealed a right hemicol- was on the right side of her abdomen. Furthermore, blind loop ectomy with normal calibre small and large intestines, and no syndrome with anastomotic perforation was a possibility given evidence of any inflammatory process or recurrent malignancy. her history of intermittent diarrhoea after a right hemicolectomy Her vital signs for the current presentation were temperature with a stapled side-t o- side anastomosis. of 36.8℃, heart rate of 86, blood pressure of 113/74 mm Hg and oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. The physical exam- ination was notable for rigidity and rebound tenderness along TREATMENT the right side of her abdomen. The patient was emergently taken to the operating room for a diagnostic laparoscopy. The distal ileum and transverse colon INVESTIGATIONS in the right upper quadrant appeared inflamed with a perfora- Notable laboratory investigations demonstrated a leucocytosis tion at the ileocolonic anastomosis (figure 2). The surgery was of 16.1×1000/uL, elevated C reactive protein of 10.1 mg/dL converted to a laparotomy. A loculated abscess was found in the and serum glucose of 134 mg/dL. Contrast- enhanced abdom- right lower quadrant, which was cultured and suctioned. The inal CT demonstrated free intraperitoneal air in the right upper ileocolonic anastomosis was resected (figure 3); a new stapled side- to- side anastomosis between the ileum and transverse colon was created. The abdomen was meticulously irrigated and closed. Figure 4 Gross specimen showing a widely patent ileocolonic anastomosis and a perforation along the opposite ileal wall (orange Figure 6 Flow diagram of a literature search for reports of late small ink). intestinal anastomotic perforation. SB, small bowel. 2 Shrimanker N, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2024;17:e260668. doi: Case report Table 1 Reports of patients with late small intestinal anastomotic perforation Time from anastomosis Indication for Location of Factors associated Year Author Study type Age/sex to perforation initial surgery Initial surgery perforation with perforation 1987 Miholic et al38 RA NS 11 months Small bowel Small bowel resection Small bowel Radiation injured radiation stricture anastomosis intestine, GYN cancer 1992 Anderson et al39 CR 38 F 13 months Morbid
