Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


to human studies. mesenteric wall of the ileum (figure 5). The ileal and colonic Abstracts were screened for small intestine to colon anastomotic segments had intact blind pouches with normal folded architec- leaks or fistulas. We also included small intestine to small intes- ture. Histologically, the area of perforation had marked inflam- tine anastomoses since their leak rates are similar to ileocolonic mation and ischaemic changes. leaks.10 18 We excluded paediatric patients, intestinal transplants, Postoperatively, the patient was treated with antibiotics to stricturoplasties, endoscopic complications and small intestine to cover for the deep wound abscess. She was discharged after oesophagus, stomach or anus anastomoses. 4 days, once tolerating a diet and producing formed stool. The time duration that studies classified as late anastomotic The patient was seen 1 month after surgery with an uneventful leaks ranged from 3 days to 12 months.1 20 Though many used 30 recovery. A whole body PET scan was performed at 4 months days as the cut- off point for early versus late leaks, some studies showing no avid uptake of tetraxetan- octreotate to suggest did not begin evaluating for leaks until after 3 months.21–23 We, recurrence of neuroendocrine disease. therefore, defined ‘late’ as occurring after 6 months from the anastomotic surgery, which coincides with other studies.24 25 DISCUSSION The initial literature search produced 1628 studies. Abstracts The healing tendency of an ileocolonic anastomosis is very good were screened and the list narrowed to 395 articles. After exam- and perforation is a rare event.15 This is due to the excellent ining the full texts, 387 studies were eliminated for the reasons blood supply, anatomic construct and ample mobility of the listed in figure 6. References cited in the full texts were reviewed small intestine.16 Serious consequences of an anastomotic leak and five additional studies were included for a total of 13 studies include mortality rates up to 40%.17–19 Leaks are associated with pertinent to our study. higher local recurrence rates of cancer and decreased long-t erm Fifteen patients in 13 studies with late small intestinal anasto- survival.12 Hence, it is important to identify patients at risk for motic perforation are displayed in table 1. The median age was developing leaks and to diagnose them promptly when a perfo- 54 years (range 24–80 years). The median time from surgery ration occurs. to the diagnosis of anastomotic perforation was 2 years (range We performed a literature search
