Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


when a perfo- 54 years (range 24–80 years). The median time from surgery ration occurs. to the diagnosis of anastomotic perforation was 2 years (range We performed a literature search for reports of late small 6 months to 5 years). The indications for initial surgery were intestinal anastomotic perforation. Three online databases: six intestinal cancer, five morbid obesity, two inflammatory Web of Science, CINAHL and Ovid were queried in October bowel disease, one stricture from radiation therapy for gynae- 2023 and February 2024 for the keywords: (delayed or late), cologic cancer, and one colonic inertia. Perforations occurred in Shrimanker N, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2024;17:e260668. doi: 3 Case report eight patients with small bowel to colon anastomoses and seven to note that the delayed perforation occurred 3 years later, a patients with small bowel to small bowel anastomoses. Four of time frame significantly greater than the commonly observed the patients with cancer developed perforation from blind loop 5–12 days after surgery. Our literature review found associations syndrome. Trends could not be made between side- to- side versus of a history of intestinal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, end- to- end anastomosis nor between sutured versus stapled Roux-e n- Y enteroenterostomy or intestinal resection with a anastomosis since only six cases reported on those specific data. side- to- side anastomosis, with late small intestinal anastomotic History of malignancy is associated with late small intestinal perforation. Long- term follow- up is important for these patients anastomotic perforation. Aside from a direct tumour invasion, to remain attuned to the possibility of delayed anastomotic the mechanism for late anastomotic breakdown in a prior cancer perforation. patient is unclear, but likely multifactorial in nature. Preoperative chemoradiation treatment has been reported as a predictor for late Patient’s perspective colorectal anastomotic breakdown.26–28 Bevacizumab is a mono- clonal antibody that targets the vascular endothelial growth factor, I never got 100% better after the surgery to remove the tumour often used in combination with chemotherapy to treat metastatic in my appendix. Sometimes, I felt well but then got sick again colorectal cancer. Gastrointestinal perforation is a known compli- with aches and diarrhoea. I had a colonoscopy afterwards cation of antiangiogenic therapy due to its risk of developing (3 months prior to the perforation), but they did not see anything. Radiation-i nduced intestinal injury manifests at a median of 2 years (abdominal) pain. after radiotherapy.18 The radiation disease process reduces
