Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


prior to the perforation), but they did not see anything. Radiation-i nduced intestinal injury manifests at a median of 2 years (abdominal) pain. after radiotherapy.18 The radiation disease process reduces vascu- My healing is very slow. My bowels are still weird; deep fried larity by obliterative endarteritis and causes intestinal injury or oily food gives me diarrhoea. But I am glad there was no more progression even after surgical treatment in one-t hird of patients.18 cancer. I am following-u p with the oncologist next week. It is The incidence of anastomotic leaks after Roux- en- Y gastric going to be a year and I plan to see my surgeon again. bypass (RYGB) is 0.4%–5.6%.30 Leaks can occur at the gastric pouch, remnant stomach, gastrojejunal anastomosis or at the jejunojejunostomy. Late perforation of the jejunojejunal anasto- Learning points mosis is very rare after laparoscopic RYGB.7 31 Oftentimes, the reason for perforation is not apparent.7 Risk factors associated ► Delayed perforation of small intestine to small intestine or with late perforations after RYGB include Helicobacter pylori small intestine to colon anastomoses is rare but can have infection, nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs, smoking and a high mortality rate. It is important to identify patients at stress.32 risk for developing anastomotic leaks and to diagnose them Inflammatory bowel disease is associated with late intestinal promptly when a perforation occurs. anastomotic leaks, with reoperation rates for Crohn’s patients ► Small intestinal anastomotic perforations have been reported of 40% at 5 years and 55% at 10 years.33 Behcet’s disease is a to occur as late as 5 years after initial surgery. chronic inflammatory immune-m ediated disease characterised by ► Risk factors associated with late small intestinal anastomotic recurrent ulcerations in the digestive tract, eyes and skin. Intes- perforation include a history of intestinal cancer, tinal Behcet’s disease has high reoperation rates of 30%–44%, inflammatory bowel disease, Roux- en- Y enteroenterostomy or often with new lesions at the anastomosis.34 Introducing phar- intestinal resection with a side- to- side anastomosis. Patients macotherapy soon after surgical treatment is important to with these risk factors should be followed for 5 years. control disease.34 Blind loop syndrome presents with a constellation of symp- Contributors The following authors were responsible for drafting of the text, bleeding or perforation peritonitis.35 36 It is caused by stasis of diagrams and algorithms, and critical revision for important intellectual content: enteric contents within the blind loop
