Case report
KEYWORDS: perforation, anastomosis, anastomotic, small, intestinal, years, late, right, blind, cancer, disease, months, leaks, ileocolonic, bowel


of the text, bleeding or perforation peritonitis.35 36 It is caused by stasis of diagrams and algorithms, and critical revision for important intellectual content: enteric contents within the blind loop of a side- to- side intestinal NS: drafting of the text, literature search, reviewing and selecting articles. NPH: drafting of the text, reviewing and selecting articles. FS: reviewing and selecting anastomosis, followed by bacterial overgrowth, mucosal erosion articles, creating and editing images, proofreading the text. DEK drafting of the and bleeding or perforation.35 37 Blind loop syndrome should be text, reviewing articles, creating a table, obtaining informed consent. The following considered whenever a patient has a history of intestinal resec- authors gave final approval of the manuscript: NS, NPH, FS, DEK. tion with side-t o- side anastomosis. Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any The aetiology behind our patient’s delayed perforation remains funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. uncertain. She reported intermittent diarrhoea and abdominal Competing interests None declared. aches after her right hemicolectomy. The resected anastomotic Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s). specimen did not have findings within the ileal blind pouch to suggest blind loop syndrome. An intestinal obstructive pattern Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer- reviewed. was not observed nor was a bezoar found. The patient’s intermit- Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and tent symptoms are suggestive of a subclinical condition of isch- can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation to guide treatment choices or public health policy. aemia at the ileocolonic anastomosis that eventually progressed to perforation. It is possible that anastomoses as a whole are an area of vulnerability, regardless of the time from surgery.15 Anas- ORCID iD tomotic regions have reduced blood flow compared with normal Daniel E Kim intestinal mucosa.15 Therefore, ischaemia is thought to play a major role in the development of late anastomotic leaks.32 33 This
