Gastric Organ Culture
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, layer, neoepithelial, mucosa, culture, gastric, cultures, figure, organ, migration, tissues, surface, hours, epithelial


Gastric Organ Culture A Model for Reepithelialization The in vitro organ culture system is useful in the study of the mechanics ofgastric reepithelialization, cell migration and exfoliation. Reepithelialization isapparently effecd by actively motile cells of aIl levels of di ntiation, and at the comple- tion of the process a new zwne of cell efoiation is initiated at points of contact when cells meet after growig towards the center of the im its opposite margins. Mitotic activity is su ed during the period of migration. (Am J Pathol 78:23-32, 1975) IN vrrmo ORGAN cuLTuRE of the gastrointestinal mucosa is a well-established technic in the study of the cell kinetics of these tissues. We have used this method in our laboratory in order to com- pare the cell kinetics of normaL atrophic and metaplastic mucosa from the pyloric antrum of the stomach. In the course of these experiments, one of us (BP) observed that a layer of epithelial cells grows over the base of these specimens, so as to cover completely their reverse surfaces. Trier and Eastwood have observed similar events in organ cultures of the colon.' This neoepithelial layer offers an opportunity to study the mechanism by which epithelial elements cover gastric mucosal defects. The process can be timed with precision and is unaffected by continuing ulceration of the stressed experimental animal or by reactive changes in the mesenchymal tissues at the bases of the ulcer craters. The present study summarizes the initial observations which we have made with this system. Materials and Methods Our study material was obtained from the pyloric antrum mucosa of gastrectomy specimens. These were delivered to the laboratory immediately after resection. Mucosal strips measuring 1 x 0.3 cm were removed from the lesser curvature in the proximal aspects of the pyloric antrum and from the greater curvature at a distance of approximately 2 cm proximal to the pyloric ring. They included the mucosa, lamina propria, muscularis mucosae and portions of the submucosa. Supported by the Japan-Hawaii Cancer Study, Contract NIH-NCI-E-72-2170 from AcceptedforPublication September 12, 1974. St, Honolulu, HI96817. 24 HAYASHI ET AL American Journal of Pathology Organ Cell Culture Strips of gastric mucosa were placed in Earle's balanced saline solution (BSS) containing 100 units/ml of penicillin and 100 mcg/ml of streptomycin. We used a culture system similar to that employed in other studies.14 After washing with BSS twice, the tissues were cut into 1 cu mm
