Gastric Organ Culture
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, layer, neoepithelial, mucosa, culture, gastric, cultures, figure, organ, migration, tissues, surface, hours, epithelial


and 100 mcg/ml of streptomycin. We used a culture system similar to that employed in other studies.14 After washing with BSS twice, the tissues were cut into 1 cu mm pieces. Two pieces were placed in thecentralwell of6.0-cm Falcon organ culture dishes (Falcon Plastics, Los Angeles, Calif). The well was surrounded by a cotton pad saturated with sterile saline. The tissues were oriented with the luminal surface up. Approximately 1 ml of medium was added to the well until a thin layer was drawn over the tissue surface by capillary action. We used Trowell T-8 medium 4 supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum, 100 units/ml of penicillin, 100 mcg/ml of streptomycin, 15 mcg/ml amphotericin B andvarious doses ofthymidine-methyl-3H(3H-TdR) (Radiochemical Center Amersham; specific activity, 23.3 Ci/mmole) described below. The dishes containing tissues were placed on trays inside an air-tight plexiglass tissue culture box (Norbo Machine Inc, Calif). The box was flushed with a mixture of 5% CO2 and 95%0° before cultureat37C in incubator. Autoradiography The tissues were incubated with 3H-TdR of 2 [tCi/ml for 4- to 6-hour cultures, 1 FLCi/ml for 10- to 18-hour cultures or 0.5 1iCi/ml for 22- to 24-hour cultures. We decreased the doses of 3H-TdR in longer cultures to minimize any ill effects that this material might have on the metabolism of the organ culture. Although cells exposed to the lower doses were less intensely labeled, this effect was negligible. For dishes cultured for 22to 24 hours, the medium was exchanged once duringthe incubation period. Samples from the same tissues were maintained for periods up to 7 days and analyses of these will be separately reported. The tissues were fixed in 4% buffered formaldehyde, embedded in paraffin and cut at 2 [t. Two sets of slides were prepared from each tissue; one was stained with hematoxylin and eosin, and the other was used for autoradiography. The latter was deparaffinized and dipped in Kodak NTB 2 nuclear track emulsion (Eastman Kodak, Rochester, NY), and stored in the refrigerator for 2 weeks. The slides were developed with Kodak D-19 developer for 5 minutes, fixed with Kodak acid fixer for8 minutes, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. All of the specimens submitted for analysis were sub- ject to continuous labeling. We also maintained parallel cultures for early and late pulselabelinginorder toconfirm the factthat3H-TdR was consistentlyincorporated through24hours ofculture. Ultrastructure The tissue was immersed in 3% phosphate-buffered gluteraldehyde, minced and fixed for
