Gastric Organ Culture
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, layer, neoepithelial, mucosa, culture, gastric, cultures, figure, organ, migration, tissues, surface, hours, epithelial


We also maintained parallel cultures for early and late pulselabelinginorder toconfirm the factthat3H-TdR was consistentlyincorporated through24hours ofculture. Ultrastructure The tissue was immersed in 3% phosphate-buffered gluteraldehyde, minced and fixed for 1 hour; washed in 0.1 M phosphate buffer; and then fixed in 1% phosphate- buffered osmium tetroxide for 1 hour. The specimens were embedded in epoxy resin after dehydration through graded alcohols. Sections were cut at 1 p and stained with multiple stain Paragon (Paragon C&C Co, Inc, NY). Thin sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Results Light Microscopy A layer of single epithelial cells begins to cover the cut ends of the muscularis mucosae as early as 6 hours after the start of the culture, Vol. 78, No. 1 GASTRIC ORGAN CULTURE 25 January 1975 and the entire reverse surface is covered in 24 hours (Figure 1). Cells at all levels of differentiation participate in the process. Mature surface cells, mucus neck cells, antral chief cells, metaplastic intestinal cells and both gastric and intestinal endocrine cells have been identified, as well as cells which were comparatively undifferentiated. The cells within this layer vary from flat to cuboidal in outine. Some, but not all, of the cells contain mucus, and this material is not uniformly dis- tributed among them. The bases of cultures carried to 24 hours may be completely covered by epithelium and a small hillock of cells appears at the center of the base. We can distinguish no consistent differences in the configuration of cells at varying distances from the source of the neoepithelial layer. Outgrowth occurs from normal antral mucosa, from areas of atrophic gastritis and from areas of intestinal metaplasia. Auordmgrphy The neoepithelial layer contains labeled nuclei (Figure 2), but we have found no mitotic figures among its cells, in contrast to the neck portions of the glands in these specimens. Labeling of this layer has been identified with continuous, early and final pulse label experiments. In none of these was there any recognizable pattern or distribution of labeled cells in the neoepithelial layer. Approximately 2; of the neo- epithelial cels are labeled in continuous label experiments after 18 to 20 hours. Ectr Mc In the area of neoepithelialization adjacent to the original gastric mucosa, the cells are squamoid in shape, layered in a one- to three- cells-thick lamina and show gradual transition from the original mucosa to the area of neoepithelialization. At
