Gastric Organ Culture
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, layer, neoepithelial, mucosa, culture, gastric, cultures, figure, organ, migration, tissues, surface, hours, epithelial


gastric mucosa, the cells are squamoid in shape, layered in a one- to three- cells-thick lamina and show gradual transition from the original mucosa to the area of neoepithelialization. At the advancing edge the cells are flatter and, in many cases, single layered. At the point where the advancing edges meet, the cells again increase in height and become multilayered. Cell extrusion to be described below is observed in this area. The epithelial cells of the original gastric mucosa abut on an intact contact with colagen fibers or amorphous interstitial matrix where there are fragments of membranes of disrupted cells and many free subcellular organelles (Figure 4). The neoepithelial intercellular space varies in width from place to place and from case to case. When present, it is most prominent in 26 HAYASHI ET AL American Journal of Pathology the basal aspect of the cells. There are nmany long slender cytoplasmic projections in this area. The lateral aspects of the middle and upper portions of the cells have occasional desmosomes. There is no widening of intercellular space except in the area of cell extrusion. The gastric and intestinal neoepithelial cells resemble comparable cells in the intact mucosa (Figures 4 and 11). The neoepithelial cell layer is com- posed of various cell types; undifferentiated cells (Figures 5 and 6), "pale" epithelial cells resembling intraepithelial lymphocytes but having desmosomes (Figures 7 and 8), mucous neck cells, surface mucous cells (Figure 9), "antral chief cells" 5,6 (Figure 10), intestinal type cells (Figure 11) and intestinal endocrine cells (Figure 12). These gastric cells are distributed at random in the area of neoepithelialization in both 6- and 24-hour cultures. Subplasmalemmal microfilaments were noted in both undifferentiated and fully differentiated cells (Figures 5 and 6). In the zone of cell extrusion, there are three types of cell change. The first is that of shrinkage or shriveled necrosis.9 The cells are small, columnar in shape and still maintain a contact with other cells (Figure 13). The cytoplasm shows increased density of the matrix, relatively well-preserved mitochondria, cytoplasmic vacuoles with electron-dense particles, and a few polysomes. Microvilli become shorter, irregular and decrease in number. The second type of change consists of apoptotic body formation or autophagic vacuole formation.9 The vacuoles contain amorphous electron-dense bodies and a few membranous structures (Figure 14). The remaining cytoplasm con- tains well-preserved cytoplasmic organelles except that there are a few dilated cisternae ofendoplasmic reticulum.
