Gastric Organ Culture
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, layer, neoepithelial, mucosa, culture, gastric, cultures, figure, organ, migration, tissues, surface, hours, epithelial


vacuoles contain amorphous electron-dense bodies and a few membranous structures (Figure 14). The remaining cytoplasm con- tains well-preserved cytoplasmic organelles except that there are a few dilated cisternae ofendoplasmic reticulum. These cells are equipped with few or no microvilli. The third cell change consists of "ballooning" of the intercellular space, and retention of attachment of the junc- tional complex (Figures 15 and 16). The distended space is empty and the bordering plasma membranes are intact. The cells are pushed away and the free surface shows a few short microvilli covered with a fuzzy coat. Subcellular organelles are, however, well preserved. Discussion The outgrowth of epithelium over the reverse surfaces of biopsies of the stomach is usually complete within 24 hours. The random dis- tribution of a variety of differentiated and undifferentiated cells in this layer suggests that differentiation into specific cell types is not the result of maturation during migration. Approximately 2% of the neoepithelial cells are tagged with 3H-TdR when the label is applied Vol. 78, No. 1 GASTRIC ORGAN CULTURE 27 January 1975 after 18 to 20 hours of culture. It is likely that these cells were in G1 during migration. The absence of mitotic activity within the neo- epithelial layer indicates that these G, cells are the offspring of cells which had divided in the mucosa before migration had taken place. The S phase cells are randomly distributed in the neoepithelial layer, offering further support to the suggestion that the presence of differ- entiated cells is not the result of maturation during migration. The lack of mitotic activity in this layer also suggests either that the S phase is prolonged in these cells or that some neoepithelial cells are arrested in the GC phase of the mitotic cycle. It would appear, there- fore, that reepithelialization is the result of the active migration of any cells which chance may place adjacent to the edge of a break in mucosal continuity. Neither maturity nor specialization is a bar to participation in this event. It has been suggested that the actin-like ifia- ments which underlie the cell membrane provide the force to effect cell movement,10 and there is acceptable evidence that these ifiaments in nonmuscle cells are actin like." The microfilaments in the sub- plasmalemmal region of the neoepithelial cells fit the criteria for these structures and probably supply the locomotive force required for active migration. When the entire reverse
