Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


NLM Citation: Grange DK, Nichols CG, Singh GK, et al. Cantú Syndrome. 2014 Oct 2 [Updated 2026 Jan 29]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, ® Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Seattle (WA): Bookshelf URL: Cantú Syndrome 1 2 3 4 5 Created: October 2, 2014; Updated: January 29, 2026. Summary Clinical characteristics Cantú syndrome is characterized by congenital hypertrichosis; distinctive coarse facial features (including broad nasal bridge, wide mouth with thick vermilion of the upper and lower lips, and macroglossia); enlarged heart with enhanced systolic function, as well as pericardial effusion and, in many, a large patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) requiring repair; and musculoskeletal abnormalities (thickening of the calvaria, broad ribs, scoliosis, flaring of the metaphyses, and low muscle tone). Other cardiovascular abnormalities may include dilated aortic root and ascending aorta with rare aortic aneurysm, tortuous vascularity involving brain and retinal vasculature, and pulmonary arteriovenous communications. Generalized edema (which may be present at birth) spontaneously resolves; peripheral edema of the lower extremities (and sometimes arms and hands) may develop at adolescence. Developmental delays are common, but intellect is typically normal; behavioral problems can include attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, anxiety, and depression. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of Cantú syndrome can be established in a proband with characteristic clinical and imaging findings and/or a heterozygous gain-of-function pathogenic variant in ABCC9 or KCNJ8 identified by molecular genetic testing. 2 GeneReviews ® Management Treatment of manifestations: Referral to dermatologist for hypertrichosis treatment options; surgical or device closure of PDA in infancy or early childhood as needed; pericardiocentesis and pericardial stripping as needed to treat pericardial effusion; developmental and educational support; compression stockings and other standard management including lymphedema pump for peripheral edema; standard treatment for gastroesophageal reflux; individualized management for migraine headaches; management of pulmonary hypertension per cardiologist; treatment of seizures per experienced neurologist; bracing and/or surgery as needed for scoliosis. Surveillance: Annual echocardiogram and electrocardiogram to monitor cardiac size and function, as well as for evidence of pericardial effusion. Clinical evaluation and cardiac biomarkers to monitor late development of high-output cardiac failure. Monitor for a history of persistent headaches or other neurologic symptoms, which may require brain imaging for cerebral vasculature abnormality and evaluation by a neurologist. Monitor developmental progress, educational needs, and behavioral assessment at each visit. Monitor for evidence of peripheral edema annually starting in adolescence. Assess for gastroesophageal reflux disease as needed. Assess for scoliosis with
