Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


progress, educational needs, and behavioral assessment at each visit. Monitor for evidence of peripheral edema annually starting in adolescence. Assess for gastroesophageal reflux disease as needed. Assess for scoliosis with physical examination, followed by spine radiographs as needed. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Minoxidil, diazoxide, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Evaluation of relatives at risk: Clarify the genetic/clinical status of older and younger relatives of an affected individual in order to identify as early as possible those who should be evaluated and monitored for cardiac manifestations of Cantú syndrome, as well as peripheral edema and scoliosis. Genetic counseling Cantú syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Each child of an individual with Cantú syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting a Cantú syndrome-related pathogenic variant. If the causative ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. If the Cantú syndrome-causing pathogenic variant has not been identified in an affected family member, evaluation of a pregnancy at increased risk using ultrasound to look for fetal macrosomia and polyhydramnios and a fetal echocardiogram to evaluate for cardiovascular abnormalities is recommended. Diagnosis No formal diagnostic criteria for Cantú syndrome have been established. Suggestive Findings Cantú syndrome should be suspected in probands with the following clinical and imaging findings and family history. Clinical findings • Congenital hypertrichosis: excess hair growth on scalp, forehead, face, back, and limbs (See Figure 1 and Figure 2.) • Craniofacial dysmorphic features: coarse facial features, epicanthal folds, broad nasal bridge, anteverted nares, long philtrum, thick vermilion of the upper and lower lips, wide mouth, and macroglossia (See Figure 1.) Imaging findings • Enlarged heart with enhanced systolic function or pericardial effusion (See Figure 3 and Figure 4.) Cantú Syndrome 3 • Large patent ductus arteriosus requiring repair • Characteristic skeletal abnormalities: thickening of the calvaria (see Figure 3), broad ribs, platyspondyly, ovoid vertebral bodies, scoliosis, narrow thorax and shoulders, pectus carinatum, hypoplastic ischium and pubic bones, Erlenmeyer flask-like long bones with metaphyseal flaring (see Figure 3 and Figure 4), narrow obturator foramen, and coxa vara Family history is consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of Cantú syndrome can be established in a proband with characteristic clinical and imaging findings and/or identification of a heterozygous gain-of-function pathogenic
