Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


preclude the diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of Cantú syndrome can be established in a proband with characteristic clinical and imaging findings and/or identification of a heterozygous gain-of-function pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in ABCC9 or KCNJ8 by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants based on functional analysis of relevant variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous ABCC9 or KCNJ8 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (see Option 1), whereas comprehensive genomic testing does not (see Option 2). Option 1 A multigene panel that includes ABCC9, KCNJ8, and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non- sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. Option 2 When the diagnosis of Cantú syndrome has not been considered because an individual has atypical phenotypic features, comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ACMG and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend exome/genome sequencing as first- or second-tier diagnostic testing for children with developmental delay and/or multiple congenital anomalies [Manickam et al 2021, Rodan et al 2025]. To date, the majority of ABCC9 and KCNJ8 pathogenic variants reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding
