Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


and/or multiple congenital anomalies [Manickam et al 2021, Rodan et al 2025]. To date, the majority of ABCC9 and KCNJ8 pathogenic variants reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding region and are likely to be identified by exome sequencing. 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Woman age 40 years (A, D), girl age 16 years (B, E), and girl age 11 years (C, F) with Cantú syndrome A, B, C. Facial appearance showing hirsutism of the forehead with low frontal hairline and coarse features D, E. Lateral views showing excess hair on the cheeks F. Hirsutism of the arms Reproduced with permission from Grange et al ordering genomic testing can be found here. Cantú Syndrome 5 Figure 2. Girl age 11 years (A, B) and girl age 16 years (C) with Cantú syndrome A. Narrow thorax and pectus carinatum deformity B, C. Hirsutism of the lower back (B) and forearms (C) Reproduced with permission from Grange et al 6 GeneReviews ® Figure 3. Woman age 40 years with Cantú syndrome A. Chest radiograph showing marked cardiomegaly B. Lateral skull radiograph showing thickened calvarium C. Erlenmeyer flask-like deformity with metaphyseal flaring of the distal radius (arrow) D. Metaphyseal flaring of the distal femur (arrow) Reproduced with permission from Grange et al Cantú Syndrome 7 Figure 4. Girl age 16 years with Cantú syndrome A. Chest radiograph showing cardiomegaly B. Early metaphyseal flaring of the distal radius (arrow) Reproduced with permission from Grange et al Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in Cantú Syndrome Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 4 Identified by Method Proportion of Cantú Syndrome Gene 1, 2 Attributed to Pathogenic Sequence Gene-targeted deletion/ Variants in Gene 3 analysis 5 duplication analysis 6 ABCC9 97% 100% 3 None reported 7 KCNJ8 1%-2% 100% 8 None reported 7 Unknown 9 NA 1. Genes are listed in alphabetic order. 2. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein 3. Grange et al 4. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in these genes. 5. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 6. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and a gene-targeted microarray
