Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


OCD 13% Anxiety 13% Depression 19% Cantú Syndrome 9 Table 2. continued from previous page. % of Persons Feature Comment w/Feature • Usually asymptomatic so detection dependent Skeletal abnormalities 19% on imaging • Not all persons had full skeletal survey ADHD = attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; ASD = autism spectrum disorder; OCD = obsessive-compulsive disorder; PDA = patent ductus arteriosus 1. Leon Guerrero et al 2. Self-reported in many individuals Prenatal/neonatal. Many pregnancies with a fetus with Cantú syndrome are complicated by polyhydramnios (57%), leading in some instances to repeated amniotic fluid reductions as well as preterm labor and delivery. Prematurity (delivery before 37 weeks' gestation) is reported in 58% of individuals. Generalized edema at birth (43%) usually resolves spontaneously. Many newborns (38%) have macrosomia (large birth weight and birth length) and macrocephaly. Birth weight >4,000 grams was reported in 38% of individuals. Hypertrichosis. All newborns with Cantú syndrome have hypertrichosis with thick scalp hair and excessive hair growth on the forehead, face, back, and extremities. Some have thick and/or curly eyelashes. The hypertrichosis usually persists over time. Cardiac manifestations. The cardiac manifestations seem to arise from underlying low systemic vascular resistance from abnormal potassium channel function. In response to the lower vascular tone, the body seems to increase cardiac output and blood volume to maintain perfusion pressure. This chronically increased cardiac output leads to many of the following manifestations: • Cardiac enlargement, with increased ventricular mass but normal chamber wall thickness and enlarged chambers of the heart, is often present at birth. Despite the enlarged cardiac chambers, myocardial contractility is typically preserved, which leads to normal-to-hyperdynamic systolic function of the ventricles given the elevated preload and decreased afterload [Grange et al 2006, Grange et al 2019]. Cardiac enlargement is persistent through life and may progress to heart failure [Singh et al 2022]. Some individuals note exercise intolerance, but others have been able to participate in organized sports without difficulty. • PDA is present in 58% of affected individuals (and described as extremely large in some), often requiring surgical closure in infancy or early childhood. • Dilated aortic root and ascending aorta are present in about two thirds of individuals. This is thought to be the result of elevated cardiac output. The natural history is poorly understood. However, development of an aortic aneurysm is rare. Aortic aneurysm requiring surgical intervention was reported in one individual with an ABCC9 pathogenic variant [Hiraki et
