Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


natural history is poorly understood. However, development of an aortic aneurysm is rare. Aortic aneurysm requiring surgical intervention was reported in one individual with an ABCC9 pathogenic variant [Hiraki et al 2014]. • Pericardial effusion is present in about 25% of affected individuals. Small pericardial effusions may be asymptomatic; some large fluid accumulations result in symptoms such as exercise intolerance and require intervention. • Bicuspid aortic valve is seen in 10% of affected individuals, mitral valve regurgitation in 9%, and aortic stenosis in 2%. Tortuous vascularity, including tortuous retinal vessels and multiple tortuous pulmonary arteriovenous communications, has been reported [Scurr et al 2011, Grange et al 2019]. Abnormal tortuous vasculature in the brain is present in essentially all individuals who have been imaged specifically [Leon Guerrero et al 2016, Grange et al 2019]. 10 GeneReviews ® Developmental delays. Developmental delays have been observed, including delay in acquisition of early motor milestones (most likely related to decreased muscle tone) and delay in speech development. Mild learning disabilities are reported, although the majority of affected individuals have normal intellect. Ultimately, most affected individuals attend regular schools, and some are described as having a high IQ [Scurr et al 2011, Grange et al 2019]. Generalized edema, which may be present at birth, spontaneously resolves. Subsequently, edema involving the lower extremities and occasionally the arms and hands may develop over time, usually in adolescence or early adulthood. Puffiness of the eyelids is often observed. In one individual, lymphangiography demonstrated dilated lymphatic vessels in the legs with delayed lymphatic drainage [García-Cruz et al 2011]. In contrast, lymphatic studies were normal in another individual [Scurr et al 2011]. Therefore, it may be unclear whether the observed swelling is edema or lymphedema. However, it is most likely lymphedema due to low lymphatic smooth muscle tone and higher oncotic pressure due to elevated cardiac output, similar to the pathophysiology effects on the vascular system. Macrocephaly, often present at birth, typically persists throughout life. Some individuals who did not have macrocephaly at birth developed progressive macrocephaly in childhood. Gastroesophageal reflux is reported by just under half of individuals. A smaller percentage report intestinal dysfunction characterized by chronic constipation or slow intestinal motility. Headaches are reported by many individuals, especially migraine-type headaches with associated aura, photophobia, and phonophobia, and occasionally with transient hemiparesis. Pulmonary hypertension has been reported in infants and young children and likely impairs gas exchange, although the
