Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


migraine-type headaches with associated aura, photophobia, and phonophobia, and occasionally with transient hemiparesis. Pulmonary hypertension has been reported in infants and young children and likely impairs gas exchange, although the natural history is not well understood [Cantú et al 1982, Robertson et al 1999, Lazalde et al 2000, Kobayashi et al 2010, Scurr et al 2011]. In one child, pulmonary hypertension secondary to partial pulmonary venous obstruction was associated with severe mitral valve regurgitation that spontaneously resolved by age eight years [Kobayashi et al 2010]. In another individual, progressive (and ultimately fatal) pulmonary hypertension was reported [Park et al 2014]. In the majority of individuals, pulmonary hypertension is mild and improves with age [Grange et al 2019]. Seizures are reported in about one quarter of individuals. Febrile, tonic-clonic, and absence seizure types have been observed as well as temporal lobe epilepsy. Behavioral problems have been reported in some individuals, including anxiety, mood swings, obsessive- compulsive disorder, and tics [Scurr et al 2011, Grange et al 2019]. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, and depression may also be present. Many individuals have self-reported these issues. Skeletal abnormalities are usually asymptomatic, identified on radiographs, and are not noted in all reported individuals. Characteristic skeletal abnormalities include thickening of the calvaria, broad ribs, platyspondyly, ovoid vertebral bodies, scoliosis, narrow thorax and shoulders, pectus carinatum, hypoplastic ischium and pubic bones, Erlenmeyer flask-like long bones with metaphyseal flaring, narrow obturator foramen, and coxa vara. Features of a connective tissue abnormality are observed in many individuals with Cantú syndrome, including wrinkled or loose skin (especially at birth), deep palmar and plantar creases, and joint hyperextensibility. Some have decreased subcutaneous fat with the appearance of a muscular build in childhood. Growth. Ultimate adult height is usually within the normal range; however, short stature has been seen in a few individuals. Less frequent features • Umbilical hernia Cantú Syndrome 11 • Pyloric stenosis • Poor intestinal motility • Ptosis • Craniosynostosis involving the sagittal and coronal sutures in one individual [Hiraki et al 2014] • Increased frequency of infections, raising the possibility of immune dysfunction [Scurr et al 2011, Grange et al 2019] • Growth hormone deficiency in a few individuals [Cooper et al 2014, Grange et al 2019] • Panhypopituitarism [Grange et al 2019, Theis et al 2019] and pituitary adenoma [Marques et al 2018] in a few individuals • Menstrual irregularities and amenorrhea [DK Grange, unpublished data]
