Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


having definitive evidence supporting a relationship with monogenic nonsyndromic DCM. 5. Mode of inheritance is provided only for those genes listed in Table 4. Other Conditions Congenital hypothyroidism. The macroglossia and hirsutism that can be seen in congenital hypothyroidism may overlap with features of Cantú syndrome. Acromegaly. The macrocephaly, coarse facial features, and tall stature in some adults with Cantú syndrome have been confused with acromegaly due to excess human growth hormone. Minoxidil treatment may lead to coarsening of facial features and hirsutism that has been called "pseudoacromegaly" [Ohko et al 2020]. Minoxidil has long been associated with hair growth and is used topically to treat scalp hair loss. When taken orally, it may cause generalized hirsutism, progressive coarsening of Diazoxide treatment for hyperinsulinism may lead to hypertrichosis especially on the forehead, back, arms and Cantú syndrome [Herrera et al 2018]. Note: Both minoxidil and diazoxide can activate the same ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels that are overactive in Cantú syndrome due to pathogenic variants in ABCC9 or KCNJ8. Cantú Syndrome 15 Management the following recommendations are based on the authors' personal experience managing individuals with this disorder. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with Cantú syndrome, the evaluations summarized in Table 5 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. Table 5. Cantú Syndrome: Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis System/Concern Evaluation Comment • Consider cardiac MRI. Cardiology assessment to include echocardiogram & Cardiac • Assessment for pulmonary hypertension should be electrocardiogram guided by cardiologist as needed. • Assessment for headaches & seizures • Neurologic exam • EEG if seizures are suspected Neurologic Should be considered for all persons, but esp if there is Brain MRI w/MRA & MRV history of headaches, migraine headaches, or hemiparesis Developmental eval for infants & young children Development Esp for those w/concern for ASD, ADHD, OCD, or Neuropsychological eval for older persons depression Vascular/ Assessment for peripheral swelling & lymphedema Lymphatic GERD study might be considered depending on symptoms. • Radiographic skeletal survey as needed to Skeletal assess for bone abnormalities A full skeletal survey may not be needed in all persons. • Eval for scoliosis To obtain a pedigree & inform affected persons & their Genetic By genetics professionals 1 families re nature, MOI, & implications of Cantú syndrome counseling to facilitate medical & personal decision making
