Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


a maternal-fetal medicine specialist for evaluation and management. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Cantú syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • In one study, 22% of individuals diagnosed with Cantú syndrome had an affected parent [Grange et al 2019]. • Approximately 75%-80% of individuals diagnosed with Cantú syndrome have the disorder as the result of a de novo pathogenic variant. • If a molecular diagnosis has been established in the proband and the proband appears to be the only affected family member (i.e., a simplex case), molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of 20 GeneReviews ® the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. Note: A proband may appear to be the only affected family member because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members with a milder phenotype. Therefore, de novo occurrence of a ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant cannot be confirmed unless molecular genetic testing has demonstrated that neither parent is heterozygous for the ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant.. • If the causative ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with gonadal (or somatic and gonadal) mosaicism.* Parental mosaicism has been reported [Grange et al 2019]. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only.
