Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. * A parent with somatic and gonadal mosaicism for an ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant may be mildly/minimally affected [Grange et al 2019; DK Grange, unpublished data]. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the clinical/genetic status of the proband's parents. • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the ABCC9 or KCNJ8 pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. Because Cantú syndrome is associated with intrafamilial variability, the phenotype, age of onset, and severity in sibs who inherit a pathogenic variant are not predictable [Grange et al 2019]. • If the proband has a known Cantú syndrome-related pathogenic variant that cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism [Grange et al 2019]. • If the parents are clinically unaffected but their genetic status is unknown, the risk to sibs of a proband appears to be low but increased over that of the general population because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with Cantú syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting a Cantú syndrome-related pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent is affected and/or has a causative pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues See Management, Evaluation of Relatives at Risk for information on evaluating at-risk relatives for the purpose of early diagnosis and treatment. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected or at risk. DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from Cantú Syndrome 21
