Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from Cantú Syndrome 21 probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing If the Cantú syndrome-causing pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. The phenotype, age of onset, and severity are not predictable based on results of prenatal molecular genetic testing. If the Cantú syndrome-causing pathogenic variant has not been identified in an affected family member, evaluation of a pregnancy at increased risk using ultrasound to look for fetal macrosomia and polyhydramnios and a fetal echocardiogram to evaluate for cardiovascular abnormalities is recommended. In a fetus not known to be at increased risk for Cantú syndrome based on family history, the combination of fetal macrosomia and polyhydramnios should lead to consideration of Cantú syndrome. (Note: The etiology of polyhydramnios is diverse.) Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Cantu Syndrome Interest Group and Registry Phone: 314-454-6093 Email: Registry • MedlinePlus Cantú syndrome Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. Cantú syndrome: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases ABCC9 12p12.1 ATP-binding cassette ABCC9 database ABCC9 ABCC9 sub-family C member 9 KCNJ8 12p12.1 ATP-sensitive inward KCNJ8 KCNJ8 rectifier potassium channel 8 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. 22 GeneReviews ® Table B. OMIM Entries for Cantú syndrome (View All in OMIM) 239850 CANTU SYNDROME 600935 POTASSIUM CHANNEL, INWARDLY RECTIFYING, SUBFAMILY J, MEMBER 8; KCNJ8 601439 ATP-BINDING CASSETTE, SUBFAMILY C, MEMBER 9; ABCC9 Molecular Pathogenesis ABCC9 and KCNJ8 encode the regulatory (SUR2) and pore-forming (Kir6.1)
