Bookshelf_NBK246980
KEYWORDS: syndrome, pathogenic, genetic, individuals, variant, grange, disorder, testing, pathogenic variant, cardiac, reported, affected, features, diagnosis, variants


600935 POTASSIUM CHANNEL, INWARDLY RECTIFYING, SUBFAMILY J, MEMBER 8; KCNJ8 601439 ATP-BINDING CASSETTE, SUBFAMILY C, MEMBER 9; ABCC9 Molecular Pathogenesis ABCC9 and KCNJ8 encode the regulatory (SUR2) and pore-forming (Kir6.1) subunits of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels, respectively. SUR2- and Kir6.1-dependent KATP channels are prominent in cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle as well as other tissues. KATP channels are inhibited by nonhydrolytic binding of ATP, whereas MgADP has the opposite effect, activating channels through interaction with SUR subunits. Physiologic activity is thus effectively dependent on the [ADP]:[ATP] ratio. KATP activation results in 2+ membrane hyperpolarization and decrease in voltage-dependent Ca entry, leading to inhibition of muscle contraction. All identified Cantú syndrome pathogenic variants result in increased SUR2/Kir6.1-dependent KATP channel activity. Primary reduction of smooth muscle contractility is a major consequence, and underlies at least the key cardiovascular, lymphatic, and gastrointestinal features. Mechanism of disease causation. Gain of function Chapter Notes Author Notes Dr Grange is actively involved in clinical research regarding individuals with Cantú syndrome. She would be happy to communicate with persons who have any questions regarding their diagnosis of Cantú syndrome or other considerations. She is also interested in hearing from clinicians seeing families affected by Cantú syndrome. Dr Nichols' research is focused on the biology of ion channels, with emphasis on the molecular basis of potassium channel activity and the role of potassium channels in physiology and disease. Using various molecular biological and biophysical approaches, his laboratory is developing detailed understanding of the structural basis of KATP channel activity, and animal models to understand the role of potassium channels in disease processes including diabetes, cardiovascular pathology and arrhythmias, and epilepsy. Dr Singh is actively involved in the phenotypic and hemodynamic characterization of the cardiovascular system in individuals with Cantú syndrome. Along with Dr Grange and Dr Aggarwal, he would be happy to communicate with persons who have any questions regarding the cardiovascular management of Cantú syndrome. the Director of the Division of Pediatric & Developmental Neurology and the Section Chief of Pediatric Neurocritical Care Medicine. She is involved in studying the neurovascular manifestations of Cantú syndrome. Cantú Syndrome 23 Dr Aggarwal is an Assistant Professor at Washington University. He specializes in the utilization of cardiac MRI in pediatric congenital heart disease, pediatric pulmonary hypertension, and echocardiography. He would be happy to communicate with persons who have any questions regarding the cardiovascular management of Cantú syndrome. Revision History •
