Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


Microsporidial Myositis Matthew R. Watts, Renee C.F. Chan, Elaine Y.L. Cheong, Susan Brammah, Kate R. Clezy, Chiwai Tong, Deborah Marriott, Cameron E. Webb, Bobby Chacko, Vivienne Tobias, Alexander C. Outhred, Andrew S. Field, Michael V. Prowse, James V. Bertouch, Damien Stark, and Stephen W. Reddel The insect microsporidian Anncaliia algerae was first Microsporidia is a phylum of eukaryotes that contains described in 2004 as a cause of fatal myositis in an immu- almost 160 genera (1). Related to fungi, they are obli- nosuppressed person from Pennsylvania, USA. Two cases gate intracellular organisms that spread among hosts through were subsequently reported, and we detail 2 additional cas- a spore stage (1). The microsporidian Anncaliia algerae, for- es, including the only nonfatal case. We reviewed all 5 case mer genera Nosema and Brachiola, is an emerging human pathogen that primarily infects insects (2–7). A. algerae has and management and summarized organism life cycle and caused severe myositis in patients taking immunosuppres- epidemiology. Before infection, all case-patients were us- sive medication for rheumatoid arthritis or solid-organ trans- ing immunosuppressive medications for rheumatoid arthritis plantation (3,5,8). It also has led to skin abscesses and an or solid-organ transplantation. Four of the 5 case-patients were from Australia. All diagnoses were confirmed by skel- infection of the false vocal cord in patients receiving chemo- etal muscle biopsy; however, peripheral nerves and other therapy for hematologic malignancies and caused keratitis in tissues may be infected. The surviving patient received a man with no significant medical history (2,4,6). albendazole and had a reduction of immunosuppressive Two other species of Anncaliia are reported to cause medications and measures to prevent complications. Al- myositis in humans (9). A. vesicularum caused infection though insects are the natural hosts for A. algerae, human localized to the skeletal muscle in a patient with HIV (9). contact with water contaminated by spores may be a mode Another Anncaliia species, probably A. connori, led to dis- of transmission. A. algerae has emerged as a cause of myo- seminated infection in an infant who had thymic dysplasia sitis, particularly in coastal Australia. and malabsorption syndrome (9,10). Autopsy demonstrated microsporidia in myocytes from the heart and diaphragm Author affiliations: Centre for Infectious Diseases and Microbiology and the muscularis of the gut and arteries (10). Organisms also were seen in the alveolar septae, renal tubular cells, and parenchyma of the adrenal glands and liver (10). Microspo- ridia of
