Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


muscularis of the gut and arteries (10). Organisms also were seen in the alveolar septae, renal tubular cells, and parenchyma of the adrenal glands and liver (10). Microspo- ridia of the genera, Trachipleistophora, Pleistophora, and Tubulinosema also can cause myositis in immunocompro- Wales, Australia (M.R. Watts, C.E. Webb, E.Y.L. Cheong, A.C. mised hosts (11–17); the infection can be localized or part of a disseminated infection. A recent case report from Thailand Concord West, New South Wales, Australia (R.C.F. Chan, E.Y.L. described an infection caused by a novel microsporidia, re- lated to Endoreticulatus spp, in the skeletal muscle, urinary Randwick, New South Wales, Australia (K.R. Clezy, C. Tong, J.V. tract, and bone marrow of a previously healthy man (18). A. algerae myositis was first described in 2004 in a patient from Pennsylvania, USA, who had rheumatoid ar- Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia (B. Chacko); Liverpool thritis (3). Two patients in subsequent reports had histories of lung transplantation, 1 with a recent renal transplantation (5,8). We describe 2 additional cases of A. algerae myositis Australia (M.V. Prowse) in patients with histories of rheumatoid arthritis, including DOI: 1 who survived. Four of these 5 case-patients were from Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 20, No. 2, February 2014 185 SYNOPSIS the east coast of Australia. We have reviewed all 5 case of Medical Research Council grade 3+ to 4, distal greater and management (Tables 1, 2) and summarized organism sensory abnormalities. Mild peripheral edema was present. life cycle and epidemiology. He had mild glossitis but no mouth ulcers. He was noted to be at significant risk for aspiration because of bulbar Case Reports muscle weakness and was not permitted to eat or drink by We have designated persons with the cases of A. al- mouth; nasogastric feeding was begun. Prednisone was in- gerae myositis described here as case-patients A and B creased to 25 mg/d. His condition deteriorated despite 5 and those with cases reported in 2004, 2012, and 2013 as days of intravenous immunoglobulin for possible Guillain- case-patients 1, 2, and 3, respectively (3,5,8). We reviewed Barré syndrome, and he was transferred to a Sydney ter- the medical records of case-patients 2 and 3 to obtain ad- tiary referral hospital. ditional information. No cause for the diarrhea was found on fecal bacte- rial culture; examination for ova, cysts, and parasites; and Case-patient A modified trichrome staining for microsporidia (Table 2). A
