Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


information. No cause for the diarrhea was found on fecal bacte- rial culture; examination for ova, cysts, and parasites; and Case-patient A modified trichrome staining for microsporidia (Table 2). A In 2011, a 67-year-old man from coastal New South pulmonary infiltrate was present on computed tomographic ry of watery diarrhea; weight loss; and increasing arthralgias, brain and spinal cord were normal. Neurophysiologic studies fatigue, lethargy, and generalized myalgias. He had rheuma- showed reduced motor and sensory amplitudes and F wave toid factor–positive rheumatoid arthritis that was diagnosed persistence; electromyography demonstrated marked fibril- when he was in his early twenties, with fluctuating joint dis- lations and positive sharp waves, with only a mildly reduced ease, but no extra-articular involvement. Therapy preceding pattern, suggesting mixed myositis and neuropathy. the illness included long-term methotrexate (20 mg weekly); An immediate vastus lateralis muscle biopsy was leflunomide (20 mg/d), which was stopped 1 week before performed. Light microscopy demonstrated a necrotizing he sought care at a hospital; prednisone (5 mg/d); etaner- myositis with numerous ovoid spores (Figure 1). Electron cept (antitumor necrosis factor α therapy) for 5 months; and microscopy confirmed the diagnosis of microsporidial my- nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Serum cre- ositis with features characteristic of A. algerae (Figure 2). atinine and liver function tests were moderately elevated. DNA was extracted from the muscle biopsy specimen, and The methotrexate, etanercept, and NSAIDs were stopped; he part of the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene was ampli- responded to intravenous rehydration; his serum creatinine fied by PCR in accordance with a published method (5). normalized; and he was discharged after 3 days. Sequence analysis was consistent with A. algerae. The man’s symptoms progressed, dysphagia devel- Prednisone was reduced to 5 mg, and leflunomide was He had generalized weakness in the upper and lower limbs 2×/d), sulfadiazine (1 g 4×/d) and pyrimethamine (50 mg/d) Table 1. Epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of Anncaliia algerae myositis case-patients* Characteristic Case-patient A Case-patient B Case-patient 1 (3) Case-patient 2 (5) Case-patient 3 (8) Age, y/sex 67/M 66/M 57/F 49/M 56/M Residence Port Macquarie, Sydney, NSW, PA, USA Woolongong, NSW, Rutherford, NSW, Australia Australia Australia NSW, Australia Distance from residence <100 to golf course <100 to golf course ND <200 to coastal <100 to golf course to open land, m woodland Background illness RA RA RA, T2DM Lung Tx, T1DM, CD Lung Tx, kidney Tx Immunosuppression MTX, CS, LEF, MTX MTX, CS,
