Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


Yes No Yes No Yes Outcome Survived >18 Died, aspiration Died, stroke Died, palliated Died, aspiration mo pneumonia pneumonia *ND, not described in publication; CK, creatinine kinase; ALT, alanine transaminase; AST, aspartate transaminase; ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate; CRP, C-reactive protein; EMG, electromyography; NT, not tested; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; BAL, bronchoalveolar lavage. ‡Anemia was normocytic. §Case-patient A: serum creatinine was higher (150 mol/L) at the first admission; case-patient B: baseline creatinine was 160μmol/L; case-patient 3: preexisting renal impairment, with transplant. ¶Case-patient A: urinary myoglobin was negative; case-patient B urinary albumin:creatinine ratio 8 mo previously was normal; case-patient 3: urinary protein 2 mo previously was 0.68 g/24 h. #Modified trichrome stain on concentrated feces. **Component of quadriceps femoris not specified in publication. continued to deteriorate for a week, reached a nadir, and dose 50 mg/d for 1 week). progressively improved, despite cessation of albendazole The patient had fevers (maximum temperature after 3 weeks because of vomiting and abnormal liver func- 39.5°C); tachycardia; oropharyngeal mucositis; glossitis; tion test results. Creatine kinase (CK) normalized at 12 macroglossia; a tongue ulcer; decreased tongue move- there was no indication of infection, and the patient had of the limbs; mild bilateral facial weakness; and upper and regained full strength. His rheumatoid arthritis was con- lower limb weakness, marked in the hands. Pain limited trolled with NSAIDs, prednisone (5 mg/d), and injectable grading of the weakness; however, mobilization was pos- gold. Follow-up neurophysiology showed full recovery of sible. Sensation was normal, and reflexes were present. nerve conduction velocities and amplitudes. Investigation results included methotrexate level <0.1 µmol/L, IgG (subtype 1) 1.65 g/L (reference 4.9–11.4) and Case-patient B (subtype 2) 0.78 g/L (reference 1.50–6.4), and troponin I In 2006, a 66-year-old man from suburban Sydney, New 0.7 μg/L (reference <0.1) (Table 2). The urine contained progressive generalized muscle pain, lethargy, weight loss, normal left ventricular function. Noncontrast CT scan of poor appetite, low mood, difficulty sleeping, fevers, pain in the brain showed no abnormalities. Neurophysiologic stud- the mouth, difficulty swallowing, and discomfort on open- ies revealed a mild axonal type neuropathy, and electromy- ing the mouth. He had rheumatoid factor–positive rheuma- ography results were consistent with an active myopathic toid arthritis diagnosed 2 years previously, with no extra- process in multiple muscles. articular manifestations. He was treated with methotrexate Broad-spectrum antimicrobial drug therapy, acyclovir, for 22 months, with the dose gradually increased to 25 mg and intravenous immunoglobulin were
