Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


in multiple muscles. articular manifestations. He was treated with methotrexate Broad-spectrum antimicrobial drug therapy, acyclovir, for 22 months, with the dose gradually increased to 25 mg and intravenous immunoglobulin were given. The cortico- per week. This drug was stopped 2 weeks before hospital steroid dose was reduced with a weaning regimen. Vastus admission because of concerns about toxicity. Prednisone lateralis muscle biopsies were performed ≈2 weeks into Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 20, No. 2, February 2014 187 SYNOPSIS hospitalization. Histopathologic examination demonstrated Discussion large numbers of round, predominantly extracellular, 3- to In the cases reported here, A. algerae myositis caused 4-µm organisms. Specimens from esophageal, gastric, and fever, weight loss, fatigue, generalized muscle weakness duodenal biopsies did not contain organisms. Liposomal am- and pain, dysphagia, glossitis, peripheral edema, and diar- photericin B was begun to treat a presumed fungal infection. rhea (Table 1). The limb edema might have been multifac- The patient remained febrile, and his condition wors- torial and associated with local inflammation of the muscle; ened. Nasogastric feeding was begun because of bulbar hypoalbuminemia; and impaired renal function, including muscle weakness. Several other complications developed, proteinuria (19). The urinary myoglobin was negative in including atrial fibrillation, delirium, and acute renal failure case-patient A, and urinary sediment staining for microspo- requiring dialysis. He died 4 weeks after admission after a ridia was either not performed or not documented in any nasopharyngeal bleed that led to aspiration pneumonia. Sub- of the case-patients. Three case-patients had diarrhea, but sequent electron microscopy of the muscle biopsy demon- no microsporidia were observed in gut biopsy specimens strated myositis caused by A. algerae (Figure 2). As with or in stained fecal samples (5,8). Although oropharyngeal case-patient A, the partial sequence of the small subunit ribo- ulceration and mucositis in case-patients B and 3 might somal RNA gene from the muscle biopsy was homologous have been caused by medication, it also might represent A. with A. algerae. algerae infection (4,8). The cardiac and central nervous system disorders may be associated with the A. algerae infection, related to co- morbidities or nonspecific features of severe illness. Case- patient B had delirium and atrial fibrillation with increased troponin I. Case-patient 2 had delirium, seizures, and an increased troponin I, 1.32 µg/L (reference <0.01). Seizures were associated with Trachipleistophora anthropophthera dissemination to the brain (16,17). However, the signs of cortical vasculitis and ischaemia on magnetic
