Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


and an increased troponin I, 1.32 µg/L (reference <0.01). Seizures were associated with Trachipleistophora anthropophthera dissemination to the brain (16,17). However, the signs of cortical vasculitis and ischaemia on magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in case-patient 2 may have been due to angio-invasive fungal infection, considering the concurrent Aspergillus lung abscess. Case-patient 1, who had type 2 diabetes mellitus, died of a cerebrovascular infarction (3). Laboratory indicators of muscle damage and inflam- mation included elevated CK, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein and decreased serum albumin (20) (Table 2). Peak CK levels were lower in the transplant pa- tients. Lymphopenia and decreased immunoglobulin levels might have been related to preadmission medications, in- cluding corticosteroid therapy (21). Although the underly- ing causes are yet to be determined, anemia and proteinuria were common features. The resolution of the neuropathy on nerve conduction studies in case-patient A might indi- cate recovery from peripheral nerve infection. After fixation in formalin and staining, biopsy speci- mens can be examined under light microscopy (3,5). Mus- cle biopsies show necrotic myocytes containing spores, which stain poorly with hematoxylin and eosin (Figure 1, panel A) (5). Silver stains, particularly the Warthin-Starry, clearly demonstrate 3- to 4-µm ovoid spores (Figure 1, Figure 1. Light micrographs of muscle biopsy tissue from a 67-year- panel B) (5,22). In case-patient 1, muscle was immunofluo- old man (case-patient A), New South Wales, Australia, showing rescently stained by using antibodies to A. algerae (3). The microsporidial myositis caused by Anncaliia algerae. A) Necrotizing differential diagnoses include the yeast forms of fungi and myositis with prominent inflammation and spores within the necrotic leishmania amastigotes. cytoplasm of a myocyte (arrow). Hematoxylin and eosin stain. B) Numerous dark brown to black, 3- to 4-µm ovoid spores in necrotic Transmission electron microscopy of biopsies can myocytes. Warthin-Starry stain. confirm a diagnosis of microsporidial myositis and 188 Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 20, No. 2, February 2014 A. algerae Microsporidial Myositis Figure 2. Electron micrographs of muscle biopsy tissue from a 66-year-old man (case-patient B) (A) and a 67-year-old man (case-patient A) (B,C) showing Anncaliia algerae. A) Early proliferative stage meronts with diplokaryotic nuclei (n) and vesiculotubular appendages (arrows) attached to the plasmalemma. Scale bar indicates 1 µm. B) Degenerate crenated sporoblast (sb) and a mature spore with visible coils of the polar tubule (arrows). Scale bar indicates 1 µm. C) Mature
