Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


plasmalemma. Scale bar indicates 1 µm. B) Degenerate crenated sporoblast (sb) and a mature spore with visible coils of the polar tubule (arrows). Scale bar indicates 1 µm. C) Mature spore with 9 polar tubule coils in a single row, pale endospore, and a dense exospore. Scale bar indicates 500 nm. differentiate Anncaliia spp. from Trachipleistophora homi- with other agents (9,12,18). Although albendazole has not nis (3,5,23). Although electron microscopy is highly spe- been tested for activity against A. algerae, the survival of a biopsy specimen limits sensitivity. Features that define include headache, gastrointestinal upset, and elevated lev- Anncaliia spp. include binary fission; diplokaryotic nuclei; els of transaminases (25). lack of a parasitophorous vacuole, with the thickened plas- In case-patient A and a case-patient with Trachipleis- malemma of meronts and sporonts in direct contact with tophora myositis, the combination of albendazole, sulfa- host cytoplasm; and vesiculotubular appendages project- diazine, and pyrimethamine was successful (12). However, ing from the plasmalemma (Figure 2, panel A) (5,23). De- the contribution of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine to the generate sporoblasts and spores appear crenated (Figure 2, regimen is unclear because in vitro testing has indicated panel B). Mature spores have a dense exospore coat, a pale these agents are ineffective against the microsporidian En- endospore, and single rows of 8–11 polar tubule coils (Fig- cephalitozoon cuniculi (26). Metronidazole, itraconazole, ure 2, panels B, C). This number of polar tubule coils and atovaquone, and clindamycin were among the medications the absence of deep protoplasmic extensions are features used for case-patient 1 (3). The activity of these agents of A. algerae; however, species identification also relies against microsporidia varies (25,27). Fumagillin and its on nucleic acid sequence homology (5,23). DNA extracted analogs have been used topically to treat corneal infections The primers target areas of the large and small subunit ri- because of possible side effects, they have not been used to bosomal RNA genes and sequence analysis enables identi- treat microsporidial myositis (27). fication of the organism. Like other microsporidia, A. algerae depends on host For case-patient A, who survived, a muscle biopsy was cells to obtain metabolites (28). Genes that code for a di- performed as soon as it became evident that empiric cor- versity of kinases and transport proteins are regarded as ticosteroid and intravenous immunoglobulin therapy was an adaptation to the broad range of insect hosts (7,28). A. not effective. The corticosteroid dose
