Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


of kinases and transport proteins are regarded as ticosteroid and intravenous immunoglobulin therapy was an adaptation to the broad range of insect hosts (7,28). A. not effective. The corticosteroid dose was minimized; etan- algerae was previously investigated as a biologic control ercept, methotrexate, and leflunomide had been stopped; agent for mosquitoes because heavily infected larvae rarely and leflunomide was washed out with cholestyramine (24). survive to adulthood (7). Other than in humans, no natu- Measures were taken to avoid aspiration pneumonia. On rally occurring infections have been identified in mammals. histopathology, microsporidiosis was considered, and a Mosquitoes become infected during their aquatic im- regimen with albendazole was begun. For case-patients B mature stages, either through exposure to spores in the and 2, in whom microsporidiosis was diagnosed postmor- water or by feeding on dead insect hosts (7,29). Infection tem, antifungal agents were used. In vitro studies indicated occurs when the polar tubule is extruded from the spore that amphotericin B had no activity against the tested mi- and sporoplasm is introduced into the host cell through crosporidia (25). the tubule (7). In the initial proliferative phase, asexual re- Albendazole targets microtubules and prevents forma- production occurs (7,29). Sporoloblasts then mature into tion of intranuclear spindles in microsporidia (25). Micro- spores (7,29). Although spores survive outside the host, sporidial myositis caused by species other than A. algerae they become nonviable when dried at room temperature for has been responsive to albendazole alone or in combination 5 days (30,31). Information is limited about the life cycle of Emerging Infectious Diseases • www.cdc.gov/eid • Vol. 20, No. 2, February 2014 189 SYNOPSIS A. algerae in Australia. Culex sitiens Wiedemann, an abun- has yet to be confirmed. In case-patient A, who survived, the only documented insect host (7,32). management was based on the reduction of immunosup- The exact mode of transmission of A. algerae to hu- pression, measures to prevent complications, and a treat- mans is yet to be established. Contact with water that con- ment regimen based on albendazole. Genomic analysis for tains spores generated in insect hosts is thought to be the drug targets and susceptibility testing of A. algerae may most likely mechanism (6,33). Mechanical inoculation of lead to increased therapeutic options. A. algerae myositis spores by crushing a feeding mosquito into a bite wound is an additional differential diagnosis to be considered in has also been proposed as means a
