Anncaliia algerae
KEYWORDS: yes, algerae, yes yes, case-patient, myositis, infection, muscle, microsporidia, australia, rheumatoid, arthritis, spores, case-patients, anncaliia, associated


options. A. algerae myositis spores by crushing a feeding mosquito into a bite wound is an additional differential diagnosis to be considered in has also been proposed as means a transmission (3,7). immunocompromised persons. However, spores from mosquito tissue have substantially lower germination rates in human plasma or serum than Acknowledgments those first exposed to water (34). Direct inoculation from We gratefully acknowledge Peter Taylor, Ian Carter, and the a mosquito bite also is considered less likely because the late John Tapsall for their assistance with the diagnosis for case- saliva of laboratory-infected mosquitoes did not contain patient B. A. algerae (30). The Australian case-patients lived on the eastern seaboard, within 500 km of each other, in a warm temperate environment. They were exposed to mosquito Council postgraduate scholar affiliated with the Centre for In- habitat through proximity to bodies of water on golf cours- fectious Diseases and Microbiology Public Health; Pathology es or coastal woodland. West–Institute for Clinical Pathology and Medical Research All the 5 case-patients reviewed were taking immu- nosuppressant therapy, and 2 had coexistent diabetes mel- litus. Before infection, methotrexate, leflunomide, cortico- University of Sydney. His research interests include zoonotic steroids, and antitumor necrosis factor a therapy were used and parasitic infections. as treatments in the case-patients with rheumatoid arthri- tis. Epidemiologic studies have suggested that methotrex- ate and leflunomide are not associated with a substantial References increase in serious infection, although this lack of asso- 1. Ghosh K, Weiss LM. T cell response and persistence of ciation does not exclude a contribution with combination the microsporidia. FEMS Microbiol Rev. 2012;36:748–60. immunosuppression (35–37). Antitumor necrosis factor a therapy and corticosteroids are associated with increased 2. Visvesvara GS, Belloso M, Moura H, Da Silva AJ, Moura IN, Leitch GJ, et al. Isolation of Nosema algerae from the cornea of risk (35,38,39). The severity of rheumatoid arthritis is also an immunocompetent patient. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 1999;46:10S. a risk factor for serious infection (35). However, before the 3. Coyle CM, Weiss LM, Rhodes LV III, Cali A, Takvorian PM, sion, methotrexate was the only immunosuppressive agent algerae, a mosquito pathogen. N Engl J Med. 2004;351:42–7. used by case-patient B, and he had no erosive or extraar- 4. Cali A, Neafie R, Weiss LM, Ghosh K, Vergara RB, Gupta R, ticular disease. et al. Human vocal cord infection with the microsporidium Case-patients 2 and 3 were solid-organ transplant re- Anncaliia algerae.
