Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


ABSTRACT Resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH), a syndrome of reduced responsiveness of target tissues to thyroid hormone (TH) was identified in 1967 ( 1 ). An early report proposed various mechanisms including defects in TH transport, metabolism and action ( 2 ). However, with the identification of TH receptor beta ( THRB ) gene mutations in 1989 ( 3 , 4 ), the term RTH became synonymous with defects of this specific gene ( 5 ). Subsequent discoveries of genetic defects that reduce the effectiveness of TH through altered cell membrane transport ( 6 , 7 ) and metabolism ( 8 ) have broadened the definition of TH hyposensitivity to encompass all defects that can interfere with the biological activity of a chemically intact hormone secreted in normal or even excessive amounts. In this chapter, we have retained the acronym RTH to denote the syndrome produced by reduced intracellular action of the active TH, triiodothyronine (T 3 ). However, with the identification of mutations in the TH receptor alpha ( THRA ) gene ( 9 ), RTH syndromes are designated as RTHα and RTHß. The term of impaired sensitivity to TH (ISTH) has been therefore proposed ( 10 - 12 ) to denote altered effectiveness of TH in a broader sense. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . TH SECRETION, CELL-MEMBRANE TRANSPORT, METABOLISM AND ACTION Normal TH action requires 1) adequate synthesis and secretion of TH, 2) its transport across cell membranes, 3) hormone activation through intracellular metabolism, 4) cytosolic processing and nuclear translocation, 5) binding to receptors, and 6) interaction of the receptors with co-regulators or other post receptor effects mediating the TH effect. In addition to nuclear actions of TH, non-genomic actions are also of physiological relevance ( 13 , 14 ). Maintenance of TH supply is insured by a feedback control mechanism involving the hypothalamus, pituitary, and thyroid gland ( Figure 1A ). A decrease in the circulating TH concentration induces a hypothalamus-mediated stimulation of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) secretion mediated by TSH-releasing hormone (TRH) from the pituitary thyrotrophs, which stimulates the thyroid follicular cells to synthesize and secrete more hormone. In contrast, TH excess attenuates or suppresses the system through the same pathway, in order to maintain homeostasis. This centrally regulated system, does not respond to changing requirements for TH in a particular organ or cell.
