Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


suppresses the system through the same pathway, in order to maintain homeostasis. This centrally regulated system, does not respond to changing requirements for TH in a particular organ or cell. Figure 1. Regulation of TH supply, metabolism and genomic action. (A) Feedback control that regulates the amount of TH in blood. (B) Intracellular metabolism of TH, regulating TH bioactivity. (C) Genomic action of TH. For details see text. CBP/P300, cAMP-binding protein/general transcription adaptor; TFIIA and TFIIB, transcription intermediary factor II, A and B; TBP, TATA-binding protein; TAF, TBP-associated factor. Additional systems operate to accommodate for local TH requirements. One such system is the control of TH entry into the cell through active transmembrane transporters ( 15 ). Another is the activation of the hormone precursor thyroxine (T 4 ) by removal of the outer ring iodine (5’-deiodination) to form T 3 or, inactivation of T 4 and T 3 by removal of the inner ring iodine (5-deiodination) to form reverse T 3 (rT 3 ) and T 2 , respectively (Chapter 6) ( Figure 1B ). Cell specific adjustment in deiodinase activity allows for additional local regulation of hormone supply ( 16 ). Finally, the types and abundance of TH receptors (TRs), through which TH action is mediated, determine the nature and degree of the response. TH action takes place in the cytosol as well as in the nucleus ( 13 ). The latter, known as genomic or type 1 effect, has been more extensively studied ( 14 , 17 , 18 ) ( Figure 1C ). TRs are ligand-regulated transcription factors that bind to DNA of genes whose expression they regulate either positively or negatively. THE PARADOX OF COEXISTING MANIFESTTIONS OF THYROID HORMONE DEFICIENCY AND EXCESS TH deficiency and excess are associated with typical symptoms and signs reflecting the global effects of lack and excess of the hormone, respectively, on all organs. A departure from this became apparent with the identification of the RTHß syndrome. Subjects with RTHß have high serum TH levels without TSH suppression. This paradox encompasses biochemical and clinical observations suggesting TH deficiency, sufficiency, and excess, depending on the degree and nature of the TR protein abnormality in affected individuals ( 5 ). The syndrome of TH cell membrane transport defect (THCMTD) presents a similar paradox, as subjects have high serum T 3 concentration but the cellular uptake of TH is not uniform in all tissues
