Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


TH cell membrane transport defect (THCMTD) presents a similar paradox, as subjects have high serum T 3 concentration but the cellular uptake of TH is not uniform in all tissues and cell types ( 19 ). THYROID HORMONE ACTION DEFECTS KNOWN AS RESISTANCE TO THYROID HORMONE (RTH) The first syndrome recognized to impair the sensitivity to TH was that of reduced TH action at the cellular level ( 1 ), and it was described as Resistance to Thyroid Hormone (RTH) ( 2 ). After the clinical recognition of the syndrome, it took 22 years until the molecular defect could be unraveled by demonstrating mutations in the THRB gene in 1989 ( 3 ). Twenty-three years after this discovery, mutations in the THRA gene led to the recognition of a distinct syndrome, RTHα, in 2012 ( 9 , 20 ). In addition to these two syndromes, RTHß and RTHα, other causes that impair the sensitivity to TH have been identified during the last two decades. RESISTANCE TO THYROID HORMONE-BETA (RTHß) Patients with RTHß are identified by their persistent elevation of circulating free TH associated with non-suppressed serum TSH levels, in the absence of intercurrent illnesses, drugs, or alterations of TH transport serum proteins. In addition, laboratory testing reveals that unusually high doses of exogenous TH are required to produce the expected suppressive effect on the secretion of pituitary TSH and the expected metabolic responses in peripheral tissues. Although the apparent resistance to TH may vary in severity, it is always partial. The variability in clinical manifestations may be due to the severity of the hormonal resistance, the effectiveness of compensatory mechanisms, the presence of modulating genetic factors, and the effects of prior therapy. The magnitude of the hormonal resistance is, in turn, dependent on the nature of the underlying genetic defect, most commonly, a mutation in the THRB gene ( 5 , 21 ) Despite a variable clinical presentation, the common features characteristic of the RTHß syndrome are: 1) elevated serum levels of free T 4 and to a lesser degree T 3 , particularly in older individuals, 2) normal or slightly increased serum TSH levels that respond to thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), 3) an absence of the usual symptoms and metabolic consequences of TH excess, and 4) goiter. Clinical Classification The diagnosis is based on the clinical findings and standard laboratory tests and confirmed by genetic studies. Before THRB gene
