Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


metabolic consequences of TH excess, and 4) goiter. Clinical Classification The diagnosis is based on the clinical findings and standard laboratory tests and confirmed by genetic studies. Before THRB gene defects were recognized, the proposed sub-classification of RTHß was based on symptoms, signs and laboratory parameters of tissue responses to TH ( 22 ). Notwithstanding the assessment of TSH feedback regulation by TH, the measurements of most other responses to TH have low sensitivity and are relatively nonspecific. For this reason, all tissues other than the pituitary have been grouped together under the term peripheral tissues , on which the impact of TH was roughly assessed by a combination of clinical observation and laboratory tests. The majority of patients who appear to be eumetabolic and maintain a near normal serum TSH concentration have been classified as having Generalized Resistance to TH (GRTH). In such individuals, the defect seems to be compensated by the high levels of TH. In contrast, patients with equally high serum levels of TH and non-suppressed TSH levels, who appear to be hypermetabolic, because they have signs such as sinus tachycardia, are classified as having selective pituitary resistance to TH (PRTH). TSH-producing pituitary adenomas caused by somatic mutations or isoform specific TRßs mutants also fall into this category of RTH ( 23 , 24 ). Finally, the occurrence of isolated peripheral tissue resistance to TH (PTRTH) was reported in a single patient ( 25 ). No mutation in the THRB gene of this patient could be identified ( 26 ), and no similar cases have been reported. Thus, it is uncertain whether PTRTH exists as a true entity. The earliest suggestion that PRTH may not constitute an entity distinct from GRTH was reported by Beck-Peccoz et al. ( 27 ). A comprehensive study involving 312 patients with GRTH and 72 patients with PRTH, has conclusively shown a significant overlap in all parameters examined including tachycardia, emotional disturbance and hyperactivity in the two categories ( 28 ). More importantly, identical mutations were found in individuals classified as having GRTH and PRTH, many of whom belonged to the same family ( 29 ). This led to the conclusion that these two seemingly different forms of RTH are in fact related to a spectrum of subjective symptoms, as well as the individual’s target organ susceptibility to changes of TH, a phenomenon also observed in subjects with thyroid dysfunction in the
