Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


end of the hinge region, which contain the three mutation clusters, are expanded. The four terminal exons containing all so far identified mutation are shown with the number different mutation and number of families in parenthesis (published and our unpublished data). Amino acids are numbered consecutively starting at the amino terminus of the TRß1 molecule according to the consensus statement of the First International Workshop on RTH ( 304 ). TRß2 has 15 additional residues at the N-terminus. Mutations occur in three clusters as indicated. A silent region between cluster 1 and 2, located in the dimerization domain contains two mutations (Q374K and R383H), indicated with arrows. TOP PORTION: Schematic representation of TRß and its functional domains for interaction with TREs (DNA-binding), with hormone (T 3 -binding), with activating ( 298 ), repressing ( 299 - 301 ) cofactors and with nuclear receptor partners (dimerization) ( 74 , 302 , 303 ). Note their relationship to the three clusters of natural mutations. All THRB gene mutations are located in the functionally relevant T 3 -binding domain and its adjacent hinge region. Three mutational clusters have been identified with intervening cold regions ( Figure 2 ). No mutations have been identified in the DNA binding domain or in the amino termini characterizing TRß1 and TRß2. A report of a putative mutation, C36Y, in the amino terminus ( 39 ) represents a polymorphism that does not alter the biological properties of the TRß1 molecule ( 40 ). With the exception of the family with THRB gene deletion, the inheritance of all others is autosomal dominant. Somatic mutations in the THRB gene have been identified in some TSH-secreting pituitary tumors ( 23 , 41 ). These mutations can be identical to those occurring in the germline. However, which affects the negative regulation of TSH by TH, is responsible for the development of the pituitary tumor. In 14% of families, RTHß occurs in the absence of mutations in the THRB genes (nonTRß-RTH) ( 42 ). Such individuals may have a defect in one of the cofactors involved in the mediation of TH action (see Animal Models of RTH, below). Molecular Mechanisms of TR Action The two TH receptor genes located on chromosome 17 and 3 encode TRα and TRß, which have substantial structural and sequence similarities. Both genes produce two isoforms, α1 and α2 by alternative splicing, and ß1 and ß2 by different transcription
