Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


3 encode TRα and TRß, which have substantial structural and sequence similarities. Both genes produce two isoforms, α1 and α2 by alternative splicing, and ß1 and ß2 by different transcription start points. TRα2 binds to TH response elements (TREs) but due to a sequence difference in the ligand-binding domain (LBD), it does not bind TH ( 43 ) and appears to have a weak antagonistic effect ( 44 ). Additional TR isoforms, including a TRß with a shorter amino terminus (TRß3), a truncated TRß3, TRα1 and TRα2 lacking the DNA-binding domain (DBD) have been identified in rodents ( 45 , 46 ), and TRß4 that lacks the LBD has been reported in selected human tissues ( 47 ). The significance of these variants in humans remains unknown ( 48 ). Finally, a p43 protein, translated from a downstream AUG of TRα1, is believed to mediate the TH effect in mitochondria ( 49 ). The relative expression of the two TR genes and the distribution of the encoded proteins vary among tissues and during different stages of development ( 50 - 52 ). The abundance of several splice variants involving the 5'-untranslated region of the human TRß1 ( 53 , 54 ) is regulated developmentally and varies among tissues. Although TRß and TRα are interchangeable ( 55 , 56 ) to a certain degree, the absence of one or the other receptor does not produce equivalent phenotypes. Some TH effects are entirely TR isoform specific (see Animal Models of RTH, below). TREs, located in TH regulated genes, consist of half-sites that contain the consensus sequence AGGTCA, and vary in number, spacing and orientation ( 57 , 58 ). Each half-site usually binds a single TR molecule (monomer), two half-sites bind two TRs (dimer) or one TR and a heterologous partner (heterodimer), the most prominent being the retinoid X receptor γ (RXR). Dimer formation is facilitated by the presence of an intact "leucine zipper" motif located in the middle of the LBD of TRs. Occupation of TREs by unliganded TRs, also known as aporeceptors, inhibits the constitutive expression of genes that are positively regulated by TH ( 59 ) through association with corepressors such as the nuclear corepressor (NCoR) or the silencing mediator of retinoic acid and TH receptors (SMRT) ( 60 ). Transcriptional repression is mediated through the recruitment of the mammalian homologue of the Saccaromyces transcriptional corepressor (mSin3A) and histone
