Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


mediator of retinoic acid and TH receptors (SMRT) ( 60 ). Transcriptional repression is mediated through the recruitment of the mammalian homologue of the Saccaromyces transcriptional corepressor (mSin3A) and histone deacetylases (HDAC) ( 61 ). This latter activity compacts nucleosomes into a tight and inaccessible structure, effectively shutting down gene expression ( Figure 1C ). This effect is relieved by the addition of TH, which releases the corepressor, reduces the binding of TR dimers to TRE, enhances the occupation of TREs by TR/RXR heterodimers ( 62 ) and recruits coactivators (CoA) such as p/CAF (CREB binding protein-associated factor) and the nuclear coactivator (NCoA) ( 63 ) with histone acetylation (HAT) activity ( 60 , 64 ). This results in the loosening of the nucleosome structure making the DNA more accessible to transcription factors ( Figure 1C ). The ligand-dependent association with TR associated proteins, in conjunction with the general coactivators PC2 and PC4, act to mediate transcription by RNA polymerase II and general initiation factors ( 65 ). Furthermore, it is believed that T 3 exerts its effect by inducing conformational changes of the TR molecule and that TR associated proteins (TRAP) stabilize the association of TRs with TREs. In addition to these genomic effects, TH can also act at the cell membrane and in the cytosol through non-genomic actions ( 13 , 66 ). These non-genomic type 2 effects ( 14 ) include oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial gene transcription and involve the generation of intracellular secondary messengers with induction of [Ca(2+)] (I), cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) AMP or protein kinase signaling cascades. Properties of Mutant TRß Receptors and Associated Dominant Negative Effect THRB gene mutations produce two forms of RTH. The less common, described in only one family ( 1 ), is caused by deletion of all coding sequences of the THRB gene and is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait ( 34 ). The complete lack of TRß in these individuals results in severe deafness and is associated with mutism ( 1 ), as well as monochromatic vision ( 67 ) because TRß is required for the cochlear maturation and the development of cone photoreceptors that mediate color vision ( 68 ) (see Animal Models of RTH, below). Heterozygous individuals that express a single THRB gene have no clinical or laboratory abnormalities. This is not due to compensatory overexpression of the single normal allele of the THRB gene
