Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


Heterozygous individuals that express a single THRB gene have no clinical or laboratory abnormalities. This is not due to compensatory overexpression of the single normal allele of the THRB gene nor that of the THRA gene ( 69 ). However, because subjects with complete TRß gene deletion preserve some TH responsiveness, it is logical to conclude that TRα1 is capable of partially substituting for the function of TRß (see Animal Models of RTH, below). The more common form of RTHß is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion and is characterized by defects in one allele of the THRB gene, principally missense mutations. This contrasts with the lack of a phenotype in individuals that express a single THRB allele. The RTHß phenotype does not result from a lack of a functional allele (haploinsufficiency) caused by the mutant TRßs (mutTRs) but by interfering with the function of the wild-type (WT) TR (dominant negative effect, DNE). This has been clearly demonstrated in experiments in which mutTRs are coexpressed with WT TRs ( 70 , 71 ). Studies have established two basic requirements for mutTRs to exert a DNE: 1) preservation of binding to TREs on DNA and 2) the ability to dimerize with a homologous ( 72 , 73 ) or heterologous partner ( 74 , 75 ). These criteria apply to mutTRs with predominantly impaired T 3 -binding activity ( Figure 3 ). In addition, a DNE can be exerted through impaired association with a cofactor even in the absence of important impairment of T 3 -binding. Increased affinity of a mutTR for a corepressor (CoR) ( 76 , 77 ), or reduced association with a coactivator (CoA) ( 78 - 80 ), have been found to play a role in the dominant expression of RTH. The introduction in a mutTR of an additional artificial mutation that abolishes either DNA binding, dimerization or the association with a CoR results in the abrogation of its DNE ( 75 , 81 , 82 ). Figure 3. Mechanism of the dominant expression of RTH: In the absence of T 3 , occupancy of TRE by TR heterodimers (TR-TRAP) or dimers (TR-TR) suppresses transactivation through association with a corepressor (CoR). (A) T 3 -activated transcription mediated by TR-TRAP heterodimers involves the release of the CoR and association with coactivators (CoA) as well as (B) the removal of TR dimers from TRE releases their silencing effect and
