Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


by TR-TRAP heterodimers involves the release of the CoR and association with coactivators (CoA) as well as (B) the removal of TR dimers from TRE releases their silencing effect and liberates TREs for the binding of active TR-TRAP heterodimers. The dominant negative effect of a mutant TR (mutTR), that does not bind T 3 , can be explained by the inhibitory effect of mutTR-containing-dimers and heterodimers that occupy TRE. Thus, T 3 is unable to activate the mutTR-TRAP heterodimer (A') or release TREs from the inactive mutTR homodimers (B'). [Modified from Refetoff et al. ( 5 )]. The distribution of THRB gene mutations associated with RTHß reveals a conspicuous absence of mutations in regions of the molecule that are important for dimerization, for the binding to DNA, and for the interaction with CoRs ( Figure 2 ). These "cold regions" contain CpG hot spots, suggesting that they may not be devoid of naturally occurring mutations. Rather, mutations would escape detection owing to their failure to produce clinically significant RTHß in heterozygotes, as tested in vitro ( 83 ). This was recently confirmed in a study of a family in which one member has been fortuitously identified to have a mutation in the cold region ( 84 ). Nevertheless, mutation in other regions of the TRß could also be phenotypically silent, particularly if not occurring near the T3 binding pocket ( 85 ). Structural studies of the DBD and LBD have provided further understanding about the clustered distribution of mutTRßs associated RTH and defects in the association with cofactors ( 86 - 89 ). Based on the early finding that RTHß is associated with mutations confined to the LBD of the TRß, it was anticipated that the clinical severity of RTHß would correlate with the degree of T 3 -binding impairment. While this was true in 12 different natural mutTRßs, in 5 others, the severity of the resistance was less pronounced despite virtually complete absent T 3 -binding. This is explained by the reduced dominant negative potency due to diminished ability to form homodimers (for example R316H and R338W) ( 90 ). Weakened association of TRß with DNA or CoR can produce the same effect. Less evident was the observation of relatively severe interference with the function of the WT TRß, despite very mild impairment or no T 3 -binding defect at all. This was the case when hormone-binding was tested
