Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


relatively severe interference with the function of the WT TRß, despite very mild impairment or no T 3 -binding defect at all. This was the case when hormone-binding was tested in two mutTRßs, located in the hinge region of the receptor (R243Q and R243W) ( 91 ). However, reduced T 3 -binding could be demonstrated after binding of the mutTRß to TRE, indicating a change in the mutTRß configuration when bound to genomic DNA ( 91 , 92 ). Other mechanisms and examples of DNE in the presence of normal or slightly attenuated T 3 -binding include a decreased interaction of L454V with CoA ( 78 ), and a delay of R383H to release CoR ( 93 ). In general, the relative degree of impaired function among various mutTRßs is similar whether tested using TRE-containing reporter genes that are negatively or positively regulated by T 3 . Exceptions to this rule are the mutTRßs R383H and R429Q that show greater impairment of transactivation on negatively rather than positively regulated promoters ( 90 , 93 , 94 ). In this respect, these two mutTRßs are candidates for a predominant PRTH phenotype, even though they have been clinically described as producing GRTH ( 95 ), as well as PRTH ( 96 , 97 ). Substitution of these charged amino acids (in this case arginine) disrupts the unique property of TRß2 to bind certain coactivators through multiple contact surfaces ( 98 ). The result is a decrease in the normal T 3 -mediated feedback suppression mediated by TRß2 through the conversion of TRß2 to a TRß1-like molecule with altered CoA binding. As a consequence, the mutation affects predominantly TRß2 mediated action. In vivo support for a TRß2 predominant impairment of the mutTRß R429Q was also obtained in mice ( 99 ). Another putative mechanism for isolated PRTH was illustrated by the occurrence of a double-hit combining in cis the THRB mutation R338W and a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) located in an intronic enhancer shown to play a critical role in the pituitary expression of the TRβ2 isoform ( 100 ). The presence of a thymidine in this SNP, leads to over-expression of the mutant allele in GH3 pituitary-derived cells, thus having the potential to generate a tissue-specific dominant-negative condition. However, the T/C nucleotides of this SNP have not been correlated with the clinical presentation in individuals with this most common TRß R338W mutation.
