Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


to generate a tissue-specific dominant-negative condition. However, the T/C nucleotides of this SNP have not been correlated with the clinical presentation in individuals with this most common TRß R338W mutation. No mutations specific to the TRß2 involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary feedback regulation have been identified. Molecular Basis of the Variable RTHβ Phenotype The extremes of the RTHß phenotype have a readily apparent molecular basis. Subjects heterozygous for a THRB gene deletion are normal because the expression of a single THRB allele is sufficient for normal function. RTHß manifests in homozygotes completely lacking the THRB gene and in heterozygotes that express a mutTRß with DNE. The most severe form of RTHß, with extremely high TH levels and signs of both hypothyroidism and thyrotoxicosis, occur in homozygous individuals expressing only mutTRßs ( 35 , 36 ). The severe hypothyroidism manifesting in bone and brain of such subjects can be explained by the silencing effect of a double dose of mutTR and its interference with the function of TRα ( 72 ), a situation which does not occur in homozygous subjects who lack TRß. In contrast, the manifestation of thyrotoxicosis in other tissues, such as the heart, may be explained by the effect of high TH levels on tissues that normally express predominantly TRα1 ( 101 , 102 ) (see Animal Models of RTH, below). For this same reason, tachycardia is a relatively common finding in RTHß ( 103 ). Various mechanisms can be postulated to explain the tissue differences in TH resistance within the same subject and among individuals. The distribution of receptor isoforms varies from tissue to tissue ( 50 , 104 , 105 ). This likely accounts for greater hormonal resistance of the liver as compared to the heart. Differences in the degree of resistance among individuals harboring the same mutTRß could be explained by the relative level of mutant and WT TR expression. Such differences have been found in one study using cultured fibroblasts ( 106 ) but not in another ( 69 ). Various reasons for a predominant TRß2 dysfunction have been presented in the preceding section. Although in a subset of mutTRßs a correlation was found between their functional impairment and the degree of thyrotroph hyposensitivity to TH, this correlation is not maintained in terms of hormonal resistance in peripheral tissues ( 90 ). Subjects with the same mutations, even belonging to the same family, show different
