Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


TH, this correlation is not maintained in terms of hormonal resistance in peripheral tissues ( 90 ). Subjects with the same mutations, even belonging to the same family, show different degrees of hormone resistance. A most striking example is that of family G.H. in which the mutTRß R316H did not co-segregate with the RTHß phenotype in all family members ( 107 ). This variability of clinical and laboratory findings was not observed in affected members of two other families with the same mutation ( 29 , 108 ). A study in a large family with the mutTRß R320H, suggests that genetic variability of factors other than TR may modulate the phenotype of RTHß ( 109 ). RTHß Without THRB Gene Mutations (nonTRß-RTH) The molecular basis of nonTRß-RTH remains unknown. Since the first demonstration of nonTRß-RTH ( 21 ), more than 75 families with the phenotype of RTHß have been identified, in which affected individuals did not harbor germline mutations in the THRB , 39 of which in the authors’ laboratory ( 42 , 110 - 113 ). The phenotype is indistinguishable from that in subjects with THRB gene mutations. Distinct features are an increased female to male ratio and a high prevalence of sporadic cases. While it has been postulated that nonTRß-RTH is likely caused by a defect in one of the cofactors involved in the mediation of TH action, proof supporting this contention is lacking ( 114 ). Recently, in-depth targeted new generation sequencing revealed mosaicism of previously reported THRB gene mutations in 19% of families ( 33 ) as previously identified in one family ( 115 ). Two families with more than one affected individual were found to harbor a THRB gene mutation that had been missed when early sequencing required cloning of amplified fragments into plasmids ( 33 ). Animal Models of RTHß Understanding the action of TH in vivo , and the mechanisms underlying the abnormalities observed in patients with RTHß, has been bolstered by observations made in genetically manipulated mice. Three types of genetic manipulations have been applied: (a) transgenic mice that overexpress a receptor; (b) deletion of the receptor (knockout or KO); and (c) introduction of mutations in the receptor (knockin or KI). The latter two types of gene manipulation, species differences notwithstanding, have yielded true models of the recessively and dominantly inherited forms of RTHß ( 116 ). The features of RTHß found
