Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


latter two types of gene manipulation, species differences notwithstanding, have yielded true models of the recessively and dominantly inherited forms of RTHß ( 116 ). The features of RTHß found in patients homozygous for TRß deletion also manifest in the TRß deficient mouse ( 117 - 119 ). Special features, such as sensorineural deafness and monochromatic vision are characteristic and shared by mouse ( 120 ) ( 121 ) and man ( 1 , 122 ). The mouse model allowed for investigations in greater depth into the mechanisms responsible for the development of these abnormalities. Thus, TRß deficiency retards the expression of fast-activating potassium conductance in inner hair cells of the cochlea that transforms the immature cells from spiking pacemakers to high-frequency signal transmitters ( 123 ). TRß2 interacts with transcription factors providing timed and spatial order for cone differentiation. Its absence results in the selective loss of M-opsin ( 121 ). The down regulation of hypothalamic TRH is also TRß2 specific ( 124 ). Mice deficient in TRß have increased heart rate that can be decreased to the level of the WT mouse by reduction on the TH level ( 119 ). This finding, together with the lower heart rate in mice selectively deficient in TRα1 ( 101 ), indicates that TH dependent changes in heart rate are mediated through TRα, and explains the tachycardia observed in some patients with RTHß. The combined deletion of TRα1 and α2, produces no important alterations in TH or TSH concentrations in serum ( 55 ). The complete lack of TRs, both α and ß, is compatible with life ( 55 , 56 ). This contrasts with the complete lack of TH which, in the athyreotic Pax8 deficient mouse, results in death prior to weaning, unless rescued by TH treatment ( 125 ). The survival of mice deficient in both TRα and ß is not due to expression of a yet unidentified TR but to the absence of the noxious silencing effects of aporeceptors. Indeed, removal of the Thrα gene rescues the Pax8 KO mice from death ( 126 ). The combined Thrß and Thrα deficient mice have serum TSH levels that are 500-fold higher than those of the WT mice, and T 4 concentrations 12-fold above the average normal mean ( 55 ). Thus, the presence of an aporeceptor does not seem to be required for the upregulation of TSH but no
