Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


4 concentrations 12-fold above the average normal mean ( 55 ). Thus, the presence of an aporeceptor does not seem to be required for the upregulation of TSH but no amount of TH causes its downregulation. The first animal model of the dominantly inherited organ-limited RTHß utilized somatic transfer of a mutTRß1 G345R mutation by means of a recombinant adenovirus ( 127 ). The liver of these mice was resistant to TH, and overexpression of the WT TRß increased the severity of hypothyroidism, confirming that the unliganded TR has a constitutive effect both in vivo as in vitro . True mouse models of dominantly inherited RTHß have been generated by targeted mutations in the Thrß gene ( 128 , 129 ). The mutations were modeled on those identified in humans with RTH [frame-shift resulting in 16 carboxylterminal nonsense amino acids (PV mouse) and T337Δ]. As in humans, the phenotype seen in the heterozygous KI animals was more severe in mice lacking both Thrß alleles. NcoA (SRC-1) deficient mice have RTHß with typical increase in T 4 , T 3 and TSH concentrations ( 130 ). A milder form of RTHß was identified in mice deficient in RXRγ ( 131 ). These animals show reduced sensitivity to L-T 3 in terms of TSH downregulation but not in metabolic rate. These data indicate that abnormalities in cofactors can produce RTHß. Pathogenesis The reduced sensitivity to TH in subjects with RTHß is shared to a variable extent by most tissues. The hyposensitivity of the pituitary thyrotrophs results in a non-suppressed serum TSH, which in turn, increases the synthesis and secretion of TH. The persistence of TSH secretion in the face of high levels of serum free TH contrasts with the low TSH levels in the more common forms of TH hypersecretion that are TSH-independent. This apparent paradoxical dissociation between TH and TSH is responsible for the wide use of the term "inappropriate secretion of TSH" to designate the syndrome. However, TSH hypersecretion is not at all inappropriate, given the fact that the response to TH is reduced. It is compensatory and appropriate for the level of TH action mediated through a defective TRß. As a consequence, most patients are eumetabolic, though the compensation is variable among affected individuals and among tissues in the same individual. However, the level of tissue responses does not correlate with the level of TH, probably owing to discordance
