Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


is variable among affected individuals and among tissues in the same individual. However, the level of tissue responses does not correlate with the level of TH, probably owing to discordance between the hormonal effect on the pituitary and other body tissues. Thyroid gland enlargement occurs with chronic, though minimal TSH hypersecretion due to increased biological potency of this glycoprotein through increased sialylation ( 132 ). Administration of supraphysiological doses of TH is required to suppress TSH secretion without induction of global thyrotoxic changes in peripheral tissues. Thyroid-stimulating antibodies, which are responsible for the hyperactivity of the thyroid gland in Graves' disease, have been conspicuously absent in patients with RTHß. Another potential thyroid stimulator, human chorionic gonadotropin, has not been found in serum of subjects with RTHß ( 133 , 134 ). The selectivity of the resistance to TH has been convincingly demonstrated. When tested at the pituitary level, both thyrotrophs and lactotrophs were less sensitive only to TH. Thyrotrophs responded normally to the suppressive effects of the dopaminergic drugs L-dopa and bromocriptine ( 135 , 136 ), as well as to glucocorticoids ( 136 - 138 ). Studies carried out in cultured fibroblasts confirm the in vivo findings of selective resistance to TH. The responsiveness to dexamethasone, measured in terms of glycosaminoglycan ( 139 ) and fibronectin synthesis ( 140 ), was preserved in the presence of T 3 insensitivity. Several of the clinical features encountered in some patients with RTHß may be the manifestation of selective tissue deprivation of TH during early stages of development. These clinical features include retarded bone age, stunted growth, mental retardation or learning disability, emotional disturbances, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), hearing defects, and nystagmus ( 5 ). A variety of associated somatic abnormalities appear to be unrelated pathogenically and may be the result of involvement of other genes such as in major deletions of DNA sequences ( 34 ). However, no gross chromosomal abnormalities have been detected on karyotyping ( 1 , 141 ). Pathology Little can be said about the pathologic findings in tissues other than the thyroid. Electron microscopic examination of striated muscle obtained by biopsy from one patient revealed mitochondrial swelling, also known to be encountered in thyrotoxicosis ( 1 ). This is compatible with the predominant expression of TRα in muscle, responding to the excessive amount of circulating TH ( 142 ). Light microscopy of skin fibroblasts stained with toluidine
