Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


This is compatible with the predominant expression of TRα in muscle, responding to the excessive amount of circulating TH ( 142 ). Light microscopy of skin fibroblasts stained with toluidine blue showed moderate to intense metachromasia ( 2 ) as described in myxedema. However, in contrast to patients with TH deficiency, treatment with the hormone failed to induce the disappearance of the metachromasia in fibroblasts from patients with RTHß. Thyroid tissue, obtained by biopsy or at surgery, revealed various degrees of hyperplasia of the follicular epithelium ( 136 , 143 - 145 ). Specimens have been described as "adenomatous goiters", "colloid goiters”, and normal thyroid tissue. When present, lymphocytic infiltration is due to the coexistence of thyroiditis ( 146 ). Clinical Features Characteristic of the RTHß syndrome is the paucity of specific clinical manifestations. When present, manifestations are variable from one patient to another. Investigations leading to the diagnosis of RTHß have been undertaken because of the presence of goiter, hyperactive behavior or learning disabilities, developmental delay and sinus tachycardia ( Figure 4 ). Fortuitous detection of RTHß on laboratory testing can become more common with the increased frequency of routine thyroid testing. The finding of elevated serum TH levels in association with a non-suppressed TSH is usually responsible for the pursuit of further studies leading to the diagnosis. Figure 4. The reasons prompting further investigation of the index member of each family with RTHß. The degree of compensation for tissue hyposensitivity by the increased levels of TH is variable among individuals, as well as in different tissues. As a consequence, clinical and laboratory evidence of TH deficiency and excess often coexist. For example, RTHß can present with a mild to moderate growth retardation, delayed bone maturation and learning disabilities suggestive of hypothyroidism, alongside with hyperactivity and tachycardia compatible with thyrotoxicosis. The common clinical features and their frequency are given in Table 2 . Frank symptoms of hypothyroidism are more common in those individuals who, because of erroneous diagnosis, have received treatment to normalize their circulating TH levels. Table 2. Clinical Features of RTHß View in own window FINDINGS FREQUENCY (%) Thyroid gland Goiter 66-95 Nervous System Hyperkinetic behavior 33-68 Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 40-60 Learning disability 30 Mental retardation (IQ <70) 4-16 Hearing loss (sensorineural) 10-22 Growth and Development Short stature (<5 th percentile) 18-25 Delayed bone age >2 SD 29-47 Low body mass index (in children) 33 Recurrent
