Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


(IQ <70) 4-16 Hearing loss (sensorineural) 10-22 Growth and Development Short stature (<5 th percentile) 18-25 Delayed bone age >2 SD 29-47 Low body mass index (in children) 33 Recurrent Ear and Throat Infections 55 Goiter is the most common abnormality. It has been reported in 66-95% of cases and is almost always detected by ultrasonography. The enlargement of the gland is usually diffuse; nodular changes and gross asymmetry are found in recurrent goiters after surgery. Goiter is more often present in children with RTHß born to normal than to affected mothers ( 96 ). Sinus tachycardia is also very common, with some studies reporting a frequency as high as 80% ( 28 ). Palpitations often bring the patient to medical attention, and the finding of tachycardia is the most common reason for the erroneous diagnosis of autoimmune thyrotoxicosis or the suspicion of PRTH. About one-half of subjects with RTHß have some degree of learning disability with or without ADHD ( 5 , 147 ). One-quarter have intellectual quotients (IQ) less than 85, but frank mental retardation (IQ <60) has been found only in 3% of cases. Impaired mental function was found to be associated with impaired or delayed growth (<5th percentile) in 20% of subjects, although isolated growth retardation is rare (4%) ( 5 ). Despite the high prevalence of ADHD in patients with RTH, the occurrence of RTHß in children with ADHD must be very rare, none having been detected in 330 such children studied ( 148 , 149 ). The higher prevalence of low IQ scores appear to confer a higher likelihood for subjects with RTHß to exhibit ADHD symptoms ( 108 ). A retrospective survey has shown an increased miscarriage rate and low birth weight of normal infants born to mothers with RTHß ( 150 ). These same individuals, exposed to high TH levels during embryonic life, develop reduced sensitivity to TH as adults despite the absence of THRB gene mutations. This epigenetic effect is transmitted along the male line for at least three generations ( 151 ). A variety of physical defects that cannot be explained on the basis of TH deprivation or excess have been recorded. These include major or minor somatic defects, such as winged scapulae, vertebral anomalies, pigeon breast, prominent pectoralis, birdlike facies, scaphocephaly, short 4 th metacarpals, as well as Besnier's prurigo, congenital ichthyosis, and bull's eye type macular atrophy (
