Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


as winged scapulae, vertebral anomalies, pigeon breast, prominent pectoralis, birdlike facies, scaphocephaly, short 4 th metacarpals, as well as Besnier's prurigo, congenital ichthyosis, and bull's eye type macular atrophy ( 5 ). Some may be related to the severity of the hormonal resistance as they manifest in homozygotes ( 36 ). An infant compound heterozygous for a THRB gene mutation (R338W and R429W) presented with a cone photoreceptor disorder associated with severe thyroid hormone resistance ( 152 ). Course of Disease The course of the disease is as variable as is its presentation. Most subjects have normal growth and development, and lead a normal life at the expense of high TH levels and a small goiter. Others present variable degrees of mental and growth retardation. Symptoms of hyperactivity tend to improve with age as it does in subjects with ADHD only. Goiter has recurred in every patient who underwent incomplete thyroid surgery. As a consequence, some subjects have been submitted to several consecutive thyroidectomies or treatments with radioiodine ( 145 , 153 - 155 ). Thyroid cancer has been rarely reported in individuals with RTHß and, when occurring, the outcome has not been unfavorable despite incomplete TSH suppression ( 156 ). Laboratory Findings TH AND ITS METABOLITES In the untreated patient, elevation in the concentration of serum free T 4 is a sine qua non requirement for the diagnosis of RTHß. It is often accompanied by high serum levels of T 3 , but less so with advancing age. Serum thyroid binding globulin (TBG) and transthyretin (TTR) concentrations are normal. The resin T 3 uptake is usually high as is the case in patients with thyrotoxicosis. Serum T 4 and T 3 values range from just above to several fold the upper limit of normal. Although the levels may vary in the course of time in the same patient ( 28 ), the T 3 :T 4 ratio remains normal ( 5 ). This contrasts with the disproportionate increase in serum T 3 concentration characteristic of autoimmune thyrotoxicosis ( 157 ). Reverse T 3 concentration is also high in patients with RTHß as is that of another product of T 4 degradation, 3,3'-T2 ( 144 ). Serum thyroglobulin level tends also to be high and the degree of its elevation reflects the level of TSH induced thyroid gland hyperactivity. In vivo turnover kinetics of T 4 showed a normal or
