Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


also to be high and the degree of its elevation reflects the level of TSH induced thyroid gland hyperactivity. In vivo turnover kinetics of T 4 showed a normal or slightly increased volume of distribution and fractional disappearance rate of the hormone. However, because of the large extrathyroidal pool, the absolute daily production of T 4 and T 3 are increased by about two- to four-fold ( 2 , 153 , 158 , 159 ), but the extrathyroidal conversion of T 4 to T 3 remains normal ( 159 ). THYROTROPIN AND OTHER THYROID STIMULATORS A characteristic feature of the syndrome is the preservation of the TSH response to TRH despite the elevated TH levels ( 160 ). In most cases, the basal serum TSH concentration is normal and the circadian rhythm is unaltered ( 161 , 162 ). TSH values above 6 mU/L indicate a decrease in thyroidal reserve due to treatment directed to the thyroid or associated thyroid disease. The severity of the central RTHß can be quantitated, even in the presence of reduced thyroidal reserve, using the thyrotroph T 4 resistance index (TT 4 RI); the product of serum FT 4 , expressed as percent of the upper limit of normal, and the TSH level ( 91 ). TSH has increased biological activity ( 132 , 163 ) and the free alpha subunit (α-SU) is not disproportionately high. Antibodies against thyroglobulin and thyroid peroxidase indicating the presence of autoimmune thyroid disease, have a higher prevalence in RTHß ( 164 ). THYROID GLAND ACTIVITY AND INTEGRITY OF HORMONE SYNTHESIS The fractional uptake of radioiodine by the thyroid gland is high as is the absolute amount of accumulated iodide. The latter is normally organified as demonstrated by the retention of radioiodine following the administration of perchlorate ( 1 , 153 , 165 ). IN VIVO EFFECTS OF TH The impact of TH on peripheral tissues, assessed in vivo by a variety of tests, suggests a reduced biologic response to the hormone in some tissues but not in others. Early studies measuring the metabolic rate (BMR) evaluated by measurement of oxygen consumption showed normal results ( 2 ). However resting energy expenditure, measured subsequently by indirect calorimetry was increased, but not the rate of ATP synthesis, measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 166 ). This indicates that in subjects with RTHß, the basal mitochondrial substrate oxidation is increased and energy
