Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


not the rate of ATP synthesis, measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 166 ). This indicates that in subjects with RTHß, the basal mitochondrial substrate oxidation is increased and energy production in the form of ATP synthesis is decreased. Yet, the metabolic response to the administration of TH is reduced compared to normal individuals ( 5 ). With the exception of increased resting pulse rate in about one half of the patients with RTHß, the cardiac function is only minimally altered. Two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography showed findings consistent with a mild excess of TH on cardiac systolic and diastolic function whereas other parameters, such as ejection and shortening fractions of the left ventricle, systolic diameter, and left ventricle wall thickness, were normal ( 103 ). Findings suggestive of hypothyroidism have also been reported ( 167 ). The Achilles tendon reflex relaxation time has been normal or slightly prolonged. In contrast to overt thyrotoxicosis, serum parameters of TH action on peripheral tissues are usually in the reference range. These include, serum cholesterol, carotene, triglycerides, creatine kinase, alkaline phosphatase, angiotensin-converting enzyme, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), ferritin and osteocalcin. Urinary excretion of magnesium, hydroxyproline, creatine, creatinine, carnitine, and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), all found to be elevated in thyrotoxicosis, have been normal or low, suggesting normal or slightly reduced TH effect. The prolactin hyper-responsiveness in some patients with RTHß may be due to the functional TH deprivation at the level of the lactotrophs ( 160 ). Radiological evidence of delayed bone maturation has been observed in one-half of patients with RTHß diagnosed during infancy or childhood ( 5 ). However, the majority achieve normal adult stature. Evaluation of endocrine function by a variety of tests has failed to reveal significant defects other than those related to the thyroid ( 5 ). In Vitro Tests of Thyroid Hormone Action Cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with RTHß showed reduced responses to L-T 3 added to the medium in terms of degradation rate of lipoproteins ( 155 ), synthesis of glycosaminoglycans ( 139 ) and fibronectin ( 140 ). This was also true for L-T 3 -induced changes on specific messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) ( 168 ). The normal responses of dexamethasone were preserved indicating that the activity of the glucocorticoid receptor was preserved. Responses to the Administration of Thyroid Hormone Because reduced responsiveness to TH is central in the pathogenesis of the syndrome, patients have
