Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


the activity of the glucocorticoid receptor was preserved. Responses to the Administration of Thyroid Hormone Because reduced responsiveness to TH is central in the pathogenesis of the syndrome, patients have been given TH in order to observe their responses and thereby establish the presence of hyposensitivity to the hormone. Unfortunately, the data have been discrepant, not only because of differences in the relative degree of resistance to TH among patients, but also because of differences in the manner in which tests have been carried out. The dose of TH that suppresses the TSH secretion, and eventually abolishes the TSH response to TRH, is greater than that required for unaffected individuals. The decreased TSH secretion during the administration of supraphysiological doses of TH is accompanied by a reduction in the thyroidal radioiodine uptake and, when exogenous L-T 3 is given, a reduction in the pretreatment level of serum T 4 ( 133 , 134 , 145 , 153 , 155 ). Various responses of peripheral tissues to the administration of TH have been quantitated. Most notable are measurements of the BMR, pulse rate, reflex relaxation time, serum cholesterol, lipids, enzymes, osteocalcin and SHBG, and urinary excretion of hydroxyproline, creatine, and carnitine. Either no significant changes were observed, or they were much reduced relative to the amount of TH given ( 5 ). Of great importance are observations on the catabolic effect of exogenous TH. In some subjects with RTHß, L-T 4 given in doses of up to 1000 µg/day, and L-T 3 up to 400 µg/day, failed to produce weight loss without a change in caloric intake, nor did they induce a negative nitrogen balance ( 2 , 133 , 136 ). In contrast, administration of these large doses of TH over a prolonged period of time was apparently anabolic as evidenced by a dramatic increase in growth rate and accelerated bone maturation ( 30 , 136 ). Effects of Other Drugs As expected, administration of the TH analogue, 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyroacetic acid (TRIAC) to patients with RTHß produced attenuated responses ( 2 , 162 , 169 ). Administration of glucocorticoids promptly reduced the TSH response to TRH and the serum T 4 concentration ( 133 , 136 , 137 , 143 , 158 ). Administration of L-dopa and bromocriptine produced a prompt suppression of TSH secretion, as well as a diminution of the thyroidal radioiodine uptake and serum T 3 level (
