Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


158 ). Administration of L-dopa and bromocriptine produced a prompt suppression of TSH secretion, as well as a diminution of the thyroidal radioiodine uptake and serum T 3 level ( 135 , 136 , 143 ). Domperidone, a dopamine antagonist, caused a rise in the serum TSH level when given to patients with RTHß ( 162 ). These observations indicate that, in this syndrome, the normal inhibitory effect of dopamine on TSH is intact. The response to antithyroid drugs has shown some variability. Methimazole and propylthiouracil, in doses usually effective in reducing the high serum TH level of autoimmune hyperthyroidism, had no effect in two patients ( 2 ). However, in other cases of RTHß, antithyroid drugs induced some decrease in the circulating level of TH, producing a reciprocal change in the TSH concentration ( 3 , 141 , 165 , 170 ). Administration of 100 mg of iodine daily had a similar effect in one patient ( 134 ), but 4 mg potassium iodide per day produced no changes in another ( 2 ). The ß adrenergic blockers, propranolol and atenolol, produce a significant reduction in heart rate. Differential Diagnosis Because the clinical presentation of RTHß is variable, detection requires a high degree of suspicion. The differential diagnosis includes all possible causes of hyperthyroxinemia ( Table 3 ). The sequence of diagnostic procedures listed in Table 4 is suggested. Table 3. Serum Thyroid Function Tests in the Differential Diagnosis 0f Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone View in own window Defect T4 T3 rT3 T3/rT3 ratio TSH FT4 Dialysis Other common manifestations RTHß ↑ ↑ or N ↑ N N or ↑ ↑ tachycardia, goiter, ADHD RTHα N or sl↓ N or sl↑ N sl↓ ↑ N or sl↑ N or sl↓ growth and mental delay, constipation TSHoma ↑ ↑ ↑ N sl↑ or N ↑ thyrotoxicosis MCT8 mut N or ↓ ↑↑ ↓↓ ↑↑ N or sl↑ ↓ neuropsychomotor delay SBP2 mut a ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓↓ N or sl↑ ↑ growth delay FDH ( ALB mut) ↑ N or sl↑ b ↑ ↓ N N or ↑ none TBG excess ↑ ↑ ↑ N N N none Acute NTI ↑ ↓↓ ↑ ↓ N N or ↑ variable depending on illness sl: slightly; N: normal; ↑: increased; ↓: decreased; mut: mutation ADHD: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; NTI: non-thyroidal illness FDH: familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia a Low serum selenium b
