Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


depending on illness sl: slightly; N: normal; ↑: increased; ↓: decreased; mut: mutation ADHD: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; NTI: non-thyroidal illness FDH: familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia a Low serum selenium b High in ALB L66P Table 4. Suggested Sequence of Diagnostic Procedures in Suspected RTHß View in own window 1. Usual presentation: high serum levels of free T 4 with non-suppressed TSH. 2. Confirm the elevated serum level of free T 4 and exclude interfering substance, such as antibodies to T 4 , and other serum TH transport defects, especially if T 3 is normal and obtain free T 4 measurement by equilibrium dialysis 3. Obtain tests of thyroid function in first-degree relatives; parents, sibs and children 4. Sequence the THRB gene and if a mutation is detected shown to have an impaired function, the diagnosis of RTHß is secured 5. In the absence of THRB gene mutation and lack of abnormal thyroid function tests in other family members, the presence of a TSHoma should be excluded by measurement of the α-SU in serum and other appropriate tests (T 3 -suppression, TRH stimulation and MRI). 6. Demonstrate a blunted TSH-suppression and metabolic response to the administration of supraphysiological doses of TH (see response to L-T 3 protocol, Figure 5 ). 7. Blunted TSH response to L-T 3 with absence of THRB gene mutation in indicates nonTRß-RTH, which includes possible THRB mosaicism. The presence of an elevated serum T 4 concentration with a non-suppressed TSH needs to be confirmed by repeated testing. The possibility of an inherited or acquired increase in T 4 -binding to serum TH transport proteins must be excluded by direct measurement and by estimation of the circulating free T 4 level. The presence of a high serum T 3 is helpful, though normal levels do not exclude RTHß. Examples of instances when serum T 3 is not high are: transiently during the administration of some drugs, or with concomitant nonthyroidal illnesses (see other Endotext chapters), and permanently with advanced age, familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) and inherited defects of iodothyronine metabolism (see the THMD Section in this Chapter). In FDH, free T 4 measured by automated direct methods but not by equilibrium dialysis may be falsely elevated. A rare cause of elevated serum T 4 and T 3 level is the endogenous production of antibodies directed against these iodothyronines, which can be excluded by direct testing. Measurement of the
