Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


cause of elevated serum T 4 and T 3 level is the endogenous production of antibodies directed against these iodothyronines, which can be excluded by direct testing. Measurement of the serum TSH is an absolute requirement. Under most circumstances, patients with high concentrations of circulating free TH have virtually undetectable serum TSH levels, which fail to respond to TRH. This is true even when the magnitude of TH excess is minimal and therefore subclinical, either on physical examination or by other laboratory tests. The combination of elevated serum levels of free TH and non-suppressed TSH, narrows the differential diagnosis to one of the syndromes of reduced sensitivity to TH and autonomous hypersecretion of TSH associated with pituitary tumors (TSHomas). The clinical and laboratory findings of the latter mimic those of RTHß with a few exceptions. TSHomas have: 1) a disproportionate abundance in serum free α-SU relative to whole TSH ( 171 ); 2) lack similar thyroid test abnormalities in parents and first degree relatives; 3) with rare exceptions ( 172 ), their serum TSH fails to respond to TRH or suppress with supra-physiologic doses of TH; 4) often have concomitant hypersecretion of growth hormone and or prolactin; and 5) in the majority of cases, tumors can be demonstrated by computerized tomography (CT) or by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the pituitary. Rarely, subjects with autoimmune thyrotoxicosis may have endogenous antibodies to TSH or some of the test components, that can give rise to false increase in serum TSH values ( 173 ). Ectopic production of TSH and endogenous TRH hypersecretion could theoretically result in TSH-induced hyperthyroidism. The presence of high serum free T 3 or free T 4 only, in the presence of a non-suppressed TSH, is characteristic of the syndromic abnormalities of TH cell transport and metabolism, respectively (see the THCMTD and THMD Sections in this Chapter). Proving the existence of isolated peripheral tissue resistance to TH is not simple. Lack of clinical symptoms and signs of hypermetabolism are insufficient to establish the diagnosis of RTHß and symptoms suggestive of thyrotoxicosis are not uncommon in RTHß. Because resistance to the hormone is variable in different tissues, no single test measuring a particular response to TH is diagnostic. Furthermore, results of most tests that measure the effect of TH on peripheral tissues show considerable overlap among thyrotoxic, euthyroid and hypothyroid subjects. The value of these tests is enhanced if measurements
