Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


of most tests that measure the effect of TH on peripheral tissues show considerable overlap among thyrotoxic, euthyroid and hypothyroid subjects. The value of these tests is enhanced if measurements are obtained before and following the administration of supraphysiological doses of TH. While the demonstration of a THRB gene mutation is sufficient to establish the diagnosis of RTHß, lack of cosegregation of the THRB haplotype with the phenotype has been used to exclude the involvement of TRß in the individuals suspected of having RTHß ( 174 ). This does not exclude mosaicism ( 115 ) when a single member of the family is affected (see nonTRß-RTH Section in this Chapter). In such cases, in vivo demonstration of tissue resistance to TH is required. A standardized diagnostic protocol, using short-term administration of incremental doses of L-T 3 , and outlined in Figure 5 , is recommended. It is designed to assess several parameters of central and peripheral tissue effects of TH in the basal state and in comparison to those determined following the administration of L-T 3 . The three doses, given to adults in sequence, are a replacement dose of 50 µg/day and two supraphysiological doses of 100 and 200 µg/day. The hormone is administered in a split dose every 12 hours and each incremental dose is given for the period of 3 days. Doses are adjusted in children and in adults of unusual size to achieve the same level of serum T 3 (for details see reference ( 5 )). L-T 3 , rather than L-T 4 , is used because of its direct effect on tissues, bypassing potential defects of T 4 transport and metabolism, which may also produce attenuated responses. In addition, the more rapid onset and shorter duration of T 3 action reduces the period required to complete the evaluation and shortens the duration of symptoms that may arise in individuals with normal responses to the hormone. Responses to each incremental dose of L-T 3 are expressed as increments and decrements or as a percent of the value measured at baseline. The results of such a study are shown in Figure 6 . Figure 5. Schematic representation of a protocol for the assessment of the sensitivity to TH using incremental doses of L-T 3 . For details see text. Figure 6. Responses to the administration of L-T 3 in a subject with RTHß harboring TRß G345R
