Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


to TH using incremental doses of L-T 3 . For details see text. Figure 6. Responses to the administration of L-T 3 in a subject with RTHß harboring TRß G345R mutant and an unaffected individual. The hormone was given in three incremental doses, each for 3 days as illustrated in Figure 5 . Results are shown at baseline and after each dose of L-T 3 . (A) TSH responses to TRH stimulation. Note the reduced suppression of the TSH response by L-T 3 in the individual with RTHß. (B) Responses of peripheral tissues. Note the stimulation of ferritin and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and the suppression of cholesterol and creatine kinase (CK) in the normal subject. Responses in the affected subject were blunted or paradoxical. The diagnosis of RTHß is particularly challenging when the latter is associated with other thyroid diseases, such as autoimmune thyrotoxicosis that suppresses the TSH level ( 175 ) or with congenital ( 176 , 177 ) or acquired ( 178 ) hypothyroidism. Failure to differentiate RTHß from ordinary thyrotoxicosis continues to result in inappropriate treatments. The diagnosis requires awareness of the possible presence of RTHß, usually suspected when high levels of circulating TH are not accompanied by a suppressed TSH. Treatment No specific treatment is available to fully and specifically correct the defect. Theoretically, an ideal treatment for RTHß caused by mutant TRßs with altered TH binding would be to design mutation-specific TH analogues that overcome the binding defect ( 179 ). The ability to identify specific mutations in the THRB gene provides a means for prenatal diagnosis and appropriate family counseling. This is particularly important for families whose affected members show evidence of growth or mental retardation. Fortunately, in most cases of RTHß, the partial tissue resistance to TH appears to be adequately compensated for by an increase in the endogenous supply of TH. Thus, treatment need not be given to such patients. This is not the case in patients who have undergone ablative therapy or have a concomitant condition limiting their thyroidal reserve. In these patients, the serum TSH level can be used as a guideline for hormone dosage. Not infrequently, some peripheral tissues in patients with RTHß appear to be relatively more resistant than the pituitary. Thus, compensation for the defect at the level of peripheral tissues is incomplete. In such instances, judicious administration of supraphysiological doses of the hormone is
