Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


more resistant than the pituitary. Thus, compensation for the defect at the level of peripheral tissues is incomplete. In such instances, judicious administration of supraphysiological doses of the hormone is indicated. Since the dose varies greatly among cases, it should be individually determined by assessing tissue responses. In childhood, particular attention must be paid to growth, bone maturation and mental development. It is suggested that TH be given in incremental doses and that the BMR, nitrogen balance, serum SHBG and osteocalcin be monitored at each dose, and bone age and growth on a longer term. Development of a catabolic state is an indication of overtreatment. The exact criteria for treatment of RTHß in infancy have not been established. This is often an issue when the diagnosis is made at birth or in early infancy. In infants with elevated serum TSH levels, subclinical hypothyroidism may be more harmful than treatment with TH. Indications for treatment may include a TSH level above the upper limit of the reference range, retarded bone development, and failure to thrive. This may not apply to children homozygous for a mutant TRß. The outcome of affected older members of the family who did not receive treatment may serve as a guideline. Longer follow-up and psychological testing of infants who have been given treatment will determine the efficacy of early intervention. It is unclear at this time whether intervention during early gestation is appropriate. However, limited experience suggests that the T 4 of mothers with RTHß carrying a normal embryo should not be allowed to be higher than 50% the upper limit of normal in order to prevent low birth weight ( 180 ). The concept of in utero treatment is questionable ( 181 , 182 ). Patients with more severe thyrotroph resistance and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis may require therapy. Usually, symptomatic treatment with an adrenergic ß blocking agent, preferably atenolol, would suffice. Treatments with antithyroid drugs or thyroid gland ablation increase TSH secretion and may result in thyrotroph hyperplasia. Development of true pituitary tumors, even after long periods of thyrotroph overactivity, is extremely rare ( 183 ). Treatment with supraphysiological doses of L-T 3 , given as a single dose every other day, is successful in reducing goiter size without causing side effects ( 184 ). Such treatment is preferable considering that postoperative recurrence of goiter is the rule. The L-T 3 dose must be adjusted until
