Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


goiter size without causing side effects ( 184 ). Such treatment is preferable considering that postoperative recurrence of goiter is the rule. The L-T 3 dose must be adjusted until TSH and TG are suppressed and reduction of goiter size is observed. L-T 3 has been also used with some success in the treatment of ADHD in an individual with RTHß resistant to conventional treatments with stimulants ( 185 ). Among the TH analogues used to alleviate symptoms of apparent TH excess ( 186 ), TRIAC has had the widest use ( 187 , 188 ). It has a relatively greater affinity than T 3 for some mutant TRßs ( 189 ). In general, TRIAC’s short half-life produces greater effect centrally than on peripheral tissues. This, in turns, reduces TSH and TH secretion with apparent amelioration of hypermetabolism. The value of treatment with D-T 4 is questionable. Theoretically, the ideal treatment is development of mutant-specific TH analogues that would rescue the dominant negative effect of the mutant TRß ( 179 ). Patients with presumed isolated peripheral tissue resistance to TH present a most difficult therapeutic dilemma. The problem is, in reality, diagnostic rather than therapeutic. Many, if not most patients falling into this category, are habitual users of TH preparations. Gradual reduction of the TH dose and psychotherapy are recommended. RESISTANCE TO THYROID HORMONE-ALPHA (RTHα) Background Following the identification of a mutation in the THRB gene in 1989, finding one in the THRA gene was implicit. However, this did not come to pass for the next 23 years. With the development of mice deficient in Trα (knockout) ( 55 ) and further, mice harboring Thrα gene mutations (knockin), modeled after human mutations known to occur in the THRB gene ( 190 , 191 ), a phenotype was defined to aid in the identification of similar THRA gene defects in humans. Yet, laboratories searching for mutations in the THRA gene in individuals with low IQ and short without growth hormone deficiency did not succeed. It is through whole exome sequencing that in 2012 the first few families with THRA gene mutations were identified ( 9 , 20 , 192 , 193 ). In retrospect, the failure to identify THRA gene mutation using the candidate gene approach was the lack of signature serum thyroid test abnormalities characteristic to individuals with THRB gene mutations. Incidence and Inheritance The precise incidence of RTHα is
