Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


using the candidate gene approach was the lack of signature serum thyroid test abnormalities characteristic to individuals with THRB gene mutations. Incidence and Inheritance The precise incidence of RTHα is unknown. Because most routine neonatal screening programs are based on the determination of TSH, as is the case of RTHß, subjects with RTHα cannot be detected owing to their normal blood TSH. The RTHα in key cases of half of the reported families has been caused by de novo mutations ( 194 ). While the ethnic origin in most reported cases is not specified, white European is presumed based on pictures. Etiology and Genetics Mutations in the THRA gene have now been identified in 32 subjects with RTHα belonging to 19 families. They comprise 18 different mutations, 15 of which have been published ( 9 , 195 - 203 ) and reviewed ( 194 , 204 ). E403*, located in a CpG hot-spot was found in two unrelated families ( 9 , 200 ). All are located in the ligand-binding domain of TRα and 6 of the 18 mutations involve both TRα1 and TRα2, but none affect the REV-RRB α gene transcription from the opposite strand of the THRA locus. Given the 85% amino acid homology between the hinge region and ligand binding domains of TRα1 and TRß with the exception of THRA N359Y, all have been found to have corresponding mutations in the homologous regions of the THRB and five are located in CpG hot spots. As expected, in three of them (A263V/S, R384C/H and E403K/*) mutations have produced more than one codon alteration ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Mutations in TRα1 and TRα2 and in the corresponding amino acid mutations in TRß1 are aligned according to amino acid sequence homology. The single difference is indicated in red. In blue are mutations occurring in hot spots (CpG or CG-rich regions. The ligand binding domain (LBD) containing the mutations is expanded and the locations of mutation is in scale. The DNA binding domain DLBD) is upstream of the mutations. Sequences from amino acid 370 to 490 of the TRα2 diverge from those of TRα1 due to alternative splicing. Data on THRA gene mutations courtesy of Carla Moran, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom. Molecular Basis of the Defect and Properties of the Mutant TRα The THRA gene is located on chromosome 17. It generates two protein isoforms, TRα1 and TRα2
