Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


Cambridge, United Kingdom. Molecular Basis of the Defect and Properties of the Mutant TRα The THRA gene is located on chromosome 17. It generates two protein isoforms, TRα1 and TRα2 by alternative splicing. TRα2 is devoid of a ligand binding and its physiological function through binding on DNA remains unclear. TRα1 functions in the same manner as TRß but there are some differences in the interaction with cofactors and in tissue distribution. It is the latter that is responsible for the differences in the phenotype in individuals harboring mutations in these two transcription factors. By virtue of TRα1 expression predominantly in the central nervous system, bone, intestine and heart, manifestations in these organs dominate. Differences in the severity among mutations can be explained by the degree of loss of function and by the amount of L-T 3 required to demonstrate reversibility in vitro ( 197 ). The mechanism causing the defect were convincingly demonstrated in the first reported patient with RTHα harboring a nonsense mutation, produces a truncated TRα1 (E403*) that lacks the C-terminal alpha-helix of the molecule ( 9 ). As a consequence, in addition to negligible T 3 -binding, the mutation promoted corepressor binding while abolishing binding of the coactivator, both contributing to a strong DNE as demonstrated ex vivo . The 6-year-old girl, harboring this mutation, presented with chronic constipation noted upon weaning at 7 months of age, and growth and developmental delay. Hypothyroidism manifested in organs expressing predominantly TRα, including bone, gastrointestinal tract, heart, striated muscle and central nervous system. More specifically X-rays showed patent cranial sutures with Wormian bones, delayed dentition, femoral epiphyseal dysgenesis and retarded bone age. In addition, diminished colonic motility with megacolon, slow heart rate, reduced muscle strength were suggestive of hypothyroidism, as was her placid affect, slow monotonous speech and cognitive impairment. Thyroid function tests, were of subtle nature somewhat reminiscent of MCT8 defects, presumably due to alterations in iodothyronine metabolism ( Table 3 ) (see the THCMTD Section in this Chapter). Animal Models of RTHα (See also animal models under RTHß, above) The question of why mutations in the THRA gene have not been identified earlier in man was partially answered by the study of mice with targeted gene manipulations. As stated in an earlier section, THRA gene deletions, total or only α1, failed to produce a RTHß-type serum phenotype. Several human mutations known to occur in the THRB gene
