Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


As stated in an earlier section, THRA gene deletions, total or only α1, failed to produce a RTHß-type serum phenotype. Several human mutations known to occur in the THRB gene were targeted in homologous regions of the Thr α gene of the mouse. These are, the PV frame-shift mutation, Trα1 R384C (equivalent to Trß R438C), Trα P398H (equivalent to Trß P452H) and Trα L400R (corresponding to Trß454) ( 205 ). While the resulting phenotypes were somewhat variable, none exhibited thyroid test abnormalities characteristic of RTHß. Common features in heterozygous mice were retarded post-natal development and growth, decreased heart rate, and difficulty in reproducing. Also, all were lethal in the homozygous state, in accordance with the noxious effect of unliganded Trα1. Clinical Features The earliest clinical observations are poor feeding, coarse cry and macroglossia. Growth retardation with shorter lower limbs was also noted in infancy ( 9 , 20 ). Other somatic abnormalities and clinical findings are listed in Table 5 . Unusual somatic defects including clavicle agenesis, marked abnormalities of fingers, toes and elbow joints were observed in a single patient with a THRA N359Y mutation ( 195 ). It is unlikely that these findings are related to the THRA gene defect. Constipation is a common finding that results in fecal impaction. Bowel dilatation is seen on X-rays. Decreased peristalsis and delayed intestinal transit have been documented. In general, symptoms and signs are compatible with hypothyroidism. These include delayed fontanel closure, slow mentation and motor activity, reduced global IQ, and bradycardia. Table 5. List of Clinical Features of RTHα View in own window System Infant and Child Adult Early features poor feeding; coarse cry; umbilical hernia Developmental delayed milestones; growth retardation short statute (short limbs) Somatic defects (Dysmorphism) macroglossia, broad and coarse face, broad face, thick lips, flat nasal bridge skin tags Skeletal delayed fontanel closure epiphyseal dysgenesis serpiginous cranial sutures cranial and cortical hyperostosis Gastrointestinal constipation; bowel dilatation constipation Cardiovascular bradycardia bradycardia, low blood pressure Neurological delayed speech; dyspraxia dysarthria, slow motor initiation ataxia, dysdiadochokinesis, low IQ Metabolic low metabolic Low metabolic rate, reduced resting energy expenditure, peripheral markers of TH action compatible with hormone deprivation Hematological mild anemia mild anemia Data derived from references ( 193 , 298 ) Laboratory Findings Thyroid test abnormalities are not as prominent as in other syndromes of impaired sensitivity to TH and explain the failure to readily recognize the defect. There is
