Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


) Laboratory Findings Thyroid test abnormalities are not as prominent as in other syndromes of impaired sensitivity to TH and explain the failure to readily recognize the defect. There is a trend for serum T 4 and rT 3 to be low and T 3 to be high. However, in most instances the concentrations of these iodothyronines are not outside of the reference range. Yet, the T 3 /rT 3 ratio is consistently high and a good laboratory biomarker ( Table 3 ). TSH is usually within the upper part of the reference range. A number of test results are compatible with reduced TH action in peripheral thyroid tissues but not centrally. There is a trend for insulin like growth factor I (IGF-1) to be low and for low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and creatine kinase to be elevated. Bone mineral density is increased. Anemia is a common finding and has been observed as early as 7 months of age ( 33 ). Anemia is normocytic with normal reticulocyte count, hemolytic indices, vitamin B12 and folate. Differential Diagnosis Suspicion for the presence of RTHα is based on clinical rather than laboratory findings. The serum thyroid test abnormalities are subtle and their relative pattern somewhat reminiscent of those found in MCT8 deficiency. However, individuals with THRA gene mutations do not manifest the severe neuropsychomotor defect characteristic of MCT8 deficiency. Symptoms of hypothyroidism are disproportionate to the thyroid function test abnormalities and TSH is not elevated as in primary hypothyroidism. The fact that in most cases diagnosis was made by whole exome sequencing attests to the difficulty in identifying patients based on clinical and standard laboratory evaluation. Clinical findings suggestive of congenital hypothyroidism without elevated TSH and a high T 3 /rT 3 ratio should rise a high degree of suspicion. Treatment The majority of individuals with THRA gene mutations have received L-T 4 treatment. The treatment has shown beneficial effect on symptoms and signs caused by functional thyroid hormone deprivation in peripheral tissues. These include, constipation and bradycardia but not anemia. In children, L-T 4 treatment resulted in catch-up growth, motor development and in one case reduced hypotonia ( 201 ). The effectiveness of L-T 4 treatment in children appears to depend on the severity of the defect [frame shift mutations ( 203 )] and time of treatment initiation. There is no experience with treatment beginning in early infancy. L-T 4
