Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


depend on the severity of the defect [frame shift mutations ( 203 )] and time of treatment initiation. There is no experience with treatment beginning in early infancy. L-T 4 treatment resulted in normalization of low serum T 4 and rT 3 levels but T 3 concentration remained elevated. Serum TSH, on the other hand was suppressed, even with physiological L-T 4 doses and FT 4 levels within the reference range. This confirms an intact hypothalamic-pituitary axis, which may even be hypersensitive to TH. Peripheral tissue markers of TH action, such as serum SHBG, LDL cholesterol and creatine kinase also responded appropriately to L-T 4 treatment. No treatments with TH analogues have been reported. The use of TRα-specific agonist may be helpful but, being directed to the WT-receptor it will not abrogate the DNE of the mutant TRα. The development of mutant specific analogues, as suggested for RTHß, may be an option. THYROID HORMONE CELL MEMBRANE TRANSPORTER DEFECT (THCMTD) Patients with THCMTD caused by X-linked MCT8 deficiency are usually boys identified in infancy or in early childhood with feeding difficulties, severe cognitive deficiency, infantile hypotonia and poor head control. They develop progressive spastic quadriplegia, diminished muscle mass with weakness, joint contractures, and dystonia. Early and characteristic thyroid abnormalities are high serum T 3, low T 4 , and a slightly elevated TSH. The neurological phenotype is severe and incapacitating in affected individuals, with minimal variability across families. Most importantly, this phenotype is not consistent with classical generalized hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. Depending on the type of TH transporters expressed, different tissues manifest the consequences of TH excess or deprivation. Tissues expressing other transporters than MCT8 respond to the high circulating T 3 level, resulting in a hyperthyroid state, while tissues dependent on MCT8 for TH transport, are hypothyroid. This complicates treatment as standard TH replacement fails to reach some tissues, while it worsens the hyperthyroidism in others. The complex and severe neurodevelopmental phenotype together with the pathognomonic thyroid tests including high serum T 3 , low rT 3 , low or low normal serum T 4 concentrations and normal of slightly elevated serum TSH levels represent the characteristic presentation of the MCT8 deficiency syndrome. Cell Membrane Transporters of TH The identification and characterization of several classes of molecules that transport TH across membranes ( 206 ), has changed the previously held paradigm of passive TH diffusion into cells ( 207 ).
