Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


and characterization of several classes of molecules that transport TH across membranes ( 206 ), has changed the previously held paradigm of passive TH diffusion into cells ( 207 ). These proteins belong to different families of solute carriers: 1) Na + /taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP) ( 208 ); 2) fatty acid translocase ( 209 ); 3) multidrug resistance-associated proteins ( 210 ); 4) L-amino acid transporters (LAT) ( 211 ), among which LAT1 and LAT2 have been shown to transport TH; 5) members of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP) family ( 212 ), of which OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 are exclusively expressed in liver and transport the sulfated iodothyronines, T 4 S, T 3 S, and rT 3 S and less efficiently the corresponding non-sulfated analogues, whereas OATP1C1 is localized preferentially in brain capillaries and shows a high specificity and affinity towards T 4 . The latter suggests that OATP1C1 may be important for transport of T 4 across the blood-brain barrier ( 213 ); and 6) within the monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) family ( 214 ), MCT8 and MCT10 are specific TH transporters ( 215 , 216 ). Differences in tissue distribution and transport kinetics of TH and of other ligands, impart their distinctive roles in the cell-specific delivery of TH. Early studies using the expression of rat Mct8 in an heterologous system, showed that it potentiated the uptake of T 4 , T 3 , rT 4 , and 3,3′-T 2 by 10-fold, but it had no effect on the uptake of sulfated T 4 , the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, or lactate ( 216 ). Furthermore, transfection of human MCT8 in mammalian cells enhanced the metabolism of iodothyronines by endogenous deiodinases ( 217 ). These studies demonstrated the potent and iodothyronine-specific cell membrane transport function of MCT8. The importance of MCT8 was most convincingly demonstrated by the identification of the first inherited THCMTD caused by mutations in the MCT8 gene ( 6 , 7 ). Although presence of the defect is suspected on the basis of clinical findings and standard laboratory tests, genetic confirmation is mandatory. Recently a novel neurodegenerative disease associated with a homozygous missense mutation in the T4 transporter OATP1C1 was reported ( 218 ). The patient was a 15.5-year-old girl with normal development during the first year of life, who gradually developed dementia with spasticity and intolerance to cold. Brain imaging demonstrated
