Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


218 ). The patient was a 15.5-year-old girl with normal development during the first year of life, who gradually developed dementia with spasticity and intolerance to cold. Brain imaging demonstrated gray and white matter degeneration and severe glucose hypometabolism. When studied in vitro , decreased uptake of T4 was shown, however, serum thyroid function tests were normal ( 218 ). At this point it cannot be excluded that the deficit in another substrate is responsible for or contributes to the phenotype. Inheritance and Incidence MCT8 deficiency is a recessive X-linked defect that affects males, while females harboring a mutation are carriers. There is 100% penetrance in males that inherit a deleterious mutation. They manifest neuro-psychomotor and characteristic thyroid test abnormalities, whereas carrier females may show only mild thyroid test abnormalities ( 6 , 219 , 220 ). A female with typical features of MCT8- specific THCMTD had a de novo translocation disrupting the MCT8 gene and unfavorable nonrandom X-inactivation ( 221 ). No affected male has reproduced. The defect has been reported in individuals of all races and diverse ethnic origins. The exact incidence of this defect is not known. As most routine neonatal screening programs are based on the determination of TSH, MCT8 deficiency is rarely identified at birth by this mean. In neonatal screening programs based on T 4 measurements, a low concentration could potentially identify new cases. The yield is expected to be low given the high frequency of low T 4 levels in newborns. The identification of more than 200 families with MCT8 gene defects during the last 16 years indicates that this syndrome is more common than initially suspected. MCT8 gene mutations can be maintained in the population because carrier females are asymptomatic and fertile, which precludes negative selection. Familial occurrence of MCT8 defects has been documented in many instances, however, genetic information on mothers of affected males is not always available. Etiology The clinical condition was first recognized in 1944, in a large family with X chromosomal mental retardation presenting with motor abnormalities ( 222 ), a form of syndromic X-linked mental retardation, subsequently named the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS). In 1990, the syndrome was mapped to a locus on chromosome Xq21 ( 223 ). Following the identification of MCT8, gene mutations in subjects with thyroid abnormalities and neuropsychomotor manifestations were identified ( 6 , 7 ), and subsequently MCT8 mutations were found in other
