Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


Following the identification of MCT8, gene mutations in subjects with thyroid abnormalities and neuropsychomotor manifestations were identified ( 6 , 7 ), and subsequently MCT8 mutations were found in other affected males, including the original family described in 1944 ( 224 ). The affected subjects have the characteristic thyroid test abnormalities, which went unnoticed in the past. A large-scale screening of 401 males with X-linked mental retardation has identified MCT8 gene mutations in only 3 subjects, and two of them had the characteristic thyroid phenotype. The other one had a normal serum T 3, but the mutation was also found in an unaffected relative ( 221 ). This underscores the importance of performing thyroid tests prior to undertaking gene sequencing, in individuals suspected of having a MCT8 defect on the basis of the neurological phenotype. Given the existence of other types of TH transporters and their different tissue distributions, it is anticipated that defects in such transport molecules would result in distinct phenotypes, the nature of which is difficult to predict. However, as mice deficient in specific TH transporters become available, some predictions about the nature of such diseases may be deduced despite species constraints. In this regard, mice with targeted inactivation of the Lat2 ( Slc7a8 ), Mct10 ( Slc16a10 ) and Oapt1c1 ( Slco1c1 or Oatp14 ) TH transporters showed normal development, growth and normal thyroid function tests ( 225 - 227 ). The distribution of Oatp1c1 differs in the brain of mice compared to humans, with mouse Oatp1c1 being predominantly localized in capillary endothelial and only weak OATP1C1 staining being detected by immunohistochemistry in capillary endothelial cells in human brain sections ( 228 ). No mutations have been reported in humans in the LAT2 and MCT10 transporters, however a human case of OATP1C1 defect has been recently reported ( 218 ). The MCT8 Gene and Mutations The MCT8 gene was first cloned during the physical characterization of the Xq13.2 region known to contain the X-inactivation center ( 229 ). It has 6 exons and a large first intron that encompasses >100 kb. It belongs to a family of genes, named SLC16 , the products of which catalyze proton-linked transport of monocarboxylates, such as lactate, pyruvate and ketone bodies. The deduced products of the MCT8 ( SLC16A2 ) gene are proteins of 613 and 539 amino acids (translated from two in-frame start sites) containing 12 transmembrane domains (TMD)
