Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


bodies. The deduced products of the MCT8 ( SLC16A2 ) gene are proteins of 613 and 539 amino acids (translated from two in-frame start sites) containing 12 transmembrane domains (TMD) with both amino- and carboxyl- ends located within the cell ( 230 ). The furthest upstream translation start site is absent in most species, including mouse and rat. Thus, the importance of the additional N-terminal sequence of the longer human MCT8 protein is unknown. The demonstration that the rat homologue is a specific transporter of TH into cells in 2003 opened the field to clinical and genetic investigation ( 215 ). Over 150 different MCT8 gene mutations are known ( 33 , 231 ) without counting the larger deletions that are not uncommon in MCT8 due to the large intron 1. Mutations are distributed throughout the coding region of the gene. At the protein level, amino acids in the extracellular and intracellular loops are relatively underrepresented. One could speculate that missense mutations in these domains could putatively result in a milder phenotype, escaping detection, as sequences in these regions are less conserved across species compared to the TMD regions ( 232 ). The types of MCT8 gene mutations other than the large deletions involving one or more exons are shown in Figure 8 . Coding single nucleotide substitutions are most common at 66%, while insertions/deletions (in/dels) causing frameshift or in frame insertions or deletions represent 30% and only 4% of defects are located at splice sites. At the protein level, missense mutations are most common at 46%, followed by in/del frameshifts with premature termination at 26%, and nonsense mutations at 20%. A similar small proportion of 4% are in frame in/dels and defects with abnormal splicing. Some mutations have occurred in more than one family, for example, three different single amino acid in frame deletions (F229Δ, F501Δ and F554Δ) have occurred in more than 5 families. Different mutations in the same codon have been found to produce 2 or 3 mutant amino acids for example codon 224 (GCC) was mutated as A224T, V and E. In the families studied in our laboratory, 10% of the mutations occurred de novo , while 52% were present in at least one female carrier and one third occurred in mutation hotspots such as CpG dinucleotides C repeats or A repeats ( 33 ). Figure 8. Representation of A. MCT8 gene mutations and B. resulting
