Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


and one third occurred in mutation hotspots such as CpG dinucleotides C repeats or A repeats ( 33 ). Figure 8. Representation of A. MCT8 gene mutations and B. resulting mutant MCT8 proteins associated with THCMTD, using both data reported by other groups and our published and unpublished cases, for a total of 157 different mutations. More recently, variants of unknown significance (VUS) in the MCT8 gene have been identified by whole exome sequencing performed in individuals with less typical neurodevelopmental abnormalities. The clinical relevance of these variants has been questioned, especially if the thyroid function tests are not characteristic of MCT8 deficiency. This remains an area of investigation that could further expand the knowledge on genotype-phenotype correlations of VUS in the MCT8 gene. Clinical Features and Course of the Disease Male subjects that are later found to have MCT8 gene mutations, are referred for medical investigation during infancy or early childhood because of neurodevelopmental abnormalities. The clinical presentation of affected males with MCT8 gene mutations is very similar, with characteristic thyroid test abnormalities and severe psychomotor retardation. Newborns have normal Apgar scores and in most cases there is a history of normal gestation. However, polyhydramnios and reduced fetal movements have been reported ( 33 , 224 , 233 ). It is unclear whether this is an intrauterine manifestation of the syndrome. At birth there were no typical signs of hypothyroidism. Truncal hypotonia and feeding problems are the most common early signs of the defect, appearing in the first 6 months of life. Only in a few cases they manifested within the first few days of life. Characteristically the neurological manifestations progress from flaccidity to limb rigidity and impairment of psychomotor development, leading to spastic quadriplegia with advancing age. With the exception of a few, subjects are unable to walk, stand or sit independently and they do not develop speech. To date, the ability to walk or talk has been reported only in the members of three families ( 224 , 234 ). These are patients harboring L568P, L434W and F501del mutations who walked with ataxic gait or support, and had a limited and dysarthric speech. A possible explanation for the milder neurological phenotype in these patients is a residual 15-37% TH-binding activity of their mutant MCT8 molecules ( 235 ). Dystonia and purposeless movements are common and characteristic paroxysms of kinesigenic dyskinesias have been reported in several patients, particularly
