Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


15-37% TH-binding activity of their mutant MCT8 molecules ( 235 ). Dystonia and purposeless movements are common and characteristic paroxysms of kinesigenic dyskinesias have been reported in several patients, particularly severe in one boy, who presented up to 150 dyskinetic episodes per day ( 236 ). These are usually triggered by somatosensory stimuli, such as changing clothes or lifting the child. The attacks consist of extension of the body, opening of the mouth, and stretching or flexing of the limbs lasting for 2 or less than a minute ( 237 ). In addition to these non-epileptic events, true seizures can also occur. An altered sleep pattern with difficulty falling asleep and frequent awakening, can represent an important clinical issue for caregivers ( 236 ). Reflexes are usually brisk, clonus is often present, but nystagmus and extension plantar responses are less common. With advancing age, weight gain lags and microcephaly becomes apparent, while linear growth proceeds normally ( 238 ). Muscle mass is diminished and there is generalized muscle weakness with typical poor head control, originally described as “limber neck” ( 222 ). A common and pronounced feature in MCT8 deficient patients is the failure to thrive, which can be severe, requiring the placement of gastric feeding tubes in some cases. Possible causes for low weight and muscle wasting are the neurologic dysphagia, and increased metabolism due to the thyrotoxic state of peripheral tissues as indicated by reduced cholesterol, and increased transaminases, SHBG, and lactate levels found in some patients with MCT8 mutations ( 236 , 239 - 241 ). Common facial findings that may be attributed to the prenatal and infantile hypotonia include ptosis, open mouth, and a tented upper lip. Ear length is above the 97 th centile in about half of adults. Cup-shaped ears, thickening of the nose and ears, upturned earlobes, and a decrease in facial creases have been also reported. Pectus excavatum and scoliosis are common, most likely the result of hypotonia and reduced muscle mass. While the cognitive impairment is severe, MCT8 deficient patients tend to present a non-aggressive behavior. Generally, affected individuals are attentive, friendly, and docile. Death during childhood or teens is not uncommon, usually caused by recurrent infections and/or aspiration pneumonia. However in a few instances of more mild neurologic involvement, survival beyond age 70 years has been observed ( 224 ). Data accumulated by a parent support group between 2009 and
