Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


in a few instances of more mild neurologic involvement, survival beyond age 70 years has been observed ( 224 ). Data accumulated by a parent support group between 2009 and 2018 on the causes of death in 24 children and adolescents with MCT8 deficiency with age ranging between 1 day and 23 years, shows respiratory causes with aspiration, pneumonia, sometimes leading to septic shock or death during sleep as being common causes of demise ( Figure 9 ). Figure 9. Death in 24 children and adolescents with MCT8 deficiency, between 2009-2018, age range 1 day to 23 years causes (A) and age (B). Female carriers do not manifest any of the psychomotor abnormalities described above. However, intellectual delay and frank mental retardation have been reported in six carrier females ( 6 , 221 , 224 , 240 ). Although an unfavorable nonrandom X-inactivation could alter the phenotype in these females ( 224 ), cognitive impairment can be due to a variety of causes. Thus, the causative link of MCT8 mutations in heterozygous females with cognitive impairment remains to be proven ( 220 ). Laboratory Findings SERUM TESTS OF THYROID FUNCTION Most characteristic, if not pathognomonic, are the high serum total and free T 3 and low rT 3 concentrations. T 4 is reduced in most cases and TSH levels can be slightly elevated but rarely above 6 mU/L ( Figure 10 ). Figure 10. Thyroid function tests in several families with MCT8 deficiency studied in the authors’ laboratory. Grey regions indicate the normal range for the respective test. Hemizygous males (M) are represented as red squares, heterozygous carrier females (F), as green circles and unaffected members of the families, as blue triangles (N). With the exception of TSH, mean values of iodothyronines in carrier females are significantly different than those in affected males and normal relatives. TSH was normal at neonatal screening in most cases. Information about neonatal T 4 levels available in 8 cases revealed low values in 6 and normal levels in 2 subjects ( 33 , 224 , 236 ). However, low T 4 concentrations at birth are not uncommon, and are more often associated with low levels of T 4 -binding protein and prematurity. Information regarding the T 3 and rT 3 concentration in the first days of life is not available. However, within one month the typical thyroid test abnormalities of MCT8 deficiency become apparent.
