Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


the T 3 and rT 3 concentration in the first days of life is not available. However, within one month the typical thyroid test abnormalities of MCT8 deficiency become apparent. In infants and children, tests results should be interpreted using age-specific reference ranges (see Chapter 62). This is particularly important for T 3 and rT 3 , which are higher than those in adults. The ratio of T 3 to rT 3 is characteristically high in MCT8 deficiency while, with the exception of RTHα, it is low in other more common causes of abnormal T 3 and rT 3 levels, such as binding defects, iodine deficiency and non-thyroidal illness ( Table 3 ). Heterozygous female carriers can have iodothyronine concentrations that are on average intermediate between affected males and unaffected family members ( 6 , 224 , 240 ). While they are significantly different compared to both affected and unaffected individuals, overlapping values are observed in both groups. Serum TSH concentrations are, however, normal ( Figure 10 ). OTHER SERUM TESTS Some patients have undergone extensive testing prior to the diagnosis of MCT8 deficiency. Results are summarized here and in the subsequent sections. Urinary organic acids, serum amino acids and fatty acids, CSF neurotransmitters, glucose and lactate were normal. Other test results were abnormal only in some patients. These included, elevated serum SHBG, transaminases, ammonia, lactate and pyruvate, mildly elevated medium chain products in plasma acylcarnitine profile, elevated hydroxybutyric acid in urine ( 33 , 233 , 240 ) and reduced serum cholesterol. While the relation of some test abnormalities with MCT8 deficiency is unclear, others can be ascribed to the effect of the high serum T 3 levels on peripheral tissues. These are reduced cholesterol, and increased SHBG, and lactate. Other endocrine tests, including pituitary function were normal when tested in a few individuals. However, administration of incremental doses of L-T 3 , using the protocol devised for the study of patients with RTHß, showed reduced pituitary sensitivity to the hormone ( 33 ). This is probably due the reduced feedback effect of T 3 on the hypothalamo-pituitary axis, as well as the reduced incremental effect of the hormone on peripheral tissues already exposed to high levels of T 3 . X-RAYS AND IMAGING Bone age has been inconsistently reported, and was found to be delayed in four cases and was slightly advanced in one ( 33 , 240
