Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


3 . X-RAYS AND IMAGING Bone age has been inconsistently reported, and was found to be delayed in four cases and was slightly advanced in one ( 33 , 240 , 242 , 243 ). The consequences of the MCT8 defects on bone are not clear at this time. Mild to severe delayed myelination or dysmyelination ( 33 , 244 , 245 ) is a common finding when brain MRI is performed in early life. However, this can be missed as the delay in myelination is usually less apparent by approximately 4 years of age, and an adequate MRI technique is required for optimal interpretation. This distinguishes MCT8 deficiency from other leukodystrophies in which the myelination defect is persistent. Other reported MRI abnormalities in single cases might be non-specific and include subtle cortical and subcortical atrophy ( 239 ), mild cerebellar atrophy ( 240 ), putaminal lesions ( 246 ), and a small corpus callosum ( 33 ). Increased choline and myoinositol levels and decreased N-acetyl aspartate were detected by MR-spectroscopy, and these abnormalities in brain metabolism were associated with the degree of dysmyelination according to MRI findings ( 247 ). A recent study aimed to better define the spectrum of motor disability in MCT8 deficiency and to elucidate the neuroanatomic basis of the motor impairments using clinical observation and brain MRI in a cohort of 6 affected pediatric patients ( 248 ). T1- and T2-weighted brain MRI sequences revealed hypomyelination involving the subcortical U-fibers and periventricular white matter tracts that became more conspicuous over time in all 6 patients. In contrast, the callosal and cortical spinal tracts showed near normal myelination. Diffusion tensor imaging, performed in 3 of the patients, showed poor definition of the white matter association tracts relative to normal controls, suggesting the presence of subtle microstructural abnormalities. The same 3 subjects had a normal-appearing corpus callosum. These findings are consistent with the presence of dystonia in the MCT8 deficient patients studied. These imaging biomarkers suggest that rehabilitation efforts targeting dystonia may be more beneficial than those targeting spasticity in the prepubertal pediatric MCT8 deficiency population as the combination of hypotonia and dystonia presents a neurorehabilitation challenge for these patients and therapies directed only toward spasticity have commonly produced suboptimal responses ( 248 ). TESTS IN TISSUES Altered activity of mitochondrial complexes II and IV was identified in muscle biopsies from two cases ( 33 , 249
