Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


commonly produced suboptimal responses ( 248 ). TESTS IN TISSUES Altered activity of mitochondrial complexes II and IV was identified in muscle biopsies from two cases ( 33 , 249 ). It is unclear if this is due to the abnormal TH status of the muscle or to a yet unidentified effect of MCT8 on the mitochondria. Cultured skin fibroblasts from males with MCT8 deficiency showed a significant reduction of T 4 and T 3 uptake while D2 enzymatic activity was higher, compared to fibroblasts from normal individuals ( 33 , 234 ). Fibroblasts from carrier females gave results intermediate to those of affected males and normal individuals. Cellular T 3 -uptake of cell lines transfected with different mutant MCT8 molecules ( 235 ), demonstrated or predicted complete inactivation in about 2/3 of mutations, while in the remaining 1/3, T 3 -uptake ranged from 8.6 to 33% that of the WT MCT8. In particular, three missense mutations, S194F, L434W, and L598P showed significant residual transport capacity of more than 15% of normal MCT8, which may underlie the relatively milder phenotype observed in patients with these mutations (see section on Clinical Features and Course of the Disease, above). Histological analysis of brain sections from a 30 th gestational week male fetus and an 11-year-old boy with MCT8 deficiency was performed using as controls, brain tissue from a 30th and 28th gestational week male and female fetuses, respectively, and a 10-year-old girl and a 12-year-old boy ( 250 ). The MCT8-deficient fetus showed a delay in cortical and cerebellar development and myelination ( Figure 11 ), loss of parvalbumin expression, abnormal calbindin-D28k content, impaired axonal maturation, and diminished biochemical differentiation of Purkinje cells. The 11-year-old boy showed altered cerebellar structure with deficient myelination, deficient synaptophysin and parvalbumin expression, and abnormal calbindin-D28k expression. This study showed that brain damage in MCT8 deficiency is diffuse, without evidence of focal lesions, that was present from fetal stages despite apparent normality at birth, and the deficient hypomyelination was found to persist at 11 years of age ( 250 ). Figure 11. Structure and myelination of the fetal and juvenile cerebellum. Representative images showing hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining (A, B) and myelin basic protein (MBP) immunostaining (C, D) of tissue sections from the cerebellar vermis from 10-year-old control child (A), and 11-year-old MCT8 deficient child (B), control fetus and (C) MCT8-deficient fetus (D), both 30 weeks gestational age.
