Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


of tissue sections from the cerebellar vermis from 10-year-old control child (A), and 11-year-old MCT8 deficient child (B), control fetus and (C) MCT8-deficient fetus (D), both 30 weeks gestational age. In panels A and B, asterisks indicate the subarachnoid space in the cerebellum (wider in the MCT8-deficient subject) and arrows point to cerebellar folia (thinner size in the cerebellum of the MCT8-deficient boy). In panels C and D, arrowheads indicate immunopositive axons (lower proportion of immunopositive axons in the vermis from the MCT8-deficient fetus) WM, white matter. [Reproduced with permission from reference ( 250 )]. GENETIC TESTING By definition, a defect in the MCT8 gene is present in all patients. Genetic testing by sequencing is available in commercial laboratories and can detect nucleotide substitutions and small deletions and insertions. However, larger deletions and splice defects may require application of more in-depth genetic investigations, such as Southern blotting and haplotyping, available in research laboratories. Carrier testing for relatives at-risk and prenatal testing of pregnant carriers should be offered to families ( 251 ). Animal Models of MCT8 Deficiency Mct8-deficient recombinant ( Mct8 KO) mice ( 19 , 252 ) replicate the characteristic thyroid test abnormalities found in humans and, thus, helped in understanding the mechanisms responsible for the thyroid phenotype ( 253 ). Measurements of tissue T 3 content showed the variable availability of the circulating hormone to tissues, depending on the redundant presence of TH cell membrane transporters. In Mct8 KO mice, tissues such as the liver, that express other transporters than Mct8 ( 15 ), have high T 3 concentrations reflecting the high levels in serum and are, therefore, “thyrotoxic” as demonstrated by an increase in the D1 enzymatic activity ( Figure 12A ). In accordance with a thyrotoxic state, serum cholesterol concentration is decreased and serum alkaline phosphatase is increased. In contrast, tissues with limited redundancy in cell membrane TH transporters, such as the brain ( 15 ), have decreased T 3 content in Mct8 KO mice, which together with the increase in D2, indicate “hypothyroidism” in this tissue ( Figure 12B ). The role of D2 is to maintain local levels of T 3 in the context of TH deficiency and its activity is inversely regulated by TH availability ( 16 ). These findings of coexistent T 3 excess and deficiency in the Mct8 KO mouse tissues explain, in part, the mechanisms responsible for the tissue specific
