Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


TH availability ( 16 ). These findings of coexistent T 3 excess and deficiency in the Mct8 KO mouse tissues explain, in part, the mechanisms responsible for the tissue specific manifestation of TH deficiency and excess in humans with MCT8 deficiency. Figure 12. Data from Mct8KO vs Wt mice. A. T 3 content and D1 enzymatic activity in liver. B. T 3 content and D2 enzymatic activity in brain. Data from Mct8 KO mice are represented as grey bars and those from Wt littermates are in open bars. ** p-value <0.01, *** p-value <0.001. C. Total energy expenditure (TEE) flow chart represented as 6h average over 6 days, Mct8KO mice are shown in red. Metabolic and body composition studies showed that Mct8KO mice were leaner and had increased total energy expenditure (TEE) with increased food and water intake, while the activity level was normal ( 254 ). T 3 -treated Wt mice also showed increased food intake and TEE, and increased T 3 content, TH action and increased glucose metabolism in skeletal muscle similar to Mct8KO mice. Thus, the hypermetabolic state in MCT8 deficiency is due to the high serum T 3 and is responsible for the failure to maintain weight despite adequate caloric intake. Normalizing serum T 3 level by deleting deiodinase 1 in the combined Mct8Dio1KO mice was able to improve body composition and the metabolic alterations caused by the Mct8 deficiency ( 254 ). Treatment of adult mice with the TH analog diiodothyropropionic acid (DITPA), which enters cells independently of Mct8 transport, revealed amelioration of the thyrotoxic state in liver and improving the hypermetabolism of the Mct8KO mice ( 255 ), making this thyromimetic chemical suitable for the treatment of the hypermetabolism in patients with MCT8 deficiency. Mct8 also has a role in TH efflux in the kidney and secretion from the thyroid gland ( 256 , 257 ). The content of T 4 and T 3 in kidney is increased and their local actions increase D1 activity which enhances the local generation of T 3 . In the thyroid, Mct8 is localized at the basolateral membrane of thyrocytes. Thyroidal T 4 and T 3 content is increased in Mct8 KO mice as is the rate of their secretion and appearance in serum is reduced ( 257 ). These observations from the Mct8 deficient mice have helped understanding the mechanisms involved in producing the thyroid abnormalities in
