Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


their secretion and appearance in serum is reduced ( 257 ). These observations from the Mct8 deficient mice have helped understanding the mechanisms involved in producing the thyroid abnormalities in mice and humans. The increased D1 and D2 activities, stimulated by opposite states of intracellular TH availability, have an additive consumptive effect on T 4 levels and result in increased T 3 generation. The important contribution of D1 in maintaining a high serum T 3 level is supported by the observation in mice deficient in both Mct8 and D1. These mice have a normal serum T 3 and rT 3 ( 258 ). The low serum T 4 in Mct8 deficiency is not only the result of attrition through deiodination but also due to reduced secretion from the thyroid gland and possibly increased renal loss. In MCT8 deficient subjects serum TSH is usually modestly increased, a finding that may be compatible with the decreased serum T 4 concentration but not with the elevated serum T 3 level. However, MCT8 is expressed in the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its inactivation likely interferes with the negative feedback of TH at both sites ( 259 ). In Mct8 KO mice, hypothalamic TRH expression is markedly increased and high T 3 doses are needed to suppress it, indicating T 3 resistance particularly at the hypothalamic level. Mct8 KO mice have been valuable in testing thyromimetic compounds for their potential to bypass the Mct8 defect in tissues. One such TH analogue, DITPA has been tested. It was found to be effective in equal doses in the Mct8 KO and Wt animal to replace centrally (pituitary and brain) and peripherally (liver) the TH requirements in animals rendered hypothyroid ( 260 ). In contrast, 2.5 and 8-fold higher doses of L-T 4 and L-T 3 , respectively, were required to produce a central effect in the Mct8 KO compared to that in Wt animal. These high doses of TH produced “hyperthyroidism” in peripheral tissues of the Mct8KO mice. Importantly, DITPA given to pregnant mice carrying Mct8-deficient embryos was able to cross the placenta and to have similar thyromimetic action on the expression of TH-dependent genes in brain of Mct8KO and Wt pups at similar DITPA serum levels ( 261 ). The similar serum TSH in Mct8KO vs Wt pups prenatally treated with DITPA, demonstrated better accessibility of DITPA at the pituitary compared to L-T4 thus making DITPA
