Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


( 261 ). The similar serum TSH in Mct8KO vs Wt pups prenatally treated with DITPA, demonstrated better accessibility of DITPA at the pituitary compared to L-T4 thus making DITPA a candidate for the prenatal treatment of MCT8 deficiency ( 261 ). Mct8KO mice were also used to test the possibility of gene therapy in MCT8 deficiency. Normal MCT8 was delivered using an AAV9 vector, injected either intravenously (IV) and/or intracerebroventricularly (ICV) into postnatal day 1 Mct8KO and Wt mice ( 262 ). Analysis of brains at 28 postnatal days, after L-T 3 injection for four days showed that MCT8 delivery to the blood brain barriers by IV but not ICV injection is necessary for its proper function and resulted in increased T 3 in the brain tissue triggering expression of known TH-regulated genes ( 262 ). These studies have introduced the consideration for gene therapy in the patients with MCT8 deficiency. The lack of a neurological phenotype in Mct8 KO mice limits their use as a model for understanding the mechanisms of the neurological manifestations in patients with MCT8 deficiency. If combined with deficiencies of other TH transporters in brain, Mct8 has the potential of producing an obvious neurological phenotype. Thus, mice deficient in both Mct8 and another TH transporter such as Lat2, Mct10 and Oatp1c1 were generated ( 225 , 226 , 228 ). From them, the Mct8/Oatp1c1 double KO (DKO) mice showed alterations in peripheral TH homeostasis that were similar to those in Mct8KO mice; while, uptake of both T 3 and T 4 into the brain of Mct8/Oatp1c1 DKO mice was strongly reduced ( 228 ). TH deprivation in the CNS of Mct8/Oatp1c1 DKO mice with marked decrease in brain TH content and in TH target gene expression manifested with delayed cerebellar development, reduced myelination and compromised differentiation of GABAergic interneurons in the cerebral cortex ( 228 ). Mct8/Oatp1c1 DKO mice displayed pronounced locomotor abnormalities and currently are being used to assess the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the neurologic phenotype in Mct8 deficiency and as models to test the effect treatment modalities on neurodevelopmental defects observed in humans. Molecular Basis of the Disorder In vitro studies using mutant MCT8 alleles as well as observations from animals deficient in Mct8, serve to explain the mechanism leading to the defect. All mutant MCT8 alleles tested by transfection or in fibroblast derived from affected individuals show absent or greatly reduced
