Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


in Mct8, serve to explain the mechanism leading to the defect. All mutant MCT8 alleles tested by transfection or in fibroblast derived from affected individuals show absent or greatly reduced ability to transport iodothyronines, primarily T 3 ( 235 ). Although MCT8 mRNA is widely expressed in human and rat tissues, including brain, heart, liver, kidney, adrenal gland, and thyroid ( 263 , 264 ), repercussions due to its absence manifest primarily in tissues and cells in which MCT8 is the principal, if not unique TH transporter. Analysis of the MCT8 mRNA expression pattern in the mouse brain by in situ hybridization revealed a distinct localization of this transporter in specific neuronal populations known to be highly dependent on proper TH supply, indicating that a defective MCT8 will perturb T 3 -dependent neuronal function. Moreover, high transcript levels for MCT8 were observed in choroid plexus structures and in capillary endothelial cells, suggesting that MCT8 also contributes to the passage of THs via the blood-brain barrier and/or via the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier ( 265 , 266 ). In the thyroid, it has been demonstrated that MCT8 is involved in the secretion of TH into the bloodstream ( 257 , 267 ). The magnitude of serum T 3 elevation does not correlate with the degree of T 3 transport defect produced by a particular MCT8 mutation. This is probably due to the important contribution of the concomitant perturbation in iodothyronine metabolism on the production of T 3 , as demonstrated in the Mct8 KO mice (see the section above). Similarly, there is no correlation between the magnitude of serum T 3 elevation or rT 3 reduction in affected males compared to their carrier mothers ( 33 ). Some imperfect correlation does appear to exist between the degree of the MCT8 defect and clinical consequences. Patients that are least severely affected and capable of some locomotion have mutations with partial preservation of T 3 transport function (see Clinical Features and Course of the Disease, above). In contrast, early death is more common in patients with mutations that completely disrupt the MCT8 molecule. However, it should be kept in mind that genetic factors, variability in tissue expression of MCT8, and other iodothyronine cell membrane transporters could be responsible for the lack of a stronger phenotype/genotype correlation. The possibility that MCT8 is involved in the transport of other ligands, or has functions other than TH
