Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


transporters could be responsible for the lack of a stronger phenotype/genotype correlation. The possibility that MCT8 is involved in the transport of other ligands, or has functions other than TH transport, cannot be excluded. There has been a great deal of effort in trying to understand how MCT8 transports TH into cells, and how MCT8 distinguishes TH substrates from structurally closely related compounds is not known. One starting point used was the fact that T 3 is bound between a His-Arg clamp in the crystal structure of the T 3 receptor/T 3 complex. To investigate whether such a motif might potentially be relevant for T 3 recognition in MCT8, several mutations occurring in patients, or generated in vitro have been tested in combination with amino acid specific chemical modification. Molecular modeling has demonstrated a perfect fit of T 3 poised into the substrate channel between His415 and Arg301 and observing the same geometry as in the T 3 receptor ( 268 ). Similarly, cysteine residues Cys481 and Cys497 were found to probably be located at or near the substrate-recognition site in MCT8 ( 269 ). The question whether MCT8 functions as a monomer or as an oligomer has also been investigated. Although several mutations have been shown to affect oligomerization in vitro , currently, it is not known whether there is an obligatory functional need for dimerization of MCT8, or whether there is substrate-induced or constitutive oligomerization versus monomerization ( 270 ), However, different from the tight interaction of TH with receptors as ligand and with the deiodinases as substrate, the transporters have to achieve specific interactions with TH, while avoiding tight binding, as this would stall the transport process. Characterizing the mechanism is of fundamental interest and will be key for the design of specific MCT8 modulators. Differential Diagnosis MCT8-dependent THCMTD is syndromic, presenting a thyroid and a neuropsychomotor component. However, the majority of patients come to medical attention because of retarded development, and neurological deficits. Although the thyroid abnormalities are most characteristic, they escape detection by neonatal screening. TSH concentration is not elevated above the diagnostic cut off level and although T 4 is commonly low, it more often accompanies premature births and low levels of TH-binding serum proteins. Studies in Mct8KO mice suggest that rT 3 could turn out to be a good marker for the early detection of MCT8 defects in humans. Hypotonia is an early
