Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


proteins. Studies in Mct8KO mice suggest that rT 3 could turn out to be a good marker for the early detection of MCT8 defects in humans. Hypotonia is an early manifestation, but is not specific. Reduced myelin, documented by brain MRI, places MCT8 in the category of other diseases showing reduced myelination, among them Pelizaeus–Merzbacher disease (PMD; OMIM# 312080). The latter is also X-linked, and is a leukodystrophy caused by an inborn error of myelin formation due to defects in the PLP1 gene located on Xq22. In fact, a survey of 53 families affected by hypomyelinating leukodystrophies of unknown etiology, classified as PMD, resulted in the identification of MCT8 gene mutations in 11% ( 244 ), and the affected subjects were subsequently found to have the typical thyroid test abnormalities. Patients with PMD do not exhibit the thyroid phenotype of MCT8 deficiency and their myelination defect is persistent, rather than transient. All children above the age of 1 month found to have MCT8 gene mutations show the characteristic thyroid test abnormalities. This underscores the importance of performing thyroid tests in patients diagnosed with mental retardation or syndromic X-linked phenotypes suggestive of a MCT8 defect, prior to sequencing the MCT8 locus. Most useful is the finding of a high serum T 3 and low rT 3 . A reduced (at the low limit or below normal) serum total or free T 4, and a normal or slightly elevated TSH are also present. In cases with increased T 3 due to other causes, calculating the ratio of T 3 /rT 3 is helpful in differentiating them from cases of MCT8 defects, in whom the ratio will be above 10. Treatment Treatment options for patients with MCT8 gene mutations are currently limited ( 251 ). Supportive measures include the use of braces to prevent mal-positioned contractures that may ultimately require orthopedic surgery. Intensive physical, occupational, and speech therapies have subjective but limited objective beneficial effects. Diet should be adjusted to prevent aspiration and a permanent gastric feeding tube may be placed to avert malnutrition. Dystonia could be ameliorated with medications such as anticholinergics, L-DOPA carbamazepine and lioresol. Drooling might be improved with glycopyrolate or scopolamine. Seizures should be treated with standard anticonvulsants. When refractory to the latter, a ketogenic diet, as well as administration of supraphysiological doses of L-T 4 , has been successful. Experience with such treatments is, however, limited to only
