Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


refractory to the latter, a ketogenic diet, as well as administration of supraphysiological doses of L-T 4 , has been successful. Experience with such treatments is, however, limited to only a few cases. Detection of low T 4 levels by neonatal screening has led to treatment with L-T 4 in several infants. As expected, no improvement has been noted when used in physiological doses, because of the impaired uptake of the hormone by MCT8-dependent tissues. Under these circumstances it would be logical to treat with supraphysiological doses of L-T 4 , thereby increasing the availability of TH to the brain. However, the presence of an already increased D1, as observed in Mct8 deficient mice (see Animal Models in a preceding section of this Chapter), is likely to aggravate the hypermetabolic state of the patient by generating more T 3 from the exogenous L-T 4 . Therefore, high L-T 4 dose treatment has been used in combination with propylthiouracil (PTU), which is a specific inhibitor of D1. This results in reduction of the conversion of T 4 to T 3 in peripheral tissues by D1, while it allows the local generation of T 3 by D2 in tissues. Although this treatment allowed an increase in serum L-T 4 level without increasing the hypermetabolism and weight loss, it did not improve the neuropsychomotor deficit ( 33 , 241 ). Other possible treatments that have been tested include the administration of the thyromimetic drug DITPA, that seems to be effectively transported into mouse brain in the absence of Mct8 ( 260 ) (see Animal Models in a preceding section of this Chapter). DITPA given to children with MCT8 deficiency in doses of 1–2 mg/kg/d fully normalizes the serum thyroid tests, and reduces the hypermetabolism with improvement in the nutritional status with no objective change in the neuropsychiatric deficit ( 271 ). In vitro treatment with DITPA of oligodendrocytes derived from a human embryonic stem cell reporter line expressing MCT8 ( 272 ) was found to up-regulate oligodendrocytes differentiation transcription factors and myelin gene expression and to promote myelination of retinal ganglion axons in co-culture. Pharmacological and genetic blockade of MCT8 induced significant oligodendrocyte apoptosis, impairing myelination, and DITPA treatment was able to limit this effect ( 272 ). As MCT8 seems to be essential for TH transport in human oligodendrocytes development, DITPA has the potential to be a promising treatment for developmentally regulated
