Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


this effect ( 272 ). As MCT8 seems to be essential for TH transport in human oligodendrocytes development, DITPA has the potential to be a promising treatment for developmentally regulated myelination in AHDS ( 272 ). Other TH metabolites, such as TRIAC and its precursor tetraiodothyroacetic acid (TETRAC) have been tested. Recently, a multicenter, open-label, single-arm, phase 2, clinical trial investigated the effectiveness and safety of oral TRIAC in male pediatric and adult patients with MCT8 deficiency assessed at baseline and after 12 months of TRIAC administered in a predefined escalating dose schedule at a dose ranging from 23–48 μg/kg per day ( 273 ). All serum thyroid tests decreased, including T 3 ; TSH, total free T 4, and reverse T 3 further decreased from their already low baseline levels in patients with MCT8 deficiency. While the reduction in serum T 3 concentrations was associated with improvements in body weight, cardio-vascular status, and markers of TH action in different tissues, causality cannot be proven directly because the open-label study design did not include a control group. Moreover, there are concerns that the further reduction in circulating T 3 concentrations under TRIAC treatment aggravates the hypothyroid state in the brain in individuals with MCT8 deficiency ( 273 ). Another treatment option tested in vitro consists of the use of chemical and pharmacological chaperones on the expression and transport activity of several MCT8 mutant proteins. The chemical chaperone sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPB), has been used to treat patients with cystic fibrosis and urea cycle defects for extended periods of time. In vitro testing showed that NaPB could rescue the expression and activities of MCT8 mutations that retain some residual activity ( 274 ). Testing of another chemical chaperone, 4-phenylbutyric acid (PBA), demonstrated that it was effective in potentiating the T3 uptake in transiently transfected COS-1 cells with WT MCT8 and the F501Δ mutant, but only minor effects were observed in F501Δ fibroblasts ( 275 ). Thus, the applicability of chemical and pharmacological chaperones may be limited to only a small number of patients with certain mutations. In addition, because the magnitude of the effect of chaperone therapy strongly depends on the disease model, more extensive preclinical studies are warranted before clinically available chaperones should be considered as a treatment option in patients with MCT8 deficiency. Treatments that reduce the high serum T 3 level, including combining PTU with L-T 4 , DITPA
