Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


chaperones should be considered as a treatment option in patients with MCT8 deficiency. Treatments that reduce the high serum T 3 level, including combining PTU with L-T 4 , DITPA or TRIAC, have all beneficial effect on the hypermetabolism and reduce weight loss. This often obviates the need for feeding through a G-tube. However, no demonstrable effect on the neuropsychomotor abnormalities has been observed even when treatment was initiated during infancy. It is noteworthy that none of the treatments discussed above have been initiated before the age of 6 months. It is possible that for any TH mediated treatment to be effective on brain development, it will have to be initiated before birth. However, intra-amniotic treatment with L-T 4 of an embryo beginning at 17 weeks of gestation failed to prevent the neurological complications, even though myelination proceeded normally ( 33 ). This suggests that earlier brain damage, unrelated to myelin formation, is involved and that treatment should begin at 10 weeks of gestation, when brain TH receptors becomes fully active ( 276 ). Use of thyromimetic drugs is supported by the defect in the transport of authentic THs. However, it is possible that a deficiency in a different substrate or that the loss of a putative constitutive effect harbored by the intact MCT8, play a role in the observed brain morbidity. THYROID HORMONE METABOLISM DEFECT Recessive mutation in the SBP2 ( SECISBP2 ) gene encoding selenocysteine insertion sequence-binding protein 2 is an inherited condition causing a TH metabolism defect (THMD). The mutations affect selenoprotein synthesis including the deiodinases, which are selenoenzymes. Only twelve families with this defect have been identified so far. Affected individuals present with short stature and characteristic thyroid test abnormalities with high serum T 4 , low T 3 , high rT 3 and normal or slightly elevated serum TSH. In addition, they also have decreased serum selenium (Se) and decreased selenoprotein levels and activities in serum and tissues. The overall clinical phenotype is complex. Affected individuals may have delayed growth and puberty, and in severe cases failure to thrive, developmental delay, infertility, myopathy, hearing impairment, photosensitivity, and immune deficits. Another inherited condition also reported to cause THMD is the mutation in the TRU-TCA1-1 gene encoding the selenocysteine transfer RNA (tRNA Sec ), which has a role in selenoprotein synthesis. The affected individual had high serum T4, high rT3, normal T3, normal TSH with low Se
