Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


the selenocysteine transfer RNA (tRNA Sec ), which has a role in selenoprotein synthesis. The affected individual had high serum T4, high rT3, normal T3, normal TSH with low Se level ( 277 ) Mutations in the in selenocysteine synthase (SEPSECS) have also been identified, however affected individuals do not manifest abnormal thyroid function tests ( 278 ). Affected children manifest a complex neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder involving, among other features, microcephaly, delayed motor and intellectual development, spasticity, and seizures. Intracellular Metabolism of TH The requirement for TH varies among tissues, cell types, and the timing in development. In order to provide the proper intracellular hormone supply, TH entry into cells is controlled by membrane transporters, and further fine-tuned by its intracellular metabolism, regulated by three selenoprotein iodothyronine deiodinases (D1, D2, D3). D1 and D2 are 5’-iodothyronine deiodinases that catalyze TH activation by converting T 4 to T 3 . D3, a 5-deiodinase is the main TH inactivator through conversion of T 4 to rT 3 and T 3 to T 2 ( Figure 1B ) (see other Endotext chapters for details) Deiodinases are selenoproteins containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec), present in the active center of the molecule and required for their enzymatic activity. They are differentially expressed in tissues and in response to alterations in the intracellular environment, further regulated at the level of transcription, translation and metabolism ( 16 ). D2 activity can change very rapidly as its half-life is more than 15-fold shorter than that of D1 and D3. T 4 accelerates D2 inactivation through ubiquitination, a reversible process that can regenerate active D2 enzyme through de-ubiquitination. Deiodinases share with other selenoproteins the synthesis through a unique mode of translation. The codon used for insertion of Sec is UGA, which under most circumstances serves as a signal to stop synthesis. This recoding of UGA is directed by the presence of a selenocysteine insertion sequence (SECIS) in the 3’-untranslated region of the selenoprotein messenger RNA. It is the SECIS-binding protein 2 (in short SBP2) that recognizes the SECIS and recruits an elongation factor (EFSec) and the specific selenocysteine transfer RNA (tRNA Sec ) for addition of Sec at this particular UGA codon ( Figure 13 ) ( 279 ). Figure 13. Components involved in Sec incorporation central in the synthesis of selenoproteins. Elements present in the mRNA of selenoproteins: an in frame UGA codon and Sec
