Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


( 279 ). Figure 13. Components involved in Sec incorporation central in the synthesis of selenoproteins. Elements present in the mRNA of selenoproteins: an in frame UGA codon and Sec incorporation sequence (SECIS) element, a stem loop structure located in the 3’UTR (untranslated region). SBP2 binds SECIS and recruits the Sec-specific elongation factor (EFSec) and Sec-specific tRNA (tRNA Sec ) thus resulting in the recoding of the UGA codon and Sec incorporation. Etiology and Genetics Abnormalities in TH metabolism have first been observed in humans as acquired condition, the “low T3 syndrome”, which occurs during non-thyroidal illness or starvation (see Chapter 14) ( 280 ). The first inherited disorder of TH metabolism in humans was reported in 2005 ( 8 ), and was found to be caused by a mutation in the SBP2 gene. Later, mutations in TRU-TCA1-1 gene were also reported to cause THMD in a single individual ( 277 ). Both genes are involved in selenoprotein synthesis, thus the mutations result in the defect of selenoproteins including the deiodinases. It is anticipated that mutations in other genes causing defective TH metabolism may have different phenotypes. So far, no humans have been reported with mutations in the deiodinase genes or in other proteins involved in selenoprotein synthesis. Incidence and Inheritance The incidence of THMD caused by SBP2 deficiency is unknown. Ten additional families have been identified since the description of the initial two families ( 33 , 281 - 285 ). The inheritance is autosomal recessive and males and females are equally affected. For this reason, the likelihood of being affected is less than that for autosomal dominant or X-linked conditions. The ethnic origins of the reported patients include Bedouin from Saudi Arabia, African, Irish, Brazilian, English, Japanese, Turkish and Argentinian individuals. THE SBP2 GENE AND MUTATIONS The human SBP2 gene, cloned in 2002, is located on chromosome 9 and encodes a protein of 854 amino acids widely expressed in most tissues ( 286 ). The C-terminal domain encompassing codons 399-774 of the protein is the minimal functional protein domain required for SECIS binding, ribosome binding and Sec incorporation ( 287 ), which is mandatory for SBP2 function. The role of the N-terminal region is not fully understood. In vitro studies have characterized a nuclear localization signal located in the N-terminal part and nuclear export signal in the C-terminal part. These domains enable SBP2 to shuttle between the nucleus
