Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


vitro studies have characterized a nuclear localization signal located in the N-terminal part and nuclear export signal in the C-terminal part. These domains enable SBP2 to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm ( 288 ), and they play a role in the function of SBP2 in the nucleus in vivo . The finding of SBP2 defects was made possible by extensive genetic studies of a large family with three affected and four unaffected children ( 8 ). Although affected individuals had clinical evidence of abnormal TH metabolism, the sequences of the deiodinase genes, as well as those of genes encoding proteins involved in the ubiquitination and de-ubiquitination of the deiodinase 2 were normal. Subsequently, mutational analysis of the SBP2 gene revealed that the affected individuals were homozygous for a R540Q mutation, while both parents were heterozygous carriers. It is likely that the parents, which were not directly related but both members of the same Bedouin tribe, had a common ancestor. The affected child of the 2 nd family, of mixed African/European background, was compound heterozygous for a paternal nonsense mutation (K438*), and a maternal mutation located in intron 8 (+29bp G->A), causing alternative splicing, but allowing 24% expression of a normal transcript. Since this initial report, at least ten more families with mutations in SBP2 have been identified ( 33 , 281 - 285 ). Affected individuals harbor homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations. The mutations are summarized in Table 6 and are schematically represented in Figure 14 . Among the 20 mutations identified, four are missense mutations located within the functional domain (codon 399-774) causing deleterious effects on protein function, while the other six result in a prematurely truncated protein disrupting the functional domain. Nine mutations cause either transcripts with abnormal splicing or truncations, affecting the N-terminal part of the protein. The generation of shorter isoforms translated from downstream ATGs at codons 139, 233, and 300, which all contain the intact C-terminal functional domain results in preservation of partial SBP2 function ( 281 ). One remaining mutation, Q782*, results in a truncated protein downstream of the functional domain 399-774 and is likely subject to nonsense-mediated decay. Table 6. Mutations in SBP2 Gene View in own window Family (# affected) Mutations Protein change Comments on putative defect Status Ref. 1 (3) c.1619G>A R540Q Predicted damaging (PolyPhen-2 score 1) Homozygous ( 8 ) 2 (1) c.1312A>T K438* Truncated functional domain Compound
