Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


only adult affected individual was reported to have normal pubertal development, despite unilateral orchidectomy at age 15 years following an episode of testicular torsion. He had infertility in adulthood and the investigations revealed azoospermia despite the presence of a sonographically normal remaining testis ( 283 ). Other manifestations found in the adult patient were severe Raynaud disease, skin photosensitivity with evidence of enhanced UV-mediated oxidative DNA damage and mild reduction in red blood cell and total lymphocyte counts with impaired T cell proliferation and abnormal cytokine production ( 283 ). This, together with the variety of the aforementioned manifestations, suggests that the defects in the SBP2 gene result in a multi-organ involvement. The consequences of SBP2 deficiency could still be underestimated since the features associated with oxidative damage such as neoplasia, neurodegeneration and premature aging may develop later in life. A detailed longitudinal evaluation of affected individuals is needed to further understand and characterize the spectrum of the clinical manifestations in SBP2 deficiency. Laboratory Findings The characteristic thyroid test abnormalities in subjects with SBP2 gene mutations are high total and free T 4 , low T 3 , high rT 3, and a normal or slightly elevated serum TSH ( 8 ) ( Figure 15A ). In vivo studies assessing the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis show that compared to normal siblings, affected children require higher doses of L-T 4 and higher serum concentrations of T 3 , but not T 3 , to reduce their TSH levels compared to unaffected siblings, suggesting impaired conversion of T 4 to T 3 ( Figure 15B ). None of the affected individuals was reported to have an enlarged thyroid gland on physical examination. Thyroid ultrasonography showed a normal thyroid gland in one patient ( 282 ) and a hypoplastic thyroid gland in another patient ( 284 ). Delay in bone age was reported in the majority of the patients investigated, except one patient who presented with obesity and a bone age of 11 years at the chronological age of 10 years ( 285 ). Figure 15. Thyroid function tests in several families with SBP2 deficiency studied in the authors’ laboratory. Grey regions indicate the normal range for the respective test. Affected individuals are represented as red squares and unaffected members of the families, as blue circles. B. In vivo studies: Serum TSH and corresponding serum T 4 and T 3 levels, before and during the
