Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


red squares and unaffected members of the families, as blue circles. B. In vivo studies: Serum TSH and corresponding serum T 4 and T 3 levels, before and during the oral administration of incremental doses of L-T 4 and L-T 3 . Note the higher concentrations of T 4 required to reduce serum TSH in the affected subjects; C. In vitro studies: Deiodinase 2 enzymatic activity and mRNA expression in cultured fibroblasts. Baseline and stimulated D2 activity is significantly lower in affected. There is a significant increase of DIO2 mRNA with dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate [(db)-cAMP)], in both unaffected and affected (* p <0.001) while there are no significant differences in baseline (db)-cAMP stimulated DIO2 mRNA in affected versus the unaffected. Skin fibroblasts obtained from affected individuals and propagated in cell culture, showed reduced baseline and cAMP-stimulated D2 enzymatic activity, compared to fibroblasts from unaffected individuals. However, baseline and cAMP-stimulated D2 mRNA levels were not different compared to those in fibroblast from normal individuals ( Figure 15C ). As SBP2 is epistatic to selenoprotein synthesis, SBP2 deficiency is expected to affect multiple selenoproteins. Indeed, serum concentrations of selenium, selenoprotein P and other selenoproteins are reduced, and skin fibroblasts have decreased D2 and glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) activities in affected individuals ( 8 ). Thigh MRI of affected patients with muscle weakness showed muscle hypotrophy and increased signal in T1-weighted images suggesting of connective tissue / fatty infiltration in the thigh muscles, predominantly in the adductor magnus, biceps femoris and sartorius, with relative sparing of other muscle groups ( 282 , 283 , 285 ). This pattern is similar to that of individuals with myopathies caused by selenoprotein N1 (SEPN1) deficiency, suggesting that SEPN1 is also affected in the individuals with SBP2 deficiency. Detailed evaluation in the adult patient with multi-systemic involvement also demonstrated deficiencies in multiple selenoproteins: lack of testis-enriched selenoproteins resulting in failure of the latter stages of spermatogenesis and azoospermia, cutaneous deficiencies of antioxidant selenoenzymes causing increased cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), and reduced selenoproteins in peripheral blood cells resulting in immune deficits ( 283 ). Deficiencies of other selenoproteins of unknown function, such as SELH, SELT, SELW, SELI, were found and their consequences are as yet unknown ( 283 ). In some of these patients, multiple tissues and organs show damage mediated by reactive oxygen species, and it is conceivable that other pathologies linked to oxidative damage such
