Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


283 ). In some of these patients, multiple tissues and organs show damage mediated by reactive oxygen species, and it is conceivable that other pathologies linked to oxidative damage such as neoplasia, neurodegeneration, premature ageing, may manifest with time. Molecular Basis of the Disorder Clinical and laboratory investigations have established that the mutations in the SBP2 gene fully explain the observed abnormalities, as SBP2 is a major determinant in the incorporation of Sec during selenoprotein synthesis. Complete lack of SBP2 function is predicted to be lethal, as its immunodepletion eliminates Sec incorporation. The absence of lethality in the reported patients with SBP2 deficiency is attributed to the preservation of partial SBP2 activity and the hierarchy in the synthesis of selenoproteins. The thyroid test abnormalities in subjects with SBP2 deficiency are consistent with a defect in TH metabolism due to the deficiency in deiodinases and have been found in all cases, even those with a relative mild phenotype. The mutant R540Q SBP2 behaves as a hypomorphic allele in in vitro studies using the corresponding R531Q mutation of the rat Sbp2 ( 289 ). The mutant molecule showed no binding to some, but not all SECIS elements, resulting in selective loss in the expression of a subset of selenoproteins. The affected child of another family was compound heterozygous and expressed ~24% of a normal transcript. In the case of the homozygous R128* mutation, smaller SBP2 isoforms translated from downstream ATGs were preserved which contained the intact C-terminus functional domains. As the human selenoproteome comprises at least 25 selenoproteins ( 290 , 291 ) it is not surprising that the phenotype of SBP2 deficiency is complex and goes beyond the thyroid test abnormalities that dominate the mild cases. The more severe phenotype reported in three families is due to a more extensive impairment in SBP2 function ( 292 ). In the patient with two nonsense mutations ( 282 ), the R770* mutation truncates the C-terminal functional domain in all the isoforms and likely abolishes SBP2 function. However, the R120* allele likely generates smaller functionally active SBP2 isoforms, but the overall amount would be less than that of the homozygous R128* patient ( 281 ), thus explaining the more severe phenotype. Low expression of functional SBP2 also explains the phenotype of the two patients from the United Kingdom. Increased proteasomal degradation was demonstrated for the C691R mutation, and Western blotting of skin fibroblasts from
