Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


functional SBP2 also explains the phenotype of the two patients from the United Kingdom. Increased proteasomal degradation was demonstrated for the C691R mutation, and Western blotting of skin fibroblasts from both probands showed lack of full length SBP2 protein expression ( 283 ) THMD Caused by Mutation in the TRU-TCA1-1 Gene Another inherited condition also reported to cause THMD is the mutation in the TRU-TCA1-1 gene encoding selenocysteine transfer RNA (tRNA Sec ) ( 277 ), an essential molecule in the Sec-incorporation pathway. The first and only patient reported to date was found to have elevated serum T 4 and rT 3 levels, together with a normal serum T 3 , suggestive of impaired deiodinase activity, during the investigations for his abdominal pain, fatigue and muscle weakness. A low plasma selenium level was also found, together with undetectable red cell and plasma GPX, low plasma selenoprotein P (SEPP1), mild signaling intensity change in muscle imaging, and negligible SEPN1 expression in fibroblasts. However, SBP2 protein expression was normal and no mutation in the SBP2 gene was identified, leading to the suspicion of a defect in another gene involved in the selenoprotein synthesis pathway. A homozygous missense mutation in the TRU-TCA1-1 gene, resulting in the amino acid substitution C65G, was then identified in the proband and segregated with the phenotype in the family. Primary cells from the proband showed marked reduction of the mcm 5 Um isoform of tRNA Sec , needed mainly for the synthesis of stress-related selenoproteins, whereas the mcm 5 U isoform of tRNA Sec , mainly responsible for the synthesis of housekeeping selenoproteins, was relatively preserved. Animal Models of THMD To bypass the embryonic lethality of lacking Sbp2 ( 293 ), a global partial Sbp2 deficiency mouse model, Sbp2 conditional knockout ( Sbp2 iCKO) was generated using tamoxifen-inducible Cre-ER induced at P35 ( 294 ). The Sbp2 iCKO mice replicate most of the characteristic thyroid function tests in patients, with high serum T 4 , rT 3 and TSH, whereas serum T 3 is normal ( Figure 16A ). The enzymatic activity of D1 in the liver, and the D2 enzymatic activity and Dio3 mRNA expression in the cerebrum were decreased in Sbp2 iCKO compared to Wt littermates ( Figure 16B ) ( 294 ). In addition to the affected selenoenzymes deiodinases, Sbp2 iCKO mice also had decreased expression and/or activity of other selenoproteins in the liver, cerebrum
