Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


( Figure 16B ) ( 294 ). In addition to the affected selenoenzymes deiodinases, Sbp2 iCKO mice also had decreased expression and/or activity of other selenoproteins in the liver, cerebrum and serum ( 294 ). Decreased body weight was observed in Sbp2 iCKO mice by 2 weeks after tamoxifen injection, similar to the failure-to-thrive phenotype in patients. Other phenotypes are being further investigated in Sbp2 iCKO mice in order to understand the mechanisms of SBP2 deficiency as a multi-organ syndrome. Figure 16. Data from Sbp2 iCKO vs Wt male mice. A. Serum TFTs in Sbp2 iCKO vs Wt male mice. B. Enzymatic activity of the D1 in liver, D2 in cerebrum and mRNA expression of Dio3 in cerebrum. Sbp2 iCKO mice represented as black bars and Wt littermates in open bars *, P <0.05; **, P <0.01; ***, P <0.001. Differential Diagnosis From the point of view of the thyroid phenotype, the combination of non-suppressed (normal or slightly elevated) serum TSH with increased concentrations of T 4 and decreased T 3 levels, is characteristic for the TH metabolism defects due to SBP2 deficiency. An elevated TSH and a general medical evaluation would help distinguishing the thyroid test abnormalities from those encountered in acute non-thyroidal illness, which in terms of iodothyronines could be similar. It is important to confirm the abnormalities by repeat testing several weeks or months apart because the consequence of a variety of non-thyroidal illnesses and some drugs are often transient. For a comprehensive thyroid evaluation, it is recommended to perform the entire panel of thyroid tests, including the free TH levels by dialysis, to exclude abnormalities in serum TH-binding proteins. Because the clinical presentations of a THMD can be variable, broad and non-specific, including short stature and growth delay, the differential diagnosis can be extensive. Obtaining thyroid tests in first-degree relatives is important in determining the inheritance pattern of the phenotype, and identification of other affected individuals can help in categorizing the symptoms and signs. Given the recessive mode of inheritance, investigation of relatives is helpful in large families and when the patient has multiple siblings. For SBP2 deficiency in particular, measuring serum Se and SePP levels as well as GPX activity can avoid more invasive tests such are skin or muscle biopsies. Finding a mutation in the SBP2 gene can be sufficient to provide a diagnosis if the mutation is predicted and/or demonstrated to result in
