Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism, and Action
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, mutations, thyroid hormone, gene, pubmed, serum, tsh, normal, patients, receptor, resistance, mutation, affected, deficiency


such are skin or muscle biopsies. Finding a mutation in the SBP2 gene can be sufficient to provide a diagnosis if the mutation is predicted and/or demonstrated to result in a functionally defective protein or results in failure to synthesize the protein. Linkage analysis in smaller families is particularly helpful in excluding the involvement of SBP2. Failure to detect a SBP2 mutation by sequencing only coding regions of the gene is not sufficient, as putative mutations can exist in introns and regulatory elements. In this case, measuring the TSH responses to incremental doses of L-T 4 and/or L-T 3 could be used to confirm the biochemical diagnosis of TH metabolism defect, as described in the section on Laboratory Tests. Treatment Identification of the metabolic pathway responsible for the phenotype in these patients and the demonstration of defects in the SBP2 gene provided further insight into targeted treatment possibilities. Three such options, namely, administration of Se, TH and vitamin E were tested ( 270 , 281 , 295 ). Administration of up to 400 mcg of selenium ( 295 ), in the form of selenomethionine but not selenite, normalized the serum selenium concentration but not selenoprotein P levels and did not restore the TH metabolism dysfunction. Se supplementation in form of selenomethionine contained in Se-rich yeast seems to be more effective as it can be incorporated nonspecifically into all circulating serum proteins ( 296 ), whereas selenite is metabolized and inserted as selenocysteine into the growing peptide chain of selenoproteins ( 297 ), therefore resulting in different Se bioavailability. The effect of L-T 3 administration was tested in three patients as it was demonstrated to equally suppress serum TSH concentration in affected and unaffected subjects, bypassing the defect ( 8 ). Delayed linear growth can be improved with L-T 3 supplementation ( 281 ), but experience with TH administration in these patients is limited. As increased oxidative stress state was documented in SBP2 deficiency, treatment with vitamin E was evaluated in a patient. The level of 7β-hydroxycholesterol, a free radical-mediated lipid peroxidation product, was found to be elevated in the patient at baseline, and was reduced to control levels after 2 weeks of α-tocopherol acetate treatment. The effect persisted during 2 years of treatment and at least 7 months after withdrawal ( 270 ). Other clinical features of SBP2 defects are treated symptomatically. Physical, occupational and speech therapy was required in
