Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


18–1 Received in final form December 18, 2014, with an update on January 20, 2017. CHAPTER 18 HEART DISEASE AND DIABETES Elizabeth Barrett-Connor, MD, Deborah Wingard, PhD, Nathan Wong, PhD, and Ron Goldberg, MD Dr. Elizabeth Barrett-Connor is Distinguished Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family Medicine and Public Health at the University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA. Dr. Deborah Wingard is Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family Medicine and Public Health at the University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA. Dr. Nathan Wong is Professor and Director of the Heart Disease Prevention Program, Division of Cardiology, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA. Dr. Ron Goldberg is Professor of Medicine and Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Diabetes Research Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL. SUMMARY Heart disease remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes and is estimated to account for 10%–11% of all vascular deaths. Surveys of the U.S. population have demonstrated an age-standardized differential for heart disease in adults with mostly type 2 diabetes that varies from 1.9 to 2.5. The age-standardized prevalence is about 50% higher in men than women overall and for most categories of heart disease, except congestive heart failure. Although rates of diabetes are higher in nonwhites than in non-Hispanic whites, it should be noted that non-Hispanic whites with diabetes generally report heart disease rates about 50% higher than Hispanic subjects with diabetes, with an intermediate prevalence in non-Hispanic blacks. Despite an approximate doubling in type 2 diabetes prevalence from the 1980s to the 2010s, the prevalence of heart disease in diabetes has remained stable. Classic heart disease risk factors, such as elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, blood pressure, reduced high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and smoking, have been clearly demonstrated to be important determinants of heart disease in diabetes. However, several studies, including a very large, multinational meta-analysis, indicate that the excess prevalence of heart disease in diabetes is not accounted for by measured classic cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, including levels of triglyceride, HDL cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol, C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, and renal function. In addition, novel biomarkers have not been found to add significance in prediction of heart disease. The association between fasting glucose and heart disease displays a J-shaped curve in several studies, indicating that the risk for heart disease in subjects with fasting plasma
