Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


of heart disease. The association between fasting glucose and heart disease displays a J-shaped curve in several studies, indicating that the risk for heart disease in subjects with fasting plasma glucose 100–125 mg/dL is only modestly elevated compared to the twofold higher risk in those with values ≥126 mg/dL, the current cut point for diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. Glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) has also been shown to have a graded association with heart disease. The association between insulin resistance and heart disease is inconsistent, at least in part because of methodologic differences among studies. Furthermore, these studies may be complicated by cross-reactivity with proinsulin, which is a marker for beta cell failure and may be more strongly associated with heart disease than insulin levels. Obesity is the most important risk factor for type 2 diabetes but has not been shown to have an independent association with heart disease. Although similar associations with heart disease have been found for body mass index and waist measurements in a large meta-analysis of general population cohort studies, these were lost after adjustment for other risk factors, possibly because obesity is in the causal pathway between these risk factors and heart disease development. Similarly, conflicting data have been reported as to whether the presence of the metabolic syndrome in subjects with diabetes is independently associated with heart disease. In contrast to body weight, physical inactivity in those with diabetes appears to have an independent association with heart disease. Clinical trials involving risk factor modification in diabetes have helped to clarify their roles in heart disease development, as well as the benefits and limitations of modern treatment modalities for diabetes and its complications, and have led to significant modification in treatment guidelines. Whether improvement of glycemic control reduces heart disease has long been a central question, since older trials had not demonstrated benefit. However, extended follow-up of earlier studies of improved glycemic control in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes have demonstrated a long-term so-called “legacy” benefit for heart disease, not immediately evident after completion of the active intervention phase. Intervention trials testing intensive versus standard glycemic control, however, have found no evidence of benefit of improved glycemic control on cardiovascular outcomes. In one of these trials, cardiovascular and all-cause mortality increased in the intensive control group, while a meta-analysis of 13 trials of intensive glycemic control found no significant impact on all-cause mortality. Severe
