Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


these trials, cardiovascular and all-cause mortality increased in the intensive control group, while a meta-analysis of 13 trials of intensive glycemic control found no significant impact on all-cause mortality. Severe hypoglycemia, longstanding diabetes, and preexisting heart disease appeared to contribute to the increased mortality and the lack of benefit for intensive glycemic control, and post hoc analyses suggested that this intervention may be most effective in more recently diagnosed subjects. With respect to lipid-lowering clinical trials, by contrast, studies have shown unequivocally that statin treatment, in both secondary as well as primary prevention trials, significantly reduces heart disease with a similar risk reduction to that seen in nondiabetic subjects. However, fenofibrate given as monotherapy or as add-on therapy to simvastatin does not confer heart disease benefit in diabetes, except possibly in the subgroup with high triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol levels. While older trials of 18–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition blood pressure lowering demonstrated benefit, a more recent large trial of intensive blood pressure control did not find that achieving a lower goal leads to a reduction in cardiovascular events overall, although ischemic stroke incidence was decreased. Several trials were unable to demonstrate a significant benefit for low-dose aspirin as primary preventive therapy in diabetes. Finally, although there have been few studies of comprehensive risk factor management, one small, long-term trial was highly successful in reducing cardiovas­ cular events by intensive glycemic blood pressure and LDL cholesterol control. In addition, a meta-analysis of physical activity trials in patients with diabetes showed a reduction in myocardial infarction and all-cause mortality. However, a large 10-year clinical trial focusing on weight reduction in people with diabetes through an intensive lifestyle change program showed no cardiovascular benefit despite improvement in risk factors. In conclusion, despite intensive management of risk factors, the high risk for heart disease among people with diabetes remains a major health concern. INTRODUCTION Although coronary heart disease (CHD) is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes, historically the diabetes-CHD association received little systematic study, even after the publication of Kelly West’s monu­ mental book Epidemiology of Diabetes Mellitus and Its Vascular Lesions (1) and the development of standard World Health Organization (WHO) (2) and National Diabetes Data Group (3) criteria for the definition of diabetes in the 1980s. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (4), the proportion of diabetes in the
