Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


National Diabetes Data Group (3) criteria for the definition of diabetes in the 1980s. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (4), the proportion of diabetes in the United States that is type 1 is 5%, and type 2 diabetes accounts for 90%–95%. The epidemiology and etiology of type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes has been reviewed (5) and is described in detail in Chapter 2 Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries. Although type 1 diabetes carries a cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality risk similar to type 2 diabetes (6), this chapter mainly addresses type 2 diabetes, citing papers reporting fasting plasma glucose (FPG) or diabetes by history. The literature on the association between diabetes and CVD has increased expo­ nentially since Diabetes in America, 2nd edition, was published in 1995 (7). In this chapter, each section usually starts with a review and, whenever possible, concludes showing a large systematic review or meta-analysis that addresses each topic. In order to improve generalizability and statistical power, no attempt was made to exclude prospective studies done outside the United States, which were included in these meta-analyses. Point estimates are provided from each cohort study. Unless otherwise noted, individuals in most cohort studies were of European or Scandinavian ancestry and about one-third of cohorts were from the United States. Diabetes is clearly an established risk factor for CHD (8,9), but how much its effect varies by age, sex, or levels of conventional risk factors is uncertain (10,11). Key risk factors characteristic of diabetes are discussed, specifically hyperglycemia; dyslipidemia (elevated triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol); hyper­ tension; components of the metabolic syndrome; central obesity; insulin (hyperinsulinemia); biomarkers, such as C-reactive protein; lack of physical activity; and smoking. Hypertension, or high blood pressure, is usually included in discussions of the metabolic syndrome but does not cluster with metabolic syndrome components in factor anal­ ysis. Nevertheless, hypertension is the most common risk factor in adults with diabetes and is clearly a risk factor for heart disease and stroke. The extent to which diabetes is associated with fatal versus nonfatal myocardial infarction is also unknown (12,13). Further, how much of the effect of diabetes on vascular risk can be accounted for by conventional vascular risk factors (dyslipidemia, hypertension, obesity, smoking) is unresolved (14). Different uncertainties apply regarding the best measures of dysglycemia
