Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


of diabetes on vascular risk can be accounted for by conventional vascular risk factors (dyslipidemia, hypertension, obesity, smoking) is unresolved (14). Different uncertainties apply regarding the best measures of dysglycemia in people without diabetes. FPG has been reported to be log-linearly and importantly associated with risk of vascular disease at all concentrations, including below the classic fasting threshold for diabetes of 126 mg/dL (6.99 mmol/L). Available data on this topic are inconclusive (15,16). In 2009, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force stated that prospective data for FPG concentration and CHD were inconsis­ tent and had serious limitations (17). Figure 18.1 shows study-specific hazard ratios (HR) for CHD in people with diabetes at baseline compared with people without diabetes (18). The overall summary risk estimates from the Forest plot indicate that the overall effect is an approximate doubling of risk of CHD among those with diabetes compared to those without diabetes. Regression anal­ yses were stratified, where appropriate, by sex and trial group and adjusted for age, smoking status, body mass index (BMI), and systolic blood pressure. Studies are ordered (top to bottom) by increasing number of CHD cases. Sizes of data markers are proportional to the inverse of the variance of the hazard ratios. The data sources shown in this Forest plot reveal the heterogeneity of associations by cohort. Obesity is increasing steadily worldwide, especially in industrializing countries (19). In the United States, the prevalence of obesity defined by a BMI ≥30 kg/m2 is 30%–35% in both middle-aged (40–59 years) and older adults (≥60 years) (20). Heart Disease and Diabetes 18–3 FIGURE 18.1. Study-Specific Hazard Ratios for Coronary Heart Disease in People With Diabetes at Baseline Compared to People Without Diabetes Regression analyses were stratified, where appropriate, by sex and trial group, and adjusted for age, smoking status, body mass index, and systolic blood pressure. Studies are ordered (top to bottom) by increasing number of coronary heart disease cases. Studies with <11 coronary heart disease cases were excluded from analysis. Sizes of data markers are proportional to the inverse of the variance of the hazard ratios. CI, confidence interval; HR, hazard ratio. SOURCE: Reference 18, reprinted from The Lancet copyright © 2010, with permission from Elsevier Losing weight is difficult, and interventions that work in younger adults cannot be assumed to successfully translate into an older population, where low muscle mass, physical frailty, osteoporosis, comorbid disease, and cultural differences may
