Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


and interventions that work in younger adults cannot be assumed to successfully translate into an older population, where low muscle mass, physical frailty, osteoporosis, comorbid disease, and cultural differences may increase risk. Sustained weight loss may be required to produce meaningful changes in health outcomes, particularly for CVD. The clinical trial evidence is reviewed for interventions designed to produce healthy changes in heart disease risk factors and reduce heart disease comparing adults with or without diabetes. 18–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition PREVALENCE OF HEART DISEASE IN U.S. DIABETIC VERSUS NONDIABETIC PERSONS: U.S. SURVEY ESTIMATES In new analyses conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, nationally based surveys of the U.S. population consis­ tently demonstrate that the prevalence of heart disease (no matter how defined) is higher among adults with diabetes than adults without diabetes (Tables 18.1–18.4, Appendices 18.1–18.4). In both adults with and without diabetes, the prevalence of heart disease increases with age (Figure 18.2). The age-standard­ ized differential for overall heart disease (ratio in persons with diabetes to those without) varies from 1.9 to 2.5, reflecting the different heart disease conditions included in each survey: 29.7% versus 16.4% for the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 22.4% versus 9.4% for the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), and 15.3% versus 6.2% for the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), for those with and without diabetes, respectively. National data based on hospital discharges demonstrate similar trends, but with a lower differential between adults with and without diabetes (Table 18.4, Appendix 18.4). Examination of these national surveys demonstrates that the age-standardized prevalence of heart disease is consis­ tently higher among men than women, both among those with and without diabetes (Tables 18.1–18.4, Appendices 18.1–18.4). The only exception was congestive heart failure in the NHANES 2007–2010 where prevalences were similar in men and women. These tables also demonstrate substantial variation in the age-standardized prevalence of heart disease among race/ethnicity groups. American Indians/Alaska Natives reported the highest rates of CHD or angina and heart attack or myocardial infarction in the BRFSS 2010. For the NHIS and NHANES (which did not have sufficient numbers of American Indian/Alaska Native respon­ dents to report separately), non-Hispanic whites generally reported the highest rates. However, non-Hispanic blacks in the NHANES reported more heart failure than other race/ethnicity groups. FIGURE 18.2. Prevalence of Coronary Heart Disease, by Diabetes Status, Age, and Sex, U.S., 2009–2010 Coronary heart disease and
