Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


While the above variations in the preva­ lence of heart disease are consistent with those described in Diabetes in America, 2nd edition (7), large secular trends have been noted from the 1970s to the 2010s. Figures 18.3 and 18.4 present prevalences of obesity, diabetes, and heart disease for women and men, respectively, from four different NHANES time periods covering 1976–2010. Over this time, the prevalence of obesity increased dramati­ cally, from 17% to 37% in women and 12% to 34% in men. Over this same period, the prevalence of self-reported diabetes also increased from 4% to 7% in women and 3% to 8% in men, a similar percent increase as for obesity. However, the prev­ alence of heart disease remained stable or declined for both sexes. This finding was also true when men and women with and without diabetes were examined separately; however, estimates in men or women with diabetes were unstable due to smaller sample sizes (data not shown). Although heart disease prevalence has been stable, population attributable risk (PAR, here defined as the number of cases of heart disease that would not occur if diabetes could be eliminated) may not have been. In other words, the prevalence Heart Disease and Diabetes 18–7 of heart disease has remained stable, even though the prevalence of diabetes has increased—that is, the association between diabetes and heart disease has decreased, and the PAR has declined. One limitation of much national survey data is the reliance on self-reported diabetes and heart disease. However, as seen in Figures 18.3 and 18.4, the prevalence of diabetes based on FPG and glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels has demonstrated the same trends as self-reported data over the last three survey time periods. Therefore, the reported variations by age, sex, and race/ethnicity are likely real. RISK FACTORS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF CORONARY HEART DISEASE IN PERSONS WITH DIABETES HYPERGLYCEMIA Because a diagnosis of diabetes requires hyperglycemia, it is difficult to separate the effect of diabetes per se on CVD risk from the effect of glycemia in persons who have glucose levels below diabetes diagnostic threshold levels. (Though often referred to as prediabetes, this term can be misleading as less than half of those with hyperglycemia go on to develop diabetes.) An early attempt was made by Epstein (21), who reviewed 29 prospective studies of glycemia and CHD to determine whether any observed CVD association was independent of cholesterol, blood
