Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


diabetes.) An early attempt was made by Epstein (21), who reviewed 29 prospective studies of glycemia and CHD to determine whether any observed CVD association was independent of cholesterol, blood pressure, and cigarette smoking. In five of 13 studies of postchallenge glucose in adults with no diagnosis of diabetes, a positive association was found that remained significant after adjusting for the other risk factors; no studies of fasting or casual glucose showed an independent association with CHD, nor did any of the four studies that included women. In 1999, Coutinho et al. (15) examined the association between glucose and incident CVD in a meta-analysis of 20 published studies of adults without a diagnosis of diabetes, which included 95,783 individ­ uals followed for about 12 years. Only two of these 20 studies included women. The authors found a progressive asso­ ciation with a risk that extended below the diabetic diagnostic threshold, but no adjustment for other risk factors was made. The Diabetes Epidemiology: Collaborative Analysis of Diagnostic Criteria in Europe (DECODE) study group analyzed individual data from 22 European cohort studies, which included 29,714 adults (without a diagnosis of diabetes) who were followed for an average of 11 years, in order to determine whether the glucose asso­ ciation with CVD was linear or showed a threshold effect and whether it was independent of classic CHD risk factors (22). Although DECODE is known as a European study, Minnesota railroad workers were by far the largest single DECODE cohort (n=2,315), and two Japanese cohorts (n=504 and 496) were included as well. Most DECODE studies had data that allowed adjustment for cholesterol, blood pressure, and cigarette smoking. In the pooled analysis for fatal CVD, a J-shaped association was found with a threshold effect for FPG (97.2 mg/dL [5.39 mmol/L]) and a linear asso­ ciation with 2-hour postchallenge glucose. Risks were increased at blood glucose levels less than those thought to be diag­ nostic of diabetes. In DECODE, the 2-hour postchallenge oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) glucose was a stronger CVD risk factor than impaired fasting glucose (IFG). The Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT) cohort study (23) included 347,978 men, age 35–57 years, at high risk for CHD, who were screened in 20 U.S. centers and followed for an average of 12 years. The outcome was CVD mortality. Among 5,163 men who reported taking medication for diabetes, 1,092 men died, including 603 CVD deaths.
