Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


centers and followed for an average of 12 years. The outcome was CVD mortality. Among 5,163 men who reported taking medication for diabetes, 1,092 men died, including 603 CVD deaths. Absolute risk for CVD death was much higher for diabetic than nondiabetic men at every age stratum, racial/ethnic background, and risk factor level—overall, three times higher even after adjustment for age, race/ ethnicity, income, serum cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, and number of cigarettes smoked per day (p<0.0001). The European Prospective Investigations into Cancer (EPIC) Norfolk cohort study (one of several EPIC studies) was the first large prospective cohort study of A1c and CVD in diverse populations (European, North American, Austral-Asian, Japanese, and Caribbean) unselected for diabetes (24); ethnicities were self-reported, and many individuals were of mixed race ethnicity. A graded association was observed between A1c levels and the risk for CVD and death in both sexes. Results were not materially changed after the exclusion of participants with known diabetes. The one-quarter of the cohort who had A1c <5.0% (<31 mmol/mol) had the lowest risk of death and CVD. The risk of diabetic complications is a continuum with A1c and includes values below the diabetes threshold (defined as <6.5% [<48 mmol/mol] by the American Diabetes Association [ADA]). The absence of a clear threshold explains concerns about the use of A1c for screening, because a large percentage of individuals otherwise identified as having prediabetes would be classified as normal by A1c and might therefore not receive preventive interventions (25). The most definitive data come from The Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration at the University of Cambridge, which collected data from 102 prospective studies, reported in their 2010 publication. This meta-analysis was designed to address uncertainties about the magnitude of associations of diabetes and fasting glycemia with the risk of CHD using individual records from 698,782 people without known vascular disease who had 52,765 incident fatal or first-ever nonfatal vascular events during 8.49 million person-years at risk (18). Overall, the risk for CHD was about twofold greater in adults with diabetes at baseline compared to those without, as shown in Figure 18.1 (18). These hazard ratios did not change appreciably after further adjustment for lipid, inflammatory, or renal markers. Hazard ratios for CHD were higher in women than in men, higher at age 40–59 years than at ≥70 years, and higher for fatal than nonfatal CVD. FPG had a U- or J-shaped association with
