Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


CVD risk factors (except cigarette smoking and total cholesterol) were associated with diabetes. The initial choice of the components—hypertension, high triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol levels, waist girth or waist-to-hip ratio, and in some definitions, high insulin levels or diabetes—was logical, but the cut points defining normality were arbitrary. There are important differences in recommended diagnostic criteria for the metabolic syndrome (Table 18.5). The National Cholesterol Education Program (Adult Treatment Panel III) (NCEP) defined the metabolic syndrome as the presence of three or more of five components (47). In 2005, the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) considered that central obesity was a requirement for the diag­ nosis of the metabolic syndrome along with any two other features (48). In contrast, the WHO criteria stated that glucose intolerance or type 2 diabetes together with two other features is a sine qua non for a metabolic syndrome diagnosis (49). The NCEP, IDF, and WHO definitions have all been shown to predict incident type 2 diabetes and CVD. However, limited data are available to assess which of these definitions best predicts diabetes or heart disease (50,51). Although laboratory features, such as increased C-reactive protein, raised alanine aminotransferase, hyperuricemia, and microalbuminuria, are common in the presence of the metabolic syndrome, they are not included in metabolic syndrome diagnostic criteria. Controversy over the scientific basis for the definition of this cluster of risk factors stems from the arbitrariness of the included (and excluded) variables and their cut points, the loss of risk prediction when continuous risk factors are catego­ rized, and the unproven assumption that there is a single underlying biology (52,53). Nevertheless, the metabolic syndrome is a commonly used phenotype for clinicians, drawing attention to the importance of previously neglected risk factors, such as central obesity and elevated triglycerides, and to the potential importance of inter­ ventions when modest elevations in risk factors occur together (54). Cohort studies from Italy (55), Finland and Sweden (56), and the United States (57) have shown that adults with a combina­ tion of at least three metabolic syndrome risk factors have more than a threefold increased risk of CVD. In the Kuopio Ischemic Heart Study, the increased CVD risk associated with the metabolic syndrome occurred in the absence of diabetes (58). In contrast, the NHANES II Mortality Study, a cohort study of a representative sample of adults in the United States, did not find that the meta­ bolic syndrome significantly
