Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


(58). In contrast, the NHANES II Mortality Study, a cohort study of a representative sample of adults in the United States, did not find that the meta­ bolic syndrome significantly increased the risk of heart disease when participants with diabetes were excluded (59). In the 18–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition NHANES, the metabolic syndrome was inferior to established risk factor models like the Framingham CVD risk score for either type 2 diabetes or CVD (60). OBESITY Obesity was the first recognized and remains the strongest single risk factor for type 2 diabetes; the obesity epidemic that began in the United States in the early 1980s was closely associated with the epidemic of diabetes (61). A subsequent epidemic of CVD was predicted, but thus far, the amount of CVD in the United States continues to decline in both sexes and in most race/ethnicity groups. This paradox of decreasing CVD despite increasing obesity has been attributed to improved lifestyle, use of better lipid-lowering and blood pressure medications, smoking cessation, and more revascularization surgery, as reviewed by Barrett-Connor (61). Opinions differ about the best assess­ ment of adiposity measures for the prediction of diabetes or CVD, whether methods should differ by age, sex, and race/ethnicity, and about their value for CVD risk prediction independent of other obesity-associated risk factors. National and international guidelines have differing recommendations about the value of clin­ ical measures of adiposity for prediction of CVD risk in primary prevention (62). Recommendations range from omission of all adiposity measures to inclusion of new screening tests. WHO has recommended assessment of both BMI and waist circum­ ference, at least in adults with a BMI 25.0–34.9 kg/m2 (63). The ADA states that established BMI cut points indicating elevated diabetes risk are inappropriate for Asian Americans and that identifying a specific BMI cut point to identify Asian Americans with or at risk for future diabetes will be beneficial to the potential health of millions of Asian Americans (64). Varying guideline recommendations reflect differing results from previous studies. For example, in a large, multinational, retro­ spective case-control study, waist-to-hip ratio was three times more strongly related to risk of acute myocardial infarction than BMI (65). These recommendations were rarely tested by prospective studies with comparisons of BMI, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio in the same cohort (66,67,68,69,70,71,72). Prospective studies of adiposity often lacked concom­ itant measurement of lipids and other conventional risk factors,
