Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


63,821 people) was greater for BMI than for waist circumfer­ ence or waist-to-hip ratio. Overall, BMI, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio, assessed singly or in combination, did not importantly improve CVD risk predic­ tion in largely Caucasian populations in developed countries, when additional information was available for blood pres­ sure, diabetes history, smoking, and lipids. These results may be interpreted to mean that adiposity is not an independent CVD risk factor or that obesity is in the causal pathway to these covariables. This latter interpretation will require clinical trials to resolve. In additional analyses, relative risks were not appreciably altered after additional adjustment for C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, alcohol consumption, or socioeconomic status. To summarize, in this collaborative analysis from the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration, hazard ratios per 1-SD higher baseline values (4.56 kg/m2 higher BMI) were calculated. In people with a BMI ≥20 kg/m2, hazard ratios for CVD were 1.23 (95% CI 1.17–1.29) with BMI, 1.27 (95% CI 1.20–1.33) with waist circumfer­ ence, and 1.25 (95% CI 1.19–1.31) with waist-to-hip ratio, after adjustment for age, sex, and smoking status. Findings were similar when adiposity measures were considered in combination. Reproducibility was greater for BMI than for waist circumference or waist-to-hip ratio. Thus, BMI, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio, whether assessed singly or in combination, do not independently improve CVD risk prediction in people in developed countries when additional information is available for systolic blood pressure, history of diabetes, and lipids. These results are contrary to the large, retrospective Global Case-Control Study of Risk Factors for Acute Myocardial Infarction (INTER-HEART) (65), which reported waist-to-hip ratio was three times more strongly related to myocardial infarction than BMI. INSULIN Insulin resistance, usually measured as the fasting insulin level, or insulin resistance using the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in epidemiologic studies, is thought to precede the development of diabetes by one or two decades. Early epidemiologic studies suggesting that endogenous hyperinsulinemia was a precursor of CVD have been reviewed (78,79,80). A 1990 review of epidemi­ ologic data by Stout (81) concluded that insulin and insulin resistance were strongly implicated in the genesis of atherosclerotic disease. The atherogenic potential of insulin was summarized separately by Ferrara et al. (82) and McKeigue and Davey (83), who did not find an insulin-CVD association in women or in non-Caucasian ethnic groups. A meta-analysis of 12 studies published through 1996 showed a small but significant positive
