Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


Davey (83), who did not find an insulin-CVD association in women or in non-Caucasian ethnic groups. A meta-analysis of 12 studies published through 1996 showed a small but significant positive association of hyperin­ sulinemia with CVD, such that an increase of 50 pmol/L (8.3 microIU/mL) of fasting insulin yielded a summary relative risk of 1.18 (84). There was highly significant heterogeneity among studies, however, suggesting race/ethnicity or different insulin assay methods as possible explana­ tions for the differences. Another study in Finnish patients with type 2 diabetes found that hyperinsulinemia predicted CHD death in men, but not women, but the association in men was not independent of HDL and triglyceride levels (85). In Italian patients with type 2 diabetes, comparing the lowest and highest quartiles of HOMA-IR positively predicted an increased risk of CVD (86). In contrast, neither hyperinsulinemia nor insulin sensitivity based on HOMA-IR was independently associated with CVD in the UKPDS (87,88). The Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Study (IRAS), a cross-sectional, four-center study in the United States, however, found that low insulin sensitivity assessed by a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test and minimal model anal­ ysis was an independent risk factor for CHD, but fasting and 2-hour insulin levels were not (89). One explanation for these contradictory results could be differences in insulin assays. Most insulin radioimmunoassays fail to discriminate between intact insulin and proinsulin-like molecules. Increased proinsulin is a marker for beta cell failure and appears to be an important risk factor for CVD. Although a 6.5-year follow-up study of South Asian subjects showed that the association between proinsulin and CHD was no longer significant after controlling for body weight (90), a 27-year follow-up of Swedish men found that proinsulin, but not specific insulin or immunoreactive insulin, predicted fatal and nonfatal CHD independent of other risk factors (91). A cross-sectional study of older North American men and women without diabetes also found proinsulin was more strongly and consistently associated with CHD than intact insulin (92). 18–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition In a meta-analysis of 19 population-based studies of circulating levels of three insulin markers (fasting insulin, nonfasting insulin, and proinsulin) and CHD risk, 14 studies reported on fasting insulin levels involving 2,649 CHD cases, eight reported nonfasting insulin levels involving 1,980 CHD cases, and three reported proin­ sulin levels involving 413 CHD cases. In comparisons of individuals in the top third insulin levels with those in
