Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


nonfasting insulin levels involving 1,980 CHD cases, and three reported proin­ sulin levels involving 413 CHD cases. In comparisons of individuals in the top third insulin levels with those in the bottom third, the odds ratio for CHD was 1.12 (95% CI 0.98–1.28) for raised fasting insulin, 1.35 (95% CI 1.14–1.60) for raised non-fasting insulin, and 2.23 (95% CI 1.65–3.00) for raised proinsulin (93); this is the strongest evidence for the superi­ ority of proinsulin as a CHD risk factor. BIOMARKERS Since 2004, there has been an incremental increase in “novel risk factors”—each claiming to improve the prediction of CVD and the identification of patients who need intervention. Many of these markers are higher in overweight patients and in persons with diabetes. The evidence that they add predictive power to conventional risk factors is weak. In the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) cohort, 10 of the “most exciting new” CVD risk markers added nothing of significance to the prediction of CVD beyond that explained by the classic risk factors (94). Similar results were reported from the Framingham Heart Study (95). C-Reactive Protein In an individual participant meta-anal­ ysis from the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration (96), individual records of 160,309 people without a history of vascular disease from 54 long-term prospective studies were followed for 1.31 million person-years at risk, with 27,769 fatal or nonfatal CVD outcomes. In within-study regression analyses adjusted for within-person variation in risk factor levels, loge C-reactive protein concentra­ tion was linearly associated with several conventional risk factors and inflam­ matory markers and nearly log-linearly associated with ischemic vascular disease and nonvascular mortality. Risk ratios for CHD per 1-SD higher C-reactive protein concentration were 1.63 (95% CI 1.51–1.76) when adjusted for age and sex only and 1.37 (95% CI 1.27–1.48) when also adjusted for conventional risk factors, and these risk ratios were still significant after further adjustment for fibrinogen. The C-reactive protein concentration also showed a continuous association with a diversity of other chronic diseases, including cancer and lung disease. The relevance of C-reactive protein to such a range of disorders is unclear. Fibrinogen One of the earliest recognized biomarkers for CVD risk was fibrinogen, originally thought to be of interest mainly as a coagulation factor but now recognized as an important anti-inflammatory factor associated with CVD (see the preceding Obesity section). IMPORTANT COVARIATES Important major covariates of CVD risk include physical activity and smoking, as well
