Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


increase physical activity targeting specific metabolic syndrome components are likely to decrease CHD risk in individ­ uals with the metabolic syndrome. Smoking Overwhelming epidemiologic evidence has been found that smoking cessation decreases the risk of CVD or CHD. Yudkin (99) reported the benefits of smoking cessation for persons with and without diabetes; using data from MRFIT (100), he estimated that smoking cessation would prolong the life of a 45-year-old man with diabetes by a mean of 3 years compared with 4 years for a 45-year-old man without diabetes (99). Using data from the Framingham Offspring Study, Clair et al. (101) reported that recently quitting smoking was associated with an average weight gain of 2.7 kg in partici­ pants without diabetes and 3.6 kg in those with diabetes, but quitting still reduced CVD events by half. Results were stronger in the much larger group without a history of diabetes; among participants with diabetes, there were qualitatively similar Heart Disease and Diabetes 18–13 lower risks that did not reach statistical significance, possibly because of limited study power. SUBCLINICAL ATHEROSCLEROSIS The MESA evaluated 6,603 volunteers age 45–84 years to determine whether screening for coronary artery calcium (CAC) and carotid intimal-medial thickness (CIMT) could improve CVD risk stratifica­ tion over traditional risk factors in people with the metabolic syndrome or diabetes (102). Overall, 1,686 individuals (25%) had the metabolic syndrome but no diabetes, and 881 (13%) had diabetes. Projected annual CHD event rates were 1.0% in participants with the metabolic syndrome and 1.5% in those with diabetes. Those with the metabolic syndrome or CAC scores ≥100 had annual CHD rates of ≥2%; those with the metabolic syndrome or CAC scores ≥400 had the highest annual CHD rates of 3.5% and 4%, respec­ tively, versus 0% in subjects with neither the metabolic syndrome nor diabetes. Ethnicity and risk factor-adjusted hazard ratios ranged from 2.6 to 9.5 in those with neither the metabolic syndrome nor diabetes; in those with the metabolic syndrome, hazard ratios ranged from 3.9 to 11.9; and in those with diabetes, from 2.9 to 6.2 (all p<0.05 to p<0.001). In each group, findings were similar for CVD. CAC significantly contributed to prediction (p<0.001) more than traditional risk factors, whereas CIMT added negligibly to prediction over traditional risk factors. Importantly, more than one-third of those with type 2 diabetes had no CAC, and for these individuals, CHD risk was lower than that for many
