Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


7% [53 mmol/mol] vs. 9% [75 mmol/mol], respectively) would reduce development or progression of microvascular complica­ tions in 1,441 patients with type 1 diabetes (Table 18.6). Substantial reductions were observed in the development or progres­ sion of retinopathy, microalbuminuria, albuminuria, and clinical neuropathy within the intensive glycemic control group. While 41% fewer CVD events occurred in the intensively treated individuals, these results did not achieve statistical signifi­ cance, possibly due to the small number of events in this relatively young popula­ tion. DCCT participants continued to be followed in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) study; after 11 years, when the differences in A1c between the groups had disap­ peared, the rate of CVD complications continued to diverge, indicating a possible “metabolic memory” from earlier glycemic control. The extended follow-up showed 46 CVD events among 31 patients in the intensive control group compared to 98 events in 52 patients in the conventional control group, with a statistically significant 42% reduction in events (p=0.02) (106). United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study The UKPDS tested the hypothesis that intensive glycemic control could reduce CVD disease in persons with type 2 diabetes. A group of 3,867 patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes was randomized to treatment with sulfonyl- ureas or insulin compared to diet alone (107). Mean A1c levels of 7.0% and 7.9% (63 mmol/mol) in the intensive versus stan­ dard glycemic control groups, respectively, were obtained, and microvascular events were reduced by 21%–34%. The combined incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction and sudden death did not reach statistical significance (16% risk reduction, p=0.052), although the randomized substudy of overweight patients did show metformin therapy significantly reduced CVD events (108). The results of the 10-year post-trial follow-up showed loss of the A1c differ­ ences between groups, that microvascular event reduction of 24% (p=0.001) between the groups persisted, and a statistically significant reduction in myocardial infarction (15%, p=0.01) and all-cause 18–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition mortality (21%, p=0.01) emerged. Even greater reductions in myocardial infarction and all-cause mortality were seen in the overweight, metformin-treated subjects (33% and 27%, respectively) (109). These results add to those of the DCCT/EDIC in type 1 diabetes patients in supporting a long-term glycemic legacy effect from the on-trial intensive glycemic control strategy, at least in those with primarily uncompli­ cated, shorter duration diabetes as was the case for the DCCT and UKPDS. Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk
