Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


and stroke) and a reduction of cardiovascular mortality with the GLP-1 RA liraglutide compared to placebo. Liraglutide, unlike lixisenatide, has nearly 100% homology to human GLP-1. In the short Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Long-term Outcomes With Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes (SUSTAIN-6) (133), use of semaglutide compared to placebo was associated with a reduction in the composite cardiovascular outcome of 26%, with an even greater 39% reduction in stroke. Other GLP-1 RA cardiovascular endpoint trials, including the Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular Event Lowering Trial (EXSCEL) with exenatide LR (134) and the Researching Cardiovascular Events With a Weekly Incretin in Diabetes (REWIND) with dulaglutide (135) are due to report in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Importantly, these trials will help clarify the mechanisms for the cardiovascular benefits seen in SUSTAIN-6 regarding whether they are a class effect. LIPID-MODIFYING CLINICAL TRIALS Management of dyslipidemia in persons with diabetes has focused on lowering LDL cholesterol. The strongest evidence for CVD risk reduction derives from statin clinical trials (Table 18.7). A subgroup of the Heart Protection Study (HPS) enrolled 5,963 patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who were assigned to simvastatin 40 mg treatment or placebo. The active medication was associated with a 22% (p<0.0001) risk reduction of a first major coronary event (136). This was followed by the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS), in which atorvas­ tatin 10 mg daily versus placebo resulted in a 37% (p=0.001) reduction in major cardiovascular events (137). Moreover, in a large meta-analysis of 18,686 subjects with diabetes randomized to statin therapy versus placebo, each mmol/L reduction in LDL cholesterol resulted in a 21% reduction in CVD events, similar to the risk reduction seen in nondiabetic individuals (138). Given the predominance of low HDL cholesterol and/or high triglycerides in persons with diabetes, researchers have examined whether therapy with fibric acid derivatives could reduce CVD events. In the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) trial (139), 9,795 patients with type 2 diabetes not taking a statin at entry were randomized to fenofibrate 200 mg daily versus placebo; after an average of 5 years follow-up, there was no significant risk reduction in the primary outcome of CHD death or non-fatal myocardial infarction, although in a subgroup analysis, fenofibrate reduced total CVD events. The authors suggested that subjects begin­ ning statin use during the course of the study (as a result of changing guidelines
