Chapter 18: Heart Disease and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, disease, heart, cvd, study, heart disease, cardiovascular, type, type diabetes, years, control, insulin, age-standardized, factors


duration in patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated the ability of struc­ tured exercise training or physical activity advice to lower A1c levels compared with a control group; 47 randomized clinical trials (n=8,538 subjects) were included (150). Structured aerobic exer­ cise, structured resistance training, and both combined were each associated with declines in A1c levels compared with control participants. The relative risk reductions for myocardial infarction and all-cause mortality were significantly lower in the patients who initially received the intensive treatment compared with those in the conventional treatment arm. Moreover, the initial benefit in terms of microvascular complications observed at the end of the intervention trial remained unaltered at follow-up. In another trial, structured exercise training of >150 minutes per week was associated with greater A1c declines than that of <150 minutes per week. Physical activity advice was associated with lower A1c only when combined with dietary advice (151). The intensive lifestyle approach employed in the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) (152) involved a targeted weight loss of 7% and 150 minutes per week of physical activity. The mean age of the 3,234 participants was 51 years; mean BMI was 34.0 kg/m2; 68% were women; 45% were members of minority groups. The intervention resulted in a 58% reduction in the onset of new type 2 diabetes when the trial was stopped early based on observed benefits in preventing diabetes, with an average follow-up of 2.8 years. In an extended follow-up, the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS) (153) examined whether regression from prediabetes (defined as consistently having FPG 5.6–6.9 mmol/L [100–125 mg/dL] and/or 2-hour plasma glucose levels of 7.8–11.0 mmol/L [140–198 mg/dL] on annual OGTT during the DPP period and never having met the criteria for the diagnosis of diabetes) to normal glucose regulation has a carry-over effect in reducing long-term diabetes risk. The DPPOS showed a 56% reduced risk of developing diabetes in those who returned to normal glucose; however, no effect of lifestyle intervention for the prevention of cardiovascular outcomes was estab­ lished, and there was no evidence of fewer cardiovascular events in the DPPOS despite the reduced risk of diabetes and improved CVD risk factors. The largest trial to address the value of behavioral intervention for CVD preven­ tion in adults with known diabetes is the Look AHEAD: Action for Health in Diabetes study of 5,145 U.S. adults with BMI ≥25 kg/m2 and type 2 diabetes. This study
