Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


(ACS, including myocardial infarction [MI] or unstable angina [UA]), thrombotic stroke, or acute limb ischemia (ALI) ( Figure 1 ). Similarly, ASCVD can lead to chronic conditions such as chronic coronary syndromes (CCS, for example those with stable angina or a history of MI >1 year previously) or chronic lower extremity arterial disease (LEAD) ( 2 ). Most acute events in ASCVD are caused by thrombosis. The hemostatic response has an important physiological role in the response to trauma but, if it becomes activated inappropriately, thrombosis can be triggered ( 3 ). The clinical effects of thrombosis arise primarily from its location, such as in the coronary arteries leading to acute coronary syndrome (ACS, including myocardial infarction [MI] and unstable angina [UA]), cerebral arteries leading to thrombotic stroke, peripheral arteries leading to acute limb ischemia or deep limb veins leading to deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Alternatively, a thrombus formed at a site can embolize, leading to presentations such as acute pulmonary embolism (typically embolism of a DVT to the pulmonary arteries) or embolic stroke (typically left atrial thrombus to the cerebral arteries) ( 2 , 4 ). In addition to atherosclerotic diseases, individuals with DM who have atrial fibrillation are at higher risk of stroke, secondary to atrial thrombosis and subsequent cardioembolic events ( 5 ). There are clear links between pathological processes associated with DM and those responsible for atherogenesis and thrombosis, including inflammation, platelet activation, and coagulation ( 6 , 7 ). Alongside control of glucose levels and optimization of other risk factors, such as dyslipidemia, hypertension, and smoking cessation, antithrombotic therapy (ATT), including antiplatelet therapy (APT) and oral anticoagulation (OAC), has become a key component of the treatment and prevention of atherothrombotic and cardioembolic events. ATT has evolved greatly in the last decades, both in terms of the range of drugs available but also our understanding of how best to deploy them ( 8 ). Whilst ATT reduces thrombotic risk, in particular reducing the composite of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE, typically defined as cardiovascular death, stroke or MI), it also leads to an increased risk of bleeding. Balancing these risks is central to interpretation of clinical trial data and development of treatment recommendations, including in those with DM ( 9 ). In this chapter, we will review the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of thrombosis and the pharmacology of commonly prescribed drugs during ATT. With specific reference to
