Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


with DM ( 9 ). In this chapter, we will review the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of thrombosis and the pharmacology of commonly prescribed drugs during ATT. With specific reference to individuals with DM, we will appraise evidence for ATT in a broad range of clinical settings, highlighting current treatment recommendations and particular areas in which more data are needed. Figure 1. The spectrum of acute cardiovascular events relating to thrombosis and hemostasis in DM. THE THROMBOTIC RESPONSE AND ITS PHARMACOLOGY As described in Virchow’s triad, prothrombotic changes in the blood flow, constituents and/or vessel wall can trigger thrombosis ( 10 ). Broadly, thrombosis involves the activation of platelets and the coagulation cascade ( Figure 2 ). Understanding these processes provides insights into how pharmacological modulation may improve ischemic risk and increase bleeding risk as well as how the individual components of combination ATT interact, including in those with DM. Platelet Activation Platelet activation typically occurs upon endothelial injury and atherosclerotic plaque rupture or erosion, resulting in exposure of blood constituents to prothrombotic substances such as collagen. Collagen exposure leads to platelets adhering to the vessel wall via the glycoprotein (GP) Ia receptor and activation via GPVI ( 11 , 12 ). GPIb forms a complex with clotting factors IX, V and von Willebrand Factor (vWF), strengthening adhesion ( 13 ). Platelet activation involves several key processes. Alterations in the cytoskeleton lead to shape change with the formation of filopodia, which increase surface area to volume ratio and may facilitate mechanical adhesion to the vessel wall, other platelets and fibrin strands ( 14 ). Platelet activation also involves the release of arachidonic acid from the cell membrane, which is then locally converted to thromboxane A 2 (TXA 2 ) by cyclo-oxygenase (COX) 1 and TXA 2 synthase. TXA 2 , via the platelet TP-α receptor, contributes further to platelet activation ( 15 ). Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) irreversibly inhibits COX1, thereby blocking the downstream release of TXA 2 for the platelet’s lifespan (around 8-10 days in healthy individuals) as, unlike nucleated cells, platelets cannot regenerate the enzyme ( 8 ). Endothelial COX1 and 2 generate the antiplatelet and vasodilatory substance prostacyclin (PGI 2 ). The facts that aspirin is short-lived in the systemic circulation, that platelets are exposed to higher levels of aspirin than endothelium, due to travel through the portal circulation, and that aspirin has relative selectivity for COX1 over COX2
