Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


systemic circulation, that platelets are exposed to higher levels of aspirin than endothelium, due to travel through the portal circulation, and that aspirin has relative selectivity for COX1 over COX2 leads to aspirin’s net antiplatelet effect at low doses ( 16 ). Platelets also undergo degranulation on activation; α granules contain procoagulant and proinflammatory factors, including platelet P-selectin (also known as CD62P), the surface expression of which is therefore increased. P-selectin mediates platelet-leukocyte aggregation and therefore contributes to an associated inflammatory response ( 17 ). Dense granules contain adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT, also known as serotonin). In particular, ADP stimulates platelet activation via P2Y 1 and, most significantly, P2Y 12 receptors ( 18 , 19 ). Stimulation of the P2Y 12 receptor leads to central amplification of the response to a range of agonists and contributes significantly to activation of platelet surface GPIIb/IIIa receptors, the final pathway of platelet aggregation ( 20 ). Via vWF and fibrinogen bridges, GPIIb/IIIa mediates platelet-platelet interaction ( 21 ). Figure 2. Pathophysiology of the thrombotic response showing targets for antithrombotic drugs discussed in this chapter. 5HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin); AA, arachidonic acid; ADP, adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; Ca 2+ , calcium; COX1, cyclo-oxygenase 1; GP, glycoprotein; IXa, activated factor IX; P2X 1 , platelet ATP receptor; P2Y 1 /P2Y 12 , platelet ADP receptors; PAR, protease activated receptor; PLA 2 , phospholipase A 2 ; PSGL1, P-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1; TF, tissue factor; TPα, thromboxane receptor α; TXA 2 , thromboxane A 2 ; TXA 2 s, thromboxane A 2 synthase; Va, activated factor V; VIIa, activated factor VII; VIIIa, activated factor VIII; VASP, vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein; vWF, von Willebrand factor; Xa, activated factor X; XIa, activated factor XI; XIIa, activated factor XII; XIIIa, activated factor XII. Modified from ( 22 ). Several oral platelet P2Y 12 receptor antagonists (‘P2Y 12 inhibitors’) are currently available ( 23 ). Clopidogrel and prasugrel are irreversibly-binding thienopyridines ( 8 ). As pro-drugs, they require hepatic metabolism to be activated. In the case of prasugrel this pathway is reliable, whereas there is interindividual variation in the metabolism of clopidogrel meaning around one-third of recipients have poor response when assessed using aggregometry ( 22 ). Ticagrelor is a reversibly-binding cyclopentyl-triazolopyrimidine that does not require metabolism to be active. Prasugrel or ticagrelor provide more potent and reliable platelet inhibition compared with clopidogrel ( 24 ). Parenterally
