Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


Ticagrelor is a reversibly-binding cyclopentyl-triazolopyrimidine that does not require metabolism to be active. Prasugrel or ticagrelor provide more potent and reliable platelet inhibition compared with clopidogrel ( 24 ). Parenterally administered P2Y 12 inhibitors have also been developed. Cangrelor is a reversibly-binding ATP analogue that is potent and has rapid onset and offset ( 25 ). Selatogrel is a novel, parenterally-active, reversibly-binding P2Y 12 inhibitor formulated for subcutaneous administration, but has not yet completed phase III trials and is yet to be marketed ( 26 ). Activation of the Coagulation Cascade Although likely an oversimplification of the in vivo state, the coagulation cascade can be summarized as two key pathways made up of factors that converge on a final pathway ( 27 ). Loss of endothelium leads to exposure of subendothelial extracellular matrix and contact activation of factor XII, triggering the chain of clotting factor activation known as the intrinsic pathway ( 28 ). Tissue factor, expressed on subendothelial cells and released in microparticles from atheromatous plaques, can activate factor IX when in a complex with factor VII: this is the extrinsic pathway ( 29 ). Initiation of either pathway can lead to activation of factor X, which associates with activated factor V, calcium (released from damaged tissue) and phospholipids to form the prothrombinase complex ( 30 ). Prothrombin (II) is thus broken down to thrombin (IIa), which completes the process through cleavage of fibrinogen to fibrin, the latter being insoluble and forming strands. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor and antithrombin limit this response, but, as recruitment of activated platelets contributes to higher levels of thrombin generation, this endogenous inhibition is quickly overwhelmed ( 31 ). Once fibrin is formed, factor XIIIa, activated by thrombin, stabilizes the structure of clot by forming crosslinks between strands and by crosslinking anti-fibrinolytic proteins into the clot ( 32 ). Fibrin is lysed by plasmin, a proteolytic enzyme that degrades into variously termed fragments ( 33 ). Plasmin is cleaved from its precursor, plasminogen, by tissue plasminogen activator, and is endogenously inhibited by antiplasmin. A number of drugs target the coagulation cascade. During chronic administration, vitamin K antagonists (VKA) such as warfarin reduce the biological activity of prothrombotic vitamin-K-dependent factors (II, VII, IX, X) more than antithrombotic factors (e.g., proteins C and S) ( 34 ). Non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) include the Xa inhibitors apixaban, edoxaban and rivaroxaban and the thrombin inhibitor dabigatran
