Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


than antithrombotic factors (e.g., proteins C and S) ( 34 ). Non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) include the Xa inhibitors apixaban, edoxaban and rivaroxaban and the thrombin inhibitor dabigatran ( 35 ). Crosstalk Between Platelets and the Coagulation Cascade Despite the fact that platelets and coagulation are often considered separately when discussing physiology and pharmacology, there is significant crosstalk between the two. Thrombin is generated upon activation of coagulation, and is able to stimulate platelet activation via action on protease-activated receptor (PAR) 1 and, at higher concentrations, PAR4 ( 36 ). Conversely platelets can contribute to thrombin generation, increasing coagulability, via scramblase activity that leads to greater surface expression of phosphatidylserine, supporting the assembly of prothrombinase complex on the activated platelet surface, which potentiates thrombin generation ( 37 ). SPECIAL PATHOPHYSIOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN DIABETES DM is an independent risk factor for atherothrombosis and also thrombosis after vascular interventions ( 38 ). Individuals with DM have greater average atherosclerotic plaque burden than those without ( 39 ), and onset is at an earlier age ( 40 ). There is also some evidence that atherosclerosis in people with DM is more likely to involve distal vessels than those without DM ( 41 ). The reasons for this are not completely understood and are likely multifactorial, but a number of relevant pathological processes such as hyperglycemia, chronic inflammation, and oxidative stress are prominent in DM. These contribute to both endothelial injury/dysfunction and increased platelet reactivity, resulting in a prothrombotic milieu ( 42 - 44 ). Platelet activation markers are enhanced in people with DM ( 45 ). Effects of hyperglycemia on platelets include increased expression of GPIbα, GPIIb/IIIa, and P2Y 12 , and reduced platelet membrane fluidity ( 46 , 47 ). Hyperglycemia-induced changes in intracellular magnesium and calcium signaling increase sensitivity of platelets to agonists such as ADP, epinephrine and thrombin ( 48 ). TXA 2 and F2-isoprostane synthesis is increased, the latter via oxidative stress, leading to increased TPα receptor stimulation ( 49 ). Reduced sensitivity to PGI 2 , nitric oxide and insulin, which inhibit platelet activation, also contributes to hyper-reactivity ( 50 , 51 ). Platelet turnover is accelerated in those with DM compared to those without ( 52 ). This increased activity in the creation and destruction of circulating platelets means a higher proportion of immature platelets, which are hyper-reactive, are present at any time ( 53
