Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


52 ). This increased activity in the creation and destruction of circulating platelets means a higher proportion of immature platelets, which are hyper-reactive, are present at any time ( 53 ). As well as increasing baseline platelet reactivity, the more frequent appearance of aspirin-naïve platelets in the circulation means more have uninhibited COX1 between doses ( 54 ). There is also evidence that DM affects expression of platelet-associated microRNAs (miR-223, miR-26b, miR-126, miR-140), which play a role in the expression in a wide range of genes including those encoding the P2Y 12 receptor and P-selectin, though the significance of this remains to be fully established ( 55 , 56 ). As well as platelet activation, DM may affect coagulation and fibrinolysis ( 57 ). Changes include increased levels of tissue factor, prothrombin, factor VII and fibrinogen leading to impaired anticoagulant and fibrinolytic activity ( 58 ). Increased levels of fibrinogen and its levels of glycation and oxidation lead to more compact, densely-packed fibrin networks and reduced fibrinolysis ( 59 ). Hyperglycemia inhibits the fibrinolytic activity of plasminogen through inducing qualitative changes ( 60 ). Fibrinolysis is further impaired by elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor as well as incorporation into clot of complement C3 and plasmin inhibitor ( 59 , 61 ). DM also appears to enhance the crosstalk between platelets and clotting factors, leading to tendency to more externalization of phosphatidylserine in the outer platelet membrane, promoting clotting factor assembly and tissue factor activation ( 62 ). Finally, individuals with DM frequently have other metabolic conditions such as obesity, dyslipidemia, and increased systemic inflammation. These may interact with diabetes to further enhance platelet reactivity and impair fibrinolysis ( 59 ). CURRENT EVIDENCE AND TREATMENT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ANTITHROMBOTIC THERAPY IN DIABETES The Need for Therapeutic Oral Anticoagulation Broadly, when considering the need for antithrombotic therapy (ATT), including in people with DM, it is helpful to make first a distinction between those with an indication for therapeutic anticoagulation and those without. The most common indication is for prevention of cardioembolic stroke in those with current or previous atrial fibrillation (AF). Individuals with atrial flutter are typically regarded as having similar thrombotic risk to those with AF so similar recommendations are followed ( 63 ). DM increases the risk of developing AF by around 40% ( 64 , 65 ). Whilst difficult to completely exclude the effects
