Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


so similar recommendations are followed ( 63 ). DM increases the risk of developing AF by around 40% ( 64 , 65 ). Whilst difficult to completely exclude the effects of confounders such as obesity and hypertension, epidemiological data suggest a causal association between DM and AF, including that poor glycemic control and longer diabetes duration increase AF risk ( 66 ). A raised level of HbA1c is also associated with a higher chance of AF recurrence after catheter ablation ( 67 ). Hyperglycemia and glycemic fluctuations may contribute to the development of AF though exact mechanisms remain to be determined. Disappointingly, however, there is no clear evidence that intensive glycemic control reduces AF risk, though prospective trials are lacking ( 66 ). Treatment with metformin, thiazolidinediones, or dapagliflozin is associated with lower AF risk, suggesting that hypoglycemia avoidance may play a role but adequately designed studies to investigate this possibility are lacking ( 68 - 71 ). AF is often clinically silent and screening with simple pulse checking or using wearable devices should be considered in those over 65 years old ( 72 ). Presence of DM is incorporated into the CHA 2 DS 2 VASc score used to assess stroke risk when determining whether to recommend oral anticoagulation in people with AF ( Table 1 and 2 ) ( 73 ). Long-term oral anticoagulation is strongly recommended in those with AF/atrial flutter and a CHA 2 DS 2 VASc score of ≥2 (if male) or ≥3 (if female), and should be considered when the score is 1 (male) or 2 (female). Individuals with DM, technically defined for the purposes of calculating the score as treatment with oral hypoglycemic drugs and/or insulin or fasting blood glucose >7.0 mmol/L (126 mg/dL), will have a score of at least 1 (males) or 2 (females), therefore OAC should be considered in all people with DM and concurrent AF ( 63 ). Bleeding risk should also be considered when weighing the benefits and risks of OAC, but there is no concrete evidence that DM itself increases this, including in those with complications such as retinopathy ( 74 ). For people with non-valvular AF (i.e., those without at least moderate mitral valve stenosis or a mechanical valve prothesis), there is now good evidence that, unless contraindicated, a NOAC should be preferred over a VKA, offering better stroke prevention whilst leading to less bleeding, including
