Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


are no particular considerations relating to DM and usual clinical guidelines as for non-DM individuals should generally be followed ( 4 ). Of specific note, however, is that people with DM who are experiencing hyperosmolar states such as ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar hyperglycemic syndrome are at particular risk of VTE. There is ongoing debate around the intensity of anticoagulation that is appropriate for thromboprophylaxis in this group. Consensus is that at least prophylactic doses of low molecular weight heparin, for example, are warranted, with others advocate therapeutic doses ( 80 , 81 ). A robustly-powered clinical outcomes-driven RCT would be welcome to definitively address this issue. Where indications for both anti-platelet therapy (APT) and therapeutic levels of oral anticoagulant therapy (OAC) exist, the general principle is to prioritize continuation of OAC. Co-prescription of APT and OAC should in general be reserved for those with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), recent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or indication for long-term therapy in selected individuals with chronic coronary syndromes (CCS) where ischemic risk is felt to significantly outweigh bleeding risk ( 22 ). Treating Acute Atherothrombotic Events ACUTE CORONARY SYNDROMES (ACS) Current guidelines recommend 12 months of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a P2Y 12 inhibitor, including in those with DM, as the default antithrombotic strategy for ACS ( 72 , 82 - 84 ). There is robust evidence for aspirin therapy in ACS. For example, ISIS-2 demonstrated that aspirin led to an odds reduction in 30-day vascular mortality of 23% in those with acute MI ( 85 ). Current recommendations advise a loading dose of around 300 mg followed by maintenance therapy with 75 mg once daily, including in those with DM. However, because of higher platelet turnover in people with DM, 24-hour platelet inhibition is greater with twice-daily compared with once-daily aspirin administration ( 86 - 88 ). Any effects of clinical outcomes are yet to be determined, but are being studied in the ANDAMAN trial that aims to recruit 2573 participants ( NCT02520921 ) and is estimated to finish in December 2023. In ACS, the newer P2Y 12 inhibitors prasugrel and ticagrelor are recommended in preference to clopidogrel due to their greater pharmacodynamic and clinical efficacy ( 83 , 84 ). Post-hoc analysis of the TRITON-TIMI trial suggested an impressive benefit of prasugrel over clopidogrel in people with DM ( 89 ). Similar findings were noted with regards to ticagrelor
