Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


hazard ratio; MI, myocardial infarction; NR, not reported; NSTE-ACS, non-ST elevation ACS; OR, odds ratio; PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention; PPCI, primary PCI; PPM, permanent pacemaker; RR, relative risk; STEMI, ST elevation MI; NR, not recorded The recent ISAR-REACT-5 study demonstrated superiority of a prasugrel-based strategy over a ticagrelor-based strategy in reducing cardiovascular events in ACS patients but was an open-label trial with limited power ( 97 , 98 ). Furthermore, data from the pre-specified subgroup with DM suggested there was no difference between the drugs ( 99 ). Early de-escalation from dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) to ticagrelor monotherapy after PCI, including for ACS, has recently been trialed as an alternative strategy. In the TWILIGHT study, de-escalation from aspirin and ticagrelor to ticagrelor monotherapy at 3 months after PCI for ACS or stable coronary artery disease (CAD) was compared with continued DAPT in 7,119 participants ( 100 ). De-escalating to ticagrelor monotherapy led to a lower incidence at 12 months of the primary end point of Bleeding Academic Research Consortium type 2, 3, or 5 bleeding compared with DAPT (4.0% vs 7.1%, HR 0.56 [95% 0.45-0.68], p<0.001). This finding appeared similar regardless of DM status. There was no evidence of an increase in the secondary combined endpoint of death, MI or stroke. Conversely, 1 month of DAPT followed by ticagrelor alone for 23 months was not superior to 12 months of standard DAPT followed by 12 months of aspirin alone in reducing the primary endpoint of all-cause mortality or new Q-wave MI following PCI in the GLOBAL LEADERS trial, in which 47% of participants had ACS ( 101 ). Antiplatelet strategy had no significant effect on BARC type 3 or 5 bleeding in those with and without DM ( 102 ). Currently, de-escalation of DAPT may be an option for individuals with high bleeding risk and relatively low risk of vascular re-occlusion but guidelines are yet to recommend more widespread adoption. In summary, following ACS in individuals with diabetes, DAPT for 12 months with aspirin and prasugrel or aspirin and ticagrelor is recommended by the majority of guidelines/experts and early de-escalation should be reserved to those at high bleeding risk. Longer term DAPT should be considered in those at high thrombosis/low bleeding risk, which is further detailed below. ACUTE ISCHEMIC STROKE If no contraindications exist, the first-line treatment for significant acute ischemic stroke is thrombolysis with an intravenous tissue plasminogen activator,
