Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


long-term DAPT is low-dose dual antithrombotic therapy (DATT) with aspirin 75-100 mg once daily and rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily. The COMPASS trial included randomization of 27,395 participants with prior MI or multivessel CAD (38% with DM) or PAD to receive either low-dose DATT, rivaroxaban 5 mg twice daily alone or aspirin alone ( 124 ). Compared to aspirin alone, low-dose DATT led to a significantly reduced incidence of MACE [4.1% vs 5.4%, HR 0.76 [95% CI 0.66-0.86], p<0.001], people with DM gaining an even greater absolute net benefit. Current guidelines recommend long-term DAPT or low-dose dual antithrombotic therapy (DATT) in those individuals with CCS without an indication for therapeutic oral anticoagulant (OAC) who are at high ischemic risk but not high bleeding risk ( 22 ). In those undergoing PCI for stable CAD, including in those individuals with DM, the standard DATT regimen is DAPT with aspirin and clopidogrel for 6 months ( 125 ). In summary, individuals with DM who have CCS should be treated with at least one antiplatelet agent, usually aspirin, although clopidogrel can be used if aspirin is contraindicated. However, more recent evidence indicates that those with a previous MI benefit from long-term DAPT (aspirin and ticagrelor) or a combination of antiplatelet and anticoagulant (DATT with aspirin and rivaroxaban) provided they have a low bleeding risk. Individuals with significant CAD but without a previous MI may also benefit from DAPT or DATT, which is best reserved for people with high vascular risk but low bleeding risk. CEREBROVASCULAR DISEASE There is good evidence for use of APT with aspirin, clopidogrel, ticlopidine or aspirin and dipyridamole in combination for secondary prevention in people with cerebrovascular disease, including those who also have DM ( 126 ). Aspirin plus dipyridamole offers better long-term protection than aspirin alone, but has a frequent adverse effect of headache that can limit its use ( 127 ). Clopidogrel monotherapy, without this side effect, offers similar levels of secondary prevention to aspirin plus dipyridamole and is the current preferred agent. In the first 3 months after an ischemic stroke, if reperfusion therapy has been given, aspirin alone is typically prescribed. In cases where reperfusion therapy has not been given, there is good evidence for using either aspirin and clopidogrel or aspirin and ticagrelor over aspirin alone ( 128 , 129 ). After 3 months, typically clopidogrel monotherapy is then given long-term, though aspirin and
