Platelets, Coagulation, and Antithrombotic Therapy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, aspirin, stroke, diabetes, risk, patients, acute, clopidogrel, coronary, platelet, therapy, disease, ticagrelor, trial, free


had a significantly reduced rate of serious vascular events (MI, stroke or TIA, or vascular death excluding intracranial hemorrhage) (RR 0.88 [95% CI 0.79-0.97], p=0.01). However, major bleeding was significantly more frequent when receiving aspirin (1.24 [1.09-1.52], p=0.003), the majority being gastrointestinal. The investigators concluded that the absolute benefits were largely counterbalanced by the risks, despite a favorable, albeit modest, risk-benefit ratio. Antiplatelet drugs other than aspirin have not been widely studied for primary prevention in individuals with DM and this remains an area for future research. CONCLUSIONS DM leads to a prothrombotic milieu that increases the risk of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events compared to the non-DM population. Changes in platelets, coagulation, and inflammation appear central to this increased risk. Antithrombotic therapy (ATT) can help treat or prevent thrombotic events but increases bleeding risk. In those with a history of symptomatic ASCVD, long-term antiplatelet therapy (APT) with aspirin or clopidogrel is indicated. Intensification to long-term dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) or low-dose dual antithrombotic therapy (DATT) should be considered in those with chronic coronary syndromes (CCS) who have high ischemic risk but not high bleeding risk. Low-dose DATT can also be beneficial to people with symptomatic PAD. Therapeutic levels of oral anticoagulant (OAC) should be considered in all individuals with DM who develop AF. Accurately assessing and balancing a patient’s risk of ischemic and bleeding events is key to making rational treatment recommendations for ATT in DM ( Figure 3 ). Looking to the future, further work to determine more precisely an individual’s thrombotic and bleeding risk would greatly enhance our ability to make the best treatment recommendations for patients with DM. Whether this is achieved by more complex statistical modelling, novel imaging techniques, and/or better appreciation of circulating biomarkers remains to be determined. This would allow a greater move towards personalized strategies in order to more appropriately balance the benefits and risks of ATT. People with DM often have complex co-morbidities meaning choosing the best regimen is difficult, but is at the same time crucial to ensure an optimal outcome. Emerging strategies such as early de-escalation of DAPT are encouraging new tools giving more options for subtle adjustment of ATT intensity, but require definitive proof they lead to no significant ischemic penalty and ratification by guideline committees before wider adoption can be recommended. No doubt further clarity will follow in the coming years. The lack of an ability of ATT
