Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


ABSTRACT Hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) is often secondary to obesity-related insulin resistance ( 1 , 2 ), which is caused by excessive intake of fats and carbohydrates without compensatory utilization of these calories, but other common and rare causes should be considered ( 3 , 4 , 5 ). Genetic influences, gestational conditions, and nutrition in infancy and childhood contribute to HTG associated with formation of an atherogenic dyslipidemia profile consisting of high TG, low high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), increased LDL particle number, smaller LDL size and density, and elevated apolipoprotein B. Very high TG levels generally result from defective disposal by lipoprotein lipase and can cause pancreatitis. Defining and treating the underlying cause are necessary to restore the lipids and lipoproteins to normal. Renal, hepatic, endocrine, immune, and pharmacological causes are in the differential diagnosis. Rare diseases such as lipodystrophy and glycogen storage disease are particularly challenging and require specific management strategies. Prevention of acute pancreatitis by lowering TG is a priority when TG is very high (> 1000 mg/dl), and lifestyle modification is the basis of management for all cases with high and moderately high levels. Since TG metabolism is associated with generation of an atherogenic dyslipidemia profile, predictors of coronary artery disease (CAD) such as LDL-C and non-HDL-C become targets when they exceed cut points. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION This chapter is an overview of causes of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) that can begin during gestation but more commonly in childhood and adolescence, either interacting with genetic background or directly contributing to the TG levels. These disorders are common, such as obesity, or less common such as glycogen storage disease and lipodystrophy for which treatment can be more challenging. Also, both common and unique pharmaceutical agents need to be considered as causes since treatment modification can contribute to reversing the HTG. Dyslipidemia presenting in adolescence is often associated with one or more components of the metabolic syndrome, i.e., obesity, hypertension, and impaired glucose tolerance, and presents with high TG and low HDL-C ( 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ) however, a wide variety of other causes can contribute to the differential diagnosis of HTG. Genetic background, gestational factors, nutrition during infancy and childhood and other lifestyle factors as well as demographic factors, are important considerations. Also, understanding how TGs are distributed among lipoproteins and
