Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


Genetic background, gestational factors, nutrition during infancy and childhood and other lifestyle factors as well as demographic factors, are important considerations. Also, understanding how TGs are distributed among lipoproteins and how they influence lipoprotein composition and subsequent lipolysis, uptake by receptors, and the arterial wall provides important background for understanding associations with specific diagnoses and when treatment can be effective. DIET Although the Cardiovascular Health Integrated Lifestyle Diet (CHILD 1) ( 11 ) recommends a balanced diet of carbohydrates (50%), which includes fiber, fat (30%) of which no more than 10% of total calories come from saturated fats, and protein (20%), these guidelines are often not well adhered to. Nutritional intake by many individuals comprises additional consumption of nonessential calories consisting of fats, both saturated and trans fats, as well as carbohydrates such as High-Energy Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS) and sucrose. This coupled with a decrease in physical activity and increased time spent in leisure activities (i.e., screen time) leads to excessive weight gain, often starting at a young age, metabolic syndrome, and insulin resistance. In an active pediatric preventive cardiology program, the number of children referred because of secondary hypertriglyceridemia and obesity is approximately twice that of children referred for Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) ( 12 ). it is important to understand both the metabolic pathways and lifestyle factors as the first step in the treatment algorithm ( 13 ). Because of the 2011 NHLBI recommendations for universal screening between 9 and 11 years of age, pediatric medical providers are encouraged to evaluate patients at this time with a non-fasting non-HDL cholesterol ( 14 ). However, children with additional risk factors notably including a BMI >95 th percentile, should be screened with a fasting lipid profile as early as 2 years of age. Children who have already developed diabetes or hypertension should be screened. Another reason to screen earlier than 9-11 years is primarily aimed at detecting FH. Dietary consumption of HFCS has increased rapidly since its discovery in 1965 ( 15 ). It is a low-cost sweetener, similar in taste to granulated sugar (sucrose), made from cornstarch and is commonly used in two forms. The first form HFCS is widely used commercially in some beverages, processed foods, cereals, and baked goods; the second HFCS is used in manufacturing of soft drinks (the numerical values reflect the percent fructose) ( 16 ). Although there is some dispute whether HCFS has
