Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


baked goods; the second HFCS is used in manufacturing of soft drinks (the numerical values reflect the percent fructose) ( 16 ). Although there is some dispute whether HCFS has led to the increase in obesity ( 17 ), it is apparent that both forms are consumed in larger quantity in the American diet. In 2018, the average American consumed approximately 22.l pounds of HFCS and 40.3 pounds of refined cane and beet sugar ( 18 ). Both sucrose and HFCS are rapidly absorbed during digestion and hydrolyzed by the enzyme sucrase to form glucose and fructose in the microvilli lining the duodenum ( 19 ). Unlike fat metabolism which is slow, both fructose and glucose are usually metabolized within two hours in individuals who are not diabetic ( 20 ). Whereas most dietary glucose will pass through the liver and be used by skeletal muscle to form ATP for cell energy or processed by fat cells to glycerol phosphate for triglyceride synthesis and stored energy, fructose is almost exclusively metabolized in the liver ( Figure 1 ). The first step of fructose metabolism is the conversion to fructose 1-phosphate (F-1-P) by the enzyme fructokinase. F-1-P can then form either glycerol or dihydroxyacetone (DHAP). Glycerol will form glycerol-3 Phosphate (G3P), DHAP can either form G3P or be isomerized to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (Ga-3-P). Ga-3-P will be oxidized to form pyruvate and reduced to lactate or be decarboxylated to form acetyl CoA. Acetyl CoA is a central intermediate in metabolism and can form a variety of byproducts including cholesterol, ATP, and fatty acids. G3P can then combine with fatty acids to form triglyceride which the liver ay utilize to produce VLDL,. Hepatic glucose can either undergo glycogenesis which forms glycogen or glycolysis which can form DHAP. Like fructose metabolism, DHAP can form either G3P or Ga-3-P. From here the two pathways are similar to fructose metabolism with the ultimate formation of triglyceride which then may be secreted by the liver in VLDL. Figure 1. Fructose and Glucose Metabolism. TG-RICH LIPOPROTEIN COMPOSITION Triglycerides (TGs) are normally located in the core of spherical circulating plasma lipoproteins. In the fasting state, VLDL is typically composed of 55% TG and 22% cholesterol, LDL has 5% TG and 50% cholesterol, and HDL has 5% TG and 20% cholesterol ( 21 ). Increases in hepatic production of VLDL account for the majority of HTG cases resulting in a
