Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


and 50% cholesterol, and HDL has 5% TG and 20% cholesterol ( 21 ). Increases in hepatic production of VLDL account for the majority of HTG cases resulting in a disproportionate increase in TG. However, VLDL is 22% cholesterol, which also is increased when VLDL production is excessive or when its disposal is defective leading to an elevation of the total cholesterol. In contrast, intestinally derived chylomicrons increase after meals and contain 90% triglyceride and only 3% cholesterol, but are efficiently catabolized by lipoprotein lipase, and their resulting remnant particles are taken up by hepatic receptors. Normally, TGs reach a peak 3 to 6 hours after a fat-containing meal and declines until there are usually no chylomicrons present after ten hours of fasting. However, when disposal mechanisms are defective, chylomicrons account for very high TG levels and VLDL particles compete for lipolysis by lipoprotein lipase. Under these conditions the ratio of triglyceride to cholesterol approaches 10 to1, whereas the ratio is closer to 5 to1 when VLDL predominates. Excessive cholesterol enrichment of VLDL approaching a 1:1 ratio occurs when disposal of chylomicron and VLDL remnants are delayed – a defect usually presenting in adulthood and termed familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, a disorder attributed to variations in the amino acid sequence of Apo E ( 22 ). Distinguishing these three different causes of HTG is key to management. NON-HDL CHOLESTEROL IN HTG Since increased TG levels are often associated with an atherogenic dyslipidemia (i.e., high triglycerides, low HDL-C, and increased small, dense LDL particles), that can result in early plaque formation. The Bogalusa Heart Study found that TG, total cholesterol, and LDL-C in children and young adults aged 2 to 39 years of age were associated with post-mortem lesions in the coronary arteries and aorta ( 23 ), findings supported by the autopsy-based Pathological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) study ( 24 ). While HTG has long been known as a biomarker associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) ( 25 ), the role for TG in atherosclerosis has remained less clear than for LDL-C but recent data supports a compelling role for TG and TG-rich lipoproteins as a cause of ASCVD rather than simply as a biomarker ( 26 , 27 , 28 ). A consistently stronger prediction by non-HDL-C than LDL-C indicates that the cholesterol content of TG-rich lipoproteins (VLDL, IDL) represented by non-HDL-C can be regarded
