Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


26 , 27 , 28 ). A consistently stronger prediction by non-HDL-C than LDL-C indicates that the cholesterol content of TG-rich lipoproteins (VLDL, IDL) represented by non-HDL-C can be regarded as a better predictor of risk than TG. This is also supported by the PDAY study in which non-HDL-C was associated with fatty streaks and raised lesions ( 29 ), and risk factors, including non-HDL-C and low HDL-C, accelerated progression of flat fatty streaks to raised lesions in the second decade. Childhood non-HDL-C, TG, Apo B, and Apo B:Apo A-I ratio all predicted carotid IMT after more than 20 years of follow-up, with non-HDL-C being superior to TG. ( 30 ) Therefore, targeting non-HDL-C in cases with intermediate triglyceride levels is a useful and productive strategy endorsed by the 2011 NHLBI (National Heart Lung and Blood Institute) Expert Panel’s recommendations ( 14 ). TG METABOLISM IN THE SETTING OF INSULIN RESISTANCE Common secondary HTG occurs in insulin resistant states such as obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) and can often become modified or exacerbated by other secondary causes. Since the abnormal lipid metabolism in insulin resistance has been extensively studied it serves as a foundation for understanding secondary dyslipidemia and potential for exacerbation by other causes ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Lipoprotein Metabolism in Insulin Resistance. A combination of excess production and decreased disposal results in secondary HTG and atherogenic dyslipidemia in the insulin resistant state. Chylomicrons and VLDL production originating from the intestine and liver are increased. Mobilization of free fatty acids (FFA) from fat cells by hormone sensitive and TG lipases (HSL/TGL) provides the liver with substrate for VLDL formation. Dietary intake of fat provides the intestine with TG for chylomicron formation, which is upregulated in insulin resistance. Hepatic VLDL containing excess Apo C-III relative to Apo E is increased; Apo C-III delays receptor-mediated hepatic uptake of VLDL and chylomicron remnants resulting in formation of intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL, not shown) and smaller and denser low-density lipoproteins (LDL). Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is inhibited by Apo C-III and decreased by insulin resistance and/or deficiency. Cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) is upregulated resulting in exchange of TG and cholesterol ester (CE), leading to TG enrichment of LDL and HDL. Both become substrates for hepatic triglyceride lipase (HTGL), which is upregulated and acts on TG-enriched HDL and LDL to make them smaller, atherogenic, and dysfunctional. Apolipoproteins A-I, B-48, B-100, C-I,
