Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


< 120 Triglycerides 0-9 years <75 75-99 ≥100 10-19 years <90 90-129 ≥130 The non-HDL-C which is equally accurate when measured on a fasting or non-fasting lipid panel reflects the sum of all apolipoprotein (Apo)-B-containing, lipoprotein subfractions (LDL, VLDL, Intermediate-Density Lipoprotein (IDL), lipoprotein (a), and chylomicron remnants). As triglycerides increase, there is a corresponding increase in the non–HDL-C level which correlates with Apo B much better than LDL-C. Hypertriglyceridemia can be diagnosed if TG level is ≥100 mg/dL in children (<10 year) or ≥130 mg/dL in adolescents (10–19 years) based on an average of two fasting measurements. Severe secondary hyper-TG, defined as levels above 1000 mg/dL, presents a risk for acute pancreatitis, especially when lipoprotein lipase-mediated clearance is saturated (> 800 mg/dL) causing the triglyceride to attain very high levels often exceeding 1000 mg/dL, with appearance of chylomicrons on standing plasma. Moderate HTG, defined as levels 150-499 mg/dL, is a risk factor for CVD. These children tend to be undertreated despite potential for reversal and primary prevention of cardiovascular disease ( 34 ). MEASUREMENT ASPECTS Although the non-HDL-cholesterol does not require fasting, the standard lipid profile which includes total cholesterol (TC), LDL-C, HDL-C, TG, and very low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-C) should be performed in pediatric patients in the fasting state (at least 8 hours) and guideline directed therapy is based on fasting values. Currently, some laboratories still use a calculated value for VLDL-C and LDL-C based on the Friedewald Formula ( 35 ) which estimates the VLDL-C by a fixed ratio of 5 (VLDL-C = TG/5). Because of the significant deviation from linearity at high TG levels (typically 400 mg/dL is used as a cut-point), VLDL-C and LDL-C values are not reported. This is especially important in dyslipidemias where both the TG and LDL-C can be elevated (i.e., familial combined hyperlipidemia) or where the TG level is severely elevated as a result of genetic and/or nutritional factors because it can lead to an under appreciation of the extent of the LDL-C elevation, the latter being especially important for guideline-directed therapy to lower cholesterol and in particular, LDL-C. Recently several equations have been developed that improved the accuracy of the calculated LDL-C. The Martin-Hopkins equation uses an adjustable factor based on lipid profiles from the Very Large Database of Lipids where TG levels were directly measured on samples separated using vertical spin density-gradient ultracentrifugation rather than a fixed ratio to calculate VLDL-C
