Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


profiles from the Very Large Database of Lipids where TG levels were directly measured on samples separated using vertical spin density-gradient ultracentrifugation rather than a fixed ratio to calculate VLDL-C and subsequently the LDL-C ( 36 ). While this equation is more accurate than the Friedewald equation at high TG levels, there is still significant error for TG> 400 mg/dL addressed by the extended Martin/Hopkins calculation ( 37 ) and the Sampson equation ( 38 ). The Sampson equation was derived using beta quantification LDL-C values (the “gold standard” for LDL-C values) using multiple least squares regression analysis to derive a fixed equation to calculate the LDL-C value. All three equations have been proven to be superior to the Friedewald equation and many laboratories have already incorporated these equations when reporting lipid measures. Several pediatric studies have specifically addressed these improved methods to calculate VLDL-C and LDL-C ( 39 , 40 , 41 ). GENETIC BACKGROUND Commonly encountered HTG is usually multigenic and results from small-effect variants (single nucleotide polymorphisms) in many genes or heterozygotes in genes such as APOA5, GCKR, LPL, and APOB that have larger effects and together, more than 20% of susceptibility is accounted for by common and rare variants ( 42 ). The population frequency of the HTG phenotype was shown in the Copenhagen General Population Study, a homogeneous Caucasian population in which a small percentage have a non-fasting TG level greater than 1000 mg/dL, whereas the majority have intermediate levels ranging from greater than the 95 th percentile to 500 mg/dL and higher, often secondary to an underlying disorder ( 43 ). Genetic causes of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) in non-Caucasian populations involve both rare monogenic mutations and a high prevalence of common polygenic variants, many of which differ from those found in Europeans. Gene-Environment Interaction Heterozygous relatives of cases with autosomal recessive familial chylomicronemia carry loss-of-function mutations in genes such as LPL , APOC2, APOA5, LMF1, and GPIHBP are generally asymptomatic . Although they have close to normal lipids they may develop severe HTG ( 44 ) when exposed to exogenous factors such as alcohol, oral estrogen treatment, obesity, and pregnancy posing a risk for acute pancreatitis ( 45 , 46 ). These observations suggest that adolescent carriers, such as siblings of severely affected homozygotes, should be identified by genotyping to detect carriage of a single allele. If identified as carriers, they should be advised on
