Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


adolescent carriers, such as siblings of severely affected homozygotes, should be identified by genotyping to detect carriage of a single allele. If identified as carriers, they should be advised on avoiding risk factors such as alcohol and pharmaceutical agents discussed further in this review. Susceptibility to environmental factors is common; for example, a typical case scenario occurs in a child with a mild increase in LDL-C who develops an increase in triglyceride and non-HDL-C during adolescence. The HTG is worsened by the onset of obesity and participation in social activities involving alcohol consumption and taking oral estrogens in the form of birth control pills. Since insulin resistance and T2D have become more common in adolescence, the gene-environment interaction results in mixed dyslipidemia ( 47 ) with variable elevations in TG and cholesterol ( 48 ). The interaction is common in cases with a pedigree suggestive of familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) reported to have a prevalence of 1 per 100 and characterized by variable lipid profiles among family members with apparent dominant inheritance, but some have a high cholesterol and others have a high triglyceride or elevations in both. The phenotype has also been defined as having elevated Apo B and TG levels in at least two affected family members, and has been associated with several variants including USF1 , supporting a multigenic rather than a monogenic origin as originally thought ( 49 ). Mendelian Randomization The important role of genetics in determining HTG associated risk is highlighted by recent Mendelian randomization studies in which individuals carrying a protective mutation were compared to unaffected carriers over a lifetime. Recent studies on loss of function APOC3 mutations are a classic example. As compared with non-carriers, carriers of APOC3 mutations had 39% lower TG levels, 16% lower LDL-C levels, and 22% higher HDL-C levels ( 50 ). The risk of coronary heart disease was reduced by 40% and was attributed to the lifetime effect of the normal or low levels. These remarkable findings were replicated in a Danish study with similar reductions in TG and cardiovascular disease in individuals with the protective APOC3 mutations ( 51 ). Randomization occurs in populations when sorted according to genotype and provides study design analogous to that used in pharmaceutical trials, but with the added benefit that exposure to lower levels of atherogenic lipoproteins in the genetically protected arm of the study begins at birth and continue
