Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


used in pharmaceutical trials, but with the added benefit that exposure to lower levels of atherogenic lipoproteins in the genetically protected arm of the study begins at birth and continue over the lifespan. These landmark studies contribute evidence that a low TG and an associated improved lipid profile is beneficial, and supports interventions such as lifestyle, and pharmaceutical lowering when indicated, beginning at young ages. DEVELOPMENTAL FACTORS A sequence of factors, beginning during gestation, influence the development of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) later in life ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Developmental Influences. Metabolic processes are programmed during gestation and early childhood and are influenced by disease states and environmental factors such as dietary excess and inactivity. The HTG is associated with atherogenic dyslipidemia consisting of increased non-HDL-C (non-high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol), LDL-P (LDL particle number), Apo B (apolipoprotein B), decreased HDL-C (high density lipoprotein cholesterol) and decreased Apo A-I. Maternal nutrition and placental function affect nutrient supply for fetal growth and influence subsequent development of the metabolic syndrome ( 52 ). Overweight children who were small for gestational age (SGA) have increased risk for components of the metabolic syndrome compared to overweight children who were appropriate for gestation age (AGA). These effects on growth are attributed to restriction in intrauterine growth ( 53 ). After gestational programming, nutritional and endocrine factors play a role during childhood and affect development of risk factors including dyslipidemia ( Figure 3 ). Preterm infants have higher meal frequency than older children and adults, but less efficient fat digestion and absorption, making it difficult to cope with a high fat intake relative to their body weight ( 54 ). Consequently, HTG is a frequent occurrence. Since pancreatic lipase and bile salt secretion is often inadequate for facilitating absorption of fat and its utilization as a source of energy, premature babies often fail to thrive and need exogenous fat as a component of total intravenous parenteral nutrition titrated according to the TG level ( 55 ). If lipoprotein lipase is genetically defective plasma clearance is even more compromised and severe HTG occurs during lipid infusions. If clinical circumstances necessitate that fats be restricted, essential omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are supplied for development of the brain and retina, and medium chain TG are an effective energy source without raising TG levels since they are directly transported to the liver via the portal system ( 56 ). Increases in obesity,
