Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


Bile duct obstruction +++ LpX formation from albumin, globulin & lipids. Hypothyroidism + ++ LDL receptor deficiency Growth hormone deficiency + LDL receptor deficiency Nephrotic syndrome + ++ Increased synthesis (low fatty acids) Saturated and trans fats + Dietary excess and LDL-R down-regulation Anorexia nervosa + Nutrient deficiencies Endocrine OBESITY In early 2023, the AAP published a clinical pathway guideline aimed at treatment interventions for the 14.4 million children and adolescents who are now obese, noting that it is the most common chronic pediatric disease in the United States ( 62 ). It focuses on the child’s health status, family system, community context, and the resources for treatment to create the best evidence-based treatment plan. These include 13 Key Action Statements some of which pediatricians and other children healthcare providers are already engaged in including assessing for overweight/obesity, various screening including social determinants of health, and diagnostic studies. As with all children and adolescents, universal lipid screening is recommended but screening should also include screening for pre-diabetes and a hepatic profile to evaluate for the presence of fatty liver disease. Intervention can take place in the medical home or using the chronic care model, engaging in a family-centered non-stigmatizing approach. Referrals for overweight and obese children as young as 2 years-of-age may be referred for intensive health behavior and lifestyle treatment. Pharmacotherapy can be initiated by the pediatric healthcare provider at age 12 as an adjunct to health behavior and lifestyle treatment. At age 13, adolescents with BMI ≥ 120% of the 95 th percentile for age and sex may be referred to metabolic and bariatric surgery programs. Obesity has prevailed as the most prominent cardiovascular risk factor beginning in childhood and associated with dietary factors such as excessive consumption of refined carbohydrates, saturated fat and trans fatty acids which not only contribute to weight gain but also cause dyslipidemia ( 32 ). Children and adolescents are increasingly referred for obesity associated with dyslipidemia constituting HTG coupled with small dense LDL particles and low HDL-C ( 63 , 64 ), and with resistance to insulin in muscle and adipose tissue leading to increased plasma insulin and free fatty acids ( 65 ). Consumption of high amounts of carbohydrate and fat, being physically unfit, and having close relatives with similar presentations and progression to T2D or manifestations of the metabolic syndrome is often evident ( 66 ). Physical characteristics include being
