Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


being physically unfit, and having close relatives with similar presentations and progression to T2D or manifestations of the metabolic syndrome is often evident ( 66 ). Physical characteristics include being overweight or obese; the distribution of fat is generalized but consistently associated with an increased waist circumference, the latter strongly predicting adolescent-onset risk factors ( 67 , 68 ). The skin is hyper-pigmented and thickened at characteristic locations around the neck, knees, elbows, and sites of friction. This condition, called acanthosis nigricans, is associated with insulin resistance ( 69 ) and thought by many to be a central component of the metabolic syndrome for which American Indian and Hispanic ethnic groups are particularly predisposed, but Caucasians and African Americans also have high rates ( 69 ). Resistance to insulin action results in mobilization of adipocyte TG and increased fatty acid availability for uptake by muscle and an inverse association with insulin resistance ( 70 ). The increased hepatic supply of fatty acids coupled with insulin-stimulated hepatic TG synthesis results in increased VLDL formation and HTG ( 71 ) constituting a component of Apo B-containing VLDL particles ( 72 , 73 ); and increased chylomicron production contributes to the TG level ( Figure 2 ) ( 74 ). The effect on lipoproteins is significant since it alters function in favor of atherogenesis. An entropic mechanism involves TG-rich particles exchanging their TG for cholesterol ester via cholesterol-ester transfer protein (CETP) thereby enriching LDL and HDL with TG; a process that is increased by insulin resistance ( 75 ). Both LDL and HDL become substrates for hepatic TG lipase, which is up-regulated ( 76 ) leading to formation of small dense LDL and small HDL prone to degradation ( 77 , 78 ). TYPE 2 DIABETES An atherogenic dyslipidemia with increased triglyceride and low HDL-C and an increased number of small, dense LDL particles precedes the onset of prediabetes and T2D in association with persisting insulin resistance ( 79 ). LDL glycation and oxidation is increased ( 80 , 81 ) accounting for increased atherogenesis ( 82 ). In the Treatment Options for T2D in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) trial, 699 adolescents were studied in three treatment groups receiving metformin alone, metformin with rosiglitazone, and metformin with intensive lifestyle. Twenty one percent (21%) had a high triglyceride or were on a lipid-lowering medication at baseline and 23% had a high level after three
