Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


rosiglitazone, and metformin with intensive lifestyle. Twenty one percent (21%) had a high triglyceride or were on a lipid-lowering medication at baseline and 23% had a high level after three years. During this same period Apo B increased from a mean value of 76.6 mg/dl to 80.1 mg/dl associated with deterioration in glycemic control attributed to a decline in β-cell function. However, the intensive lifestyle arm had significantly lower TG levels after three years ( 83 ). The data indicate that T2D in youth is associated with significant cardiovascular risk and difficult to control requiring a multidisciplinary approach ( 84 ). TYPE 1 DIABETES Children with type 1 diabetes (T1D) tend to have elevations in TG and cholesterol when insulin is insufficient, reflecting the dependence of lipoprotein lipase on insulin for synthesis and secretion. Increased triglyceride and cholesterol correct after two weeks of intensified insulin delivery ( 85 ), and the low HDL-C increases after two months ( 86 ). When cases present with severe insulin deficiency and ketoacidosis, TG and cholesterol attain very high levels but normalize on standard treatment with insulin and intravenous fluids ( 87 , 88 ). These changes reflect the role of insulin in lipoprotein lipase transcription, synthesis, and secretion. Intensified insulin delivery increases Apo A-I and HDL-C even when control of the diabetes reflected by glycosylated hemoglobin remains unchanged ( 89 ). However, the relatively normal lipid profiles seen in treated patients with T1D is a paradox since the risk for CVD persists and remains a frequent cause of death ( 90 ), but development of renal complications plays a compounding role ( 91 ). Subcutaneous insulin bypasses physiological insulin delivery to the liver and also results in a delayed plasma insulin peak compared to physiological insulin secretion from the pancreas ( 92 ), but the resulting delay in chylomicron clearance was not found to be associated with glucose control or elevated fasting TG in adolescents. However, potentially atherogenic apoB-48 containing remnants are increased after a meal challenge ( 93 ) and increases in free fatty acids, a correlate of post-prandial TG ( 94 ), are harmful to the endothelium by inducing pro-inflammatory effects ( 95 ). Apo C-III, a correlate of triglyceride, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( 96 ) in hyperglycemic and insulin resistant states and may have an atherosclerotic role in T1D. The Apo C-III promoter contains both
