Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( 96 ) in hyperglycemic and insulin resistant states and may have an atherosclerotic role in T1D. The Apo C-III promoter contains both a carbohydrate response element that is responsive to glucose fluctuations ( 97 ) and an insulin response element ( 98 ) making it susceptible to both glucose fluctuations and insulin deficiency since it is normally down-regulated by insulin. Observations in patients with T1D provide supportive evidence that increased Apo C-III is associated with poor glucose control ( 99 , 100 ) and being overweight ( 101 ). In the DCCT/EDIC T1D cohort with a significant adolescent aged population at onset, Apo C-III was associated with retinopathy ( 102 ) and albuminuria ( 103 ), implicating Apo C-III and associated TG-rich lipoproteins in microvascular disease ( 104 ). LIPODYSTROPHY Congenital and autoimmune lipodystrophies ( 105 ) are a group of genetic and acquired disorders characterized by loss of body fat, either partial or generalized ( 106 ). The degree of fat loss determines the severity of metabolic complications such as HTG, ectopic fat accumulation, insulin resistance, and progression to diabetes. Loss of adipocytes results in progressive LPL deficiency and chylomicronemia. Reduction in fat intake is effective in reducing risk for pancreatitis; however, insulin resistance and high carbohydrate intake may result in excess VLDL production requiring the use of prescription omega-3 fatty acids and fibrates. Metformin is the drug of choice for diabetes but trial evidence is lacking for the specific use of glucose-lowering agents in lipodystrophy ( 106 ). Loss of adipocytes also leads to acquired leptin deficiency and severe hyperphagia making dietary management of HTG, glucose intolerance, and overt diabetes difficult. Recent approval of recombinant leptin (metreleptin, Amylin Pharmaceuticals) has greatly improved outcomes and quality of life; treatment trials for children are in process. Although formation of leptin antibodies has attenuated the effects ( 107 ), follow-up studies suggest that low titers may not result in significant decline in the clinical response. HYPOTHYROIDISM Overt hypothyroidism, either autoimmune or congenital, commonly presents in childhood and at onset may be characterized by an increase in LDL-C and Apo B because of a reduced number of LDL receptors ( 85 ). In subclinical hypothyroidism the lipid profile is characterized by normal or slightly elevated total cholesterol levels and LDL-C in adults ( 108 ) but this observation has been less evident in children
