Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


hypothyroidism the lipid profile is characterized by normal or slightly elevated total cholesterol levels and LDL-C in adults ( 108 ) but this observation has been less evident in children ( 109 ). GROWTH HORMONE Growth hormone deficiency and excess are both causes of hyperlipidemia. GH deficiency down-regulates the LDL receptor ( 110 ) and can result in elevations in total cholesterol and LDL-C that are reduced by treatment ( 111 ); whereas excess GH tends to mobilize fatty acids and increase VLDL triglyceride ( 112 , 113 ), as seen in cases with acromegaly or gigantism in childhood. Hepatic METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOTIC LIVER DISEASE (MASLD) MASLD, formerly NAFLD, is now a common chronic, and often silent, liver condition in youth, affecting roughly 20% of adolescents (up to 70% of those with obesity). Driven by rising obesity and diabetes, it involves fat buildup causing liver damage, and is more severe than in adults, sometimes requiring early intervention. MASLD, manifesting as ectopic fat deposition in the liver, is associatED with increased visceral fat and features of metabolic syndrome ( 114 ). The condition is associated with insulin resistance and high TG independent of intra-myocellular fat. HEPATITIS C Hepatitis C is associated with steatosis and a unique dysmetabolic syndrome characterized by insulin resistance, inflammation-induced atherosclerosis but a low cholesterol level ( 115 ). The virus interferes with distal steps in cholesterol synthesis and with Apo B secretion. Risk for atherosclerosis is attributed to vascular inflammation ( 116 , 117 ). GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE (GSD) GSDs are associated with HTG ( 118 , 119 ) and present as significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges since the onset is at an early age. Type I GSD is caused by a recessively inherited defect in glucose-6-phosphatase, and accounts for more than 60% of the GSD types involving the liver and results in the highest TG levels due to excessive VLDL production. It presents during the first year of life with severe hypoglycemia and hepatomegaly caused by the accumulation of hepatic glycogen. Increased VLDL production is associated with TG-rich particles containing excess Apo C-III and Apo E ( 120 ). In addition, the metabolic consequences of impeded glucose formation and excessive anaerobic glycolysis manifest as hypoglycemia with lactic acidemia, hyperuricemia and dyslipidemia. Impaired growth factor production and acidosis result in poor growth and delayed puberty. Many of these effects, including impaired growth, can be reversed by
