Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


with lactic acidemia, hyperuricemia and dyslipidemia. Impaired growth factor production and acidosis result in poor growth and delayed puberty. Many of these effects, including impaired growth, can be reversed by sustained correction of hypoglycemia with dietary sources of complex carbohydrate. Restoration of euglycemia results in less stress-hormone induced stimulation of metabolic excesses derived from activated anaerobic glycolysis. Continuous complex carbohydrate feeding regimens are prescribed as frequent meals and supplementation with corn-starch. However, to effectively normalize the TG, frequent corn-starch dosing is needed to achieve blood glucose levels continuously above 75 mg/dL, especially at night. This approach involves high carbohydrate intakes, which in the long term may increase VLDL production often resulting in requirement for lipid lowering medications. Renal Nephrosis is associated with increased cholesterol synthesis and increased TG attributed to lipoprotein lipase inhibition ( 121 ). A two-phase dyslipidemia occurs in which TG hydrolysis by lipoprotein lipase is impaired when albumin levels are too low to remove fatty acids at an adequate rate after hydrolysis ( 122 ). Association with atherosclerosis is in part attributed to increases in Lp(a) and Apo C-III ( 123 , 124 ). Findings in chronic kidney disease in children resemble those in adults and simulate atherogenic dyslipidemia seen in the metabolic syndrome. Immune Immune causes are rare in adults and children but should be considered in specific clinical situations. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is associated with partial lipodystrophy and insulin resistance. The lipid profile before treatment shows a high triglyceride, low HDL-C, and small dense LDL ( 125 ), and subsequent treatment with protease inhibitors can make the situation worse ( 126 ). In gammopathies such as in Hodgkin’s disease, antibodies can sequester factors required for LPL activity ( 127 ) or they can impede lipoprotein uptake by receptors ( 128 ). Although less frequent than in adults, monoclonal or oligoclonal gammopathies, predominantly IgG mediated, occur in children with various autoimmune diseases, hematologic diseases, malignancies, transplantations, and immunodeficiencies ( 129 ). PHARMACOLOGICAL CAUSES Pharmacological agents have significant effects on plasma lipids. In some cases the mechanism is known but is frequently uncertain or unknown. The potential for causing dyslipidemia is particularly important in a patient that has an underlying genetic predisposition. Changing the offending medication or treating the dyslipidemia are both options, especially when the disease requires long term management and alternative medications are limited or not available. Each medication class has characteristic effects on
