Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


or treating the dyslipidemia are both options, especially when the disease requires long term management and alternative medications are limited or not available. Each medication class has characteristic effects on the lipid profile but some, such as glucocorticoids, oral estrogens, and alcohol, may increase HDL-C and others may increase both cholesterol and triglyceride ( Table 4 ). TABLE 4. CLASSES OF MEDICATIONS AND EXAMPLES CAUSING HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA IN CHILDHOOD View in own window Medication Class TG TC HDL-C Examples Glucocorticoids ++ + + prednisone, hydrocortisone Oral estrogens + + + ethinyl estradiol Anabolic steroids + + - depo-testosterone, oxandrolone Estrogen receptor blockade + tamoxifen Retinoids + - isotretinoin Immune suppressants + + cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus Protease inhibitors + - ritonavir, nelfinovir and indinivir Diuretics ++ - chlorthiazide, diuril Antipsychotics + - clozapine, olanzapine, cimetidine Beta blockers + - propranolol, labetelol Bile acid sequestrants + cholestyramine, colestipol, cholesevelam Alcohol + + spirits, wines, beers Glucocorticoids Glucocorticoids, especially in high doses, cause significant combined dyslipidemia and the effects on lipids may be compounded by other medications, the disease itself, or the patient’s genetic background. Lipid changes during treatment of chronic illnesses show elevations in triglyceride and LDL-C due to increased production, with variable changes in HDL-C but often increases ( 130 ). The effects may depend on the preparation used, dose and disease being treated ( 131 ). Combination drug therapy with L-asparaginase, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase, used for the induction phase in leukemia therapy can cause marked elevations in TG and is also diabetogenic ( 132 ). Lipid-lowering to prevent acute pancreatitis and thrombotic events is possible without stopping the chemotherapy. Estrogens Oral estrogens such as ethinyl estradiol usually prescribed with progestogen as oral contraceptives increase the production rate of Apo B-containing lipoproteins but the increase is counterbalanced by an increased catabolic rate ( 133 ). This finding accounts for only a slight increase in cholesterol and triglyceride within the normal range in adolescent girls ( 134 ), however interaction with obesity is possible with respect to LDL-C and fasting glucose ( 135 ). Reducing the dose of estrogen from the previously prescribed high dose preparations was effective in offsetting cardiovascular risk, however interactions with other risk factors such as smoking may occur ( 136 ). Estrogen receptor blockade with tamoxifen has been associated with mild hyper-TG in women treated for breast cancer or its prevention, but it has rare use
