Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


may occur ( 136 ). Estrogen receptor blockade with tamoxifen has been associated with mild hyper-TG in women treated for breast cancer or its prevention, but it has rare use in childhood except for treatment of pubertal gynecomastia. Retinoids Retinoids such as isotretinoin (Accutane, 13-cis-retinoic acid) are indicated for treatment of severe nodular acne and can be prescribed for as long as 20 weeks, but careful monitoring is required. Severe HTG resulting from lipoprotein lipase inhibition frequently occurs, and can cause acute pancreatitis ( 137 , 138 ). It acts via retinoic acid and retinoid x receptors ( 116 ) and there is also ongoing interest in use for cancer therapy and chemoprevention ( 139 , 140 ). Immune Suppressants Cyclosporine ( 141 ), sirolimus ( 142 ), and tacrolimus are used in transplant patients and immune-mediated diseases in children requiring long term treatment and monitoring when indicated ( 143 , 144 ). The mechanism is via down-regulation of hepatic 7alpha-hydroxylase and myocyte and adipocyte lipoprotein lipase down-regulation ( 145 ). Protease Inhibitors Protease inhibitors are associated with HTG and low HDL-C and add to the effects of the lipodystrophy syndrome occurring before anti-retroviral treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infections in pediatric cases, particularly during adolescence ( 146 ). Drugs such as ritonavir, nelfinovir and indinivir cause more severe dyslipidemia than others ( 147 ). Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors can also cause TG and cholesterol elevations ( 148 ). Bile Acid Sequestrants Bile acid sequestrants should be avoided in cases with mixed dyslipidemia since they elevate TG ( 149 ). Fibrates or omega-3s, although effective in lowering TG, may transiently raise LDL-C during lipolysis of VLDL and conversion to LDL. Diuretics Diuretics including thiazides and loop diuretics such as furosemide alone or as combination therapy for hypertension raise cholesterol and TG and lower HDL-C in a dose dependent manner and more so in African Americans ( 150 ). Beta-Blockers Beta-blockers increase TG and lower HDL-C especially preparations without alpha-blocking activity but have rare indication in childhood since combination therapy for hypertension does not have trial evidence, ( 151 ) but they are used for management of arrhythmias. Antipsychotics Antipsychotics have pediatric psychiatric indications and agents such as clozapine and olanzapine induce HTG. However, it is not clear if the effect is independent of HTG induced by increased appetite and resulting weight gain typical of this class of medications and may
