Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


induce HTG. However, it is not clear if the effect is independent of HTG induced by increased appetite and resulting weight gain typical of this class of medications and may require prescription changes or behavioral modification when possible ( 152 ). Anabolic Steroids Covert use of anabolic steroids in adolescent athletes and should be suspected with HTG and unusually low HDL-C levels. Medical use of oxandrolone for growth or androgens for aplastic anemia is rare and seldom has an indication. Alcohol Alcohol consumption has dyslipidemic effects, particularly with chronic use ( 153 ), and promotes development of fatty liver disease and associated HTG ( 154 ), particularly in susceptible Hispanic adolescents or in those with underlying genetic predisposition. As with steroids and estrogens, a typical presentation is with a markedly increased TG level with a higher-than-expected HDL-C ( Table 4 ). MANAGEMENT General Obesity and insulin resistance associated with dietary excess and inactivity should be assessed as potential targets in the therapeutic plan. If the identifiable cause(s) of secondary HTG cannot be corrected or optimally managed, as in patients with severe disorders or on essential drug therapy for their underlying diseases, lifestyle management is a priority. A six-month trial of weight management by restricting excessive calories, saturated fat, and refined carbohydrate in the diet is recommended by the NHLBI Expert Panel ( 14 ). There is also consensus that diet, exercise and behavioral modalities should be used in combination for successful outcomes in children ( 155 ), which are dependent on self-motivation, family support, and access to skilled instruction, preferably provided by a dietitian with pediatric experience. A comprehensive team approach for use of exercise and behavioral modalities is considered optimal. Successful programs serve as role models for providers, particularly from centers with resources for team approaches similar to those designed for obesity management ( 156 ). Drug Therapy Treatment of the primary disorder is the first priority, i.e., treating HTG associated with T2D diabetes requires specific therapies based on the severity of the TG elevation and response to lifestyle. Rare disorders require specific therapies such as complex carbohydrates for maintaining euglycemia in GSD, and leptin therapy for lipodystrophy (discussed above). If pharmaceutical agents are the cause, modification of the treatment plan can be considered in consultation with the primary specialist. Sunil et al recently summarized medications targeted for HTG ( 157 ) as well as hypercholesterolemia and the former
