Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


treatment plan can be considered in consultation with the primary specialist. Sunil et al recently summarized medications targeted for HTG ( 157 ) as well as hypercholesterolemia and the former are summarized in figure 4 and several are discussed in detail herein, Unfortunately, none of these medications are approved below age 18 years-of-age, therefore treatment of HTG in children and adolescents is largely restricted to lifestyle changes. The most important aspect of dietary counseling is also discerning if the HTG is associated with insulin resistance where lowering simple sugars and carbohydrates is key or hyperchylomicronemia where fat restriction is paramount or where these disorders overlap. Figure 4. Triglyceride lowering medications. From Ref. 157 . STATINS Statins which are not described in figure 4 lower cholesterol, specifically LDL-C and have minimal effect on HTG. However, for commonly encountered dyslipidemia there is good reason to follow established guidelines to reduce the future CVD risk through the use of statin therapy ( 14 ). If a six-month trial of intensive lifestyle is not effective in reaching the recommended goal, the LDL-C and non-HDL-C become targets using appropriate agents such as statins. As discussed previously, non-HDL-C is a preferred target for individuals with mild to moderate TG elevations (150-499 mg/dl) as recommended by the 2011 expert NHLBI panel ( 14 ). For LDL-C and non-HDL-C above 95 th percentiles in the presence of HTG and at least one other risk factor, statin therapy is indicated selecting from approved statins for children over age 10 years ( 15 ). The reported statin association with type 2 diabetes ( 158 , 159 ) should be considered when obesity and associated genetic risk for diabetes is present. It should be emphasized that when statin treatment is indicated for drug-induced hypercholesterolemia, care should be taken to avoid interactions with drugs that are metabolized by pathways utilizing cytochrome P450 enzymes, such as CYP3A4 for atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin and CYP2C9 for fluvastatin and rosuvastatin ( 159 ). Drugs such as clarithromycin, cyclosporine A, diltiazem, erythromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, mibefradil, midazolam, nefazodone, nifedipine, protease inhibitors, quinidine, sildenafil, terbinafine, verapamil and warfarin are CYP3A4 utilizers and will raise the statin levels when used together, thus increasing risk of toxicity. Likewise, alprenolol, diclofenac, fluconazole, hexobarbitoal, n-desmethyldiazepan, tolbutamide and warfarin are CYP2C9 utilizers and will be incompatible with fluvastatin and rosuvastatin. Several of these drugs have common pediatric usage including certain antibiotics and antifungal
