Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


fluconazole, hexobarbitoal, n-desmethyldiazepan, tolbutamide and warfarin are CYP2C9 utilizers and will be incompatible with fluvastatin and rosuvastatin. Several of these drugs have common pediatric usage including certain antibiotics and antifungal agents. FIBRATES Based on adult evidence of harmful effects of TG-rich lipoproteins, small dense LDL, and remnant lipoproteins derived from VLDL and chylomicrons ( 160 ) and the metabolic effects of TG and associated increase in fatty acids ( 161 ), pharmacological TG lowering in childhood is indicated for selected cases resistant to lifestyle ( 14 ). Individuals with severe isolated HTG at risk for acute pancreatitis should have a trial of a TG-lowering agent such as a fibrate (i.e., gemfibrozil or fenofibrate), beginning with the lowest available dose while monitoring for adverse effects. Fibrates, approved for use over age 18 years, have limited trial evidence in children but a fibrate (bezafibrate, not available in the United States) was shown to be safe when used for children with familial hypercholesterolemia before statins were available for use ( 162 ). It is however notable that few adult trials have shown benefit of fibrates on cardiovascular event reduction. Niacin, while historically used ( 163 ), no longer has a place in the management of dyslipidemia. OMEGA-3 FATTY ACIDS Omega-3-fatty acids have appeal as a potential TG-lowering agent for children because of their relatively low adverse effect profile and recent availability as a prescription grade preparation following purification to remove heavy metals and fatty acids ( 164 ). Although adults have had up to 30% TG lowering with 4-gram doses, 2-gram doses are less effective and increased LDL-C is a recognized adverse effect ( 165 , 166 ). but the LDL-C to HDL-C ratio is unchanged ( 167 ). A retrospective survey of children treated for TG lowering with omega-3 fatty acids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 gram per day, did not show significant TG lowering suggesting that prescription of relatively low doses may not be helpful. The study supports use of higher doses in combination with lifestyle measures. A high purity prescription form of icosapent ethyl (eicosapentaenoic acid ethyl ester), lowers TG while lowering LDL particle concentration and LDL-C in cases with TG over 500mg/L ( 168 , 169 ), but it is not yet available for use under 18 years of age, however it appears to be a reasonable consideration for testing in pediatric settings. The free fatty acid
