Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, journal, children, diabetes, insulin, lipoprotein, free, cholesterol, disease, htg, levels, risk, high, associated, clinical


but it is not yet available for use under 18 years of age, however it appears to be a reasonable consideration for testing in pediatric settings. The free fatty acid form as shown in the EpanoVa fOr Lowering Very high triglyceridEs (EVOLVE) trial is effective for TG-lowering ( 170 ), but not yet available for use in children. Non-prescription marine omega-3s can be safely used if patients are instructed on what to look for on the label (e.g., distilled, USP approved) and specific marine sources with high concentrations are recommended ( 171 ). SEVERE SECONDARY HTG Treatment for HTG with levels above 1000 mg/dl in patients with partial defects in chylomicron clearance by LPL or its co-factors requires total dietary fat restriction for 72 hours followed by dietary management in the longer term. The approach is similar to the management of homozygous familial chylomicronemia for which there is more information ( 172 ) (reviewed in another chapter). It should be recognized that small increments in fat can cause striking increases in plasma TG because when TG levels saturate LPL activity, any additional TG entering the plasma will face zero order kinetics and increase the TG in a non-linear fashion. TG can be substantially lowered by restricting dietary fat to less than 15% of the total daily caloric intake and cases vary in their response to fibrates depending on their effect on residual lipoprotein lipase and on suppression of hepatic TG production. Adherence to a very low-fat diet requires supplementation with linoleic acid and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K), but frequent monitoring is advised. Supplemental medium chain triglycerides (MCT) may be beneficial in providing additional calories and improving compliance. Fenofibrate can be helpful in cases with residual lipoprotein lipase activity and also may reduce hepatic TG production. New agents are being developed to increase clearance and/or reduce the production of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, but their clinical efficacy, cost effectiveness, and indications, especially in children, are yet to be established ( 173 ). CONCLUSION In addition to overweight and obesity accompanied by metabolic syndrome, other common and rare causes of secondary dyslipidemia require diagnosis-specific management strategies. Identification and prioritization of reversible causes and risk factors, use of comprehensive lifestyle approaches, and optimal choice of medications based on guidelines can lead to improved outcomes. Lifestyle modification with selective prescription of medications designed to reduce risk of cardiovascular disease is indicated for individuals
