Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


myocardial infarction 1 Recommendations This appraisal covers the use of myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS) using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the diagnosis and management of angina and myocardial infarction. It does not cover planar MPS or the use of MPS in the management of heart failure or in the assessment of myocardial viability. In this guidance, the term coronary artery disease (CAD) is used to refer to angina and myocardial infarction. 1.1 This recommendation has been updated and replaced by recommendation 1.3.6.1 in NICE's guideline on recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin. 1.2 MPS using SPECT is recommended as part of the investigational strategy in the management of established CAD in people who remain symptomatic following myocardial infarction or reperfusion interventions. This recommendation has been partially updated by recommendations 1.5.2 and 1.5.12 in NICE's guideline on stable angina. 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the commonest cause of death in England and Wales. It is characterised by the development of lipid-laden coronary arterial plaques, which reduce the blood supply to the heart muscle. Significant CAD is defined as a stenosis (narrowing) of more than 70% of the diameter of at least 1 major epicardial artery segment or more than 50% of the diameter of the left main coronary artery. 2.2 Angina (chest pain) is the most common symptom of CAD. It is usually provoked by exercise and relieved by rest. Angina of rapidly increasing frequency, or experienced at rest, is called unstable angina. CAD can also lead to heart attack (myocardial infarction, MI) and sudden cardiac death. MI is characterised by severe chest pain persisting for at least 20 minutes, a rise in cardiac enzymes in the serum, and/or an abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG). 2.3 About 2.65 million people in the UK have CAD, and of these 1.2 million have had an MI. There were an estimated 275,000 heart attacks in the UK in 2001, and 335,000 new cases of angina are diagnosed each year. CAD is more prevalent in men than in women. The prevalence of CAD increases with age, and varies across geographic regions and socioeconomic groups. 2.4 Preventative strategies for reducing the frequency of CAD include smoking cessation, diet modification, exercise, and treating conditions that exacerbate progression of the disease, such as hyperlipidaemia, hyperglycaemia, hypertension and blood hypercoagulability. Medical treatment of angina symptoms includes the use of nitrates, beta-adrenergic blockers
