Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


the exposure from uncomplicated CA. 3.6 The cost of a SPECT scan is estimated to be around £265, whereas the costs for sECG and CA are £104 and £1,103, respectively (2002 NHS reference costs). 4 Evidence and interpretation The Appraisal Committee considered evidence from a number of sources. 4.1 Clinical effectiveness 4.1.1 The Assessment Report and the submissions reviewed the literature and focused on 2 aspects separately: the diagnostic performance of SPECT, and its long-term prognostic value. Much of the evidence consisted of non-randomised open observational (both prospective and retrospective) studies, with several studies using a comparative design. Diagnostic performance 4.1.2 The diagnostic performance of SPECT was expressed as sensitivity and specificity. Sensitivity is the proportion of true-positives that are correctly identified by the test. Specificity is the proportion of true-negatives that are correctly identified by the test. 4.1.3 The Assessment Report reviewed 21 studies with 100 or more patients that evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of both SPECT and sECG in the diagnosis of CAD compared with CA. Median sensitivity values for SPECT were higher than those for sECG in all studies (SPECT: 81% for the largest subcategory of studies, with a range of 63% to 93%; sECG: 65% for the largest subcategory of studies, with a range of 42% to 92%). However, the results were not pooled because of the heterogeneity across the different studies. Median specificity values were similar for SPECT (65%, range 10% to 90%) and sECG (67%, range 41% to 88%). 4.1.4 The submission from the professional groups reviewed the diagnostic performance of SPECT only (compared with CA) from 62 studies. Because of differences in inclusion criteria, only 2 of these studies were also included in the Assessment Report analysis. There was considerable variation in study size, quality and design, but weighted means for sensitivity and specificity were reported to be 86% and 74%, respectively. The manufacturer's submission quoted 1 publication with sensitivity and specificity for SPECT reported as 91% and 89%, respectively, and the American College of Cardiologists and American Heart Association Task Force guideline, with average sensitivity and specificity reported as 89% to 90% and 70% to 76%, respectively. Long-term prognostic value 4.1.5 For the long-term prognostic value of SPECT, the Assessment Report included a systematic review of 46 observational studies. 4.1.6 In the 20 studies that provided general prognostic information, cardiac event rates (defined as cardiac mortality or non-fatal MI) were significantly
