Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


4.1.12 Two studies found ECG-gated SPECT to be more sensitive than non-ECG-gated SPECT, but with slightly lower specificity. Also, ECG-gated SPECT provided incremental prognostic information in patients with known or suspected CAD that was better than perfusion data alone. One study compared SPECT with attenuation-corrected SPECT and reported that attenuation correction had a significant impact on the assessment of the severity and extent of MI. 4.1.13 The search strategy used in the Assessment Report did not identify any studies evaluating the role of SPECT in the context of rapid access chest pain clinics or in pre-operative risk assessment of patients undergoing major surgery who were potentially at risk of coronary events. However, the submission from the professional groups lists 20 studies on SPECT in pre-operative risk assessment, and emphasises the acknowledged role of SPECT for this indication. 4.1.14 In summary, as studies reviewed in the Assessment Report were carried out under a number of different clinical settings investigating different outcomes, it was not possible to summarise the effectiveness of SPECT in simple quantitative estimates. However, the evidence from the reviewed studies consistently suggested that SPECT provided valuable independent and incremental information predictive of outcome that helped to risk-stratify patients and influence the way in which their condition was managed. 4.1.15 The submissions from the professional groups and the manufacturer included reviews of a larger number of papers and, because of differences in the inclusion criteria, there was little overlap between the studies included in each of the 3 reviews. Despite the differences in the evidence base of the 3 reviews, similar conclusions were drawn. 4.2 Cost effectiveness 4.2.1 The Assessment Group, the manufacturer and the professional group reviewed published cost-effectiveness studies. The Assessment Group and the manufacturer also provided new economic models. 4.2.2 The systematic review in the Assessment Report included studies that compared both costs and outcomes of SPECT with alternative diagnostic strategies. The comparison of different publications was complicated by the multitude of strategies considered, differences in study designs and populations, in treatment comparisons, in costing methods and different ways in which outcomes were measured. Overall, it was concluded that direct CA (without any prior tests) was cost effective when the prevalence of disease was high. At low levels of prevalence, strategies involving SPECT and/or sECG were considered to be a better use of resources than a strategy of direct CA. Furthermore, strategies involving SPECT were often found
