Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


levels of prevalence, strategies involving SPECT and/or sECG were considered to be a better use of resources than a strategy of direct CA. Furthermore, strategies involving SPECT were often found to be dominant or provided additional benefits that might be considered worth the additional cost compared with the sECG-CA strategy. 4.2.3 The new economic models provided by the Assessment Group and the manufacturer used similar designs; decision tree models were constructed for the diagnostic performance of different strategies and Markov models were used to estimate the long-term costs and benefits. They both used a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 patients (to start at the age of 60), with the assumption that effectiveness of therapy (CABG, PCI, medical management) lasts for 10 years. The time horizon was 25 years with an annual cycle time. 4.2.4 The diagnostic strategies considered in both models were: • sECG, followed by SPECT if sECG was positive or indeterminate, followed by CA if SPECT was positive or non-diagnostic (sECG-SPECT-CA) • sECG, followed by CA if sECG was positive or non-diagnostic (sECG-CA) • SPECT, followed by CA if SPECT was positive or non-diagnostic (SPECT-CA) • direct CA (CA). 4.2.5 The results were presented as incremental cost per true-positive diagnosed, per accurate diagnosis, per life year gained and per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, and – importantly – were calculated for different levels of prevalence of CAD. 4.2.6 The key results were as follows: • As prevalence of CAD increased, total cost increased and total number of QALYs gained decreased for each diagnostic strategy. • At all prevalence levels of CAD the ordering of diagnostic strategies was the same, with sECG-SPECT-CA being least costly and least effective, and having the lowest average cost per QALY. This implies that an incremental cost is paid for some incremental benefit when SPECT is not included. • CA was the most costly strategy in both models and for all prevalence levels of CAD, and (as the reference standard) was defined as the most effective strategy. • Most incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were less favourable in the manufacturer's model than in the Assessment Report model. However, all ICERs calculated were less than £24,000, apart from the ICER for direct CA compared with SPECT-CA at low and 30% prevalence of CAD. 4.2.7 When compared with sECG-CA at low prevalence of CAD, the ICER for SPECT-CA (£8,723) was more favourable than the ICER for direct CA
