Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


low and 30% prevalence of CAD. 4.2.7 When compared with sECG-CA at low prevalence of CAD, the ICER for SPECT-CA (£8,723) was more favourable than the ICER for direct CA (£21,538). Conversely, at high prevalence of CAD, the more favourable strategy was direct CA with an ICER of £1,962, whilst SPECT-CA had an ICER of £3,242. 4.2.8 When direct CA was compared with the SPECT-CA strategy, a high ICER was seen at low prevalence (£42,225). However, as prevalence increased, direct CA became increasingly more cost-effective. At 80% prevalence of CAD, the move to the direct CA from SPECT-CA involved a modest extra cost per additional QALY gained (£942 in the Assessment Report and £4,482 in the manufacturer's submission). 4.2.9 Several sensitivity analyses showed that the results varied considerably depending on the sensitivity or specificity values entered for SPECT and sECG. When the impact of the additional independent information provided by SPECT was explored by increasing the proportion of SPECT positives whose condition could be satisfactorily managed medically, ICERs generally improved. When the time horizon was less than 15 years, all ICERs became less favourable. In the subgroup analysis for women, the SPECT-CA strategy dominated both the sECG- CA and CA strategies. 4.2.10 In summary, when compared with sECG-CA, SPECT-CA has more favourable ICERs than direct CA at low levels of prevalence of CAD. At higher prevalence levels, the sECG-CA and CA strategies lead to more favourable ICERs than SPECT-CA. 4.3 Consideration of the evidence 4.3.1 The Committee reviewed the evidence available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of MPS for the diagnosis and management of CAD, having considered evidence on the value placed by users on the benefits of MPS for the diagnosis and management of CAD, from people with CAD, those who represent them, and clinical experts. It was also mindful of the need to ensure that its advice took account of the effective use of NHS resources. 4.3.2 The Committee considered the evidence submitted on the diagnostic performance of SPECT indicating that, overall, it is more sensitive than sECG. However, the Committee appreciated that considerable uncertainty remains over the true values for sensitivity and specificity of SPECT. In particular, trials that assessed these values were subject to referral bias, in that only SPECT-positive cases were referred for CA, which was assumed to be the 'gold standard'. Additionally, the Committee was aware that, contrary to SPECT, CA does not
