Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


bias, in that only SPECT-positive cases were referred for CA, which was assumed to be the 'gold standard'. Additionally, the Committee was aware that, contrary to SPECT, CA does not always provide the fullest evaluation of the patient with CAD, particularly where information relating to myocardial perfusion and function are considered important for the establishment of prognosis and management. 4.3.3 The Committee heard from the clinical experts that SPECT is of value at all levels of likelihood for CAD, because it provides highly accurate diagnostic and prognostic information. The experts indicated that, if SPECT and sECG were equally accessible in the NHS, there would be a case for the preferential use of SPECT in certain groups of patients. However, because of the currently limited availability of SPECT in the UK, the committee believed that its use should be particularly directed to patient groups for whom it provides the greatest additional benefit in terms of initial diagnosis of suspected CAD and in the management and prediction of prognosis in those with established CAD. 4.3.4 The Committee also recognised that there are circumstances where the information from sECG is important, as in the evaluation of the overall exercise performance of patients with CAD. sECG is therefore likely to remain a commonly used investigation in most circumstances. 4.3.5 The Committee reviewed the cost-effectiveness modelling. They noted that because the difference in QALYs derived between the different investigational strategies was small, and the disutility of CA was not included in the models, the conclusions of cost–utility differences between diagnostic strategies (see Section 4.2.4) should be interpreted with caution. However, the Committee considered that, overall, SPECT was cost effective across a wide range of clinical situations. 4.3.6 The Committee further considered that, in terms of both clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the absolute 'value' of SPECT as an appropriate diagnostic tool depends on the likelihood of the presence of CAD in the target population under investigation. Thus, the diagnostic strategy SPECT-CA is clearly preferred on cost-effectiveness grounds in individuals with a lower likelihood of CAD and consequently lower risk of future coronary events. However, as the likelihood of CAD increases, differences in the incremental cost effectiveness for the different testing strategies decrease. Thus, at higher likelihood of CAD and of possible intervention (CABG or PCI), a strategy where direct CA is preferred over SPECT-CA could be considered more appropriate. 4.3.7 The Committee heard from the
