Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


likelihood of CAD and of possible intervention (CABG or PCI), a strategy where direct CA is preferred over SPECT-CA could be considered more appropriate. 4.3.7 The Committee heard from the experts that SPECT enables the redirection of patients into medical rather than surgical management. SPECT may therefore postpone or completely avert the need for CA in some clinical situations. The Committee also recognised the significance of the disutility associated with CA, which would favour SPECT and had been omitted from the economic models reviewed. It concluded that full consideration of these aspects is likely to improve the cost effectiveness of SPECT. 4.3.8 The Committee was advised by the experts that SPECT scanning may be particularly useful as an initial diagnostic tool in people for whom sECG poses particular problems of poor sensitivity or difficulties with interpretation. This includes women, patients with cardiac conduction defects (such as left bundle branch block) and people with diabetes. SPECT also has an important role in assessing the presence of CAD in patients for whom treadmill exercise is difficult or impossible, and in the full evaluation of patients following MI or reperfusion interventions. 4.3.9 The Committee considered that increased provision of SPECT within the NHS over that currently available was desirable on the basis of this evidence. However, it recognised that more widespread use of SPECT would require an implementation strategy that may take several years to fulfil and would need a significant increase in the availability of both equipment and trained staff. The Committee therefore concluded that the increased use of SPECT should initially be targeted at those groups for whom it provides the greatest benefit in terms of cost effectiveness, as expressed in section 1. 5 Recommendations for further research 5.1 Further research is recommended in patients with established CAD regarding the value of SPECT relative to other tests of cardiac function such as echocardiography, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography in order to inform future assessment of the needs of the NHS. 6 Implications for the NHS 6.1 According to the British Nuclear Cardiology Society survey, there were about 1,200 SPECT scans per million population in the UK in 2000. The average waiting time for a scan was 20 weeks. The submission prepared jointly by the professional groups estimated the optimal level of SPECT provision to be around 4,000 SPECT scans per million population per year, calculated on the basis of
