Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


submission prepared jointly by the professional groups estimated the optimal level of SPECT provision to be around 4,000 SPECT scans per million population per year, calculated on the basis of current revascularisation and CA rates. Furthermore, it suggested that suitable waiting times would be 6 weeks for routine scans and 1 week for urgent tests. 6.2 In order to achieve these levels of both adequacy of provision and speed of accessibility, it is estimated that 73 additional gamma cameras would be needed in England and Wales, at a capital cost of around £18 million. This is based on providing 2,000 scans per annum per gamma camera, and a unit cost of £250,000 per camera. 6.3 Because of the current lack of trained personnel, these levels of provision could take some years to achieve, so the total cost to the NHS is likely to be phased over several years. Once a steady state is achieved, based on the provision of 4,000 SPECT tests per million population per year, the estimated annual revenue cost would be in the order of £27 million. 7 Implementation and audit 7.1 NHS hospitals and all clinicians who care for people with CAD should review current diagnostic options available to take account of the guidance set out in section 1. 7.2 Local guidelines or care pathways for people with CAD should incorporate the guidance. 7.3 To measure compliance locally with the guidance, the following criteria could be used. Further details on suggestions for audit are presented in the section on detail on criteria for audit. 7.3.1 MPS using SPECT is carried out for the diagnosis of individuals with suspected CAD in the following circumstances. • As the initial diagnostic tool for an individual with suspected CAD for whom sECG poses problems of poor sensitivity or difficulties in interpretation, and for an individual for whom treadmill exercise is difficult or impossible. • As part of an investigational strategy for the diagnosis of suspected CAD in an individual who has a lower likelihood of CAD and of future cardiac events. 7.3.2 MPS using SPECT is carried out as part of an investigational strategy in the management of established CAD in an individual who remains symptomatic following myocardial infarction or reperfusion interventions (CABG or PCI). 7.4 Local clinical audits on the care of patients with CAD could also include criteria for the management of CAD based on the national standards,
