Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and
KEYWORDS: spect, cad, committee, patients, studies, secg, cardiac, cost, clinical, strategy, myocardial, diagnostic, assessment, mps, prevalence


reperfusion interventions (CABG or PCI). 7.4 Local clinical audits on the care of patients with CAD could also include criteria for the management of CAD based on the national standards, including standards in the National Service Framework. 8 Appraisal Committee members and NICE project team Appraisal Committee members The Appraisal Committee is a standing advisory committee of NICE. Its members are appointed for a 3-year term. A list of the Committee members who took part in the discussions for this appraisal appears below. The Appraisal Committee meets 3 times a month except in December, when there are no meetings. The Committee membership is split into 3 branches, with the chair, vice-chair and a number of other members between them attending meetings of all branches. Each branch considers its own list of technologies and ongoing topics are not moved between the branches. Committee members are asked to declare any interests in the technology to be appraised. If it is considered there is a conflict of interest, the member is excluded from participating further in that appraisal. The minutes of each Appraisal Committee meeting, which include the names of the members who attended and their declarations interests, are posted on the NICE website. Dr A E Ades MRC Senior Scientist, MRC Health Services Research Collaboration, Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol Professor Ron Akehurst Dean, School of Health-Related Research, University of Sheffield Dr Tom Aslan General Practitioner, Stockwell, London Professor David Barnett (Chair) Professor of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Leicester Dr Sheila Bird MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge Professor Rosamund Bryar Professor of Community and Primary Care Nursing, St Bartholomew's School of Nursing and Midwifery, London Dr Karl Claxton Health Economist, University of York Professor Terry Feest Clinical Director and Consultant Nephrologist, Richard Bright Renal Unit, Chair of UK Renal Registry, Bristol Professor Gary A Ford Professor of Pharmacology of Old Age, Consultant Physician, Newcastle-upon-Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust Dr John Geddes Consultant Psychiatrist, University Department of Psychiatrists, Oxford Ms Bethan George Interface Liaison Pharmacist, Tower Hamlets PCT and Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel Dr Trevor Gibbs Head, Global Clinical Safety and Pharmacovigilance, GlaxoSmithKline, Greenford Mr John Goulston Director of Finance, Barts and The London NHS Trust Professor Philip Home Professor of Diabetes Medicine, University of Newcastle-upon- Tyne Dr Terry John General Practitioner, The Firs, London Mr Muntzer Mughal Consultant Surgeon, Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Chorley Judith Paget Chief Executive, Caerphilly Local Health
