Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


disease can help prevent future cerebrovascular disease that could lead to multi-infarct dementia.Other conditions,such as Personal Interventions. There is a reduction in brain levels of hypothyroidism or vitamin B deficiency,which could lead to the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in patients suffering from or aggravate dementia, are easily treatable, and the costs of AD. Drugs that inhibit acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme treatment are much lower than the costs ofdementia care. responsible for metabolizing acetylcholine,cause an increase in In Western countries, the model of care for patients with brain acetylcholine.Evidence from randomized trials has con- moderate to severe dementia is based on skilled,long-term care performance benefits,at least in the short term,from the use of not exist in developing countries,and ifthey were set up,they acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (Foster and others 1996). would be extremely expensive and beyond the reach of most Despite this benefit to patients,the practical benefits of treat- patients and their families.Thus,the model ofcare in develop- ment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are mainly attributa- ing countries should be based on home care,along with pro- ble to the lowered caregiver burden. The benefits of using viding training and support for family caregivers. acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for other dementias have yet to Interventionsthatshouldnotbepursuedincludetheuseof be proven. multiple medications, which can be detrimental in older age The behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia groups, particularly unproven medications such as cerebral are a major source of stress to family members providing care activatorsandneurotropicagents.Inaddition,inmanydevel- to patients. Training family caregivers in behavioral manage- opingcountries,dementiaisstillequatedwith“madness,”and ment techniques,including problem solving,memory training, patientsaresometimestakentotraditionalhealers.Community and reality orientation,has been shown to reduce the level of educationhasaroletoplayineliminatingsuchpractices. agitation and anxiety in people with dementia (Brodaty and Gresham 1989; Haupt, Karger, and Janner 2000). Use of low doses ofantipsychotic medications,which calm the patient and EPILEPSY reduce symptoms such as aggression and wandering,have been shown to reduce caregiver stress,but these improvements have Epilepsy is a common brain disorder characterized by two or not been quantified (Melzer and others 2004). more unprovoked seizures.Seizures are discrete events caused Interventions that have specifically targeted stress and by transient, hypersynchronous, abnormal neuronal activity. depression among caregivers and have shown positive results Seizures may occur in close temporal association with a variety include caregiver training, counseling and support for care- of acute medical and neurological diseases, such as acute givers, and cognitive and behavioral family interventions stroke,sepsis,or alcohol withdrawal.However,the vast major- (Marriott and others 2000).Limitations to the implementation ity ofseizures have no immediate identifiable cause. of such
