Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


as acute givers, and cognitive and behavioral family interventions stroke,sepsis,or alcohol withdrawal.However,the vast major- (Marriott and others 2000).Limitations to the implementation ity ofseizures have no immediate identifiable cause. of such strategies include the need for training by specialists, Epilepsy can be broadly divided into three categories: which makes these strategies less suitable for developing idiopathic epilepsy (for example primary generalized countries.The challenge for developing countries is to develop childhood-onset absence epilepsy),which is thought to have a Neurological Disorders | 629 genetic basis; secondary or symptomatic epilepsy, which is disabilities are not a risk factor for epilepsy in themselves,but caused by aknown central nervous system injury or disorder, they may be associated with seizure disorder (Casetta and such as infection, stroke, traumatic brain injury, or cerebral others 2002;Leone and others 2002). dysgenesis;and cryptogenic epilepsy,for which there is no clear evidence of an etiological factor. Idiopathic and cryptogenic Treatment Gap cases represent approximately 70 percent ofepilepsy cases;the Epilepsy affects about 50 million people worldwide,of whom remaining 30percent are symptomatic (secondary). approximately 80 percent live in developing countries (WHO 2000). The difference between the number of people with Prevalence, Incidence Rate, Remission, and Mortality active epilepsy and the number who are being appropriately treated in a given population at a given point in time is known The generally accepted estimate of the prevalence of active as the treatment gap.Meinardi and others (2001) estimate that epilepsy globally is in the range of5 to 8 per 1,000 population, 90 percent ofpeople with epilepsy in developing countries are but investigators from African and Latin American countries inadequately treated. Possible reasons for the high treatment report at least double the prevalence reported elsewhere gap include fear of stigmatization, cultural beliefs, lack of (Leonardi and Ustun 2002). knowledge about the medical nature ofepilepsy,illiteracy,eco- The incidence rate of epilepsy in developed countries is approximately 43 per 100,000 (Kotsopoulos and others 2002).In developing countries,the incidence rate of epilepsy authorities (Wang and others 2003). Even in the developed is higher,with a median of 69 per 100,000 (Kotsopoulos and world,patients who live in isolated rural regions or inner-city others 2002). slums and those who are isolated from the majority because of Based on follow-up of patients under treatment by general cultural factors may suffer a treatment gap. practitioners in the United Kingdom, Cockerell and others (1997) report that after nine years 86 percent of epilepsy patients had achieved a remission ofthree years,and
