Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


effort led to a sub- phasized.Prematurity,low birthweight,and neonatal seizures stantial increase in compliance at 20 months (Kaiser and may be independent risk factors as well as markers ofunderly- others 1998). In India, Desai and others (1998) demonstrate ing disease.Other causes include traumatic brain injuries,cen- the dependency of compliance on access to free treatment. tral nervous system infections, cerebrovascular disease, brain Inadequate communication between doctors and patients tumors, and neurodegenerative diseases. Developmental influences compliance negatively (Gopinath and others 2000). 630 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Vijay Chandra, Rajesh Pandav, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and others Burden of Disease AEDs (such as phenobarbital,phenytoin,carbamazepine,and valproic acid) and newer AEDs (such as lamotrigine, oxcar- The burden of disease (BOD) estimates for epilepsy include bazepine,and topiramate) in controlling seizure frequency and epilepsy and status epilepticus.Mathers and others (2003) esti- (b) the safety ofthese AEDs when prescribed alone or in com- mate the DALYs for epilepsy as 6,223,000,with slightly higher bination. Some, but not all, of the new AEDs may be better rates for males (3,301,000) than for females (2,922,000).Many tolerated in monotherapy and have fewer long-term adverse risk factors for epilepsy are linked with a lower level of eco- effects than older AEDs.However,no study has shown any dif- nomic development;thus,the burden is highest in South Asia ference in efficacy between the older and newer medications followed by Sub-Saharan Africa (table 32.1).A notable obser- (Aldenkamp, De Krom, and Reijs 2003). Newer medications vation is the reportedly low burden in the Middle East and are more expensive and,for people in most developing coun- North Africa, despite parts of that region being relatively tries,are practically impossible to access.In some low-income underdeveloped.Epilepsy imposes a large economic burden on countries, however, even older AEDs are not available, and patients and their families. It also imposes a hidden burden when they are,their supply is irregular. associated with stigmatization and discrimination against Newer AEDs are generally recommended as add-on or patients and even their families in the community,workplace, adjunctive drugs for better seizure control in patients with school,and home.Social isolation,emotional distress,depend- refractory epilepsy already on AEDs.The first AED will render ence on family,poor employment opportunities,and personal approximately 50 percent of patients seizure free. Approxi- injury add to the suffering ofpeople with epilepsy. mately 20 to 40 percent ofpatients who do not respond to the first AED will respond to the introduction of a second AED, Interventions with a greater than 50
