Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


epilepsy. mately 20 to 40 percent ofpatients who do not respond to the first AED will respond to the introduction of a second AED, Interventions with a greater than 50 percent decrease in seizure frequency Currently, there are no preventive measures for idiopathic or (Schapel and others 1993). cryptogenic epilepsy; however, much can be done to prevent The Global Campaign against Epilepsy, which is jointly League against Epilepsy,and International Bureau for Epilepsy, as better perinatal care by well-trained birth attendants (partic- gap in low-income countries.As a first step,all patients with ularly in rural areas) and strategies to control severe head epilepsy should be given phenobarbital, so that the majority injuries (for example,by means oflaws requiring motorcyclists of patients responsive to phenobarbital will be appro- to wear helmets and prohibiting drunk driving), can modify priately treated. In resource-poor countries, phenobarbital risk factors for epilepsy and thereby reduce the incidence and canbe provided for as little as US$5 to US$10 per year.Pheno- prevalence of epilepsy. Policies to control neurocysticercosis barbital has extremely low abuse potential. Its side effects— (for instance,building latrines in rural areas) can serve to pre- predominantly sedation, possible mild cognitive impairment, vent such infections. Mass deworming for neurocysticercosis and depression—have limited its use in industrial countries.In has not been shown to be effective in the long term (Pal, developing countries, however, side effects are less important Carpio, and Sander 2000) but was effective in a campaign in than uncontrolled seizures, and they can be diminished by Ecuador (M.Cruz,personal communication,2004). using the lowest possible effective doses.Thus,phenobarbital Estimates indicate that 70 to 80 percent ofpeople in devel- is the drug of choice for large-scale, community-based pro- oping countries live in rural and remote areas and have no easy grams, particularly in rural and remote areas of developing access to skilled medical care. Strategies that involve training countries. communities to identify and manage patients with epilepsy oping countries have been performing surgery on cases of Policies are needed to ensure the continuous availability of any AEDs.Before centers can undertake such surgery,however, cheap and efficacious medications, such as phenobarbital, to they must have the requisite expertise, facilities, and equip- all epilepsy patients. Campaigns to educate communities ment, including a skilled neurosurgeon. Proper selection of aboutthe medical nature of epilepsy and to dispel myths and patients—for example,those with mesial temporal pathology misconceptions about epilepsy could reduce stigma against on MRI—is extremely important.A meta-analysis ofstudies
