Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


of aboutthe medical nature of epilepsy and to dispel myths and patients—for example,those with mesial temporal pathology misconceptions about epilepsy could reduce stigma against on MRI—is extremely important.A meta-analysis ofstudies of epilepsy and thereby encourage patients to seek medical people who underwent epilepsy surgery in developed countries treatment. shows that 58 percent are seizure free and 10 to 15 percent have reduced seizure frequency (Engel and others 2003).After sur- Personal Interventions. Researchers, primarily in high- gery, even if patients are seizure free, medication should be income countries, have tested (a) the efficacy of both older continued for one to two years (Engel and others 2003). Neurological Disorders | 631 PARKINSON’S DISEASE higher in females (1,202,000) than males (1,124,000).Though male gender is a risk factor for PD,the higher burden in females PD is characterized by bradykinesia,resting tremor,cogwheel may reflect their longer life span.As PD is a disease of older rigidity, postural reflex impairment, progressive course, and ages,the burden from PD is generally higher in high-income good response to dopaminergic therapy.Other distinct forms countries, where life expectancy is higher, diagnosis is better, of parkinsonism include relatively rare genetic forms and the and better treatment leads to increased longevity.However,the less common neurodegenerations with multiple system burden is high in East Asia and the Pacific and South Asia rela- involvement or significant striatal lesions (for example, pro- tive to that in other regions (table 32.1). gressive supranuclear palsy or multiple system atrophy). The economic burden of PD includes direct costs,such as Parkinsonism secondary to external causes,such as manganese formedication,physicians,hospitals,andchroniccarefacilities. poisoning or carbon monoxide poisoning,although now rare, Estimatedindirectcostsresultingfromthelossoflaborofboth is referred to as secondary parkinsonism.Because the burden patientsandcaregiverstypicallyexceeddirectcosts.Thequality ofthese diseases to the patient is similar to or greater than that oflifeofbothpatientsandcaregiversisadverselyaffected. for PD and there is no evidence for addressing these disorders separately,they will not be distinguished here. Interventions Treatment ofPD is based on symptomatic relief,except for pre- Prevalence, Incidence Rate, and Mortality venting secondary parkinsonism caused by neurotoxins. Prevalence estimates vary widely across populations (Tanner and Goldman 1996;Zhang and Roman 1993).Recent reports, Population-Based Interventions. No determinants of PD contrary to previous reports, suggest that the prevalence in amenable to population-based interventions have been developing and developed countries may be similar (Marras identified. and Tanner 2002).Few incidence studies have been performed, and none in developing countries.Van Den Eeden and others Personal Interventions. Specific curative or neuroprotective (2003) report the incidence rate of PD in the United
