Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


incidence studies have been performed, and none in developing countries.Van Den Eeden and others Personal Interventions. Specific curative or neuroprotective (2003) report the incidence rate of PD in the United States as treatments for PD have not been established. Interventions approximately 13 per 100,000 person-years. Men are affected are primarily directed at palliation of symptoms and include more commonly than women (Tanner and Goldman 1996). pharmaceuticals, surgery, physical therapy, and—in some Lower PD incidence in African Americans—and by extension countries—traditional medicines. Africans—has been suggested but is controversial (Van Den Levo-dopa (l-dopa), l-dopa/decarboxylase inhibitor is the Eeden and others 2003).Most mortality estimates available for most widely used therapy for PD.It provides partial reliefofall developed countries show about a twofold overall increased PD symptoms. Despite its benefits, chronic side effects after mortality, independent of age, in those with PD (Berger and long-term use can cause significant morbidity. others 2000). Researchers in developing countries have studied the use of traditional medicines for PD.Clinical trials have shown that the seeds ofMucuna pruriens,which contain l-dopa,are a safe and Causes and Risk Factors effective treatment for PD (Parkinson’s Disease Group 1995), The cause of PD is unknown. A specific environmental risk and in animal studies,they are two to three times more effec- factor has not been identified.Pure genetic forms account for tive than synthetic l-dopa dose per dose (Hussain and Manyam 10 to 15 percent ofcases or fewer.Increasing age and male gen- 1997).This substance is available in ayurvedic formulations in der are risk factors worldwide (Marras and Tanner 2002). India at a much lower cost than that of synthetic antiparkin- Exposure to toxins,head trauma,frequent infections,diets high sonian drugs. Another traditional medicine is derived from in animal fat, and midlife adiposity have been reported to Banisteriopsis caapi, which tribal societies of the Amazonian Goldman 1996).The most consistent association is an inverse showed dramatic positive effects on rigidity and akinesia in association with cigarette smoking and caffeine consumption, 15 patients with postencephalitic parkinsonism (Lewin and suggesting a protective effect (Ascherio and others 2001). Schuster 1929).A third traditional option is tai chi,a basic exer- cise in traditional Chinese medicine that may help with some ofthe motor deficits ofPD. Burden of Disease SurgicaltreatmentforPDbydeepbrainstimulationisgen- The BOD estimates for PD include Parkinson’s disease and sec- erallyrecommendedtoaddressthelossofefficacyofdopami- ondary parkinsonism.Mathers and others (2003) estimate the nergicdrugs.Formostpatients,itisnoteffectiveindependent DALYs for PD as 2,325,000, with the burden being slightly ofdrugs.Althoughafewwillhavedramaticimprovementand 632 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing
