Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


and Disability after Stroke 10percent will require care in a nursing home or other long- Inmostpartsoftheworld,about70percentofstrokesaredueto term facility. ischemia,27percentareduetohemorrhage,and3percentare ofunknowncause(Gunatilake,Jayasekera,andPremawardene Risk Factors 2001).Approximately25percentofallischemicstrokesaredue to cardioembolic causes, with the proportion being higher Risk factors for stroke in general are similar to those for car- among younger individuals. In some parts of the world—for diovascular disease.Moreover,risk factors for first stroke and instance,ChinaandJapan—hemorrhagicstrokesaccountfora recurrence of stroke are also similar if they remain uncon- greaterproportionofallstrokes,rangingfrom17.1to39.4per- trolled after the first attack (see chapter 33). centinChina(Zhangandothers2003)to38.7percentinJapan Increasing age, particularly after 55, is one of the most (Fukiyamaandothers2000). important risk factors for stroke (Thorvaldsen and others Comparabledatadonotexistforallpartsoftheworld.Most 1995).Although stroke is more prevalent among men,stroke- morbidity data from Southeast Asian countries, for example, related fatality rates are higher among women (Goldstein and becausemanystrokepatientsdiebeforetheyarebroughttothe determinant ofboth first and recurrent stroke (Eastern Stroke becauseverifyingthecauseofdeathisusuallydifficult. 1998). The association between blood pressure and stroke In India, the prevalence of stroke has been estimated at in East Asian populations seems stronger than in Western 203per 100,000 population older than 20 (Anand and others populations (Eastern Stroke and Coronary Heart Disease 2001).The male-to-female ratio was one to seven.In Taiwan, Collaborative Research Group 1998).Other risk factors include China,the crude point prevalence was 592 per 100,000 (Huang, smoking, environmental exposure to tobacco smoke, dyslipi- Chiang,and Lee 1997). demia, atrial fibrillation, diabetes and impaired glucose Neurological Disorders | 633 tolerance,generalized and abdominal obesity,physical inactiv- which include not only recognized risk factors in developed ity,excess alcohol consumption,increased homocysteine levels, countries but also locally relevant risk factors, such as rheu- drug abuse, hemostatic factors, and existing cerebrovascular matic heart disease and puerperal stroke. disease (Goldstein and others 2001). Treatment strategies for acute ischemic stroke include the In developing countries,rheumatic heart disease leading to following: embolic stroke is also a major cause.This risk factor is declin- ing in importance with the control of rheumatic fever. • General management.Overall medical care of patients with Dehydration in postpartum women can lead to a stroke,par- an acute stroke is important. Attention to complications ticularly in remote areas where deliveries are conducted at such as bronchoaspiration,fluid and electrolyte imbalance, home. and control of blood sugar, as well as prevention of deep vein thrombosis,is crucial.Experience in developed coun- tries suggests that specialized stroke units provide the best Burden of Disease care for acute stroke patients ,but in develop- rhage, intracerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, and are scarce and most patients are attended by general physi- sequelae
