Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


the best Burden of Disease care for acute stroke patients ,but in develop- rhage, intracerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, and are scarce and most patients are attended by general physi- sequelae ofcerebrovascular disease.Mathers and others (2003) cians,such units are impractical. estimate the DALYs for cerebrovascular disease as 72,024,000, • Platelet antiaggregants. Aspirin can prevent early stroke with the burden being almost similar for females (36,542,000) recurrence ifgiven during the acute phase ofstroke (within and males (35,482,000).The burden is highest in East Asia and 48 hours) (Chinese Acute Stroke Trial Collaborative Group the Pacific,followed by South Asia and by Europe and Central 1997;International Stroke Trial Collaborative Group 1997). Asia (table 32.1).The burden in Sub-Saharan Africa is higher The adverse effects ofaspirin (cerebral hemorrhage and gas- than in the Middle East and North Africa,which may suggest trointestinal complications) appear to be dose related,and an etiology for stroke other than atherosclerotic disease. most agree that using a low dose of aspirin is prudent Health experts anticipate that the number of stroke cases (Antithrombotic Trialists’ Collaboration 2002). Since will increase, particularly in developing countries, because of aspirin can aggravate a hemorrhagic stroke, simple guide- aging populations and increased exposure to major risk factors. lines for the use of platelet antiaggregants should be devel- Corresponding to this increase in the number of stroke cases oped and could be based on scales such as the Siriraj score will be an increase in the number of people with disabilities to rule out hemorrhage (Poungvarin, Viriyavejakul, and surviving after stroke. Komontri 1991). • Thrombolytic therapy. Tissue plasminogen activator and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) can be Interventions used to halt a stroke by dissolving the blood clot that is a few can be applied in developing countries. Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Stroke Study Group 1995). Thrombolytic therapy can increase bleeding address risk factors for stroke include tobacco and alcohol con- CT scan ofthe brain within three hours ofstroke symptom trol, laws to provide labels showing the fat content of foods, onset, to exclude an intracranial bleed. It also requires and public education about the harm caused by high-fat foods. appropriately trained physicians to administer the medica- Public health programs to control rheumatic fever will reduce tion. These prerequisites for the administration of throm- rheumatic heart disease and the subsequent risk of embolic bolytic agents restrict its use to selected centers in develop- strokes.Better training of birth attendants will
