Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


for the administration of throm- rheumatic heart disease and the subsequent risk of embolic bolytic agents restrict its use to selected centers in develop- strokes.Better training of birth attendants will reduce the risk ing countries. ofperipartum hemorrhage,which leads to puerperal strokes. Strategies for prevention of recurrence of stroke apply Personal Interventions. Modification of adverse lifestyle and equally to individuals who have experienced a transient major risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, high lipid ischemic attack and to those who have experienced a complete levels, smoking, and alcohol abuse is beneficial both for pri- stroke.These strategies include the following: mary prevention and recurrence ofstroke.Some evidence indi- cates that the decline in the incidence of stroke observed in • Platelet antiaggregants. Aspirin therapy is effective in pre- many countries is due to better management of hypertension venting recurrence of stroke,with low daily doses being at (MacWalter and Shirley 2002).Special consideration should be least as effective as higher daily doses (Antithrombotic given to the profile of risk factors in developing countries, Trialists’Collaboration 2002).When compared with aspirin, 634 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Vijay Chandra, Rajesh Pandav, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and others clopidogrel has a slight benefit among those who have had • occupational therapy,which helps patients relearn everyday a previous stroke, myocardial infarction, or symptomatic activities,such as eating and drinking peripheral arterial disease. Clopidogrel is an effective and • speech therapy, which helps patients relearn language and safe alternative for patients who do not tolerate aspirin. speaking skills Although clopidogrel may be slightly more effective than • counseling,which can help alleviate some ofthe mental and aspirin,it is also more expensive.Antiplatelet combination emotional problems that result from stroke. therapy using agents with different mechanisms of action, such as the combination of extended release dipyridamole Comprehensive rehabilitation in a multidisciplinary stroke and aspirin,has been shown to reduce the risk ofstroke over unit reduces deaths,disability,and the need for long-term insti- aspirin alone (Sacco, Sivenius, and Diener 2005). In con- tutional care , but such facilities are extremely trast, combination therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel limited in developing countries. Home-based rehabilitation offers no advantage over aspirin alone and also increases the services can prevent long-term deterioration in activities of risk ofhemorrhage (Diener and others 2004). daily living,although the absolute impact is relatively modest • Anticoagulanttherapy.Anticoagulationwithwarfarinshould (Outpatient Service Trialists 2002). However, in developing be considered in stroke patients with atrial fibrillation, countries,the vast majority ofpatients will
