Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


daily living,although the absolute impact is relatively modest • Anticoagulanttherapy.Anticoagulationwithwarfarinshould (Outpatient Service Trialists 2002). However, in developing be considered in stroke patients with atrial fibrillation, countries,the vast majority ofpatients will be treated either at provided that patients are appropriately monitored where no skilled rehabilitation therapist is available. (European Atrial Fibrillation Trial Study Group 1993; Mohrandothers2001).Anticoagulanttherapyalsoreduces theriskof embolicstrokeinpatientswithrheumaticheart disease.However,anticoagulationcanbehazardousindevel- COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS opingcountriesbecauseofthelackofmonitoringfacilities. INDEVELOPING COUNTRIES • Surgical treatment. In patients with symptomatic carotid disease with stenosis of 70 percent and in asymptomatic We determined incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) patients with high-grade stenosis, carotid endarterectomy for selected interventions for each condition by calculating has been shown to be more beneficial than medical total DALYs lost by a population because ofthe condition with care alone (Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study and without treatment and then dividing the difference by 1995; Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial Collaborative the treatment cost. The disability weights used are presented Group 2004; North American Symptomatic Carotid in table 32.2.All analyses in this section followed the volume Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators 1991). However, editors’standardized guidelines for economic analysis,region- inappropriate selection of patients or high intraoperative specific age structures, and underlying mortality rates. We complications could obviate such benefits. Carotid angio- converted nontradable inputs into U.S. dollars at the market plasty has been suggested as an alternative to carotid exchange rate. We assumed that the costs of tradable inputs endarterectomy in management of severe internal carotid were internationally consistent, as were costs associated with artery disease,but its advantages and disadvantages have yet surgical treatments.Table 32.3 presents the costs of drugs and to be clearly established (Naylor, London, and Bell 1997). medical services.No fixed costs were assumed; therefore,our Carotid endarterectomy for stroke prevention is available at results are not linked with the extent oftreatment coverage. only a few centers in developing countries,which makes its widespread use impractical. Table 32.2 Disability Weights Used in ICER Analysis The goal ofrehabilitation after a stroke is to enable individ- uals who have experienced a stroke to reach the highest feasible AD and other Acute Recurrent level ofindependence as soon as possible.Successful rehabilita- Weight dementias Epilepsy PD stroke stroke tion depends on the extent of brain damage,skill of the reha- Untreated 0.627 0.15 0.392a 0.278b 0.556 bilitation team,length of time before rehabilitation is started, Treated 0.627c 0 0.316 0.235b n.a.d and support provided by caregivers. Because each stroke Source:Mathers and others 2003. patient has specific rehabilitation needs, customizing the
