Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


than the wage rate in these countries, the cost-effectiveness of surgery would be lower. regions, which would generally not exceed US$1 to US$1.50 Furthermore, we note a number of limitations to the use of per hour,even for hired caregivers specifically trained to care surgery in refractory epilepsy,particularly in developing coun- for AD patients.We,therefore,conclude that the use ofacetyl- tries,along with the lack of long-term follow-up data on the cholinesterase inhibitors in developing countries is not efficient outcome of surgery. We stress that the primary treatment of from an economic perspective.Calculating the cost per DALY epilepsy is with phenobarbital,and effective treatment of epi- averted for acetylcholinesterase inhibitors would not be mean- lepsy lies in more efficient use ofthis highly cost-effective med- ingful,because we assume no benefit to the patient.Finally,the ication to close the treatment gap. use ofacetylcholinesterase inhibitors is uncommon in develop- ing countries; therefore, reducing its use is not an important concern. Parkinson’s Disease We evaluated three interventions for PD: a combination of Epilepsy l-dopa and carbidopa, traditional medicines such as the We analyzed the cost-effectiveness of phenobarbital in the ayurvedic treatment used in India,and deep brain stimulation. treatment of epilepsy,and the results are shown in table 32.4. We assumed that treatment for all three modalities was effec- We assumed that phenobarbital was provided to all patients. tive for 10 years from the onset of treatment. The ICERs in The cost of using phenobarbital per DALY gained in LMICs LMICs for these three modalities were US$1500,US$750 and was US$89.Table 32.4 shows that the benefits ofphenobarbital US$31,000,respectively (table 32.4).On the basis ofthe cost of are large relative to its cost. medication and evidence from clinical trials of effectiveness We did not look at other AEDs,such as phenytoin or carba- (Parkinson’s Disease Group 1995) and from animal studies mazepine, because the costs of those medications are much (Hussain and Manyam 1997),we found that ayurvedic treat- greater than that of phenobarbital, but their effectiveness is ment was the most cost-effective option.The relatively favor- essentially the same (Aldenkamp, De Krom, and Reijs 2003). able ICER for ayurvedic treatment is due to the extremely low Although their use may be justified for specific medical rea- medication cost of this intervention.The relatively high ICER sons,phenobarbital is much more cost-effective. for deep brain stimulation was largely attributable to the We analyzed treatment options for patients who are refrac- extremely high cost ofsurgery.Table 32.4 shows DALYs gained tory to
