Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, stroke, epilepsy, patients, developing, disease, treatment, risk, developing countries, percent, burden, factors, dementia, care, interventions


the limited efficacy ofacetylcholinesterase providedbynonphysicianhealthcareprovidersor,atbest, 640 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Vijay Chandra, Rajesh Pandav, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and others by a general physician. Limitations in the availability of countries are directed at treatment of stroke. This approach healthcarehaveresultedinahugetreatmentgapformany not only is more expensive but also is less beneficial to the neurologicaldisorders.Forsuchsituations,asimplemodel patient. for the management of neurological disorders by existing community-basedhealthcareproviders,trainedtoprovide such services, would be helpful. Research is needed on ACKNOWLEDGMENTS optimumreferralsystemsformoredifficultcasesthatlocal communitieswillacceptandcanafford.Strategiesforhome- The lead author would like to acknowledge with gratitude the basedcareofpatientsneedtobesystematicallyevaluated. support provided by the regional director and director ofpro- • Developing cheaper and more efficacious medicines. Many gram management of the South-East Asia Regional Office of currently available medications have significant side effects the World Health Organization.Special mention must be made and are too expensive for many patients in developing coun- of Dr. Daniel Chisholm, who provided input into the cost- tries.Newer medications need to be developed with lower effectiveness analysis, particularly that dealing with epilepsy, costs, fewer side effects, better efficacy, and less frequent and ofDr.Donald Silberberg,who served as the senior adviser dose schedules. to the chapter.The authors wish to thank the many reviewers • Promoting the use of indigenous systems of medicine. Many for their valuable suggestions, which have been incorporated people in developing countries use local indigenous medi- into the chapter. cines.More research needs to be done on the pharmacolog- ical properties ofthose medications (see chapter 69). • Launching stigma removal campaigns.The stigmatization of
