Yamamotoetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:619
KEYWORDS: macacae, patients, neisseria, bacteremia, cancer, cases, species, macacae bacteremia, case, blood, treatment, culture, maldi-tof, showed, report


CASE REPORT Open Access Neisseria macacae bacteremia: report of two cases with a literature review Yasumasa Yamamoto1* , Norihiko Terada1, Tomoyo Sugiyama1, Hanako Kurai1 and Kiyofumi Ohkusu2 Abstract Background: Neisseria macacae was discoveredin the oral cavity of monkeys in1983. Inhumans, it has been isolated from theupper respiratory tract of neutropenic patients. However, only two cases of N. macacae bacteremia have been reported in a 65-year-old man with infective endocarditis and a 5-month-old child withfever and petechiae. There are noreports ofinfections incancer patients. Here, we present two cases of N.macacae bacteremia incancer patients. Case presentation: Inthefirst case, a 42-year-old womanwho underwent ovarian cancer surgery presented with duodenal invasion associated with multiple lymphnode metastasis. N. macacae was isolated from herblood culture and identified using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry(MS). Inthe second case, a 69-year-old woman with a long-standing history ofesophagogastric junction cancer presented withfever.She had stage IVB cancer withlung,bone, and multiple lymph nodemetastasis.The last chemotherapy was administered 5weeks before N. macacae was detected using MALDI-TOF MS and nitrate test negative. Inboth cases, transthoracic echography showed novegetation. Antibiotics were administered for 14 and 13days in thefirst and second cases, respectively.Inboth cases, fever alleviated on day 4of antibiotic administration. Both patients were dischargedafter theirconditions improved. Conclusions: This, to our knowledge, is the first report of N. macacae bacteremia in cancer patients. Both patients, mucosal damage was observed in theupper gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, exclusion diagnosis suggested that bacteremia invasion was caused by mucosal rupture in both cases. Both cases responded well to treatmentwith β- lactam antibiotics and improved after 2weeks. Modifying the treatment based on thesource ofthe infection may shorten thetreatmentperiod. Therefore, further research on N. macacae bacteremia is necessary. Immunocompromised patients such as thosewith cancer are susceptible to mucosal damage by unusual bacterial species such as N. macacae despitenot having contact withmonkeys. Keywords: Neisseria macacae, Neisseria species, Bacteremia, Cancer Background N. macacae bacteremia in humans. Previously reported Neisseria macacae is a Neisseria species that was discov- cases includeda65-year-oldmanwith infective endocar- ered in the oral cavity of monkeys in 1983. In humans, it ditis and a 5-month-old child with fever and petechiae. has been isolated from the upper respiratory tract of To thebest ofourknowledge, there arenoreports ofin- neutropenic patients. Human infections of N. macacae fections in patients with cancer. Depending on the con- are extremely rare. We found only two previous cases of dition of the patients with cancer, this infection may be
