Yamamotoetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:619
KEYWORDS: macacae, patients, neisseria, bacteremia, cancer, cases, species, macacae bacteremia, case, blood, treatment, culture, maldi-tof, showed, report


including these two cases search onN.macacae bacteremiaisnecessary. (Table 3). There have only been two reports of Neisseria Common Neisseria species that are pathogenic to bacteremia in humans including a 5-month-old child humans include N. gonorrhoeae and N. meningitidis. 16S and a healthy adult . This is the first report of two sequence analysis may not be sufficient to identify Neis- cases of Neisseria bacteremia in patients with cancer, seria species due to high intraspecies sequence variation one of whom had recovered from cancer. N. macacae is in the 16S rRNA gene . Neisseria species can be differ- known to reside in the mouth of monkeys ; however, entiated based on their morphological, physiological, and neither of our patients had a history of contact with biochemical properties and MALDI-TOF MS results. Commensal Neisseria species that colonize oral and nasal Table3N.macacaeisolatedinhumansamplesreview cavity sites have only been rarely associated with disease .Donatietal.haveshownthatcommensalspecieshave Case Sex Age(years) Samples References tropism for different sites in the oral cavity and orophar- 1 F 42 Bloodculture Presentcase1 ynx. Neisseria meningitidis is enriched for colonization in 2 F 69 Bloodculture Presentcase2 the throat, N. flavescens and N. subflava populate the 3 M 0.66(8months) Bloodculture tongue dorsum, and N. sicca, N. mucosa, and N. elongata 4 M 65 Bloodculture thegingivalplaque. 5 F 52 Peritonealfluidculture Interestingly, Bennett et al. have demonstrated that N. subflava and N. flavescens are phylogenetically the same 6 NA NA Mouth species. Similarly, researchers have proposed that both N. 7 NA NA Throatsswab siccaandN.macacaebereclassifiedasN.mucosa. 8 NA NA Respiratorytract The limitation of this report was that Neisseria spp. is 9 NA NA Respiratorytract difficult to fully identify with only 16sRNA. In 34% (29/ 10 NA NA Respiratorytract 85) cases of identification of the Neisseria spp., 16S NANotavailable rRNA sequence analysis indicatedthe possibility ofmore Yamamotoetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:619 Page4of4 than one species . Therefore, the usefulness of 3. VedrosNA,HokeC,ChunP.Neisseriamacacaesp.nov.,anewNeisseria MALDI-TOF for the identification of Neisseria spp. is speciesisolatedfromtheoropharyngesofrhesusmonkeys(Macaca mulatta).IntJSystEvolMicrobiol.1983;33:515–20. being examined. In CASE 2, the 16sRNA analysis results 4. ArijM,AchourW,BenHA.Intraspecific16SrRNAgenediversityamong showed that N. macacae, N. sicca and N. mucosa were clinicalisolatesofNeisseriaspecies.APMIS.2013;122:437–42. the three possible species. A combination of biochemical 5. IyamaT,HamadaS,TakataT,HoiS,FukudaS,IsomotoH.Refractory peritonealdialysisperitonitisduetoNeisseriamacacae:acasereportand tests ruled out N. mucosa but did not differentiate N. reviewoftheliterature.InternMed.2020:4832–20. macacae from N. sica. However, N. sica was not within 6. CotonT,SbaiW,BeaussacM,LucianoL,GayG,GarnotelE.Newflexible rank 10 on the MALDI-TOF, and therefore N. macacae endoscopes:surprisingbacterialcolonizationpost-disinfection.ClinRes HepatolGastroenterol.2017;41:e63–4. wasidentified. 7. DongHV,PhamLQ,NguyenHT,NguyenMXB,NguyenTV,MayF,etal. This case report suggests that N. macacae bacteremia DecreasedcephalosporinsusceptibilityoforopharyngealNeisseriaspecies may be
