HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Published in final edited form as: Pancreatology. 2017 ; 17(3): 419–430. doi:. Academic Pancreas Centers of Excellence: Guidance from a multidisciplinary chronic pancreatitis working group at PancreasFest Gorelick, MDi, Linda S. Lee, MDj, Katherine Morgan, MDk, Stephen Pandol, MDl, Vikesh K. Pittsburgh, PA, United States MI, United States SC, United States States States Boston, MA, United States Charleston, SC, United States 410 West Tenth Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, United States., (P.A. Hart). Potential conflicts of interests related to this work Whitcomb (Consulting for Abbvie, Inc, Regeneron, and Ariel Precision Medicine; Equity in Ariel Precision Medicine); Anderson (Data and Safety Monitoring Board for GlaskoSmithKline); Gelrud (Consulting for Abbvie, Inc and Akcea; Speaking for Abbvie, Inc); Singh (Consulting for Abbvie, Novo Nordisk, Calcimedica; Advisory board participant for Akcea); Yadav (Reviewer for Up-To- Date Inc.); Hart (Consulting for KC Specialty Therapeutics, LLC; Speaking for Abbvie, Inc). All other authors have no potential conflicts to disclose. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Abstract Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is a progressive inflammatory disease, which leads to loss of pancreatic function and other disease-related morbidities. A group of academic physicians and scientists developed comprehensive guidance statements regarding the management of CP that include its epidemiology, diagnosis, medical treatment, surgical treatment, and screening. The statements were developed through literature review, deliberation, and consensus opinion. These statements were ultimately used to develop a conceptual framework for the multidisciplinary management of chronic pancreatitis referred to as an academic pancreas center of excellence (APCOE). Keywords Chronic pancreatitis; Diagnosis; Treatment Introduction Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is a progressive inflammatory disease in which replacement of the pancreas by fibrosis results in end stage complications that include loss of acinar and islet cells . Hence, it is important to develop a strategic approach to comprehensively address various management aspects of this disease. There are also variable patterns of disease progression; however, for the vast majority, the disease is characterized by substantial disease-related morbidity, including chronic abdominal pain, exocrine insufficiency, and/or endocrine insufficiency. Pain, when present, can be severe, impair mental and physical quality of life, lead to secondary substance abuse disorders, and frequent hospitalizations . There is also a higher risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma in patients with CP, further amplified by smoking, diabetes, and genetics . Lastly, the all-cause mortality from CP is worse than age-matched controls . Given
