HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


higher risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma in patients with CP, further amplified by smoking, diabetes, and genetics . Lastly, the all-cause mortality from CP is worse than age-matched controls . Given the complexity of CP and its consequences to patients the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of complications requires a multidisciplinary approach. Although guidelines have been published regarding the diagnosis and management of CP [7–10], there are no systematic guidelines to direct a multidisciplinary approach by centers to achieve a uniform degree of excellence in patient care. Thus, there is a need for guidance regarding how to improve patient care through adherence to best practices, as well as addressing research and educational needs. A clinical center of excellence is a conceptual means of designating institutions that can provide an array of select services that maximize quality in patient care. In other areas of medicine such centers have been developed with the aim of treating a specific disease or group of diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, bariatric surgery, stroke, and breast care; many of these centers are ultimately endorsed and/or accredited by medical societies and foundations. Considering the disease burden associated with CP, which often requires multidisciplinary management, the National Pancreas Foundation (NPF) recently developed Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript criteria to designate “NPF Pancreatitis Centers”, which are recognized for their provision of services required to provide excellent patient care. However, recognizing large knowledge gaps in our understanding of CP and resultant management decisions a group of international investigators at PancreasFest set out to develop complimentary means of designating centers, herein referred to as an Academic Pancreas Centers of Excellence (APCOE) committed to excellence in not only patient care, but also research and education. We discuss the development of a series of guidance statements regarding the management of CP and propose key components of an APCOE, including: patient care, designated care pancreatic function testing, and total pancreatectomy with islet auto transplantation (TPIAT). Methods Guideline focus and development process PancreasFest is an annual conference attended by participants with an interest in pancreatology, including but not limited to, pancreatologists, endoscopists, radiologists, surgeons, scientists, geneticists, oncologists, and epidemiologists. At PancreasFest 2014, under the direction of the course directors (DLC, DCW), leaders of several academic pancreas centers met and selected areas of interest regarding CP for which statements were including: epidemiology, diagnosis, medical treatment, surgical
