HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


of the course directors (DLC, DCW), leaders of several academic pancreas centers met and selected areas of interest regarding CP for which statements were including: epidemiology, diagnosis, medical treatment, surgical treatment, screening, and research and education. Leaders were selected for each group from the list of participants. Each sub-working group carried out literature reviews and sought input to identify key gaps in knowledge to develop discussion questions and corresponding guidance statements. Working groups held a series of web conferences to develop and refine guidance statements to answer these questions. At PancreasFest 2015 the discussion questions and guidance statements were presented to the group-at-large including a summary of the level of evidence and grade of recommendation. This process was similar to and guided by the experience from the guideline development regarding total pancreatectomy and islet autotransplantation in chronic pancreatitis, which was developed at PancreasFest 2012 . Evidence review and grading Each guidance statement and recommendation was graded according to the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) grid, the Surviving Sepsis Campaign report, and according to the Oxford Center for Evidence-Based Medicine ( march-2009/), based on the level of evidence available (Table 1) . Level of agreement The discussion questions, guidance statements, and level of evidence and grade of recommendation were presented to the group of at-large voting delegates (n = 67). Participants submitted anonymous votes using options listed in Table 2. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Guidance statements Epidemiology of chronic pancreatitis Question: Should there be a universal standard for collection and reporting of clinical information from patients with chronic pancreatitis? Guidance statement 1.1. Standardization of clinical data obtained during evaluation and follow up of patients with suspected or proven chronic pancreatitis patients has several advantages. This will help to establish quality of care measures, determine how often such measures are fulfilled at individual centers and allow for comparison of care delivered and outcomes between centers. Evidence level: 3b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 72%; B 26%; C 0%; D 2%; E 0% Discussion: Expert reviews and guidelines make recommendations on different aspects of care and follow up of patients [7–10,14–18]. Although natural history studies inform us of the presentation and course of chronic pancreatitis [19–22], providing information on the probability of outcome(s) tailored to individual patients is not currently possible. Unfortunately, there are
