HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


studies inform us of the presentation and course of chronic pancreatitis [19–22], providing information on the probability of outcome(s) tailored to individual patients is not currently possible. Unfortunately, there are no standardized measures for use in CP patients. As a result, the type and quality of care provided to patients at different centers remains unknown. Standardizing the collection and reporting of clinical information from patients will have several advantages. These data should include, but not be limited to, risk factor assessment, different stages during the care of patients. The terminology used for the reporting of radiology, endoscopy and pathology reports should be standardized. Question: How often should patients with chronic pancreatitis be evaluated? Guidance statement 1.2. Patients with stable chronic pancreatitis should be evaluated at least yearly. The need for additional follow-up should be adjusted based upon the presence and severity of associated symptoms. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 64%; B 27%; C 9%; D 0%; E 0% Discussion: The age at symptom onset as well as development and/or performance of relevant conditions/procedures should be recorded. Follow-up may include visits in gastroenterology, hepatobiliary-pancreatic surgery, endocrinology, behavioral medicine, assessment for changes in pancreatitis-related symptoms or interval hospitalizations, Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript development of new symptoms particularly those that may suggest cancer, functional abnormalities (exocrine and/or endocrine insufficiency), morphological changes on imaging (if performed) and laboratory testing. In this context, any diagnostic or therapeutic intervention(s) performed during each follow-up period should be summarized, including the results and outcomes for each. There are inadequate data to make a universal recommendation regarding the frequency of follow-up imaging, which needs to be tailored to the individual patient. Diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis definition of chronic pancreatitis (CP)? Guidance statement 2.1. CP is a progressive irreversible inflammatory disease where the pancreatic parenchyma is replaced by fibrous tissue leading to a loss of acinar and islet cells, usually in the setting of environmental or genetic risk factors, and typically characterized by the presence of pain and/or exocrine and/or endocrine insufficiency. Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 67%; B 20%; C 4%; D 9%; E 0% Discussion: Traditional definitions of CP relied on the presence of advanced, or end-stage address this issue, an international collaboration of experts were asked by the International Association of Pancreatology
