HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


0% Discussion: Traditional definitions of CP relied on the presence of advanced, or end-stage address this issue, an international collaboration of experts were asked by the International Association of Pancreatology and the European Pancreas Club (EPC) to develop a new consensus definition of CP. This initiative followed the development of the preceding definition and voting for the guidance statement, but the content remains consistent. The proposed mechanistic definition describes the essence and characteristics of classic CP1. The new definition defines the essence of CP as “a pathologic fibro-inflammatory syndrome of the pancreas in individuals with genetic, environmental and/or other risk factors who develop persistent pathologic responses to parenchymal injury or stress”. The listed characteristics of established and advanced CP include, “pancreatic atrophy, fibrosis, pain syndromes, duct distortion and strictures, calcifications, pancreatic exocrine dysfunction, pancreatic endocrine dysfunction, and dysplasia.” The new definition was accepted by the EPC on July 6, 2016, and by the delegates to PancreasFest on July 28, 2016. A progressive model of disease, which was also endorsed, accompanies the mechanistic definition. Question: How is chronic pancreatitis diagnosed? Guidance statement 2.2. CP is a syndrome consisting of symptoms, structural, and/or functional abnormalities. The diagnosis of advanced CP is usually straightforward; however, the diagnosis of early, mild, non-calcific, or minimal change CP is challenging. Evidence level: 5 Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 71%; B 22%; C 4%; D 0%; E 2% Discussion: Patients with advanced CP typically have at least two of the three following findings: 1) abdominal pain and/or acute pancreatitis; 2) structural changes of the gland on imaging, including calcifications and/or moderate to severe changes of the pancreatic duct based on the Cambridge classification ; and 3) exocrine and/or endocrine insufficiency. Structural changes of the pancreas can be diagnosed with standard abdominal imaging studies, including computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and plain radiograph in the setting of bulky calcifications . The pancreatogram is often abnormal demonstrating dilation, beading, and irregularity of the pancreatic duct as well as the presence of ectatic side branches which are shortened and dilated. Stool tests may indicate fat malabsorption. In some patients, it may be necessary to exclude pancreatic cancer, cystic neoplasms, autoimmune pancreatitis, lymphoma, and pancreatic present with CP characterized by pancreatic insufficiency without pain (especially those with cystic fibrosis
