HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


patients, it may be necessary to exclude pancreatic cancer, cystic neoplasms, autoimmune pancreatitis, lymphoma, and pancreatic present with CP characterized by pancreatic insufficiency without pain (especially those with cystic fibrosis and “late onset” idiopathic pancreatitis). Although pancreatic gland atrophy is often seen on imaging, this has never been studied as an imaging feature of chronic pancreatitis in isolation of other features. Chronic calcific pancreatitis is typically found in patients with CP secondary to significant alcohol consumption or gene mutations, and some patients present early in their clinical course with abdominal pain and/or acute recurrent pancreatitis with minimal or normal imaging findings. Recent American Pancreatic Association (APA) diagnostic guidelines classify evidence for the diagnosis of CP as definitive, probable, or insufficient evidence, in patients with abdominal pain suspected of having CP, and with exocrine/endocrine insufficiency, genetic risk factors, heavy alcohol or smoking history . For several reasons, it is recommended that without sufficient evidence patients should not be labeled with a diagnosis of CP. The APA also recommends a diagnostic algorithm that proceeds from a noninvasive to a more invasive approach which maximizes the specificity in patients suspected of having CP. Question: What are the challenges in the early diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis? Guidance statement 2.3. The accurate diagnosis of CP in its early stages remains difficult for many reasons, including an inability to differentiate pancreatic versus non pancreatic chronic upper abdominal, the lack of consensus on the degree of histological changes needed to diagnose chronic pancreatitis, and the fact that advanced imaging (endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and secretin-stimulated magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (s-MRCP) and functional studies (endoscopic pancreatic function tests) can be abnormal in asymptomatic patients who are older, obese, smoke, and/or use alcohol. Evidence level: 3b Grade of Recommendation: B Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Level of Agreement: A 71%; B 27%; C 2%; D 0%; E 0% Discussion: The typical patient suspected of having early chronic pancreatitis presents with chronic upper abdominal pain, worse with eating, and in whom standard cross-sectional imaging is normal or show changes that may not be diagnostic of CP. Though there have been advances in our understanding of the nociceptive transmission by peripheral nerves to the central nervous systems and the alterations that occur leading to central sensitization, our ability to clinically differentiate pancreatic from non-pancreatic pain remains limited . This is highlighted
