HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


nerves to the central nervous systems and the alterations that occur leading to central sensitization, our ability to clinically differentiate pancreatic from non-pancreatic pain remains limited . This is highlighted by the fact that pain does not correlate with histologic fibrosis or even advanced imaging findings of CP. Similarly, abnormalities are also seen on advanced imaging in those who are older, obese, smoke, and/or use alcohol, but without any clinically evident pancreatic disease [28–31]. A proportion of patients with presumed early chronic pancreatitis (also variably referred to such as calcifications or ductal changes. Also, some patients can be asymptomatic for long periods of time or indefinitely. For instance, in autopsy studies of chronic alcoholics, 50% affected by genetic mutations as well as environmental toxins, such as ongoing tobacco and alcohol use . Given the heterogeneous initiation, patchy distribution of disease, and variable progression, diagnosing early chronic pancreatitis in the absence of overt manifestations is difficult. Question: What is the diagnostic strategy for making or excluding a diagnosis of early chronic pancreatitis? Guidance statement 2.4. A combination of endoscopic pancreatic function testing (ePFT), s- MRCP, and EUS may be useful in the diagnosis of early CP among those patients with risk factor(s) for developing CP. The role of these expensive and nonspecific tests in patients without risk factors for CP is questionable at the present time. Evidence level: 4 Grade of Recommendation: C Level of Agreement: A 35%; B 39%; C 17%; D 9%; E 0% Discussion: Chronic pancreatitis is often suspected in patients with characteristic upper abdominal pain, with slightly increased or normal serum pancreatic enzyme levels and normal CT and MRI, especially if they have risk factors such as smoking, alcohol, history of acute pancreatitis, and/or a family history of pancreatitis. There is no true “gold standard” for diagnosis, including histology, which can show overlapping histologic features in asymptomatic elderly patients, diabetics, smokers, and alcohol users [33–35]. Further, there is no agreement on the number of criteria to diagnose CP in early stages both for EUS and s- MRCP, which primarily provide measurements of fibrosis and inflammation, not specifically the clinical entity of CP. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript In spite of these limitations, s-MRCP, ePFT, and EUS appear to be the best tests among available options, even though they are concordant in only 70–75% of patients
