HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


Author Manuscript In spite of these limitations, s-MRCP, ePFT, and EUS appear to be the best tests among available options, even though they are concordant in only 70–75% of patients . This is likely because early CP is a patchy disease with variable structural and functional abnormalities which may progress at different rates in each patient. Hence, experts suggest that it may be best to combine a functional and structural test to increase both the sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing early CP, taking into account the pre-test probability for disease . Thus, based on the available evidence, we suggest a multimodal approach using EUS, s-MRCP, and ePFT after stratifying patients into high (smoking, alcohol, history of acute pancreatitis and a family history of pancreatitis) and low risk groups for early CP testing. In low risk groups suspected of having CP, secretin function testing has shown promise in excluding chronic pancreatitis in one study, given its very high negative predictive value (97%) . Future prospective studies are needed to validate this approach by correlating early abnormalities with the development of later stages of disease (such as calcifications, extensive fibrosis, diabetes, steatorrhea, weight loss, etc.) during longitudinal follow-up. Medical management of chronic pancreatitis care services are needed for a multidisciplinary approach to chronic pancreatitis? Guidance statement 3.1. The APCOE should include physicians within the following specialties for elective and urgent care: clinical pancreatologist (or gastroenterologist with interest in pancreatology), interventional endoscopy and radiology, and surgery with pancreatico-biliary expertise. Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 89%; B 9%; C 2%; D 0%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.2. The APCOE should have on-site or referral services in place for pain management, nutritionist, genetic counselor, endocrinology, social services, and psychologist. Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 98%; B 2%; C 0%; D 0%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.3. During the first visit, patients with chronic pancreatitis and untreatable pain should be referred to the pain clinic for management. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Level of Agreement: A 22%; B 22%; C 20%; D 29%; E 6% Discussion: A multidisciplinary approach to pancreatitis patients is generally recommended, however there is lack of agreement regarding the timing of referral to a pain clinic for those with a chronic
