HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


Discussion: A multidisciplinary approach to pancreatitis patients is generally recommended, however there is lack of agreement regarding the timing of referral to a pain clinic for those with a chronic abdominal pain syndrome. Some prefer to involve pain specialists early in the other interventions such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications, antioxidant therapy, gabapentinoids, and/or weak opioids. Even in the absence of supporting evidence, there was a near unanimous agreement regarding the value of supporting clinical services. dependency) play a critical role in assisting patients with tobacco cessation and alcohol avoidance. Genetic counselors serve a valuable role in assisting with the evaluation of those with suspected hereditary pancreatitis, including counselling regarding the potential implications of a positive test result and provision of family counselling for patients of reproductive age. The creation and implementation of management protocols should be outpatient settings to standardize and optimize care. Question: What are the indications for endoscopic interventions? Guidance statement 3.4. Strong indications for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) are biliary pancreatitis with rising bilirubin and dilated bile duct. Another indication is pancreatic duct stricture and/or stone with upstream dilation of the pancreatic duct. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 43%; B 33%; C 22%; D 0%; E 2% Guidance statement 3.5. At least two proficient gastroenterologists should be able to provide therapeutic endoscopy. Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 56%; B 26%; C 15%; D 2%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.6. Access to therapeutic ERCP and diagnostic and therapeutic EUS should be available. Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 89%; B 9%; C 0%; D 0%; E 2% Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Guidance statement 3.7. Endoscopic expertise on the treatment of transmural (gastric/ duodenum) pseudocyst and/or walled off necrosis drainage should be available. Evidence level: 1b Grade of Recommendation: A Level of Agreement: A 55%; B 38%; C 4%; D 2%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.8. Technology for large pancreatic duct stone fragmentation should be available including extra corporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL), per-oral pancreatoscopy guided laser lithotripsy (POP-LL), or electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EHL), but is not mandatory. Evidence level: 3a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 32%; B 49%; C 15%; D 6%; E 0% Discussion: ERCP is one of the most technically demanding and high risk
