HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


3a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 32%; B 49%; C 15%; D 6%; E 0% Discussion: ERCP is one of the most technically demanding and high risk procedures performed by gastroenterologists. It requires a fully trained and experienced endoscopist to maximize success and minimize poor outcomes . ERCP has evolved into a predominantly therapeutic procedure with well-defined indications . Endoscopists performing ERCP should have fulfilled American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) criteria for training and acquiring clinical privileges to assure high quality during ERCP. Many studies have shown that success during ERCP and complication rates are related to crucial. Consultation may be needed from hepatopancreaticobilary surgery and interventional radiology to optimize patient management. In contrast, though EUS is primarily used for diagnostic purposes, it also has important therapeutic applications. EUS is now commonly performed for drainage of pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections and to access the pancreatic duct. The recommendation for at least two therapeutic endoscopists is based on the practical need to ensure continued availability for management of urgent problems and complications. There is a learning curve to achieve technical and trainees and a specific case volume does not ensure competency . Similarly, complex therapeutic interventions with increased risks (such as transmural drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts) should likely only be performed by those with an exceptional endoscopic skillset and low complication rates. However, further study is needed to develop competency metrics that correlate with technical and clinical outcomes. Patients with pancreas divisum and recurrent acute pancreatitis may benefit from ERCP and minor sphincterotomy particularly if the dorsal duct is dilated. Mutations in the CFTR and SPINK1 genes in patients with pancreas divisum have been associated with recurrent acute pancreatitis, suggesting a multifactorial origin of pancreatitis . When large (≥10 mm) Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript pancreatic duct stones are present in a symptomatic patient, ESWL, POP-LL, and EHL may help to fracture stones and facilitate extraction with good long term pain relief . However, surgery in this setting may provide more durable pain relief. Question: What are the indications for total pancreatectomy with islet autotransplantation (TPIAT) in CP? Guidance statement 3.9. The primary indication is to treat debilitating pain in patients with impaired quality of life due to CP in whom medical and/or endoscopic therapy has failed. Evidence level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B
