HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


is to treat debilitating pain in patients with impaired quality of life due to CP in whom medical and/or endoscopic therapy has failed. Evidence level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 58%; B 29%; C 9%; D 4%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.10. Optimal timing of TPIAT is determined by the severity, frequency, and duration of pain, narcotic requirements, impaired quality of life, residual islet function and age of the patient Evidence level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 55%; B 33%; C 7%; D 2%; E 2% Discussion: The use of TPIAT for management of CP has been reviewed . Patients with known genetic causes of CP (especially when associated with a pathogenic mutation of the PRSS1 gene) should be given special consideration for TPIAT because the disease is likely to progress and no genetic therapies are currently available . Prior to surgery, the patient must be evaluated by the multidisciplinary transplant team and approved for surgery. The lifelong need for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy and high likelihood of developing diabetes should be clearly explained and understood by the patient and family. The optimal timing is not well described and future studies are needed. Question: What type of training program should be available in an APCOE? Guidance statement 3.11. Clinical training in pancreatitis (inpatient and outpatient) must be available for either a gastroenterology fellow or fourth year dedicated fellow (not mandatory). Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 51%; B 24%; C 13%; D 9%; E 2% Guidance statement 3.12. More than one member of the pancreas team should be able to oversee the clinic. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 43%; B 20%; C 20%; D 16%; E 0% Guidance statement 3.13. Clinical training in pancreatitis (inpatient and outpatient) should Evidence level: 5 Grade of Recommendation: D Level of Agreement: A 43%; B 20%; C 20%; D 16%; E 0% Discussion: Training to become a clinical pancreatologist requires understanding of the physiology and pathophysiology of the pancreas. Exposure to the inpatient and outpatient different. Ideally a gastroenterology fellow with an interest will join the APCOE early in his/her career. Trained support staff for clinical care and research protocols should be involved in the team. Question: How
