HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


gastroenterology fellow with an interest will join the APCOE early in his/her career. Trained support staff for clinical care and research protocols should be involved in the team. Question: How should exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI) be treated? Guidance statement 3.14. Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT) dosing is calculated by body weight. According to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation patients who are over the age of 4 should take 500 to 2500 IU lipase per kilogram per meal. Evidence level: 1b Grade of Recommendation: A Level of Agreement: A 42%; B 26%; C 22%; D 0%; E 10% Guidance statement 3.15. PERT should be taken with meals (either in the beginning of the meal or in the middle and one at the end of the meal) and half the dose with snacks. Evidence level: 1b Grade of Recommendation: A Level of Agreement: A 33%; B 33%; C 22%; D 8%; E 4% Guidance statement 3.16. Once the diagnosis of EPI has been made vitamin supplementation should be performed, particularly fatsoluble vitamins. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 49%; B 20%; C 20%; D 10%; E 0% Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Discussion: EPI refers to the inadequate production or secretion of pancreatic enzymes to properly digest orally ingested nutrients. This results in several symptoms, which are mostly the consequence of fat maldigestion. Similarly, patients with EPI are at increased risk for developing fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies. For example, in a recent cross-sectional study, the estimated frequency of deficiencies in vitamin A, D, E, and K was 3, 53, 10, and 63%, we recommend routine laboratory screening for these nutrients even in those without a deficient levels, but may be considered in all subjects diagnosed with EPI. When PERT is recommended, the medication should be taken with food to optimize mixing with ingested nutrients. The dosing of PERT needs further investigation and consensus development. Even though several of these products contain an FDA-approved label (and foundation endorsement) for weight-based dosing, the rationale for this approach remains puzzling as these medications are not dependent on volume of distribution. The ideal approach would be to individualize dosing based on objective, serial measurement of exocrine function, which does not currently exist. In the absence of this marker, monitoring a response to symptoms, weight, and vitamin levels remains critical. Surgical management
