HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


objective, serial measurement of exocrine function, which does not currently exist. In the absence of this marker, monitoring a response to symptoms, weight, and vitamin levels remains critical. Surgical management of chronic pancreatitis multidisciplinary team for the surgical management of CP? Guidance statement 4.1. A multidisciplinary collaborative is an essential component of optimal surgical care of the patient with pancreatic disease. Multidisciplinary clinics allow specialists with varying expertise and perspective to work together to develop consensus recommendations. Evidence Level: 3b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 85%; B 15%; C 0%; D 0%; E 0% Discussion: Optimal surgical care for chronic pancreatitis benefits from an organized multidisciplinary approach to patients. This comprehensive team includes the multiple medical specialties with an emphasis in pancreatology, including gastroenterology, pancreatobiliary surgery, pathology, interventional radiology, pain management, and behavioral health. Each of these disciplines offers an essential and unique component to the care of the pancreas patient, given the many modalities available to approach pancreatic diseases. Team care allows for best practice decision-making and can improve the quality of team evaluation led to changes in therapeutic recommendations in 23.6% of pancreatic cancer patients . Notably, in the current era, pancreas “surgery” is probably more accurately described as pancreas “intervention,” recognizing that many approaches (open surgery, laparoscopy, robotic surgery, endoscopy, and image-guided percutaneous Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript techniques) can be undertaken to achieve the same goal. Thus, a multidisciplinary approach is needed to weigh the various diagnostic and therapeutic options to optimize a patient’s care. Most data regarding the impact of multidisciplinary care in pancreatic surgery has been focused on pancreatic cancer, so additional studies should be undertaken to more precisely measure the impact in chronic pancreatitis. Question: What level of pancreatic surgical expertise is necessary to maintain good patient outcomes in the surgical management of CP? Guidance statement 4.2. Pancreas centers of excellence should have pancreas specific surgical expertise, including a breadth and depth of experience with surgery of the pancreas. This experience can be measured objectively by surgical case volume. While the actual volume cutoff is controversial, available evidence suggests >11 resections per year as defining a high-volume pancreas surgery center. Evidence Level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 43%; B 25%; C 20%; D 5%; E 7% Discussion: Pancreas specific expertise is essential to high
