HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


surgery center. Evidence Level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 43%; B 25%; C 20%; D 5%; E 7% Discussion: Pancreas specific expertise is essential to high quality surgical outcomes. Though direct perioperative outcomes measures are the preferred metrics for defining pancreas-specific expertise, these measures are challenging to track and direct correlation with patient-reported outcomes are lacking (see Guidance Statement 1.1). High institutional pancreas surgery volume, however, has consistently been demonstrated to correlate with and long term survival [48–55]. However, there are limitations with the metric of case volume since there is still heterogeneity in outcomes even among individual high volume providers . Thus, annual case volume >11 resections per year should be considered a helpful, but not definitive, surrogate marker for postoperative outcomes of pancreatic surgery; this should likely be considered as a minimum requirement for achieving good patient outcomes. Question: What is the role of standardized patient care pathways for surgical management of CP? Guidance statement 4.3. Standardized patient care pathways are an integral part of best surgical care of the patient with pancreatic disease. Evidence Level: 3a Grade of Recommendation: C Level of Agreement: A 56%; B 33%; C 5%; D 7%; E 0% Discussion: Standardized patient care pathways are essential for achieving the highest level of patient care. These evidence-guided pathways result in consistent care and improved Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript quality. Patient care pathways have been shown to dramatically enhance surgical outcomes, including decreased morbidity and improved efficiency [57–64]. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of studies reporting outcomes after the implementation of enhanced recovery after pancreas surgery protocols suggested that enhanced recovery protocols mortality . Question: What is the role of measuring and analyzing perioperative outcomes in the surgical management of chronic pancreatitis? Guidance statement 4.4. A pancreas center of excellence should participate in comprehensive perioperative outcomes data collection and analysis to ensure delivery of the highest quality surgical care and to allow for systematic quality improvement. Evidence Level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 84%; B 11%; C 5%; D 0%; E 0% Discussion: Collection and analysis of surgical outcomes data has been shown to improve morbidity and mortality rates across many surgical disciplines. The National Surgical Quality Improvement Project (NSQIP), which was started in 1994, is now widely used with the support of
