HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


to improve morbidity and mortality rates across many surgical disciplines. The National Surgical Quality Improvement Project (NSQIP), which was started in 1994, is now widely used with the support of the American College of Surgeons (ACS-NSQIP); this is an excellent example of using outcomes data assessment to improve the quality of patient care ACS- NSQIP is a national program of surgical outcomes data collection, which provides risk adjusted data in a blind comparative format to participants, with the goal of measuring and optimizing the quality of surgical care. Interestingly, the ACS-NSQIP experience has shown that even data collection alone is associated with improved outcomes. Hall and colleagues reported on ACS-NSQIP data from 118 hospitals over 3 years, showing that 66% of participating hospitals improved risk adjusted mortality and 82% improved risk adjusted complication rates over the study period . Subsequently a significant reduction in morbidity of gastrointestinal cancer surgery for participants of ACS-NSQIP over a 5 year study period was demonstrated . Ideally, areas of poor performance identified with such comparative outcomes data incentivize quality improvement projects. For example, Ceppa and colleagues demonstrate the role of ACS-NSQIP reported superficial soft tissue infection rates in developing a successful improvement program for this morbidity after pancreas surgery . Screening measures in chronic pancreatitis MD—Question: Should patients with CP undergo surveillance for EPI? Guidance statement 5.1. At every office visit patients with CP should be asked for symptoms suggestive of EPI, including abdominal bloating, distention, frequent bowel movements (particularly after eating), weight loss, and the presence of steatorrhea (oily bowel movements, difficult to flush). Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Evidence level: 1b Grade of Recommendation: A Level of Agreement: A 85%; B 11%; C 4%; D 0%; E 0% Guidance statement 5.2. The final diagnosis of EPI is made by obtaining a fecal elastase in a semi-solid or solid bowel movement (if normal, EPI is ruled out) or 72 h stool collection with consumption of 100 gm fat/24 h. Other research tools are not widely available. Evidence level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 26%; B 46%; C 15%; D 4%; E92% Guidance statement 5.3. Baseline serum levels of fat soluble vitamin and vitamin B12 should be obtained as part of the initial evaluation. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 57%; B 24%;
