HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


of fat soluble vitamin and vitamin B12 should be obtained as part of the initial evaluation. Evidence level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 57%; B 24%; C 10%; D 4%; E 4% Discussion: EPI most commonly occurs as a late stage result of CP, but also commonly occurs following total or partial pancreatectomy. Clinical symptoms of mild EPI are non- specific, including abdominal bloating and flatulence, whereas symptoms of severe EPI include steatorrhea and unintentional weight loss. There is no consensus regarding the preferred means for diagnosis of EPI, due to the lack of an accurate and convenient test . Although fecal elastase-1 is often utilized due to the ability to perform the test on a single stool sample, the accuracy for diagnosis of mild EPI is only fair . In contrast, determination of fecal fat from a 72 h stool collection is highly accurate, but inconvenient. There are many challenges to overcome regarding the diagnosis of EPI, and an attempt to reach a consensus regarding the preferred diagnostic strategy was not pursued by this group . Nevertheless, a high index of suspicion should be maintained for EPI in patients with CP due to the high prevalence of this complication. If the pretest probability is high, a diagnostic trial with PERT may also be an option. PERT is effective for decreasing fat malabsorption and has been shown in randomized, placebo-controlled trials to improve abdominal pain, improve stool consistency, and decrease stool frequency in patients with chronic pancreatitis . Moreover, studies have shown that lower BMI is associated with lower quality of life in patients with chronic pancreatitis . Based on these findings surveillance for EPI, and appropriate treatment, is recommended. Question: Should CP patients be assessed for development of endocrine insufficiency (i.e., type 3c diabetes mellitus or pancreatogenic diabetes)? Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Guidance statement 5.4. Patients with CP should be screened for development of diabetes. Evidence Level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 87%; B 8%; C 2%; D 2%; E 0% Discussion: The epidemiology of type 3c diabetes mellitus (T3cDM) is difficult to accurately determine in the absence of validated diagnostic criteria; however, it is estimated approximately 4–5% of all diabetic subjects have T3cDM . In one study CP was the most common etiology of T3cDM, accounting for
