HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


of validated diagnostic criteria; however, it is estimated approximately 4–5% of all diabetic subjects have T3cDM . In one study CP was the most common etiology of T3cDM, accounting for 75% of cases . Additionally, in those with CP the prevalence of diabetes ranges from 70 to 90%, depending on the severity and duration of disease . Considering the exceptionally high prevalence of diabetes in those with CP, screening for diabetes is highly recommended, and is further reviewed elsewhere . Question: Should CP patients be screened for nutritional deficiencies and the development of osteopenia and osteoporosis? Guidance statement 5.5. Patients with CP should be screened for nutritional deficiencies in fat soluble vitamins, minerals and trace elements on at least an annual basis and undergo a baseline bone mineral density (BMD) testing with subsequent monitoring and treatment based on assessment of fracture risk. Evidence Level: 2a Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 65%; B 19%; C 13%; D 2%; E 2% Discussion: The exocrine function of the pancreas is necessary for adequate absorption of the fat-soluble vitamins and as discussed above the prevalence of deficiencies is high, so it is advisable to regularly monitor these vitamin levels. Although the risk is less well characterized, it is also reasonable to consider concurrent evaluation for other vitamin (e.g., B12) and mineral or trace element deficiencies . In patients with a history of previous pancreatic resection, additional tests may be needed such as copper and zinc levels, as these are absorbed almost exclusively in the duodenum. The prevalence of CP-associated osteopathy (which includes osteopenia and osteoporosis) is approximately 65% . Similarly, the risk of low-trauma fractures is increased in patients with CP. Osteopathy in chronic pancreatitis is multifactorial due to shared risk factors (e.g., vitamin D deficiency, cigarette smoking, female gender and alcohol use), as well as chronic inflammation. Despite the absence of formal societal endorsement, screening for osteopathy can be justified as the risk for decreased bone strength is higher than in other gastrointestinal diseases for which screening is already supported (e.g., celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, cholestatic liver disease, etc.). The most appropriate screening Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript interval is uncertain, but can likely be modified based on the collective assessment of risk, including the baseline screening results. Question: Should patients with CP undergo screening for pancreatic
