HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


Manuscript interval is uncertain, but can likely be modified based on the collective assessment of risk, including the baseline screening results. Question: Should patients with CP undergo screening for pancreatic cancer? Guidance statement 5.6. There is insufficient data to recommend routine pancreatic cancer screening for patients with chronic pancreatitis. Evidence Level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 65%; B 18%; C 10%; D 4%; E 2% Guidance statement 5.7. Clinicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for pancreatic cancer in patients with CP who develop additional risk factors (i.e., new onset diabetes with weight loss or advanced age) or a symptom complex consistent with pancreatic cancer (i.e., painless jaundice, weight loss, or abdominal pain radiating to the back). Evidence Level: 2b Grade of Recommendation: B Level of Agreement: A 85%; B 13%; C 0%; D 2%; E 0% Discussion: The risk of pancreatic cancer is increased in patients with CP, even after patients who develop pancreatic cancer within two years of CP diagnosis are excluded from analysis (to limit lead time biases from cases of delayed diagnosis) [84–86]. Though there is an increased risk of pancreatic cancer in patients with chronic pancreatitis (life-time risk of approximately 4%), there are no survival data from a controlled trial to support routine screening in this population . Even in patients with forms of CP (i.e., hereditary (PRSS1) pancreatitis and tropical pancreatitis associated with a very high risk of pancreatic cancer (up to 40% by age 70) a survival benefit from screening has not been demonstrated . Accordingly, no major societies currently recommend pancreatic cancer screening. The development of pancreatic cancer screening, in general, has been hampered by several issues, all of which impact sensitivity and specificity of potential approaches. The screening utility of cross sectional and endoscopic imaging modalities can be limited in the setting of chronic pancreatitis because of pancreatic inflammation and scarring. Similarly, inflammation can limit the utility of cytologic and pathologic evaluation of pancreas tissue. Although many have been explored, none have been prospectively validated . Though CA19-9 is often a useful clinical marker for following treatment response in pancreatic cancer, it lacks the sensitivity and specificity to be a good screening tool; CA19-9 may be normal in patients with early pancreatic cancer and can be elevated by benign intra- abdominal processes such as cholangitis that may present with symptoms similar to pancreatic cancer. Finally, the
