HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


normal in patients with early pancreatic cancer and can be elevated by benign intra- abdominal processes such as cholangitis that may present with symptoms similar to pancreatic cancer. Finally, the optimal initiation of pancreatic cancer screening, frequency, and duration is unknown and there is incomplete understanding of pancreatic carcinogenesis to direct clinical decisions. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Given the inherent challenges in pancreatic cancer screening, particularly for patients with chronic pancreatitis, novel screening tests (i.e. molecular testing, circulating DNA/RNA etc.) and approaches (i.e. pancreatic juice, urine, stool etc.) should continue to be evaluated . A high index of suspicion should be maintained for pancreatic cancer for patients with chronic pancreatitis who develop new onset diabetes, unexplained weight loss, or new exocrine pancreatic insufficiency [92–95]. Standard diagnostic testing protocols should be followed in these situations, which may include endoscopic evaluation, cross-sectional imaging, and serum blood tests. Ongoing efforts to further study the relationship between CP and pancreatic cancer include the CAPS5 study and the NIH-funded Consortium for the Study of Chronic Pancreatitis, Diabetes, and Pancreatic Cancer (CPDPC) . Research recommendations The role of education and clinical translation research was discussed within the context of pancreatic diseases in general with a focus on identifying specific needs related to acute recurrent (AP) and chronic pancreatitis (CP). The overriding goals in this area are to conduct and disseminate patient-centered research and develop education programs regarding current management and other advancements in the field. In addition to structured curricula for trainees regarding the evaluation and management of pancreatic disorders, there is a need to provide training and mentoring in the conduct of research. This includes study design, informed consent, transparency and elimination of bias, and statistical analysis. Areas of potential research related to CP were identified by the guideline coauthors and Pancreas Fest participants. These included additional research into the epidemiology, diagnosis, mechanisms of disease and treatment related to acute recurrent and chronic pancreatitis and their potential complications such as diabetes (type 3c) and cancer. Furthermore, there are a few guidance statements (2.4, 3.4, and 3.8) in which the agreement was not high and the level of evidence was low; these areas particularly warrant additional investigation, and are incorporated below: Subtheme 1: Epidemiology 1. Continue to pursue additional understanding of the roles of genetic and lifestyle effects on the development of acute
