HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


particularly warrant additional investigation, and are incorporated below: Subtheme 1: Epidemiology 1. Continue to pursue additional understanding of the roles of genetic and lifestyle effects on the development of acute recurrent and chronic pancreatitis, particularly for those with presumed “idiopathic” CP. 2. Further characterize the prevalence and risk of type 3c diabetes and pancreatic cancer-related to pancreatitis. Subtheme 2: Diagnosis 1. Identify and validate novel biomarkers and imaging features to facilitate the early diagnosis and personalized treatment of recurring pancreatitis and CP. 2. Further define unique histopathologic changes observed in CP and contrast with other causes of pancreatic fibrosis, including diabetic exocrine pancreatopathy. 3. Develop a testing strategy to distinguish type 3c from type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Develop an accurate and convenient test to diagnose and monitor effectiveness of therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI). 5. Further characterize risk factors for the development of metabolic bone disease and pancreatic cancer in CP to identify a subset of patients who may benefit from more intensive screening. Subtheme 3: Medical treatment 1. Develop quality indicators for the management of patients with chronic pancreatitis and use these to measure outcomes in patients with chronic pancreatitis, including quality of life and life expectancy. 2. Examine new interventions for CP-related pain, including pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic therapies such as cognitive behavioral therapy. 3. Test safety and efficacy of therapeutic strategies for type 3c diabetes. 4. Develop therapeutics for the prevention and treatment of chronic pancreatitis with a focus on quality of life and preventing progress to CP in individuals with acute recurrent pancreatitis. 5. Evaluate the effectiveness of therapeutic strategies to prevent the development and/or progression of metabolic bone disease in CP. 6. Develop clinical trial methods with outcome measures for testing interventions. interventions for pancreatic duct stones, and promising pharmaceutical and nutritional interventions. Subtheme 4: Surgical treatment 1. Optimize clinical care pathways for management of patients following pancreatic resection to decrease post-operative complications and length of stay. 2. Identify accurate methods to predict the analgesic response to currently utilized therapies, including TPIAT. Subtheme 5: Screening 1. Develop an accurate and convenient test to diagnose and monitor effectiveness of therapy for EPI. 2. Further characterize risk factors for the development of metabolic bone disease and pancreatic cancer in CP to identify a subset of patients who may benefit
