HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, pancreatic, pancreatitis, level, patients, manuscript author, chronic, chronic pancreatitis, guidance, evidence, care, recommendation, agreement


of therapy for EPI. 2. Further characterize risk factors for the development of metabolic bone disease and pancreatic cancer in CP to identify a subset of patients who may benefit from more intensive screening. Criteria for Academic Pancreas Centers of Excellence for chronic pancreatitis The National Pancreas Foundation (NPF) is a patient advocacy group founded in 1997, with a mission to provide hope for those suffering from pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer Pancreatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 July 25. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript through funding research, advocating for new and better therapeutics, and providing support content experts, criteria for designation as NPF Centers were developed (supplemental file). One of the key objectives for recognizing these institutions is to assist patients with identifying providers capable of providing multidisciplinary, patient-centered care. These criteria focus on the availability of onsite personnel, expertise, and services, or established referral patterns to provide patients with appropriate access to appropriate subspecialty care for the management of pancreatitis (acute and chronic), and aim to suggest standards related to patient care. The concept and criteria for NPF Pancreatitis Centers was widely accepted by participants at PancreasFest 2015. Subsequently, PancreasFest working groups set out to develop a complementary designation to recognize APCOE’s for chronic pancreatitis. In addition to providing excellence in patient care, APCOE’s represent institutions emphasizing research, education, and training. Thus, the goal of the APCOE framework is to complement the ideals of the NPF Centers by providing trainee education and expanding our scientific knowledge related to pancreatic disorders to better inform best practices. These criteria (Table 3) were developed following presentation and review of the preceding guidance statements. Accordingly, they are guided by both available evidence and expert opinion. Criteria are classified as either required or preferred depending on the strength of evidence to support the statement and/or perceived importance to the mission of the APCOE. Summary Chronic pancreatitis is a condition associated with substantial disease-related morbidity, which requires a multidisciplinary approach. Institutions with specialized services are the best suited to provide optimal patient care, trainee education, and research. Based on literature review and expert consensus we have outlined a series of guidance statements regarding the management of CP, and have proposed a set of criteria to recognize institutions equipped to not only provide high quality patient care, but also improve best practices by addressing existing knowledge gaps through education and research. Supplementary
