Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


Guidelines British Society of Gastroenterology guidelines on the management of functional dyspepsia Christopher J Black ,1,2 Peter A Paine,3,4 Anurag Agrawal,5 Imran Aziz ,6,7 Maria P Eugenicos,8 Lesley A Houghton ,2 Pali Hungin,9 Ross Overshott,10 Dipesh H Vasant,3,11 Sheryl Rudd,12,13 Richard C Winning,12,13 Maura Corsetti,12,13 Alexander C Ford 1,2 ► Additional supplemental ABSTRACT quality of life (recommendation: strong, quality material is published online Functional dyspepsia (FD) is a common disorder of of evidence: very low). only. To view, please visit the journal online (http:// dx. doi. org/ gut–brain interaction, affecting approximately 7% ► We recommend that the diagnosis of FD, its 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2022-3 27737). of individuals in the community, with most patients underlying pathophysiology and the natural managed in primary care. The last British Society of history of the condition, including common For numbered affiliations see end of article. Gastroenterology (BSG) guideline for the management symptom triggers, should be explained to the of dyspepsia was published in 1996. In the interim, patient. FD should be introduced as a disorder Correspondence to substantial advances have been made in understanding of gut–brain interaction (DGBI), together with this is impacted by diet, stress, cognitive, behav- Leeds LS9 7TF, UK; concerning its diagnosis and classification, with the alexf12399@ yahoo. com ioural and emotional responses to symptoms advent of the Rome IV criteria, and management. The and postinfective changes (recommendation: CJB and PAP are joint first primary aim of this guideline, commissioned by the BSG, strong, quality of evidence: very low). authors. is to review and summarise the current evidence to ► We recommend that a full blood count is authors. performed in patients aged ≥55 years with framework for evidence- based diagnosis and treatment dyspepsia and coeliac serology in all patients of patients. The approach to investigating the patient Received 28 April 2022 with FD and overlapping irritable bowel Accepted 21 June 2022 presenting with dyspepsia is discussed, and efficacy of syndrome (IBS)-t ype symptoms (recommenda- Published Online First drugs in FD summarised based on evidence derived from 7 July 2022 a comprehensive search of the medical literature, which tion: strong, quality of evidence: low). was used to inform an update of a series of pairwise ► We recommend that if no other upper gastroin- and network meta- analyses. Specific recommendations testinal alarm symptoms or signs are reported, have been made according to the Grading of urgent endoscopy is only warranted in
