Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


other upper gastroin- and network meta- analyses. Specific recommendations testinal alarm symptoms or signs are reported, have been made according to the Grading of urgent endoscopy is only warranted in patients Recommendations Assessment, Development and aged ≥55 years with dyspepsia with weight Evaluation system. These provide both the strength of loss, or those aged >40 years from an area at the recommendations and the overall quality of evidence. an increased risk of gastric cancer or with a Finally, in this guideline, we consider novel treatments family history of gastro- oesophageal cancer that are in development, as well as highlighting areas of (recommendation: strong; quality of evidence: unmet need and priorities for future research. very low). ► We recommend that non- urgent endoscopy is considered in patients aged ≥55 years with treatment- resistant dyspepsia or dyspepsia EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS with either a raised platelet count or nausea or Doctor–patient communication, diagnosis and vomiting (recommendation: strong, quality of investigation of functional dyspepsia evidence: very low). ► Clinicians should be aware that most patients ► We recommend that urgent abdominal CT with dyspepsia will have functional dyspepsia scanning is considered in patients aged ≥60 (FD) as the underlying cause of their symptoms years with abdominal pain and weight loss to after investigation (recommendation: strong, exclude pancreatic cancer (recommendation: quality of evidence: low). strong; quality of evidence: very low). ► We recommend that, in the absence of upper gastrointestinal alarm symptoms or signs, clini- ► We recommend that all other patients with dyspepsia are offered non- invasive testing for cians should diagnose FD in the presence of © Author(s) (or their Helicobacter pylori (‘test and treat’) and, if bothersome epigastric pain or burning, early employer(s)) 2022. Re- use infected, given eradication therapy (recommen- permitted under CC BY- NC. No satiation and/or postprandial fullness of greater commercial re- use. See rights than 8 weeks duration (recommendation: dation: strong; quality of evidence: high). and permissions. Published strong, quality of evidence: very low). ► We recommend that successful eradication of by BMJ. ► Establishing an effective and empathic doctor– H. pylori after ‘test and treat’ is only confirmed To cite: Black CJ, Paine PA, patient relationship and a shared understanding in patients with an increased risk of gastric Agrawal A, et al. Gut is key to the management of FD. This may cancer (recommendation: strong; quality of 2022;71:1697–1723. reduce healthcare utilisation and improve evidence: low). Black
