Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


of gastric Agrawal A, et al. Gut is key to the management of FD. This may cancer (recommendation: strong; quality of 2022;71:1697–1723. reduce healthcare utilisation and improve evidence: low). Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1697 Guidelines ► We recommend that patients without H. pylori infection are be counselled on their side effect profile (recommendation: offered empirical acid suppression therapy (recommenda- weak, quality of evidence: low). tion: strong; quality of evidence: high). ► There is no evidence that selective serotonin reuptake ► Referral of patients with FD to gastroenterology in secondary inhibitors (SSRIs) used as gut–brain neuromodulators are care is appropriate where there is diagnostic doubt, where an efficacious second- line drug for global symptoms in FD symptoms are severe, or refractory to first- line treatments, (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: moderate). or where the individual patient requests a specialist opinion ► There is no evidence that serotonin norepinephrine reuptake (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). inhibitors (SNRIs) used as gut–brain neuromodulators are ► We recommend that gastric emptying testing or 24- hour pH an efficacious second- line drug for global symptoms in FD. monitoring should not be undertaken routinely in patients However, as they are efficacious in other chronic painful with typical symptoms of FD (recommendation: strong, conditions, more trials of these drugs are warranted (recom- quality of evidence: very low). mendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). ► We recommend that, ideally, patients with FD referred to ► Tandospirone 10 mg three times a day may be an efficacious to an interested clinician, dietetic and lifestyle support, other 5-h ydroxytryptamine- agonists, including buspirone 1A with access to efficacious drugs and gut–brain behavioural 10 mg three times a day, are efficacious. However, more therapies. Rates of H. pylori ‘test and treat’ prior to endos- trials of these drugs are warranted (recommendation: weak, copy, prevalence of H. pylori infection and use of endos- quality of evidence: low). copy should be audited (recommendation: strong, quality of ► Pregabalin 75 mg once daily may be an efficacious second- evidence: very low). line treatment for FD but further randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are needed and given its controlled drug status First-line treatment of FD we advise this drug is only used in specialist settings (recom- 1. We recommend that all patients with FD are advised to take mendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). regular aerobic exercise (recommendation: strong, quality of ► Mirtazapine 15
