Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


settings (recom- 1. We recommend that all patients with FD are advised to take mendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). regular aerobic exercise (recommendation: strong, quality of ► Mirtazapine 15 mg once daily may be an efficacious second- evidence: very low). line treatment for patients with FD with early satiation and 2. There is insufficient evidence to recommend dietary thera- weight loss, but further RCTs are needed (recommendation: pies, including a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, weak, quality of evidence: very low). disaccharides and monosaccharides, and polyols in FD (rec- ommendation: weak; quality of evidence: very low). Gut–brain behavioural therapies in FD 3. Eradication therapy is an efficacious treatment for H. pylori- ► Interpersonal psychodynamic informed psychotherapy positive patients with FD. Adverse events are more common may be an efficacious treatment for global symptoms in FD than with a control therapy (recommendation: strong; qual- (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: very low). ity of evidence: high). ► Cognitive–behavioural therapy (CBT) and metacognitive 4. Histamine-- receptor antagonists may be an efficacious treat- therapy may be an efficacious treatment for global symp- ment for FD. These drugs are well tolerated (recommenda- toms in FD (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: tion: weak, quality of evidence: low). very low). 5. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are an efficacious treatment ► Stress management approaches may be an efficacious treat- for FD. There does not appear to be a dose response, so the ment for global symptoms in FD (recommendation: weak, lowest dose that controls symptoms should be used. These quality of evidence: very low). drugs are well tolerated (recommendation: strong, quality of ► Hypnotherapy may be an efficacious treatment for global evidence: high). symptoms in FD (recommendation: weak, quality of 6. Some prokinetics may be an efficacious treatment for FD. evidence: very low). However, efficacy varies according to drug class, and many of these drugs are unavailable outside of Asia and the USA. Management of severe or refractory FD Most of these drugs are well tolerated (recommendation: ► We recommend a multidisciplinary support team should be weak, quality of evidence: low for acotiamide, itopride, and involved for patients with severe or refractory FD (recom- mosapride, recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: mendation: strong, quality of evidence: low). moderate for tegaserod). ► We recommend opioids and surgery should be avoided in patients with severe or refractory FD to minimise iatrogenic Second-line treatment of FD harm (recommendation: strong, quality of
