Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


for tegaserod). ► We recommend opioids and surgery should be avoided in patients with severe or refractory FD to minimise iatrogenic Second-line treatment of FD harm (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very ► Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) used as gut–brain neuro- low). modulators are an efficacious second-l ine treatment for ► We recommend patients with severe or refractory FD FD. They can be initiated in primary or secondary care, presenting with weight loss and food restriction are assessed but careful explanation as to the rationale for their use is for eating disorders and disordered eating, including required, and patients should be counselled about their side avoidant restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID) (recom- effect profile. They should be commenced at a low dose mendation: strong, quality of evidence: very low). (eg, 10 mg amitriptyline once daily) and titrated slowly to ► We recommend early dietitian involvement in patients with a maximum of 30–50 mg once daily (recommendation: severe or refractory FD to avoid an overly restrictive diet strong, quality of evidence: moderate). (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very low). ► Antipsychotics, such as sulpiride 100 mg four times a day or levosulpiride 25 mg three times a day, may be efficacious as a Research second-l ine treatment for FD. There should be careful expla- 1. Successful completion of large clinical trials requires prag- nation as to the rationale for their use and patients should matic inclusion criteria, minimisation of the participant trial 1698 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines burden, and virtual (remote access) trial approaches to reduce the micro- organisms (bugs) living in the upper gut may also play geographical, socioeconomic and minority ethnic exclusion. a role in triggering symptoms. 2. Large- scale RCTs with cross-o ver phases or periods of open- Some patients with FD learn to manage their symptoms them- label treatment so active therapy may be delivered to all par- selves, by changing their lifestyle or diet or managing stress ticipants should be considered. differently. Other patients will consult with their GP who can 3. A priority- setting partnership with patients would best dis- normally make a diagnosis of FD based on typical symptoms. cern valuable research questions. However, if patients are older when their symptoms start, or if 4. Some future research themes include, but are not limited to: they have a family history of cancer of the oesophagus (gullet) a. Characterisation of the illness
