Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


start, or if 4. Some future research themes include, but are not limited to: they have a family history of cancer of the oesophagus (gullet) a. Characterisation of the illness to understand predictors This may include a camera test (endoscopy) to look inside the of outcome and treatment response, determinants of re- oesophagus, stomach and duodenum, or a scan of the abdomen fractory illness and burden of illness (particularly with to exclude any serious cause for symptoms. Even among patients respect to workplace productivity) by conducting large- who undergo further investigation, the likelihood of finding scale epidemiological studies with extended observation. serious problems, like cancer, remains low. b. Consideration should be given to stratifying RCTs by Regular exercise and lifestyle changes, like avoiding certain FD severity and subtype, burden of extraintestinal symp- foods that may trigger symptoms, will be helpful for some toms, and psychological comorbidity. patients. However, these is no evidence for any specialised diets c. A better understanding of treatment combinations to for treating FD and restricting diet too much could lead to uncover augmentation effects between therapies, such as malnutrition or abnormal eating habits. dual therapy with histamine- and histamine-- receptor 1 2 All patients with FD should be offered a stool test or breath antagonists or a TCA in combination with a SSRI. test to look for a stomach infection called H. pylori. If the test d. Modulation of pain and psychological responses using drugs (eg, SNRIs, mirtazapine, or 5-h ydroxytryptamine- is positive, they should receive a short course of antibiotic treat- agonists) or behavioural approaches (eg, CBT) used earl 1 i A - ment for the infection to see if their symptoms improve. Patients er in the disease course. who test negative, or patients who test positive, but whose symp- e. Trials of dietary approaches to managing symptoms in toms continue after antibiotics, should be offered other medica- FD, including a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, tions to treat their symptoms. disaccharides and monosaccharides, and polyols. This guideline has reviewed the evidence for which medi- f. Trials of drugs that have shown efficacy in gastropa- cations work, and the possible harms they may cause. We resis, including ghrelin agonists, such as relamorelin, have only recommended medications with good evidence that 5- hydroxytryptamine- agonists, including prucalopride they are more efficacious than a placebo. We have not recom- aprepitant and tradipitant should be considered. not help, are
