Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


medications with good evidence that 5- hydroxytryptamine- agonists, including prucalopride they are more efficacious than a placebo. We have not recom- aprepitant and tradipitant should be considered. not help, are harmful, or where there is not enough evidence. g. Head- to- head trials of TCAs vs acid suppressant drugs, Some medications have most of their effect in the gut, often such as PPIs or histamine-- receptor antagonists, as first- working to reduce stomach acid or helping the stomach to line drug therapy for FD in primary care. empty more quickly. Other drugs work at the level of the brain and the nervous system also present in the upper gut. PATIENT SUMMARY These are so- called ‘neuromodulators’, and they help reduce This guideline has been produced on behalf of the British the abnormal sensitivity of these nerves. Unfortunately, not Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) to update the previous one all drugs that may be efficacious in FD are available in all published in 1996. The guideline has been written by a team of countries. specialists including gastroenterologists, psychiatrists, general There is some evidence to suggest that psychological or practitioners (GPs) and physiologists. Patients have reviewed behavioural therapies may be beneficial for treating symptoms in the guideline and added their perspective. The guideline is FD. These therapies use the fact our brain and upper gut nerves intended for healthcare professionals who look after patients are connected and can influence each other. With appropriate with FD. training our brain can help control the sensations from our Dyspepsia, often referred to as indigestion, is very common. upper gut. Work is needed to improve the availability of these It consists of symptoms such as pain or burning in the upper treatments for patients. part of the abdomen (tummy), feeling abnormally full- up early Very severe symptoms that do not respond to any of the treat- on in a meal, or experiencing a heaviness in the abdomen that ments discussed above are rare. In this situation, it is recom- may be worse after eating. These symptoms arise from problems mended that patients are managed by a multidisciplinary team with the stomach or the first part of the small intestine, called of specialists, including GPs, dietitians, gastroenterologists the duodenum. Together these are referred to as the upper gut. and psychologists. This should help to ensure that patients Sometimes these symptoms can be due to an underlying cause, have
