Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


duodenum. Together these are referred to as the upper gut. and psychologists. This should help to ensure that patients Sometimes these symptoms can be due to an underlying cause, have access to high-q uality, expert, advice based on up-t o- date such as an ulcer. However, in most cases, tests find no abnor- research, while reducing harm from unnecessary investigations mality and this condition is referred to as FD. cause for FD. It is caused by issues with the two-w ay communi- Our knowledge of the causes and treatment of FD has cation between the upper gut and the brain. Problems with the improved over the past 20 years. However, there are still things nerves supplying the stomach and duodenum may make them that we do not fully understand about the condition. This means more sensitive to normal function. Sometimes the stomach may that there are many active areas for future research and new be slower to empty, contributing to feelings of early fullness. treatments to be explored. We hope that this guideline will also Psychological factors, such as stress, certain foods or changes in help to highlight and prioritise these issues. Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1699 Guidelines INTRODUCTION recognise that belching, nausea, or upper abdominal bloating Aims can also be present, but heartburn alone is not a symptom of The previous BSG dyspepsia management guidelines were dyspepsia, although it can coexist.3 Vomiting is atypical and, if published in 1996.1 In the intervening years, an extensive present, should prompt consideration of another disorder. FD is amount of new evidence has emerged, improving understanding diagnosed in the absence of a structural abnormality to explain of the pathophysiology, diagnosis, investigation, and manage- the symptoms. Therefore, to make a diagnosis, by definition, ment of the condition. Importantly, it has been recognised that patients need to have been investigated to exclude evidence of practice,2 and that FD is a DGBI. In addition, the Rome criteria, Symptoms alone are not reliable in distinguishing functional the gold- standard symptom- based diagnostic criteria for FD, are from organic causes of dyspepsia.8 Nevertheless, 80% of people now in their fourth iteration.3 Consequently, the primary aim of with dyspepsia will be diagnosed with FD following endoscopy.2 this guideline, commissioned by the BSG, was to consider all of FD is defined according to symptom- based diagnostic criteria these developments and create a new clinical guideline for the
