Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


this guideline, commissioned by the BSG, was to consider all of FD is defined according to symptom- based diagnostic criteria these developments and create a new clinical guideline for the developed by the Rome Foundation, and is classified into two management of FD, including the initial diagnostic approach to distinct subtypes: postprandial distress syndrome (PDS) and the patient presenting with dyspepsia. The guideline is intended epigastric pain syndrome (EPS) (table 1).3 Clinically, the EPS to be practical to use and to provide an authoritative framework subtype separates those with epigastric pain or burning that is often present regardless of meals, from those with PDS who has been reviewed by the BSG Clinical Services and Standards report early satiation and postprandial fullness, mainly trig- Committee and selected reviewers from the BSG Council. gered by meals. It is, however, recognised that patients with FD can have overlapping features of EPS and PDS, particularly in Methodology secondary and tertiary care.9–11 A guideline working group was convened. In keeping with the It is important to note how diagnostic criteria for FD have recommendations of the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research evolved over time. The Rome Foundation has attempted to and Evaluation guideline development protocol,4 this comprised define the minimum thresholds for frequency and severity a diverse multidisciplinary team of clinicians and academics of each individual symptom more precisely. For example, in encompassing expertise from primary, secondary and tertiary the latest iteration, Rome IV, the term 'bothersome' is used to care, together with liaison psychiatry. The working group also describe symptoms severe enough to interfere with daily activi- included representation from two patients who reviewed both ties. Moreover, the Rome IV criteria for FD require PDS symp- the initial proposal and the final guideline to ensure implemen- toms to occur three times per week, and for EPS symptoms tation of a patient- centred approach. to occur at least once per week.3 However, one of the more Each section of the guideline was allocated a lead author contentious issues when using the Rome IV criteria for FD in responsible for performing a comprehensive literature search. routine clinical practice is the requirement to have experienced Additionally, the section covering treatment was informed by a symptoms for the last 3 months, with symptom onset at least 6 systematic review of the literature, the methodology for which is reported within that section. Eligible studies were graded months before diagnosis.3
