Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


gastric emptying studies.16 17 The gastroparesis construct may symptoms of epigastric pain or burning, postprandial fullness, over- emphasise motor deficits to the detriment of a more holistic or early satiation (the feeling of fullness during ingestion of a approach,18 and so the terms FD with or without delayed gastric meal, which acts as a terminating factor). Recent definitions emptying may be preferable.19 1700 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines Table 1 The Rome IV criteria for functional dyspepsia3 Diagnostic criteria for functional dyspepsia One or more of the following: ► Bothersome epigastric pain. ► Bothersome epigastric burning. ► Bothersome postprandial fullness. ► Bothersome early satiation. ► Symptom onset at least 6 months prior to diagnosis. ► Symptoms should be active within the past 3 months. ► And, no evidence of structural disease (including at upper endoscopy) likely to explain the symptoms. Diagnostic criteria for epigastric pain syndrome (EPS) Diagnostic criteria for postprandial distress syndrome (PDS) Must include one or both of the following symptoms at least 1 day a week. Must include one or both of the following symptoms at least 3 days a week: 1. Bothersome epigastric pain (ie, severe enough to impact on usual activities). 1. Bothersome postprandial fullness (ie, severe enough to impact on usual activities). 2. Bothersome epigastric burning (ie, severe enough to impact on usual activities). 2. Bothersome early satiation (ie, severe enough to prevent finishing a regular sized Supportive criteria: meal). 1. Pain may be induced by ingestion of a meal, relieved by ingestion of meal or may Supportive criteria: occur while fasting. 1. Postprandial epigastric pain or burning, epigastric bloating, excessive belching, and 2. Postprandial epigastric bloating, belching and nausea can also be present. nausea can also be present. 3. Persistent vomiting likely suggests another disorder;. 2. Vomiting warrants consideration of another disorder. 4. Heartburn is not a dyspeptic symptom, but may often coexist. 3. Heartburn is not a dyspeptic symptom, but may often coexist. 5. The pain does not fulfil biliary pain criteria. 4. Symptoms that are relieved by evacuation of faeces or gas should generally not be 6. Symptoms that are relieved by evacuation of faeces or gas generally should not be considered as part of dyspepsia. considered as part of dyspepsia. 5. Other individual digestive symptoms or groups of symptoms (such as gastro- 7. Other digestive symptoms (such as gastro- oesophageal reflux disease and irritable oesophageal reflux disease
