Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


000 PRESENTATION OF FD, DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT IN patients aged over 40 years in UK primary care.113 All upper PRIMARY CARE gastrointestinal alarm symptoms and signs relevant to suspected Overview gastro- oesophageal cancer, as per NICE, are detailed in box 1. As previously stated, most patients with dyspepsia will have FD However, it is important to point out that these criteria were as the underlying cause and, therefore the term ‘dyspepsia’ in selected using a threshold of a positive predictive value for both primary and secondary care is likely to be synonymous with gastro- oesophageal cancer of only ≥3%. FD. Primary care remains the first point of contact for patients In the absence of alarm symptoms or signs, FD is highly with dyspepsia in most of Europe, and many will be managed probable when epigastric pain or burning, early satiation, and/ only in that setting. Gastrointestinal symptoms account for up or postprandial fullness are reported, in line with the Rome IV Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1703 Guidelines statement considers that dyspepsia associated with H. pylori Box 1 Upper gastrointestinal alarm symptoms or signs* infection should be considered a separate entity, referred to as that are referral criteria for suspected gastro- oesophageal H. pylori-a ssociated dyspepsia,119 and that only if symptoms cancer according to NICE.112 persist after successful eradication of the infection should the patient be diagnosed with FD. However, there is little evidence Definite referral criteria for urgent endoscopy to assess for to support this stance. Data are emerging about a possible role gastro- oesophageal cancer of COVID- 19 infection in triggering some DGBI,120 but more 1. People of any age with dysphagia evidence is necessary to confirm this as a risk factor for FD. 2. People aged ≥55 years with weight loss and any of the Psychological factors, in particular anxiety, have been reported following: to be associated with future development of FD in several longi- i. Dyspepsia. tudinal follow- up studies.34 35 121 A pooled analysis of three ii. Upper abdominal pain. population- based studies also identified smoking as a risk factor iii. Reflux. for PDS,122 but not EPS. Evidence for any contribution of other Probable referral criteria for non- urgent endoscopy to assess for lifestyle factors is conflicting. gastro-o esophageal cancer Other relevant items in the clinical history include previous 1. People with haematemesis. surgical interventions, due to misattribution of the symptoms of 2.
