Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


lifestyle factors is conflicting. gastro-o esophageal cancer Other relevant items in the clinical history include previous 1. People with haematemesis. surgical interventions, due to misattribution of the symptoms of 2. People aged ≥55 years with: FD to other causes, such as gallstones,123 and the presence of i. Treatment- resistant dyspepsia. other non- gastrointestinal chronic painful or ‘functional’ disor- ii. Dyspepsia with raised platelet count or nausea or ders,124 125 which support a diagnosis of FD. It is also important vomiting. to ensure there is no family history of gastro-o esophageal cancer, iii. Upper abdominal pain with low haemoglobin, raised inflammatory bowel disease, or coeliac disease. Recent changes platelet count or nausea or vomiting. in diet, alcohol excess or drugs that can alter gut motility, such iv. Reflux with raised platelet count, or nausea or vomiting. as opioids or NSAIDs, are also relevant. In addition to their v. Nausea or vomiting with any of the following: weight well-k nown role in inducing gastrointestinal damage, the latter loss, reflux, dyspepsia, or upper abdominal pain. have been found to be associated with dyspepsia in multiple population- based studies.20 As some might consider collecting all *An upper abdominal mass felt to be consistent with stomach cancer is 2 weeks. an aide memoire is provided in figure 1. Recommendations criteria, and endoscopy is unlikely to change the diagnosis, even ► We recommend that, in the absence of upper gastrointes- though a normal endoscopy is required as part of these diagnostic tinal alarm symptoms or signs, clinicians should diagnose FD the presence of one of more of these four cardinal symptoms, if 8 weeks duration (recommendation: strong, quality of reported as bothersome, for more than 8 weeks. Other symp- evidence: very low). toms can coexist but should not be predominant. Information about the characteristics of pain should be recorded. Usually, in Communicating a diagnosis and management plan FD, pain is in the upper abdomen or epigastrium, and may be It is important to build rapport and trust in the doctor–patient present in fasting conditions, and/or precipitated or exacerbated relationship by adopting the principles of empathic listening to by meal ingestion. Unlike in IBS, abdominal pain in FD is unre- optimise the consultation.126 The clinician should appear confi- tiate patients with FD from those with IBS or to identify patients a positive diagnosis of FD based on presence of typical symp- with FD with overlapping IBS, which
