Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


and limited added Norovirus, Giardia lamblia, Salmonella spp, Escherichia value of endoscopy in its management, significantly decreased coli O157 and Campylobacter spp.51 The Kyoto consensus the number of endoscopies required to manage the condition 1704 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines Figure 1 Diagnostic algorithm for functional dyspepsia. DGBI, disorder of gut–brain interaction; FD, functional dyspepsia. and was associated with similar improvements in symptoms and cause of dyspepsia is modest,128 perhaps due to the absence of a quality of life, compared with prompt endoscopy.127 clear definition of each (eg, the amount of weight that needs to be lost to qualify as an alarm symptom). In addition, as symp- ► Establishing an effective and empathic doctor–patient rela- historically, prompt endoscopy was considered mandatory tionship and a shared understanding is key to the manage- to exclude gastro- oesophageal malignancy in all patients with ment of FD. This may reduce healthcare utilisation and dyspepsia. However, the yield of this approach to detect cancer improve quality of life (recommendation: strong, quality of is low.129 130 A previous systematic review and meta- analysis of evidence: very low). studies performing endoscopy in individuals with dyspepsia in ► We recommend that the diagnosis of FD, its underlying the community demonstrated that 13% had erosive oesoph- pathophysiology, and the natural history of the condition, agitis, 8% peptic ulcer and less than 0.5% gastro- oesophageal including common symptom triggers, should be explained malignancy, with the remaining 80% of individuals having to the patient. FD should be introduced as a DGBI, together a normal endoscopy and, therefore, likely having FD.2 Given with a simple account of the gut–brain axis and how this this meta- analysis included several studies conducted over 20 is impacted by diet, stress, cognitive, behavioural, and years ago, before the widespread use of H. pylori eradication emotional responses to symptoms, and postinfective changes therapy and PPIs, this suggests that the prevalence of organic (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very low). pathology at endoscopy is likely to be even lower in the current era. In one study, the cost of diagnosing each case of malignancy Management of dyspepsia in primary care in primary care detected via endoscopy was estimated at over dyspepsia in primary care is empirical, based on the knowl- probably prohibitive. Prompt endoscopy might be justified on edge of the patient, their circumstances and the requirement to the basis of providing reassurance to the
