Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


empirical, based on the knowl- probably prohibitive. Prompt endoscopy might be justified on edge of the patient, their circumstances and the requirement to the basis of providing reassurance to the individual patient that manage the symptoms. GPs are also aware of the need to avoid there is no sinister underlying cause for their symptoms, but this overwhelming secondary care services and must balance any effect appears to be relatively short-l ived.132 requirement for referral with other patient-r elated factors. The In terms of other investigations, there is a lack of evidence key first step in the initial management is the exclusion of the to support the role of routine laboratory testing to exclude possibility of upper gastrointestinal cancer, via judicious appli- other organic diseases in all patients with dyspepsia. However, cation of alarm symptoms and signs. However, as mentioned a full blood count should be performed in patients aged ≥55 earlier, the performance of these in predicting malignancy as a years, in line with NICE recommendations concerning possible Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1705 Guidelines non- urgent endoscopy in patients with dyspepsia in the presence A recent network meta- analysis identified 15 eligible RCTs of a raised platelet count. Screening for coeliac disease is not comparing prompt endoscopy, ‘test and treat’, ‘test and scope’, recommended, as the prevalence is not increased compared with empirical acid suppression, and symptom- based management, the healthy population.133 However, this should be performed in recruiting 6162 patients.153 This demonstrated that, although patients with overlapping dyspepsia and IBS- type symptoms, as no strategy was superior to another, ‘test and treat’ ranked first the latter do have an increased risk of coeliac disease.134 Beyond in terms of reducing the relative risk (RR) of remaining symp- this, several management strategies for dyspepsia exist, detailed tomatic at 12 months (RR of remaining symptomatic=0.89; below. 95% CI 0.78 to 1.02), with prompt endoscopy ranked second It is estimated that 5% of dyspepsia in the community is attrib- (RR of remaining symptomatic=0.90; 95% CI 0.80 to 1.02). In utable to H. pylori.22 In addition, a positive test for H. pylori addition, patients allocated to ‘test and treat’ were significantly will identify most cases of peptic ulcer disease as an underlying less likely to require endoscopy (RR vs prompt endoscopy 0.23; cause of dyspepsia,135 for which eradication therapy is extremely 95% CI 0.17 to 0.31) than with all other management
