Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


underlying less likely to require endoscopy (RR vs prompt endoscopy 0.23; cause of dyspepsia,135 for which eradication therapy is extremely 95% CI 0.17 to 0.31) than with all other management strategies, efficacious.136 Therefore, testing for H. pylori and eradicating except symptom- based management. Patients receiving prompt the bacterium in patients with dyspepsia in primary care who endoscopy were, however, significantly less likely to be dissat- are found to be infected is logical. This is termed a ‘test and isfied with management, compared with those randomised to treat’ strategy and can be done via faecal antigen or carbon- urea ‘test and treat’ or empirical acid suppression. Nevertheless, this breath testing, where available, which have a similar accuracy suggests that ‘test and treat’ should be the preferred first- line to rapid urease testing of biopsies obtained at endoscopy.137 138 management strategy for dyspepsia in primary care, although H. pylori serology is not recommended as an alternative, as the it is important to point out that many of the included trials specificity is lower than other non-i nvasive tests.139–141 Given were published over 15 years ago and, therefore, prevalence of that most patients with dyspepsia in primary care will have FD H. pylori infection may have declined in Western populations as the cause,2 repeat testing to confirm successful treatment after during this time. an initial course of eradication therapy is not recommended,142 Prompt endoscopy is, therefore, not required for most although a meta- analysis suggested the magnitude of the effect patients with dyspepsia and should be reserved for those with of eradication therapy in FD was larger if H. pylori had been other risk factors, defined above. However, there is variation in successfully treated.143 age- based gastric cancer risks, which are lower in the majority Given that approximately 20% of patients with dyspepsia will of Western populations, excluding African-A mericans and Latin- have either peptic ulcer or erosive oesophagitis as the underlying Americans,154 and higher in South-e ast Asian countries, such as cause,2 the use of empirical acid suppression therapy as a poten- China, Japan and Korea. A reduction in the age threshold is also tial management strategy is a reasonable one, as this is an effica- required in patients with a family history of gastro- oesophageal cious treatment for both.144 145 There is also evidence to suggest cancer. that PPI therapy is an efficacious treatment for FD.146 Other As pancreaticobiliary disease can
