Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


history of gastro- oesophageal cious treatment for both.144 145 There is also evidence to suggest cancer. that PPI therapy is an efficacious treatment for FD.146 Other As pancreaticobiliary disease can present with upper gastroin- empirical approaches studied include a symptom- based strategy, testinal symptoms, this may need to be considered in the differ- based on historical subgrouping of patients with dyspepsia,147 ential diagnosis of dyspepsia. However, a previous systematic with those with ‘reflux-l ike’ or ‘ulcer-l ike’ dyspepsia, who prob- review demonstrated that gallstones are only associated with ably had EPS, treated with acid suppression and those with abdominal pain with the characteristics of biliary colic, not ‘dysmotility- like’ dyspepsia, now termed PDS, a prokinetic drug. with symptoms suggestive of dyspepsia.155 Moreover, response In an attempt to ration use of endoscopy, another approach following cholecystectomy for uncomplicated gallstones, in that has been examined has been to test for H. pylori and only terms of the resolution of abdominal pain, appears to be associ- perform endoscopy in those who test positive, based on the ated with the presence of episodic pain with a duration of less theory that these individuals are more likely to have an organic than 1 year prior to surgery.123 This suggests that indiscriminate explanation for their symptoms, a so- called ‘test and scope’ use of abdominal ultrasound in patients with symptoms sugges- approach. However, this has not been shown to be any more tive of dyspepsia should be avoided, unless the upper abdominal effective than other management strategies,148 149 and has never pain has the characteristics of biliary colic, and has been present been adopted formally. for less than 1 year. NICE states that imaging should be consid- There have been multiple RCTs comparing these various ered in patients≥60 years old with new onset abdominal pain management strategies, including prompt endoscopy, for and weight loss to exclude the possibility of pancreatic cancer.112 dyspepsia head-t o- head. However, until recently, there was Based on all the above, we recommend urgent endoscopy equipoise between some of them, and uncertainty as to which only in patients aged ≥55 years with dyspepsia with evidence of was the optimal first- line approach. Pairwise meta-a nalyses, weight loss. Non- urgent endoscopy can be considered in patients and even individual patient data meta-a nalyses, were unable to aged ≥55 years with treatment- resistant dyspepsia or dyspepsia resolve this uncertainty completely. Although prompt endoscopy with
