Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


considered in patients and even individual patient data meta-a nalyses, were unable to aged ≥55 years with treatment- resistant dyspepsia or dyspepsia resolve this uncertainty completely. Although prompt endoscopy with either a raised platelet count or nausea or vomiting. In those is expensive, it was superior to empirical acid suppression or with aged ≥60 years with abdominal pain and weight loss urgent symptom- based management in terms of effect on symptoms in CT scanning should be considered. In patients from areas at high some RCTs,148 150 and was superior to ‘test and treat’ in an indi- risk of gastric cancer, or those with a family history of gastro- vidual patient data meta-a nalysis, but it was not cost- effective.129 oesophageal malignancy, the age limit for endoscopy should be Another individual patient data meta-a nalysis of ‘test and treat’ reduced to >40 years. Recommendations as to when to consider versus empirical acid suppression demonstrated no difference in endoscopy in patients with dyspepsia and overlapping gastro- either costs or effects between the two strategies.130 Guidelines oesophageal reflux symptoms are as for patients with dyspepsia to date have, therefore, recommended the use of either first- alone. line,142 151 depending on local prevalence of H. pylori infection, In all other patients with dyspepsia a ‘test and treat’ strategy because a modelling study suggested that ‘test and treat’ was should be preferred, with those testing negative receiving a unlikely to remain cost- effective below a prevalence of infection course of empirical acid suppression, using the lowest dose that of 20%.152 improves their symptoms. Successful eradication of H. pylori 1706 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines after ‘test and treat’ should only be confirmed in those with an Investigations in secondary care increased risk of gastric cancer, as recommended elsewhere in Regarding possible additional investigations to be considered in may still suggest the need for endoscopy in individual cases. the differential diagnosis in a patient with typical symptoms and Similarly, the patient may insist an endoscopy is performed. In a negative endoscopy. One area of controversy is the potential the latter instance, it should be reiterated that the yield is likely overlap of symptoms of FD with those of gastroparesis.18 Both to be low and the expected diagnosis is FD, with the patient delayed and accelerated gastric emptying have been reported in counselled about the risks and benefits of a potentially unneces- patients with
