Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


future research. considered in patients aged ≥60 years with abdominal pain There is the potential for iatrogenic harm, due to invasive inter- and weight loss to exclude pancreatic cancer (recommenda- ventions, from attaching a label of gastroparesis, based on the tion: strong; quality of evidence: very low). results of gastric emptying studies, to a patient who otherwise ► We recommend that all other patients with dyspepsia are meets criteria for FD and has no risk factors for gastroparesis. offered non- invasive testing for H. pylori (‘test and treat’) Impaired accommodation of the gastric fundus has been also and, if infected, given eradication therapy (recommenda- reported in patients with FD, but none of the techniques used ► We recommend that successful eradication of H. pylori Interestingly, several studies have reported the presence of after ‘test and treat’ is only confirmed in patients with an decreased volume tolerance to both liquid nutrients and water increased risk of gastric cancer (recommendation: strong; drinking test in FD,58 but this has not been adopted as part quality of evidence: low). of the diagnostic work-u p. GORD and FD overlap more than ► We recommend that patients without H. pylori infection are expected by chance, and symptoms such as epigastric burning offered empirical acid suppression therapy (recommenda- may be similar in patients with gastro-o esophageal reflux and tion: strong; quality of evidence: high). EPS. Abnormal oesophageal acid exposure, measured by pH monitoring, is found in up to 30% of patients presenting with PRESENTATION AND INVESTIGATION IN SECONDARY CARE FD symptoms and in up to 50% of patients with EPS.72 160 However, there is no evidence that pH monitoring is able to Presentation of dyspepsia to secondary care predict patients who will respond to acid suppression. Routine Symptoms of dyspepsia are one of the most common reasons pH monitoring to assess for evidence of pathological acid reflux for referral to secondary care, with approximately 10% of all is, therefore, not recommended in patients with FD. patients in a gastroenterology clinic ultimately being diagnosed with FD.156 Due to unfamiliarity with current diagnostic criteria, the majority of patients are referred without a specific working Management of dyspepsia as a partnership between primary diagnosis of FD, even though most of the investigations necessary and secondary care to reach such a diagnosis have often been performed in primary Currently, primary and secondary care work as separate entities, care. Patients are referred
