Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


the investigations necessary and secondary care to reach such a diagnosis have often been performed in primary Currently, primary and secondary care work as separate entities, care. Patients are referred to secondary care for consideration of often referring patients with dyspepsia back and forth multiple endoscopy, when the GP cannot access this investigation directly, times. However, a crucial factor in the effective diagnosis and with a request for further investigations where there is diagnostic management of patients with FD at local level is likely to be doubt, or in the case of non-r esponse to treatment. If the neces- good collaboration between GPs and gastroenterologists, and, sary investigations have been already performed, a careful clin- increasingly, the involvement of patients in the design of services. ical history is usually enough to confirm the diagnosis, reassure As discussed, at present there are no specific additional tests that the patient, demonstrate the commitment of the clinician to secondary care clinicians can or should offer patients with FD. help, and offer appropriate treatment. However, discharge from secondary care clinics to primary care Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1707 Guidelines with ‘reassurance’ that there is ‘no cause’ for the symptoms, or a ► We recommend that, ideally, patients with FD referred to to secondary care does not reassure the patient at all. A clear to an interested clinician, dietetic and lifestyle support, diagnosis of FD should be given to the patient and this diag- with access to efficacious drugs and gut–brain behavioural nosis should be recognised formally by the healthcare system, therapies. Rates of H. pylori ‘test and treat’ prior to endos- with a specific diagnostic code. The management of dyspepsia copy, prevalence of H. pylori infection, and use of endos- has blurred primary and secondary care boundaries and needs to copy should be audited (recommendation: strong, quality of become patient- centred, rather than primary or secondary care- evidence: very low). are normally managed across health boundaries and with the help TREATMENT OF FD of different health professionals. Pathways for FD may benefit General overview from a similar paradigm with the inclusion of experts in gastro- It is important to stress that, as with other DGBI, cure of FD is enterology, psychology, diet, lifestyle and symptom management unlikely, and most treatments are of modest efficacy. An explana- tion of the relapsing and remitting natural history of FD, as well treating, H. pylori
