Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


diet, lifestyle and symptom management unlikely, and most treatments are of modest efficacy. An explana- tion of the relapsing and remitting natural history of FD, as well treating, H. pylori pre- endoscopy, rates of H. pylori infection as the fact that treatment is offered with the aim of improving and rates of endoscopy. symptoms, social functioning, and quality of life is vital. Although there is little evidence that lifestyle changes lead to symptom Recommendations improvement, a recent small RCT of aerobic exercise, in addi- ► Referral of patients with FD to gastroenterology in secondary tion to conventional management, demonstrated a significant care is appropriate where there is diagnostic doubt, where symptoms are severe, or refractory to first- line treatments, benefit on dyspepsia symptoms, compared with conventional (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). should be to test the patient for H. pylori infection, because pres- ► We recommend that gastric emptying testing or 24- hour pH ence of the infection will dictate initial management. If testing monitoring should not be undertaken routinely in patients has been done previously, and infection was either not present, with typical symptoms of FD (recommendation: strong, or was present but FD symptoms have not responded to eradica- quality of evidence: very low). tion therapy, treatment should commence with first- line drugs, Figure 2 Treatment algorithm for functional dyspepsia. *Successful eradication of H. pylori should only be confirmed in those with an increased risk of gastric cancer. +Triggers may include spicy food or alcohol, for example, but there is insufficient evidence to recommend specific dietary therapies, including a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, di- and monosaccharides, and polyols in FD. †Overall, there is insufficient evidence to make recommendations regarding whether any treatment should be preferred in patients with EPS or PDS. ‡Efficacy of prokinetics varies according to drug class, and many of these drugs are unavailable outside of Asia and the USA. Most trials of acotiamide have been conducted in patients with PDS. §There is no evidence that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, used as gut–brain neuromodulators, are an efficacious treatment for FD. ∞Tricyclic antidepressants should be used as a first-c hoice gut–brain neuromodulator. They can be initiated in primary or secondary care, starting at a dose of 10 mg at night, and titrating slowly (eg, by 10 mg per week) according to response and tolerability. Continue for at least 6–12 months if
