Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


starting at a dose of 10 mg at night, and titrating slowly (eg, by 10 mg per week) according to response and tolerability. Continue for at least 6–12 months if the patient reports a symptomatic benefit. ⁑Mirtazapine may be useful in patients with FD and early satiation and weight loss. EPS, epigastric pain syndrome; FD, functional dyspepsia; PDS, postprandial distress syndrome. 1708 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines according to patient choice (figure 2). Second-l ine drugs are The efficacy of a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, disac- measures. All decisions regarding treatment choices should be explored in FD. One study suggested it was more effective than made by the patient, with advice and support from the clinician. standard or traditional dietetic advice, which included reducing intake of caffeine, alcohol, fat, fibre, and food additives, with a response rate of 50% vs 16%, respectively.177 However, this was Recommendations small and non-r andomised, and most individuals had overlapping ► We recommend that all patients with FD are advised to take IBS. Moreover, the low FODMAP diet was only followed for 4 regular aerobic exercise (recommendation: strong, quality of weeks, incorporating only the strict elimination phase where all evidence: very low). FODMAPs are excluded; long-t erm outcomes following re-i n- troduction of FODMAPs, and personalisation of the diet were Diet not explored. An RCT from India has since addressed some of The intake of food frequently triggers symptoms in people these issues, reporting no significant difference in response rates with FD, with over 80% of patients fulfilling Rome IV criteria between a low FODMAP diet and traditional dietary advice in FD, for PDS.29 However, evidence to support the use of dietary both in the short-t erm at 4 weeks (67% vs 57%) and at 12-w eek interventions in FD is limited, with data mainly derived from follow-u p (46% vs 41%).178 On subgroup analysis, patients with observational studies, not RCTs. The mechanism by which PDS appeared to respond better to a low FODMAP diet, whereas food items evoke symptoms in FD is heterogeneous and incom- no difference was seen in EPS. However, these findings should pletely understood, but is thought to relate to alterations in be viewed with caution as the study was not powered to examine gastroduodenal motility, gastric accommodation, immune acti- response rates according to individual FD subtype. vation, visceral hypersensitivity, microbial composition and Further large RCTs of
