Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


FD. We considered RCTs comparing drugs with with FD is unclear. With regard to beverages, observational placebo or each other, with cross- over trials eligible for inclusion, studies evaluating alcohol consumption in FD are conflicting. provided extractable data were available at the end of the first Although some studies report no association,32 169 others have treatment period, prior to cross- over. Studies recruited adults found beer and wine to be particularly problematic,170 and from primary, secondary, or tertiary care with FD diagnosed by increasing alcohol consumption to be associated with worsening any criteria (including clinical impression). It is important to of dyspeptic symptoms,171 suggesting that avoidance or reduc- point out that, unlike in IBS, there is no accepted or approved tion of alcohol is advisable.163 Similarly, caffeine has been associ- endpoint to judge symptom response in FD, and therefore, most ated with symptom induction in 50% of patients.163 One- in- two RCTs use measures such as improvement in, satisfactory relief people with FD demonstrate chemical hypersensitivity to capsa- of, or cure of, global FD symptoms or epigastric pain. Eligible icin, a component of spicy foods, with desensitisation following trials had to report efficacy of treatment in terms of any of these chronic ingestion.172 173 endpoints as a dichotomous assessment. Individuals with FD may also report sensitivity to wheat- based We considered the following treatments: eradication therapy products,174 although the prevalence of coeliac disease in FD is for patients with FD who were H. pylori- positive, histamine-- not significantly different than among healthy controls.133 A receptor antagonists (HRAs), PPIs, prokinetics (including drugs small open- label study comprising 22 patients with FD reported acting on dopamine receptors, such as domperidone, itopride that a gluten-f ree diet improved symptoms in over 80% of cases, or metoclopramide, 5- hydroxytryptamine (5-H T) receptor although only one- quarter reacted to gluten-c ontaining capsules agonists, such as mosapride or tegaserod, or the acetylcholin- following a subsequent double- blind placebo- controlled rechal- esterase inhibitor acotiamide) or gut–brain neuromodulators lenge.175 A double-b lind placebo-c ontrolled crossover trial was (including TCAs, SSRIs, SNRIs, antipsychotics, such as sulpiride unsuccessful in its attempt to identify which component of or levosulpiride, drugs acting on 5- HT receptors, such as 1A wheat may trigger symptoms in FD, as it recruited only 11 of the buspirone or tandospirone, or gabapentinoids) (online supple- 60 participants needed.176 mental table 1). Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi:
