Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


literature search identified 1381 citations, of which 11 reported symptom cure were included in the analysis, most of were incorporated into this guideline,186–196 and used to update which assessed this at 12 months, there was still a significant meta- analyses. Agreement between reviewers for study eligi- benefit of H. pylori eradication therapy (RR of symptoms not bility was excellent (kappa statistic=0.90). Of these 11 studies, being cured=0.91; 95% CI 0.88 to 0.94) (online supplemental 10 compared H. pylori eradication therapy with a control or figure 3), with low heterogeneity between studies (I2=7%). Total placebo,186–195 and were used to update a previous pairwise meta- numbers of adverse events were only reported by eight RCTs, analysis,182 185 and one compared pregabalin with placebo,196 containing 1937 patients, but were significantly more common and was used to update both a previous pairwise meta-a nalysis with eradication therapy. Individual adverse events were not and a network meta-a nalysis.27 181 Recommendations for all reported in sufficient detail by the trials to allow further assess- other treatments are, therefore, made based on the results of ment. Withdrawals due to adverse events were reported by 18 existing pairwise and network meta-a nalyses. trials and were again significantly more likely than with control All data for newly identified RCTs were extracted inde- therapy. pendently by two investigators on to a Microsoft Excel spread- Although the treatment effect is modest, cure of symptoms at sheet (XP professional edition; Microsoft, Redmond, WA, USA). 12 months is a stringent endpoint, and it is likely that eradication Again, we resolved disagreements between investigators by therapy for H. pylori- positive patients with FD is cost- effective, discussion. We extracted data as intention-t o- treat analyses, with as it only needs to be taken for 1–2 weeks.185 In terms of which all drop- outs assumed to be treatment failures, wherever trial patients are more likely to respond, one trial demonstrated a reporting allowed this. We incorporated data from newly iden- significant effect of eradication therapy on epigastric pain and tified trials into existing pairwise and network meta-a nalyses. As burning, but not early satiation or postprandial fullness,190 we examined binary outcomes, (global FD symptoms or epigas- suggesting the benefit may be more pronounced in EPS. tric pain cured or not cured, or global FD symptoms or epigas- tric pain improved or not improved), we expressed the impact of each intervention as an RR of global
