Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


tric pain cured or not cured, or global FD symptoms or epigas- tric pain improved or not improved), we expressed the impact of each intervention as an RR of global FD symptoms or epigastric Recommendations pain not being cured or not improving, together with 95% CIs, ► Eradication therapy is an efficacious treatment for H. pylori- where if the RR is less than 1 and the 95% CI does not cross 1, positive patients with FD. Adverse events are more common there is a significant benefit of the intervention over the control. than with a control therapy (recommendation: strong; This approach is the most stable, compared with RR of improve- quality of evidence: high). ment, or using the OR, for some meta-a nalyses.197 We used Review Manager V.5.4.1 (RevMan for Windows Drugs used first line for H. pylori-negative FD or after a lack 2020, the Nordic Cochrane Centre, Copenhagen, Denmark) for of response to eradication therapy in H. pylori-positive FD updates to pairwise meta-a nalyses. We conducted an updated Acid suppression therapy network meta-a nalysis using the frequentist model, with the In patients with FD who test negative for H. pylori, or who are statistical package ‘netmeta’ (V.0.9–0, positive but in whom eradication therapy does not lead to an org/web/packages/netmeta/index.html) in R (V.4.0.2). Network improvement in symptoms, there are several drug classes that meta-a nalysis usually gives a more precise estimate, compared are proposed to be of benefit. Although there is no evidence to with results from standard, pairwise meta-a nalysis.198 199 It suggest that the pathophysiology of FD is related to an over- according to a P-s core, which is a value between 0 and 1, with strate impaired duodenal clearance of acid and duodenal higher scores indicating a greater probability of a treatment hypersensitivity to infused gastric acid.69 There is little data being ranked as best.201 For both pairwise and network meta- to support use of antacids, alginates, sucralfate or bismuth to analyses, we pooled data using a random effects model, to give a improve FD symptoms,184 although given antacids and alginates more conservative estimate of efficacy of individual therapies,202 are available over the counter they are likely to be used by people and we assessed heterogeneity using the I2 statistic, which ranges with FD. However, there is evidence that acid suppression from 0% to 100%, with 0% representing no observed heteroge- therapy with HRAs or PPIs is
