Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


reduced with HRAs vs placebo (0.83; 95% CI 0.71 to 0.98) appropriate. In addition, among individual drugs only tegas- (online supplemental figure 5). Total adverse events and treat- erod, which is not widely available outside of the USA, and is ment withdrawals were no more likely with HRAs than with unlicensed for FD, was more efficacious than placebo, although placebo in seven trials. However, trial quality was low, there was these two trials were rigorously conducted.209 Only three RCTs significant heterogeneity between studies (I2=77% for symptom of prokinetics reported effect on cure of symptoms, meaning improvement and I2=87% for symptom cure), and many of these that firm conclusions cannot be drawn. Adverse event rates were RCTs were older and recruited patients whose symptom profiles no higher than with placebo in five trials. Treatment discontin- would no longer be considered compatible with FD, including uation due to adverse events was significantly more likely with those with reflux- predominant dyspepsia. In the network meta- tegaserod in two RCTs, but comparable with placebo for trials of analysis, doses of PPIs<20 mg were classed as low dose,≥20 mg acotiamide, itopride, and mosapride. to ≤30 mg standard dose, and >30 mg high dose. There were As with RCTs of HRAs and PPIs, there were insufficient 16 RCTs of PPIs, using low, standard or high doses of these drugs studies reporting on efficacy of prokinetics in patients with EPS in FD, containing 6017 patients, which reported on improve- or PDS to make recommendations as to whether their use should ment in symptoms. Overall, standard dose PPIs (RR=0.86; be preferred in a subset of patients. Most RCTs of acotiamide 95% CI 0.78 to 0.95) and low dose PPIs (RR=0.89; 95% CI have been conducted in PDS, and one placebo-c ontrolled trial 0.81 to 0.97) were more efficacious than placebo, but there was of itopride assessed the impact on individual FD symptoms and no benefit of high dose PPIs (RR=0.86; 95% CI 0.74 to 1.01) demonstrated a significant reduction in PDS symptoms such (online supplemental figure 6), with significant heterogeneity as postprandial fullness, early satiation and upper abdominal between studies in all these analyses. However, there was no bloating.210 In addition, many of these drugs have limited avail- difference in efficacy between the different doses on subgroup ability outside of the USA and Asia. analysis (p value for χ2=0.90). In terms of symptom cure, there were 10 RCTs,
