Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


difference in efficacy between the different doses on subgroup ability outside of the USA and Asia. analysis (p value for χ2=0.90). In terms of symptom cure, there were 10 RCTs, containing 4667 patients. In this analysis there Recommendations was a benefit of all doses of PPIs, with no heterogeneity for high dose PPIs but significant heterogeneity for standard and low dose ► Histamine- 2 - receptor antagonists may be an efficacious treatment for FD. These drugs are well tolerated (recom- PPIs, suggesting there may be lower confidence in the effect esti- mendation: weak, quality of evidence: low). mate for standard or low dose PPIs. There were no significant differences between these subgroup analyses by dose according ► PPIs are an efficacious treatment for FD. There does not to the χ2 test (p value for χ2=0.92) (online supplemental figure appear to be a dose response, so the lowest dose that controls symptoms should be used. These drugs are well-t olerated 7). Adverse events were no more likely than with placebo in five (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: high). trials, and dropouts due to adverse events were not significantly higher in seven RCTs. ► Some prokinetics may be an efficacious treatment for FD. However, efficacy varies according to drug class, and many Trials of HRAs predated the Rome IV subgrouping of FD, 2 of these drugs are unavailable outside of Asia and the USA. and too few RCTs of PPIs reported symptom data according to Most of these drugs are well-t olerated (recommendation: whether patients had EPS or PDS to allow any meaningful anal- weak, quality of evidence: low for acotiamide, itopride, and ysis. The fact that duodenal eosinophilia is more strongly associ- mosapride, recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: ated with PDS may favour PPI use in this group but, given there or PPI use is reasonable in most patients with FD. Drugs used second line for FD: gut–brain neuromodulators Involvement of the brain–gut axis and abnormal central pain Prokinetics processing in functional gastrointestinal disorders is now estab- A subset of patients with FD demonstrates abnormal gastric lished, and FD has been retermed a DGBI.211 In fact, gut–brain motility, hypersensitivity to gastric distension and impaired neuromodulators, including low-d ose antidepressants, have fundal accommodation.52 54 58 63 208 Drugs that enhance gastro- been suggested as a therapy for many years, due to their periph- duodenal motility and accommodation of the gastric fundus eral
