Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


effect profile. They should modulators, although when individual drug classes were studied be commenced at a low dose (eg, 10 mg amitriptyline once this was only the case for TCAs in two RCTs. However, adverse daily) and titrated slowly to a maximum of 30–50 mg events leading to treatment discontinuation were no more likely once daily (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: with TCAs. Dizziness was particularly an issue with pregabalin, moderate). reported by over 50% of patients assigned to the drug.196 ► Antipsychotics, such as sulpiride 100 mg four times a day or Primary care physicians are increasingly aware of the concept levosulpiride 25 mg three times a day, may be efficacious as a of low dose antidepressants as gut–brain neuromodulators in second- line treatment for FD. There should be careful expla- DGBI. As with their use in IBS,219 the rationale for the bene- nation as to the rationale for their use and patients should fits of these drugs, in the context of DGBI, as well as their be counselled on their side effect profile (recommendation: side effect profile, needs to be explained carefully.212 This may weak, quality of evidence: low). require an open and thoughtful negotiation with some patients ► There is no evidence that SSRIs used as gut–brain neuromod- who might interpret this approach as implying that they have ulators are an efficacious second-l ine drug for global symp- these drugs are being used at low doses for their pain modula- moderate). tory properties and peripheral effects on gastrointestinal motor ► There is no evidence that SNRIs used as gut–brain neuro- and sensory function, rather than at a dose that is used to treat modulators are an efficacious second-l ine drug for global common mental disorders. In this regard, clinicians should be symptoms in FD. However, as they are efficacious in other aware of their unconscious bias toward these medications and chronic painful conditions, more trials of these drugs are should help patients to overcome the stigma around their tradi- warranted (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: tional use as antidepressants.220 Due to their sedating effects, low). they should be taken in the evening before bedtime. It should be ► Tandospirone 10 mg three times a day may be an efficacious made clear that these drugs take time to have a benefit and that second- line treatment for FD, but there is no evidence that side effects, such as
