Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


an efficacious made clear that these drugs take time to have a benefit and that second- line treatment for FD, but there is no evidence that side effects, such as drowsiness, tend to ameliorate after the first other 5-h ydroxytryptamine- agonists, including buspirone 1A 1 or 2 weeks of treatment. To minimise side effects and maximise 10 mg three times a day, are efficacious. However, more tolerability, they should be commenced at a low dose (eg, 10 mg trials of these drugs are warranted (recommendation: weak, of amitriptyline once daily) and titrated slowly in 10 mg incre- quality of evidence: low). ments, to a maximum of 30–50 mg once daily, with follow- up ► Pregabalin 75 mg once daily may be an efficacious second- to assess efficacy and tolerability. Patients often ask how long line treatment for FD but further RCTs are needed and given they will need to take these drugs for. If beneficial, the drugs its controlled drug status we advise this drug is only used in some cases, this may be even longer term. In an RCT of 478 evidence: low). 1712 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines ► Mirtazapine 15 mg once daily may be an efficacious second- anxiety or depression when compared with those with organic line treatment for patients with FD with early satiation and dyspepsia.232 weight loss, but further RCTs are needed (recommendation: A broad range of treatment modalities have been studied, but weak, quality of evidence: very low). the four main gut–brain behavioural interventions that have received focus in FD are psychodynamic therapy, CBT, stress Comparative efficacy of drugs for FD management and mindfulness, and hypnotherapy. Overall, We updated the prior network meta-a nalysis of RCTs of all the the evidence base for these approaches in FD remains limited, above drugs for FD,27 compared with placebo or each other, although other DGBI, such as IBS, have received more research incorporating the trial of pregabalin.196 Overall, there were 72 attention.233 Moreover, the lack of data needs to be considered in trials, containing 19 315 patients. Of these, 12 573 received a the context of the difficulties that psychological therapy research drug for FD and 6742 a placebo, allocated as described in online faces generally. With respect to RCTs, these difficulties include supplemental table 2. There were more trials, and more drugs small sample sizes, difficulties in establishing control groups, studied, than
