Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


online faces generally. With respect to RCTs, these difficulties include supplemental table 2. There were more trials, and more drugs small sample sizes, difficulties in establishing control groups, studied, than in the pairwise meta-a nalyses of placebo-c ontrolled heterogeneity of patients and establishing long- term benefits. trials reported above, due to the incorporation of head-t o- head In turn, meta- analysis of gut–brain behavioural therapies in FD RCTs comparing one drug directly with another. has proven difficult due to the underlying heterogeneity of indi- Network meta-a nalysis suggested that, compared with vidual RCTs.234 placebo, antipsychotics (sulpiride or levosulpiride) were ranked Psychodynamic interpersonal therapy is a form of therapy, first (RR of symptoms not improving=0.49; 95% CI 0.36 to delivered in set sessions via a manual (manualised), that focuses 0.69, p=0.97) (online supplemental figure 10), followed by on the patient’s interpersonal difficulties, which are then pregabalin (RR=0.53; 95% CI 0.28 to 1.01, p=0.89), with explored, revealed, and modified. It has been shown to be useful TCAs ranked third (RR=0.71; 95% CI 0.58 to 0.87, p=0.83), in depression, but also as a treatment in IBS.235 The single RCT and with significant heterogeneity between studies (I2=59%). conducted in patients with FD, to date, included 95 patients However, although TCAs were ranked third in in our primary who had failed to respond to conventional pharmacological analysis, there was moderate confidence in estimates of their approaches.236 The intervention arm received seven sessions of efficacy, and they were ranked second when only low risk of bias psychodynamic interpersonal psychotherapy, with the control trials were included. It is also important to point out that four of arm randomised to receive supportive therapy and attention that the five trials of TCAs recruited patients whose symptoms were was equivalent, in both time and frequency, to the intervention. refractory to acid suppression therapy, prokinetics, or both. In By the end of treatment, patients who had undergone psycho- contrast, the three trials of sulpiride and levosulpiride were all at dynamic interpersonal therapy reported a significantly greater unclear risk of bias, and contained only 86 patients, and the trial improvement in symptoms at 12 weeks, compared with control. of pregabalin was small, and the overall result not statistically However, 1 year later, a benefit was only seen when patients significant in this analysis. Of the top three ranked drugs, the with severe heartburn were excluded, although assessing efficacy results for TCAs are,
