Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


a benefit was only seen when patients significant in this analysis. Of the top three ranked drugs, the with severe heartburn were excluded, although assessing efficacy results for TCAs are, therefore, likely to be the most robust. All at this point was hampered by the dropout rate. this suggests that earlier use of TCAs in FD may be beneficial, Core conflictual relationship therapy, which is another and that large head- to- head studies of TCAs versus conventional psychodynamic- informed modality of psychotherapy that therapies, such as PPIs, are required in primary care. Other drugs focuses on interpersonal conflicts and emotion changes, led to a with a benefit, compared with placebo, included HRAs (RR 0.81; significant improvement in all symptoms of FD, compared with 95% CI 0.74 to 0.90, p=0.68), standard dose PPIs (RR=0.84; standard management, at the end of treatment, and 1 month and 95% CI 0.77 to 0.91, p=0.61), low dose PPIs (RR=0.86; 95% 12 months later.237 Patients included had experienced persistent CI 0.79 to 0.94, p=0.51), itopride (RR=0.87; 95% CI 0.77 to dyspepsia for at least 3 months and had been treated for H. 0.99, p=0.49), and acotiamide (RR=0.89; 95% CI 0.79 to 0.99, pylori infection, if appropriate, and received either an HRA p=0.44). There was no benefit of domperidone, tegaserod, high or a PPI. The active treatment arm also demonstrated reduced dose PPIs, mosapride, SNRIs, SSRIs, or 5- HT agonists. When symptoms of depression, anxiety and interpersonal sensitivity. 1A we assessed comparative efficacy, antipsychotics were superior However, this was an intensive intervention, consisting of 16 to all other agents, except pregabalin, TCAs, and mirtazapine. sessions over a 4- month period, with two preliminary sessions TCAs were superior to SSRIs, mosapride, and 5-H T agonists. before therapy started. 1A HRAs and both low and standard dose PPIs were comparable The largest study of a gut–brain behavioural therapy in FD with each other. included 158 patients meeting Rome III criteria randomised to either medical treatment plus psychotherapy or medical therapy alone.238 The psychotherapy was delivered as eight group Gut–brain behavioural therapies therapy sessions and two individual sessions. The psychotherapy For many years, it has been suggested that DGBI are influenced focused on teaching coping strategies for FD and included by the biopsychosocial model of gastrointestinal illness.227 adapted cognitive behavioural principles. Compared with other The symptoms of FD have a significant impact on quality of studies of gut–brain behavioural therapy,
