Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


by the biopsychosocial model of gastrointestinal illness.227 adapted cognitive behavioural principles. Compared with other The symptoms of FD have a significant impact on quality of studies of gut–brain behavioural therapy, there was a higher life.228 With this impact in mind, it is worth considering the non- completion rate for the intervention group, with only 55% role of psychological and social factors that may accompany completing the full course of treatment. Both treatment arms the gastrointestinal symptoms, as well as comorbid psycholog- showed an improvement in symptoms at 6-m onth follow-u p, ical or psychiatric disorders. Gastric sensitivity in patients with but with a statistically significant difference in FD symptoms, with significant associations with a history of sexual abuse, the active intervention. Patients in the psychotherapy group also of people with FD exhibit psychological comorbidity, signifi- and felt the benefits were more meaningful and worthwhile cantly higher than controls.230 231 It has also been shown that compared with the control arm. However, as the study did not individuals with FD are more likely to have moderate to severe include a supportive therapy arm, it could be argued that it is Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: 1713 Guidelines not clear what aspect of the therapy was beneficial to the patient reducing symptoms of FD, anxiety and depression in both the and whether improvements were because the intervention arm short and long term, compared with the other two treatment received more time and attention compared with control. arms. Hypnotherapy reduced healthcare utilisation, with 90% The potential benefits of CBT and stress management are that of the patients in the HRA group and 82% of patients in the they allow patients to increase their coping skills and improve supportive therapy group commencing another medication for social support. They have been shown to be effective in other FD during follow- up, compared with 0% in the hypnotherapy DGBI, such as IBS.233 For patients with FD, flexible coping group. The hypnotherapy group visited their GP or gastroen- psychotherapy appeared beneficial in one RCT.239 Seventy- five terologist significantly less than those in the supportive group participants were randomised to receive a manualised psycho- (median <1 visit vs 4 visits, respectively). Like many forms of therapy, which included psychoeducation, exploring sources gut–brain behavioural therapy, the evidence base for hypno- of stress, and how this influenced gastric symptoms, with the therapy in FD is positive, but limited,
