Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


which included psychoeducation, exploring sources gut–brain behavioural therapy, the evidence base for hypno- of stress, and how this influenced gastric symptoms, with the therapy in FD is positive, but limited, and there are concerns aim of developing focused coping strategies. The control group regarding availability, cost of delivery, time intensity and exper- received supportive therapy sessions, where they were asked tise to deliver it. to express their feelings and distress related to FD symptoms, In summary, a wide range of different modalities of gut–brain also receiving a degree of psychoeducation. Both groups had a behavioural interventions have shown potential benefits for reduction in FD symptoms and anxiety, but only the intervention patients with FD, not only in terms of psychological symptoms, group reported symptoms at a comparable level with a healthy but also gastrointestinal symptoms and quality of life. The offer community sample at follow-u p. of gut–brain behavioural intervention should, therefore, not Another RCT compared long- term outcomes with stan- be restricted to those with psychological symptoms or distress. dardised symptom- oriented 4- month therapy, intensive medical However, to date, RCTs are heterogeneous, focusing on different therapy with testing for and targeting of abnormalities of motor forms of therapy, duration, symptoms and intensity of delivery. and sensory function, or intensive medical therapy plus either Although studies have invariably shown benefits to patients, the progressive muscle relaxation or CBT in patients whose symp- small samples, varying methodology and differences in the forms toms did not improve with conventional therapies.240 In the of gut–brain behavioural therapy used mean it is not possible to related quality of life improved in patients in the intensive medical is therefore likely to depend on local availability of the different therapy, intensive medical therapy plus progressive muscle relax- modalities, patient preference for the nature of the therapy, ation, and intensive medical therapy plus CBT groups, compared duration and intensity. More RCTs of gut–brain behavioural with standard therapy. However, there was inequity in delivery therapies are needed to elucidate when to use these treatments, of the interventions, with those randomised to CBT receiving and in which patients. 20 sessions, compared with only five in the progressive muscle relaxation arm. This difference, or the therapeutic nature of the modalities, may explain the fact that although improvements in Recommendations anxiety and depression were seen in all groups, other than the ► Interpersonal psychodynamic informed psychotherapy standard therapy group, the
