Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


modalities, may explain the fact that although improvements in Recommendations anxiety and depression were seen in all groups, other than the ► Interpersonal psychodynamic informed psychotherapy standard therapy group, the most significant reductions were may be an efficacious treatment for global symptoms in FD seen in the intensive medical therapy plus CBT arm. (recommendation: weak, quality of evidence: very low). Metacognitive therapy shares many characteristics with CBT, ► CBT and metacognitive therapy may be an efficacious treat- but instead of challenging intrusive thoughts and dysfunctional ment for global symptoms in FD (recommendation: weak, beliefs it addresses approaches to dealing with these thoughts quality of evidence: very low). and preventing their persistence. Ten 45 min sessions of meta- ► Stress management approaches may be an efficacious treat- cognitive therapy were effective in FD, reducing anxiety and ment for global symptoms in FD (recommendation: weak, depression significantly, compared with either nortriptyline or a quality of evidence: very low). control group receiving usual medical therapy.241 The impact of ► Hypnotherapy may be an efficacious treatment for global metacognitive therapy was also shown 3 months after treatment. symptoms in FD (recommendation: weak, quality of There was no significant difference in emotion regulation diffi- evidence: very low). culties between the three treatment arms. Stress management has also been shown to be effective in Approach to the patient with severe or refractory symptoms reducing anxiety and depression, as well as global symptoms Severe FD lacks a precise consensus definition but a number of in one small trial, recruiting 28 patients with FD.242 This inter- validated severity scores are available, including the Glasgow vention was relatively easy to deliver and brief, consisting of Dyspepsia Severity Score,246 The Functional Dyspepsia Symptom seven sessions. However, follow-u p was only 3 weeks duration, Diary247 and the Leuven Postprandial Distress Scale,248 used meaning the long-t erm effects are unknown. primarily in research settings. Refractory FD is a related, but For patients with IBS, hypnotherapy has one of the largest distinct, term again with no consensus definition. It is considered evidence bases for both short-t erm and long-t erm efficacy.233 The to encompass the 20%–40% of patients who do not respond to treatment has been delivered using IBS- specific protocols and first- line measures,249 and the 25% of patients who exhibit either the content of the therapy can be tailored to the patient’s symp- more persistent or severe symptoms.250 toms.243 244 Despite
