Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


that duodenal Recommendations eosinophil counts in this study were well within the range seen in ► We recommend a multidisciplinary support team should be patients with FD,93 and that some participants likely had symp- involved for patients with severe or refractory FD (recom- toms compatible with FD, this suggests that trials of the drug for mendation: strong, quality of evidence: low). this indication may be warranted. ► We recommend opioids and surgery should be avoided in Potassium- competitive acid blockers, which are a relatively patients with severe or refractory FD to minimise iatrogenic new class of acid suppression drugs, have already been tested in harm (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very patients with GORD,300 and it is hoped that there will be future low). trials in FD. However, given that excess acid production is not ► We recommend patients with severe or refractory FD involved in FD pathophysiology, any benefit may be modest as presenting with weight loss and food restriction are assessed with PPIs. In addition, the drugs are still unavailable outside of for eating disorders and disordered eating, including ARFID Asia. As FD and idiopathic gastroparesis are indistinguishable (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very low). clinically,18 and patients seem to move between these two diag- ► We recommend early dietitian involvement in patients with noses during extended follow- up,16 drugs undergoing testing in severe or refractory FD to avoid an overly restrictive diet gastroparesis may also have applications in patients with FD. (recommendation: strong, quality of evidence: very low). Ghrelin agonists, like relamorelin,301 5- HT agonists, such as prucalopride or velusetrag,302 303 and aprepitant and tradipitant, Drugs in development and other therapies which are neurokinin-- receptor antagonists,304 305 alter gastric Alterations in the duodenal microbiota may also be implicated physiology and improve symptoms in patients with gastropa- in the pathophysiology of FD.99 Despite increasing interest in resis. RCTs of these drugs in patients with FD should, therefore, the small intestinal microbiome, and in contrast to IBS,291 there be considered. has been only one RCT of antibiotics in FD. This trial of the minimally absorbed antibiotic rifaximin, conducted in Hong Kong, demonstrated significantly higher rates of adequate relief RESEARCH: BARRIERS, PRIORITIES AND IMPLICATIONS FOR of global symptoms and postprandial fullness,292 but more RCTs FUTURE STUDY DESIGN are needed before any definitive conclusions can be drawn. Any A better understanding of the pathophysiology of FD and its evidence for a
