Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


fullness,292 but more RCTs FUTURE STUDY DESIGN are needed before any definitive conclusions can be drawn. Any A better understanding of the pathophysiology of FD and its evidence for a benefit of probiotics in FD is even less clear than disease mechanisms should lead to improved diagnostic tests to in IBS.293 However, in an RCT, 8 weeks of Bacillus coagulans discriminate FD from other disorders with similar or overlap- MY01 and Bacillus subtilis MY02 was more efficacious than ping symptoms for research purposes, rather than merely relying placebo in terms of likelihood of symptom improvement in 68 on symptom- based criteria and a negative endoscopy, improved patients.294 Both a decrease in Th17 signalling and an increased subgrouping of patients and, potentially, identifying new thera- relative abundance of Faecalibacterium were associated with peutic targets.50 The resulting improvement in characterisation efficacy. Rikkunshito, which is a traditional Japanese kampo of patients may help reduce heterogeneity in both research and cial in one trial,295 with significant improvements in epigastric duodenal eosinophilia, require endoscopy and biopsy,85 204 yet pain, and higher rates of improvement of postprandial fullness. the utility of endoscopy in patients with typical symptoms of However, a subsequent Belgian RCT did not demonstrate any FD is minimal,2 which may limit the suitability of this approach. benefit over placebo.296 In patients with PDS, acupuncture was Current drug treatments for FD are modest in their effi- superior to a sham procedure in one Chinese trial recruiting over cacy,27 146 181–185 and patients may be dissatisfied with current 200 patients, but this needs confirmation in other geographical available medicines and seek out alternatives.306 The lack of regions.297 availability of, or safety concerns related to, some efficacious It is hoped that a better understanding of disease mechanisms drugs, including most prokinetics in many geographical regions, in FD will lead to new therapeutic targets and, therefore, either exacerbates these problems. There are also logistical difficul- development of novel drugs, or repurposing of existing ones. ties in organising large-s cale RCTs to test new medicines for Histamine is released by mast cells and the intestinal micro- FD. Despite this being a highly prevalent condition, trials are biome. A small uncontrolled study suggested simultaneous use not easy to run and patient recruitment may be slow or even of HRAs and HRAs may be a promising approach.298 In this inadequate. The latter probably relates to several factors. These 1 2 study,
