Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


patient recruitment may be slow or even of HRAs and HRAs may be a promising approach.298 In this inadequate. The latter probably relates to several factors. These 1 2 study, 14 patients with refractory symptoms were prescribed include overly rigid eligibility criteria, the theoretical necessity loratadine and ranitidine, with 10 (71%) experiencing symptom to employ endoscopy to make a diagnosis of FD, and the false improvement subsequently. Higher duodenal eosinophil counts belief that gastric emptying studies are required to differentiate predicted response. RCTs of this strategy should be considered. between FD and gastroparesis.16 There may also be a lack of Duodenal eosinophilia may also represent a target for future understanding among many GPs and gastroenterologists of the treatment. As discussed, PPIs appear to reduce eosinophilia and symptoms that constitute FD, as well as confusion with GORD.117 1716 Black CJ, et al. Gut 2022;71:1697–1723. doi: Guidelines in secondary and tertiary care, whereas most patients with FD aprepitant and tradipitant should be considered. are seen and treated in primary care.107 Patient- level factors are vii. Head- to- head trials of TCAs versus acid suppressant also important. There may be reluctance to participate in trials if drugs, such as PPIs or histamine-- receptor antagonists, this entails too many visits, invasive procedures, or a high burden as first- line drug therapy for FD in primary care. of symptom data collection, such as daily diaries. In addition, despite FD being a chronic DGBI with fluctuating symptoms that CONCLUSIONS can significantly impair quality of life,29 and in contrast to IBS, FD is a complex, multifactorial DGBI, which is highly prevalent the role of dietary therapies, some gut–brain neuromodulators, in the community, and is one of the conditions most frequently adequately and remains uncertain.234 the majority of patients are seen and managed in primary care. Thus, future trials may need to consider a more pragmatic An effective approach to the diagnosis and management of FD approach, with patients recruited using a less rigid definition is, therefore, important to healthcare systems, patients and of FD, avoidance of the need for endoscopy to ‘diagnose’ the society. This guideline summarises current evidence to provide a condition by excluding patients with alarm symptoms or signs, practical guide for clinicians seeing patients with the condition, and only the minimum important data collected. More RCTs underlining the importance of effective communication, making in primary care, where the bulk of patients with FD are
