Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, dyspepsia, symptoms, functional, evidence, functional dyspepsia, gut, therapy, low, quality, gastric, treatment, drugs, pylori, study


with the condition, and only the minimum important data collected. More RCTs underlining the importance of effective communication, making in primary care, where the bulk of patients with FD are seen a positive diagnosis, and reducing unnecessary investigation. It and managed, are also required. Placebo-c ontrolled treatment recommends instituting appropriate, evidence- based treatments trials may also need to consider a cross-o ver to, or open- label according to presence of H. pylori, global patient assessment, treatment with, the active drug after follow-u p for the primary and patient choice, to address both symptoms and quality of endpoint has been reached, as has been done in other trials in life within a biopsychosocial framework. It has also highlighted DGBI,307 to increase appeal to patients. More head- to- head emerging new therapeutic options for FD and priority areas for studies of one drug versus another are also required, similar to ongoing research. the direct comparisons of management strategies for dyspepsia that have taken place in multiple RCTs.153 A virtual approach Author affiliations to recruitment, already introduced in other DGBI,308 309 with 1Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK lead to faster successful recruitment to large pragmatic trials. Manchester, UK 4Gastroenterology, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, UK 5Doncaster and Bassetlaw Hospitals NHS Trust, Doncaster, UK Recommendations 6Academic Unit of Gastroenterology, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Sheffield, Sheffield, UK burden, and virtual (remote access) trial approaches to reduce ticipants should be considered. 3. A priority- setting partnership with patients would best dis- NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK cern valuable research questions. 13University of Nottingham and Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre, School of i. Characterisation of the illness to understand predictors Twitter Christopher J Black @DrCJBlack and Richard C Winning @winning_r of outcome and treatment response, determinants of re- Acknowledgements We are grateful to Karen Andrews and Stevie Vanhegan from the Patient Advisory Group, Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, and fractory illness and burden of illness (particularly with respect to workplace productivity) by conducting large- reading this guideline and providing feedback from the patient perspective. scale epidemiological studies with extended observation. Contributors Guarantor of the article: ACF is guarantor. Specific author ii. Consideration should be given to stratifying RCTs by contributions: CB, PAP, AA, IA, MPE, LAH, PH, RO, DHV, SR, RCW, MC and ACF FD severity and subtype, burden of extraintestinal symp- conceived and drafted the study. All authors drafted the manuscript. ACF, MC, CB toms,
