Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


ABSTRACT Amenorrhea not due to pregnancy, lactation, or menopause is a relatively common abnormality of the reproductive years and indicative of a defect somewhere in the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-uterine axis. This chapter considers the various causes of amenorrhea and their treatment. It also considers the diagnosis and treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding at all stages of life. AMENORRHEA The prevalence of amenorrhea that is not due to pregnancy, lactation, or menopause is 3 to 4% (1,2). Amenorrhea indicates failure of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis to induce cyclic changes in the endometrium that normally result in menses and also may result from the absence of end organs or from obstruction of the outflow tract. It is important to remember that amenorrhea may result from an abnormality at any level of the reproductive tract. How long a woman must be amenorrheic before it is considered pathologic is arbitrary; however, any woman who presents with concerns about the absence of menses should be evaluated. Amenorrhea may be defined as 1) the absence of menstruation for 3 or more months in women with past menses (i.e., secondary amenorrhea) or 2) the absence of menarche by the age of 15 years in girls who have never menstruated (i.e., primary amenorrhea). Recent data suggest that pubertal development, and hence menarche, continues to begin earlier in American girls (3). Consequently, some clinicians would consider initiating evaluation of a girl with primary amenorrhea by age 14, particularly if 5 or more years had passed since the first evidence of pubertal development. Women who menstruate fewer than 9 times in any 12-month period (defined as oligomenorrhea) should be evaluated identically to women with secondary amenorrhea. These women are typically oligo- or anovulatory. The separation of amenorrhea into the categories primary and secondary is artificial and should not be considered in the evaluation of the amenorrheic woman. Likewise, the term “postpill” amenorrhea, sometimes used to refer to women who do not menstruate within 3 months of discontinuing oral contraceptives, conveys nothing about the cause of the amenorrhea and should not alter the evaluation. Amenorrhea is not a diagnosis in itself but rather a sign of a disorder. In general, menses general occur at intervals of 28 ± 3 days in two-thirds of women, with a normal range of 18-40 days. It is useful to think about 3 broad categories of amenorrhea: Anatomic causes, including pregnancy, that almost always can be identified by physical
