Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


In association with congenital thymic aplasia 4. Physical Insults 1. Chemotherapeutic (especially alkylating) agents 2. Ionizing radiation 3. Viral agents 4. Surgical extirpation 5. Gonadotropin-Secreting Pituitary Tumors (Extremely Rare) 6. Idiopathic 3. Chronic Anovulation 1. Hypothalamic 1. Psychogenic, including pseudocyesis 2. Exercise-associated 3. Eating disorders, nutritional 4. 2□ to systemic illness 5. Hypothalamic neoplasms 6. Some forms of isolated (idiopathic) hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (including Kallmann syndrome) 2. Pituitary 1. Some forms of isolated (idiopathic) hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (including Kallmann Syndrome) 2. Hypopituitarism 3. Pituitary neoplasms, including mucroadenomas 3. With inappropriate steroid feedback 1. Functional androgen excess (PCOS) 2. Adrenal hyperplasia 3. Neoplasms producing androgens or estrogens 4. Neoplasms producing hCG (including trophoblastic disease) 5. Liver and renal disease 6. Obesity 4. Other endocrine disorders 1. Thyroid dysfunction 2. Adrenal hyperfunction It is generally impossible to distinguish between ovarian failure and chronic anovulation without laboratory testing. The most important aspect of the clinical evaluation is the history and physical examination. During the physical examination, special attention should be directed toward evaluating: Body dimensions and habitus. Distribution and extent of terminal androgen-stimulated body hair. Extent of breast development by Tanner staging and the presence or absence of any breast secretions. External and internal genitalia, with emphasis on evidence of exposure to androgens and estrogens. History, physical examination and determination of basal concentrations of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and prolactin will identify the most common causes of amenorrhea. Administration of exogenous progestin has been recommended in the past, both as a clinical aid to diagnosis and to evaluate the biological levels of estrogen. Either progesterone in oil (100 - 200 mg im) or medroxyprogesterone acetate (5 - 10 mg orally daily for 5 - 10 days) can be given. Any genital bleeding within 10 days of the completion of these regimens is regarded as a positive test. If the test is negative (suggesting low levels of endogenous estrogen), then an estrogen and a progestin together (e.g., oral conjugated estrogen, 2.5 mg daily for 25 days, together with oral medroxyprogesterone acetate, 5-10 mg for the last 10 days of estrogen therapy) should induce bleeding if the endometrium is normal. This test will determine with certainty if the outflow tract is intact. However, the results are not always definitive. In fact, in one survey almost half the women with so-called premature ovarian failure bled in response to progestin (4). Thus, progestin challenge should never be
