Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


are not always definitive. In fact, in one survey almost half the women with so-called premature ovarian failure bled in response to progestin (4). Thus, progestin challenge should never be used as the sole diagnostic test by which amenorrheic women should be evaluated. In women with evidence of hirsutism, at least total testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels should be determined to rule out any serious cause (Figure 1). Figure 1. Flow diagram for the laboratory evaluation of amenorrhea. Such a scheme must be considered as an adjunct to the clinical evaluation of the patient. CAH -= congenital adrenal hyperplasia; DHEAS = dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate; FSH = follicle-stimulating hormone; HCA = hypothalamic chronic anovulation; PCO = polycystic ovary syndrome; PRL = prolactin; T = testosterone; TSH = thyroid-stimulating hormone. Originally from Rebar RW, The ovaries. In: Smith LH Jr, ed. Cecil textbook of medicine, ed. 18. Philadelphia. WB Saunders, 1992:1367) The World Health Organization has divided women with amenorrhea into three groups originally based upon a suggestion of Insler (5): Group I (hypothalamic-pituitary forms of amenorrhea) consists of women with no evidence of endogenous estrogen production (based on urinary measurements), normal prolactin levels, and normal or low FSH levels. Group II (polycystic ovary syndrome) consists of women with evidence of endogenous estrogen production (on urinary measurement) and normal levels of prolactin and FSH. Group III (gonadal failure) consists of women with elevated FSH levels. HYPERGONADOTROPIC AMENORRHEA (Primary Hypogonadism; Gonadal Failure; Primary Ovarian Insufficiency) It is frequently impossible to diagnose hypergonadotropic amenorrhea, also called presumptive ovarian failure and, more recently, primary ovarian insufficiency, without the measurement of basal serum FSH levels. This is especially true because ovarian failure may occur at any time from embryonic development onward. The ovaries normally fail at the time of menopause, when virtually no viable oocytes remain. Premature ovarian failure (POF) or premature menopause generally is defined as consisting of the triad of amenorrhea, hypergonadotropinism, and hypoestrogenism in women under the age of 40 years (5a). From what is known about follicular development and atresia, it appears that premature ovarian failure can arise from abnormalities in the recruitment and selection of oocytes. The follicles may undergo atresia at an accelerated rate or a smaller than normal pool may undergo atresia at the normal rate to yield early oocyte depletion. FSH must be involved because it is the principal hormonal regulator of folliculogenesis. Circulating gonadotropin levels rise whenever ovarian
