Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


undergo atresia at the normal rate to yield early oocyte depletion. FSH must be involved because it is the principal hormonal regulator of folliculogenesis. Circulating gonadotropin levels rise whenever ovarian failure occurs because of decreased negative estrogen feedback to the hypothalamic-pituitary unit. Gonadotropin levels sometimes increase even in the presence of viable oocytes, but the explanation for such increases is unclear. Thus, use of the term POF is inappropriate. In 5-10% of patients, spontaneous pregnancy has occurred many years after the initial diagnosis (4,6). Thus, it is more appropriate to refer to this disorder as hypergonadotropic amenorrhea, primary hypogonadism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, or primary ovarian insufficiency, but the term premature ovarian failure is well established in the literature. TYPES OF PREMATURE OVARIAN FAILURE It is now clear that POF is a heterogeneous disorder. Premature loss of oocytes could result from a reduced germ cell endowment in utero, accelerated atresia, or failure of all germ cells to migrate to the genital ridges in early development. There may be marked differences in oocyte endowment and rates of follicular atresia among women (7,8). Only now are investigators learning about the molecular factors that regulate oocyte number and development. Because information in this field is changing rapidly, it is probably impossible to provide a definitive classification of the disorder, but it is possible to enumerate many of the apparent causes (Table 1). It is becoming clear that genetic abnormalities are perhaps the most important cause of premature ovarian failure (Table 1). Although it is estimated that only 10-15% of women with POF have a recognized genetic cause for their disorder(8a), this will no doubt increase with time. New genetic causes are identified almost monthly, and it is impossible to list all genetic causes in any such table. Individuals with the various forms of gonadal dysgenesis typically present with hypergonadotropic amenorrhea regardless of the extent of pubertal development and the presence or absence of associated anomalies or stigmata. It is well known that cytogenetic abnormalities of the X chromosome can impair ovarian development and function. Studies of 46,XX individuals and those with various X chromosomal depletions have confirmed that two intact X chromosomes are necessary for maintenance of oocytes (9) The gonads of 45,X fetuses contain the normal complement of oocytes at 20 to 24 weeks of fetal age, but these rapidly undergo atresia so that none are typically present by the time of birth (10).
