Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


the normal complement of oocytes at 20 to 24 weeks of fetal age, but these rapidly undergo atresia so that none are typically present by the time of birth (10). Primary or secondary amenorrhea typically occurs in women with deletions in either the short or the long arm of one X chromosome.9 Mutations at independent loci on the X chromosome at Xq26-28 (POF1), Xq13.3-22 (POF2), and Xp11.2 have been identified that also are linked to POF. One gene in the POF2 region has homology to the DIA allele in Drosophila, mutants of which result in male and female infertility. A breakpoint in the last intron of the DIAPH2 gene (the homologue of the Drosophila diaphanous gene) has been associated with familial POF in women (11). Although individuals with Turner syndrome usually are apparent on physical examination, patients with pure and mixed gonadal dysgenesis typically have no obvious identifying features. Women with pure gonadal dysgenesis, who generally present with sexual infantilism and primary amenorrhea, are of normal height and have none of the somatic abnormalities associated with Turner syndrome (12,9) Affected individuals have either a 46,XX or 46,XY karyotype. In mixed gonadal dysgenesis, a germ cell tumor or testis accounts for one gonad, with a streak, rudimentary gonad, or no gonad accounting for the other (9,13). The 45,X/46,XY karyotype is most frequent, but affected individuals may have any of several other reported karyotypes. The vast majority of affected individuals are raised as females, with mild to moderate virilization occurring at puberty. Abnormal genitalia may be noted at birth. Because of the malignant potential of intraabdominal gonads in individuals with a Y chromosomal component (14-16) the gonads should be removed. Additional X chromosomes also are present in some women with POF (17). These women typically develop normally and may bear children early in adulthood and commonly develop POF after age 30. Mutations in the Familial Mental Retardation-1 (FMR1) gene, located at Xq27 and which can lead to fragile X syndrome, can also lead to POF (18). Although the gene changes involved in the abnormalities associated with this gene are quite complex, the basic principles can be summarized. Normal individuals have 5-50 repeats of the cytosine-guanine-guanine (CGG) trinucleotide in the gene. Expansion of this trinucleotide to greater than 200 repeats inactivates the gene and leads to the fragile X syndrome. In addition to mild to severe mental retardation, affected males typically present with
