Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


this trinucleotide to greater than 200 repeats inactivates the gene and leads to the fragile X syndrome. In addition to mild to severe mental retardation, affected males typically present with long narrow faces, increased head circumference, dysmorphic ears, prominent jaws and foreheads, and large testes. Females are less severely affected, presumably because one of the two X chromosomes is inactivated independently in every cell in the body, and only one of the chromosomes carries the mutations. Some individuals have 50-200 repeats of the CGG sequences, and these individuals are considered premutation carriers. The women who are carriers of this unstable premutation can have further expansion of the trinucleotide in their germ cells and transmit the full syndrome to their offspring; in some families, the carrier state can be transmitted for several generations before expansion occurs. Men who are premutation carriers virtually never have further expansion in germ cells but can transmit the premutation to their female offspring. It is now recognized that POF develops in about 20% of female premutation carriers (19,20). In addition, about 2% of women with sporadic POF and 14% of women with familial POF have this unstable mutation (21,22). These observations make a convincing argument for testing women with POF for mutations of FMR1. Men with the premutation are known to sometimes develop tremors and ataxia as well as more subtle neurological and emotional difficulties (the so-called Fragile X-Associated Tremor-Ataxia Syndrome, FXTAS). Several other specific gene mutations (not necessarily located on the X chromosome) also can result in POF. These include mutations involving the inhibin alpha gene (INHA), a gene at chromosome 3q23 involving a forkhead transcription factor associated with blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus (BPES) type I syndrome (23,24), a family of genes associated with central nervous system leukodystrophy and ovarian failure (EIF2B) (25), the gene involving bone morphogenetic factor 15 (BMP15) which is known to play a role in folliculogenesis (26), the phosphomannomutase (PMM) gene, and the gene associated with the autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy syndrome (AIRE) (27). More recently, a mutation altering a meiosis-specific subunit of the cohesion ring, which ensures correct sister chromatid cohesion, has been identified as a cause of POF in one large family (8a). No doubt other mutations will be identified as causes of POF in some affected women. Several rare inherited enzymatic defects also may be associated with premature ovarian failure. These include partial deficiencies in four enzymes in the steroidogenic pathway,
