Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


of POF in some affected women. Several rare inherited enzymatic defects also may be associated with premature ovarian failure. These include partial deficiencies in four enzymes in the steroidogenic pathway, 17a-hydroxylase, 17,20-desmolase, 20,22-desmolase, and aromatase, as well as galactosemia. Girls with 17α-hydroxylase deficiency (involving the CYP17A gene) who survive to their teens present with sexual infantilism; primary amenorrhea; increased circulating levels of LH, FSH, deoxycorticosterone, and progesterone; and hypertension with hypokalemic alkalosis (28-30). Ovarian biopsy has revealed no evidence of orderly follicular maturation but instead has demonstrated numerous, large cysts and primordial follicles. Presumably, the enzyme deficiency does not permit normal follicular development. The startling observation that normal follicular growth and development with successful fertilization in vitro can be achieved with exogenous gonadotropins in individuals with 17α-hydroxylase deficiency raises significant questions about why there is no follicular development in affected girls (31). Several case reports have described individuals with mutations in the CYP19 (aromatase P450) gene (32-34). Aromatase deficiency appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is manifested in 46,XX individuals by female pseudohermaphroditism with clitoromegaly and posterior labioscrotal fusion at birth; enlarged cystic ovaries associated with elevated FSH levels during childhood; lack of pubertal development in association with further enlargement of the clitoris, normal development of pubic and axillary hair, and continued existence of enlarged multicystic ovaries during the teenage years; and severe estrogen deficiency, virilization, and enlarged multicystic ovaries in association with markedly elevated gonadotropin levels in adulthood. Administration of exogenous estrogen results in prompt lowering of circulating gonadotropin levels. Ovarian biopsy showed many closely packed primordial follicles in an affected 17-month old (33), but biopsy in a 13-year old showed excessive atresia (34). Girls with galactosemia, a disorder in which galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase activity is decreased and that is characterized by mental retardation, cataracts, hepatosplenomegaly, and renal tubular dysfunction, also may develop premature ovarian failure with hypergonadotropinism even when a galactose-restricted diet is introduced early in infancy (35). Data from a variety of sources indicate that abnormalities in the structure, secretion, metabolism, or action of gonadotropins can cause POF. It is now known that at least one form of premature ovarian failure is caused by mutations in the FSH receptor (FSHR). Affected individuals present with primary or secondary amenorrhea and elevated levels of FSH and may have ovarian follicles present on transvaginal ultrasound. One specific mutation on chromosome 2p (C566T: alanine to valine) in exon
