Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


primary or secondary amenorrhea and elevated levels of FSH and may have ovarian follicles present on transvaginal ultrasound. One specific mutation on chromosome 2p (C566T: alanine to valine) in exon 7 of the FSHR was identified in several Finnish families (36,37), but the mutation must be very rare outside of Finland because it has not been detected in some other populations (38,39). The “resistant ovary” syndrome may be the result of a gonadotropin postreceptor defect. As originally described, the Savage syndrome (named after the first patient described) consisted of young amenorrheic women with elevated peripheral gonadotropin concentrations, normal but immature follicles in the ovaries on biopsy, 46,XX karyotype with no evidence of mosaicism, complete sexual development, and hyposensitivity (i.e., resistance) to exogenous gonadotropin stimulation (40). Altered forms of immunoreactive LH and FSH in urinary extracts from women with POF compared to those from oophorectomized and postmenopausal women have been reported, suggesting that metabolism and/or excretion of gonadotropin is altered in some cases (41). Some individuals with POF and evidence of intermittent follicular activity may have low molecular weight receptor-binding activity that antagonizes normal FSH binding (42). Destruction of oocytes by any of several environmental insults, including ionizing radiation, various chemotherapeutic (especially alkylating) agents, and certain viral infections may accelerate follicular atresia (43). Although there is no evidence that cigarette smoking will result in POF, cigarette smokers experience menopause several months before nonsmokers. More and more girls and young women who are treated for a variety of malignancies are surviving free of disease and subsequently presenting with transient or permanent ovarian failure. Strategies for reducing the likelihood of ovarian failure in women cured of their malignancies are being investigated by several groups. Cryopreservation of oocytes and ovarian tissue before therapy remains experimental at this point in time. Still, both males and females of reproductive age should be appraised of the potential for preserving gametes before treatment of any malignancy is initiated. Approximately half of all individuals receiving 400-500 rads to the ovaries over four to six weeks will develop permanent ovarian failure (44). For any given dose of radiation, the older the woman, the greater the likelihood of her developing ovarian failure. It appears that about 800 rads is sufficient to result in permanent ovarian failure in all women. The transient nature of the hypergonadotropic amenorrhea in some women suggests that some follicles may be damaged but not destroyed by lower
