Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


result in permanent ovarian failure in all women. The transient nature of the hypergonadotropic amenorrhea in some women suggests that some follicles may be damaged but not destroyed by lower doses of radiation. To minimize the dose of radiation received by the ovaries, transposition to the pelvic sidewalls, often by laparoscopy, is recommended. One series noted preservation of ovarian function in about 90% of women undergoing transposition (45). Similarly, the older the woman at the of chemotherapy, the more likely is the ovarian failure (46). In general, it appears that the greater the number of oocytes present in the ovaries at the time of therapy with radiation or chemotherapy, the more likely it is that normal ovarian function will continue. Although the data are limited, the frequency of congenital anomalies does not appear to be increased in the children of women previously treated with chemotherapeutic agents (47). Premature ovarian failure may be associated with a number of autoimmune disorders (4). The most common association may be with thyroiditis. Ovarian failure occurs commonly in women with polyglandular failure, including hypoparathyroidism, hypoadrenalism, and mucocutaneous candidiasis4. The heterogeneous nature of this disorder is suggested by the many different endocrinopathies that may be associated with premature ovarian failure. Autoimmune ovarian failure may occur independently of any other autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune lymphocytic oophoritis was originally reported in association with adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease). Women with steroidogenic cell autoimmunity have lymphocytic oophoritis resulting in the ovarian failure. When POF occurs in association with adrenal insufficiency, the ovarian failure presents first about 90% of the time. The presence of antibodies to the 21-hydroxylase enzyme measured by a commercially available immunoprecipitation assay will identify women who may have occult adrenal insufficiency at the time of initial presentation as well as those who should be followed closely for the subsequent development of adrenal insufficiency (48,49). At the present time there is no good test to document the presence of antibodies to any specific ovarian antigens. The best evidence of antibodies to ovarian tissue comes from a study documenting FSH receptor antibodies in two women with myasthenia gravis and hypergonadotropic amenorrhea (50). Immunoglobulins that block the trophic actions of FSH but not LH also have been reported (51). The thymus gland influences reproductive function (52). Congenitally athymic girls have ovaries devoid of oocytes (53). Irradiation and chemotherapeutic (especially alkylating) agents used to treat various malignancies are increasingly causes of premature
