Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


gland influences reproductive function (52). Congenitally athymic girls have ovaries devoid of oocytes (53). Irradiation and chemotherapeutic (especially alkylating) agents used to treat various malignancies are increasingly causes of premature ovarian failure (54-56). Inexplicably, both of these modalities have been associated with “reversible” ovarian failure. Ovulation and cyclic menses return in some individuals after prolonged intervals of hypergonadotropic amenorrhea associated with signs and symptoms of profound hypoestrogenism. Preliminary studies suggest that gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues (but not oral contraceptive agents) may provide some protection from ovarian damage (57). Rarely, the mumps virus can affect the ovaries and cause ovarian failure (58). DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY OF PREMATURE OVARIAN FAILURE Individuals with premature ovarian failure warrant thorough evaluation to eliminate potentially treatable causes and to identify associated disorders that may require therapy (5a). In general, young women who experience loss of regular menses for three or more consecutive months should be evaluated. Failure to initiate pubertal development by age 13 or begin menstruating by age 15 also warrants evaluation. Several laboratory tests are indicated in women with POF, beginning with measurement of basal levels of prolactin, FSH, and TSH (after pregnancy is ruled out). FSH levels are typically greater than 30 mIU/ml in women with ovarian failure. If the FSH level is greater than 15 mIU/ml on initial screening, then the measurement should be repeated and serum estradiol should be measured as well to document hypogonadism. In addition, the simultaneous measurement of basal LH levels may be helpful in discerning if any oocytes remain. In general, if the estradiol concentration is greater than 50 pg/mL or if the LH level is significantly greater than the FSH level (in terms of mIU/mL) in any sample, the probability of viable oocytes is considerable. Irregular uterine bleeding, as an indication of estrogen stimulation, also provides good evidence of remaining functional ovarian follicles. It is not uncommon to identify women with intermittent menstruation, hypoestrogenism, and hypergonadotropinism. Visualization of follicles on transvaginal ultrasound also provides evidence of functional oocytes. Because a number of pregnancies have occurred after biopsy of ovaries devoid of oocytes, ovarian biopsy cannot be recommended for affected women. Other indicated laboratory tests include measurement of thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins (because of the frequency of thyroiditis), adrenal antibodies, fasting glucose, electrolytes, and bone density by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Also indicated are an analysis of karyotype and fragile X premutation screening, particularly in the presence of a family history
