Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


fasting glucose, electrolytes, and bone density by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Also indicated are an analysis of karyotype and fragile X premutation screening, particularly in the presence of a family history of mental retardation. If adrenal antibodies are detected, then a corticotropin stimulation test is indicated to identify women with adrenal insufficiency. One series evaluated 119 women with karyotypically normal spontaneous POF and found that 32 patients had hypothyroidism (27%) and 3 had adrenal insufficiency (2.5%) (59). Even women with X-chromosomal abnormalities have delivered normal children and subsequently developed POF prior to age 40. Thus, neither parity nor age rules out the possibility of a chromosomal abnormality. Unexpected karyotypic findings that may be inherited have important implications for other family members. Also, by finding an explanation for the POF, patients with normal karyotypes may be reassured, and the patients with abnormal karyotypes can be counselled. Surgical removal of the gonads is indicated in any individual in whom a Y chromosome is identified. Women who experience spontaneous POF are unprepared for the diagnosis. Taking the time to present the findings with sensitivity and to counsel appropriately is most important. Patients may benefit from referral to a psychologist and/or to an organization such as the Premature Ovarian Failure Support Group or Rachel’s Well ( www.rachelswell.org ). Patients should be reassessed at intervals of one to two years for the presence of other disorders associated with POF. Even in women with intermittent ovarian failure, estrogen replacement is appropriate to prevent the accelerated bone loss that occurs in affected women (4). Although exogenous estrogen may be given either as part of combined estrogen-progestin therapy or in the form of combined oral contraceptives, sequential therapy with exogenous estrogen and progestin is most physiologic. The estrogen should always be given with a progestin to prevent endometrial hyperplasia. Because women with ovarian failure may conceive while on estrogen therapy (including combined oral contraceptive agents), affected women should be counseled appropriately and cautioned to have a pregnancy test if withdrawal bleeding does not occur or if signs and symptoms suggestive of pregnancy develop. Despite these considerations, probably no other contraceptive agent is required for those women who do not wish pregnancy but who are sexually active, because pregnancy occurs in less than 10% (4). Although rare pregnancies in women with premature ovarian failure have occurred after ovulation induction with human menopausal and chorionic gonadotropins, the low likelihood should lead
