Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


in less than 10% (4). Although rare pregnancies in women with premature ovarian failure have occurred after ovulation induction with human menopausal and chorionic gonadotropins, the low likelihood should lead the physician to discourage patients from selecting such therapy. There is no evidence that ovulation and pregnancy occur more commonly in response to ovulation induction than spontaneously in these patients. Hormone replacement treatment to mimic the normal menstrual cycle, with oocyte donation for embryo transfer, provides the greatest possibility for pregnancy in women desiring pregnancy (60,61). There are no data documenting safety of estrogen-progestin in young women with POF, but there are no reports of excessive risks either. Findings documenting risks in postmenopausal women do not apply to women with POF for whom estrogen therapy really represents replacement. Similarly, there are no data documenting the optimal form of estrogen and progestin to use in women with POF. It is important to remember that these young patients typically require twice as much estrogen as postmenopausal women to relieve any signs and symptoms of estrogen deficiency. Thus, one reasonable regimen would be 100 mm of estradiol per day by a skin patch, combined with 5-10 mg of medroyprogesterone acetate for 12 calendar days each month. The skin patch deliver a constant infusion of estradiol, avoids the first pass effect on the liver, and will maintain regular menses and be well tolerated by most patients. CHRONIC ANOVULATION Chronic anovulation may be viewed as a steady state in which the monthly rhythms associated with ovulation are not functional. Although amenorrhea is common, irregular menses and oligomenorrhea may occur as well. Chronic anovulation further implies that viable oocytes remain in the ovary and that ovulation can be induced with appropriate therapy. Chronic anovulation is the most common pathological cause of oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea in women of reproductive age (Table 2). Appropriate management requires determination of the cause of the anovulation. However, anovulation can be interrupted transiently by nonspecific induction of ovulation in most affected women. CHRONIC ANOVULATION OF CENTRAL ORIGIN Functional Hypothalamic Chronic Anovulation (FHA) Functional hypothalamic chronic anovulation may be defined as anovulation in which dysfunction of hypothalamic signals to the pituitary gland causes failure to ovulate. It remains unclear whether the primary abnormality is always present within the hypothalamus or sometimes occurs as a result of altered inputs to the hypothalamus. The term is used to refer to women who may be affected
