Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


is always present within the hypothalamus or sometimes occurs as a result of altered inputs to the hypothalamus. The term is used to refer to women who may be affected with suprahypothalamic or hypothalamic chronic anovulation. Although isolated gonadotropin deficiency frequently is caused by hypothalamic dysfunction, it is preferable to consider such individuals separately. However, partial forms of isolated gonadotropin deficiency may be virtually impossible to differentiate from hypothalamic chronic anovulation. Numerous studies have documented an increased incidence of amenorrhea in women who exercise strenuously, diet excessively, or are exposed to severe emotional or physical stresses of any kind (1,62.63). Such amenorrheic persons fall into this group of women considered as having hypothalamic chronic anovulation, which is sometimes called functional amenorrhea. The diagnosis of FHA is suggested by the abrupt cessation of menses in women younger than 30 years of age who have no clinically evident anatomic abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis or any other endocrine abnormalities. The term hypothalamic amenorrhea was first proposed by Klinefelter and colleagues in 1943 for anovulation in which hypothalamic dysfunction is thought to interfere with the pituitary secretion of gonadotropin (64). Although FHA is a common cause of oligomenorrhea and amenorrhea, relatively little is known about its pathophysiologic basis. The diversity of women presenting with FHA indicates that this is a heterogeneous group of disorders with similar manifestations. Compared with a matched control population, young women with secondary amenorrhea are more likely to be unmarried, to engage in intellectual occupations, to have had stressful life events, to use sedative and hypnotic drugs, to be underweight, and to have a history of previous menstrual irregularities (1). Although it has been suggested that the percentage of body fat controls the maintenance of normal menstrual cycles, it is more likely that diet, exercise, stress, body composition, and other unrecognized nutritional and environmental factors contribute in various proportions to amenorrhea. Hormonally, basal circulating concentrations of pituitary (i.e., LH, FSH, TSH, prolactin, growth hormone), ovarian (i.e., estrogens, androgens), and adrenal hormones (i.e., dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEAS, cortisol) typically are within the normal range for women of reproductive age (65). However, mean serum gonadotropin, gonadal steroid, and DHEAS levels often are slightly decreased, and circulating and urinary cortisol levels are generally increased compared with those in normal women in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle (63,66). Despite low levels of circulating estrogen, affected women rarely have symptoms related to estrogen
