Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


compared with those in normal women in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle (63,66). Despite low levels of circulating estrogen, affected women rarely have symptoms related to estrogen deficiency. Typically, the pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin is diminished, but these individuals respond normally to exogenous gonadotropin-releasing hormone. In a comprehensive guideline issued in 2017, the Endocrine Society noted that one common feature of women with FHA is that all have a relative “energy deficit” (65a). The underlying cause of FHA may be a young woman’s overzealous approach to “healthy” behavior – and those habits can be difficult to change. ANOREXIA NERVOSA, BULIMIA NERVOSA AND ATYPICAL EATING DISORDERS. Eating disorders are common in adolescents and young women and may represent the most severe forms of functional hypothalamic chronic anovulation (67,68). Eating disorders are generally divided into three diagnostic categories: 1) anorexia nervosa, 2) bulimia nervosa, 3) binge eating disorders, and 4) other atypical eating disorders. All eating disorders are characterized by altered eating habits or weight-control behavior. Poor nutrition can impact physical health. In addition, disturbed behavior in bulimia and anorexia is not due to any general medical disorder or any other psychiatric condition. The constellation of amenorrhea often preceding weight loss, a distorted and bizarre attitude toward eating, food, or weight, extreme inanition, and a disordered body image makes the diagnosis of anorexia nervosa obvious in almost all cases (69-71). Demographically, 90% to 95% of anorectic women are white and come from middle- and upper-income families. In DSM-5 amenorrhea is no longer required to make the diagnosis of anorexia nervosa. What distinguishes bulimia nervosa from anorexia nervosa is repeated binges at least once each week during which there is loss of self-control with unusually large amounts of food eaten. In most cases, binge eating is followed by compensatory self-induced vomiting or laxative abuse. Individuals with bulimia seldom have body weights that are significantly altered from ideal. Thus, body weight is the most obvious difference that distinguishes bulimia from anorexia nervosa. Many women with bulimia are ashamed or distress by their actions and are often more willing to accept treatment than individuals with anorexia. Symptoms of depression and anxiety disorders are common. Anorexia nervosa most commonly arises in the mid-adolescent years. Self-induced dietary restrictions quickly get out of control. In some cases, the disorder is of short-standing and self-limited, whereas in others the disorder becomes well entrenched and long-standing. Bulimia
