Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


years. Self-induced dietary restrictions quickly get out of control. In some cases, the disorder is of short-standing and self-limited, whereas in others the disorder becomes well entrenched and long-standing. Bulimia nervosa usually begins later in adolescence. Often bulimia begins similarly to anorexia. However, episodes of binge eating eventually interrupt the dietary restriction, and body weight increases to near normal levels. Women with bulimia commonly seek treatment more than five years after disease onset. Peripheral gonadotropin and gonadal steroid levels generally are lower than in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle (72). As patients with anorexia undergo therapy, gain weight, and improve psychologically, sequential studies of the ultradian gonadotropin rhythms show progressive gonadotropin changes paralleling those normally seen during puberty. Initially, there is a nocturnal rise in gonadotropins, followed by an increase in mean basal gonadotropin levels throughout the 24-hour period (73-75). The responses of severely ill anorectics to GnRH are also similar to those observed in prepubertal children and become adult-like with recovery or with treatment with pulsatile GnRH (76). Because the metabolism of estradiol and testosterone is also abnormal, normalizing with weight gain, some of the gonadotropin changes may be secondary to peripheral alterations in steroids (77). Several abnormalities indicate hypothalamic dysfunction, including mild diabetes insipidus and abnormal thermoregulatory responses to heat and cold (71). Affected individuals have altered body images as well (78). Still other central and peripheral abnormalities exist. There is evidence of chemical hypothyroidism, with affected patients having decreased body temperature, bradycardia, low serum triiodothyronine (T3) levels, and increased reverse T3 concentrations (79,80). Circulating cortisol levels also are elevated, but the circadian cortisol rhythm is normal (81). The increased cortisol seems to be caused by the reduced metabolic clearance of cortisol as a result of the reduced affinity constant for corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) present in such patients (82). Moreover, like women with endogenous depression, anorectics suppress significantly less after dexamethasone administration than do normal subjects (83). Anorectics also have reduced ACTH responses to exogenous corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), suggesting normal negative pituitary feedback by the increased circulating cortisol (84). Although rigorous studies have not been performed in women with bulimia, presumably such individuals have endocrine disturbances similar to those of women with anorexia nervosa. SIMPLE WEIGHT LOSS AND AMENORRHEA Societal attitudes encourage dieting and pursuit of thinness, particularly in young women. Several reproductive problems, including hypothalamic chronic anovulation, have been associated with simple weight
