Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


SIMPLE WEIGHT LOSS AND AMENORRHEA Societal attitudes encourage dieting and pursuit of thinness, particularly in young women. Several reproductive problems, including hypothalamic chronic anovulation, have been associated with simple weight loss. Affected women are distinctly different from anorectics in that they do not fulfill the psychiatric criteria for anorexia. The cessation of menses does not occur before significant weight loss in such women, although this sequence is common in anorectics. The few studies that have been conducted in amenorrheic women with simple weight loss suggest that the abnormalities are similar to those observed in anorectics, but are more minor and more easily reversed with weight gain (85). Although it has been suggested that the amenorrhea in these women is secondary to metabolic defects resulting from undernutrition, the possibility of separate central defects has not been excluded (86). The importance of normal body weight to normal reproductive function is evident in studies of a tribe of desert-dwelling hunter-gatherers in Botswana (87). The weights of the women vary markedly with the season, being greatest in the summer, and the peak incidence of parturition follows exactly 9 months after the attainment of maximal weight. EXERCISE-ASSOCIATED AMENORRHEA Regular endurance training in women is associated with at least three distinct disorders of reproductive function: delayed menarche, luteal dysfunction, and amenorrhea (88,89). In 1992 the American College of Sports Medicine coined the term the “female athletic triad” to describe the three disorders recognized as sometimes occurring together in female athletes: disordered eating, amenorrhea, and osteoporosis (90). Activities associated with an increased frequency of reproductive dysfunction include those favoring a slimmer, lower-body-weight physique such as middle and long distance running, ballet dancing, and gymnastics. Swimmers and bicyclists appear to have lower rates of amenorrhea despite comparable training intensities. The cause of these disorders remains to be established and may involve many factors. Dietary changes, the hormonal effects of acute and chronic exercise, alterations in hormone metabolism because of the increased lean-to-fat ratio, and the psychological and physical “stress” of exercise itself may all contribute and may vary in importance in different individuals. Women engaged in endurance training frequently also have disordered attitudes toward eating, and a number of studies have documented low leptin levels and the absence of normal circadian leptin variation (91-94). In untrained women who underwent a program of strenuous aerobic exercise (running 4-10 miles/day) combined with caloric restriction, menstrual dysfunction was induced (95). The
