Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


of normal circadian leptin variation (91-94). In untrained women who underwent a program of strenuous aerobic exercise (running 4-10 miles/day) combined with caloric restriction, menstrual dysfunction was induced (95). The spectrum of abnormalities in these women included luteal phase dysfunction, loss of the midcycle LH surge, prolonged menstrual cycles, altered patterns of gonadotropin secretion, and amenorrhea. Subsequent studies have indicated that luteal phase defects can occur soon after beginning endurance training in the majority of untrained women (96). However, in contrast to these findings, others observed that a progressive exercise program of moderate intensity did not affect the reproductive system of gynecologically mature (mean age, 31.4 years), untrained, eumenorrheic women (97). It was suggested that relatively young gynecologic age or an earlier age of training onset in particular adversely affects menstrual cyclicity. Many amenorrheic athletes welcome the onset of amenorrhea. However, significant osteopenia, usually affecting trabecular bone, has been reported in these women (98-100). It appears that the loss in bone density secondary to hypoestrogenism nullifies the beneficial effects of weight-bearing exercise in strengthening and remodeling bone (99,101). Such women are at risk for stress fractures, particularly in the weight-bearing lower extremities, and bone density may remain below those of eumenorrheic athletes even after resumption of menses (102). Stress is generally acknowledged to play a role in the cause of this form of amenorrhea, even though the term stress itself remains difficult to define. Amenorrheic runners subjectively associate greater stress with running than do runners with regular menses (103) (Fig.2). Figure 2. Subjective stress associated with running. Subjects were asked to evaluate the stress associated with running on a scale from 0 to 10, with 10 being maximal. The means + standard errors are shown. The number of subjects in each group is shown in the bar. MDR - middle distance runners (15-30 miles per wee) with regular menses; LDR - long distance runners (>30 miles per week) with regular menses; AR = amenorrheic runners. Stress was significantly greater (p<0.001) in both long distance and amenorrheic runners compared to middle distance runners. (Data from Schwartz et al., reference 103). However, no increase in amenorrhea was observed in a competitive group of young classical musicians, who presumably were experiencing similar stress, compared with a group of young ballet dancers, in whom the incidence of amenorrhea was quite high (104). Basal levels of circulating cortisol and urinary free cortisol excretion, indicative of
