Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


compared with a group of young ballet dancers, in whom the incidence of amenorrhea was quite high (104). Basal levels of circulating cortisol and urinary free cortisol excretion, indicative of increased stress, are increased in both eumenorrheic and amenorrheic runners (105) (Fig.3). It is likely even the eumenorrheic runners in this particular study had subtle reproductive abnormalities. Figure 3. 24 Hour-urinary free cortisol excretion in normal control subjects (NC) eumenorrheic runners (R) and amenorrheic runners (AR). The number of subjects is shown in each bar. (Data from Villaneuva et al, reference 105). Because levels of CBG, the disappearance rate of cortisol from the circulation, and the response of cortisol to adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) were not altered in the women runners compared with sedentary control subjects, secretion of ACTH and possibly of CRH must be increased in women who run. Abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis also are indicated by the observations that serum ACTH and cortisol responses to exogenous CRH are blunted as are the responses to meals (105,106). The observation that amenorrheic runners also have subtle abnormalities in hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroidal function provides support for the concept that exercise-associated amenorrhea is similar to other forms of hypothalamic amenorrhea (107). PSYCHOGENIC HYPOTHALAMIC AMENORRHEA Amenorrhea may occur in women with a definite history of psychological and socioenvironmental trauma (86,108). The incidence of amenorrhea is quite high among depressed women, and the effects of lifestyle and nutritional status are difficult to differentiate from variables such as stress. Studies of individuals in whom a definite psychological traumatic event preceded the onset of amenorrhea have revealed low to normal basal levels of serum gonadotropins with normal responses to GnRH, prolonged suppression of gonadotropins in response to estradiol, and failure of a positive feedback response to estradiol (86,108-110). Increased basal levels of cortisol and decreased levels of DHEAS also have been noticed in women with psychogenic amenorrhea compared with eumenorrheic women (62). The mean levels of circulating cortisol are increased in such women largely because of an increase in the amplitude of the pulses of cortisol (111). Moreover, studies of depressed women have revealed abnormal circadian rhythms of cortisol and early “escape” from dexamethasone suppression (112,113). The mechanism by which emotional states or stressful experiences causes psychogenic amenorrhea is not yet established. Evidence suggests, however, that a cascade of neuroendocrine events that may begin with limbic system responses to psychic stimuli impairs hypothalamic-pituitary activity (114). It has been suggested
