Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


not yet established. Evidence suggests, however, that a cascade of neuroendocrine events that may begin with limbic system responses to psychic stimuli impairs hypothalamic-pituitary activity (114). It has been suggested that increased hypothalamic b-endorphin is important in inhibiting gonadotropin secretion (114). Psychological studies have found several social and psychological correlates of psychogenic amenorrhea: a history of previous pregnancy losses, including spontaneous abortion (115,116), stressful life events within the 6-month period preceding the amenorrhea (117,118), and poor social support or separation from significant family members during childhood and adolescence (113,118). Many women with psychogenic amenorrhea report stressful events associated with psychosexual problems and socioenvironmental stresses during the teenage years.108 Women with psychogenic amenorrhea also tend to have negative attitudes toward sexually related body parts, more partner-related sexual problems, and greater fear of or aversion to menstruation than do eumenorrheic women (117). Distortions of body image and confusion about basic bodily functions, especially sexuality and reproduction, are common (116). DIMINISHED GONADOTROPIN-RELEASING HORMONE AND LUTEINIZING HORMONE SECRETION IN ALL FORMS The various forms of hypothalamic chronic anovulation associated with altered lifestyles just discussed have several features in common. Altered GnRH and LH secretion seems to be the common result from altered hypothalamic input. It remains unclear if these disorders form a single disorder or several closely related disorders. Moreover, similar forms of amenorrhea are sometimes seen in women with severe systemic illnesses or with hypothalamic damage from tumors, infection, irradiation, trauma, or other causes. TREATMENT The treatment of patients with functional hypothalamic chronic anovulation is controversial and difficult. The Endocrine Society recommends a multidisciplinary approach including medical, dietary, and mental health support (65a). Psychological therapy and support or a change in lifestyle may cause cyclic ovulation and menses to resume. However, ovulation does not always resume, even after the lifestyle is altered. The treatment of affected women in whom menses do not resume and who do not desire pregnancy is difficult. Most physicians now advocate the use of exogenous sex steroids to prevent osteoporosis. Therapy consisting of oral conjugated estrogens (0.625-1.25 mg), ethinyl estradiol (20 mg), micronized estradiol-17β (1-2 mg), or estrone sulfate (0.625-2.5 mg) or of transdermal estradiol-17b (0.05-0.1 mg) continuously with oral medroxyprogesterone acetate (5 to 10 mg) or oral micronized progesterone (200 mg) added for 12-14 days each month is appropriate. Sexually active women can be treated with oral contraceptive agents. These women appear to be particularly sensitive to the
