Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


progesterone (200 mg) added for 12-14 days each month is appropriate. Sexually active women can be treated with oral contraceptive agents. These women appear to be particularly sensitive to the undesired side effects of sex steroid therapy, and close contact with the physician may be required until the appropriate dosage is established. If sex steroid therapy is provided, patients must be informed that the amenorrhea may still be present after therapy is discontinued. Some physicians believe that only periodic observation of affected women is indicated, with barrier methods of contraception recommended for fertility control. Contraception is necessary for sexually active women with hypothalamic chronic anovulation because spontaneous ovulation may resume at any time (before menstrual bleeding) in these mildly affected individuals. Women who refuse sex steroid therapy should be encouraged to have spinal bone density evaluated at intervals to document that bone loss is not accelerated. Adequate calcium ingestion should be encouraged in all affected women. For women desiring pregnancy who do not ovulate spontaneously, clomiphene citrate (50-100 mg/d for 5 days beginning on the third to fifth day of withdrawal bleeding) can be used. However, clomiphene is frequently ineffective in these hypoestrogenic women. Treatment with human menopausal and chorionic gonadotropins (hMG-hCG) or with pulsatile GnRH may be effective in women who do not ovulate in response to clomiphene. Because the underlying defect in hypothalamic amenorrhea is decreased endogenous GnRH secretion, administration of pulsatile GnRH to induce ovulation can be viewed as physiologic; it offers the additional advantages of decreased need for ultrasonographic and serum estradiol monitoring, a decreased risk of multiple pregnancies, and a virtual absence of ovarian hyperstimulation. A starting intravenous dose of GnRH of 5 mg every 90 minutes is effective (119). After ovulation is detected by urinary LH testing or ultrasound, the corpus luteum can be supported by continuation of pulsatile GnRH or by hCG (1500 IU every 3 days for four doses). Ovulation rates of 90% and conception rates of 30% per ovulatory cycle can be expected (120). Unfortunately GnRH is no longer available in the United States because it was used so infrequently. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has also been shown to be effective (120a).In a small trial involving 16 patients randomized to CBT or observation for 20 weeks, six women in the CBT group and only one in the observation group resumed ovulation. The CBT focused on changing attitudes towards eating habits, exercise,
