Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


or observation for 20 weeks, six women in the CBT group and only one in the observation group resumed ovulation. The CBT focused on changing attitudes towards eating habits, exercise, body image, problem-solving skills, and stress reduction. One report noted improvements in reproductive function in a group of eight women with hypothalamic amenorrhea due to strenuous exercise or low weight who received recombinant human leptin for up to three months (121). As might be expected for a heterogeneous disorder, however, only three of the women ovulated in response to this therapy. Another study suggests that kisspeptin-54 may have utility in the future in treating hypogonadotropic hypogonadism by increasing LH pulsatility (121a). In general, women with anorexia and bulimia nervosa should not have ovulation induced until their disease is in remission. It is clear that cognitve-behavioral therapy that focuses on modification of the specific behaviors and ways of thinking that support the patient’s eating disorder should be a part of any treatment plan (122). Addition of antidepressant drugs, especially selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, may be of additional benefit in treating women with bulimia nervosa. Isolated Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism Individuals with isolated (also termed idiopathic) hypogonadotropic hypogonadism fail to undergo pubertal maturation. Most have functional GnRH deficiency, but some appear to have abnormalities of gonadotropin deficiency localized to the pituitary gland (122a). As originally described in 1944, Kallmann syndrome consisted of the triad of anosmia, hypogonadism, and color blindness in men (123). Women may be affected as well, and other midline defects may be associated (124-126). Because autopsy studies have shown partial or complete agenesis of the olfactory bulb, the term olfactogenital dysplasia also has been used to describe the syndrome (127). Because isolated gonadotropin deficiency may also occur in the absence of anosmia, the syndrome is considered to be quite heterogeneous. Data indicate that in many patients the defect is a failure of GnRH neurons to form completely in the medial olfactory placode of the developing nose or the failure of GnRH neurons to migrate from the olfactory bulb to the medial basal hypothalamus during embryogenesis (128). In some patients, structural defects of the olfactory bulbs can be seen on magnetic resonance imaging (129). It appears likely that this disorder forms a structural continuum with other midline defects, with septo-optic dysplasia representing the most severe disorder. Some individuals with isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism are normosmic. The molecular abnormalities identified thus far explain why
