Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


structural continuum with other midline defects, with septo-optic dysplasia representing the most severe disorder. Some individuals with isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism are normosmic. The molecular abnormalities identified thus far explain why some are anosmic and others are not (122a). The first mutations identified in Kallmann syndrome involve a cell surface adhesive gene, KAL1, which prevented normal development of the olfactory bulb and the neurologic tract responsible for transport of GnRH to the median eminence of the hypothalamus. Since that time, mutations in several other genes needed for development of the olfactory bulb and the neurologic tract needed for GnRH transport have been identified. Gene defects in individuals with normal smell include defects in the GnRH receptor gene, the gene responsible for GnRH production (GNRH1), the gene responsible for GnRH processing (PCSK1), and GnRH secretion (GPR54). Mutations of the KISS1-derived peptide receptor GPR54 have been particularly studied and indicate that the hypothalamic neuropeptide kisspeptin is a component of the GnRH pulse generator (122b). Gene mutations localized to the pituitary and resulting in isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism include those associated with the GnRH receptor (GNRHR) and the production of the β subunit of gonadotropin. Mutations with the leptin, leptin receptor, and DAX1 genes appear to cause hypogonadotropic hypogonadism within both the hypothalamus and pituitary. These latter mutations appear to be associated with extreme obesity. There are also a number of mutations associated both with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and other pituitary or endocrine deficiencies. Clinically, affected individuals typically present with sexual infantilism and a eunuchoidal habitus, but moderate breast development may also occur. Primary amenorrhea is the rule. The ovaries usually are small and appear immature, with follicles rarely developed beyond the primordial stage (130). These immature follicles respond readily to exogenous gonadotropin with ovulation and pregnancy, and exogenous pulsatile GnRH can also be used to induce ovulation (131). Replacement therapy with estrogen and progestin should be given to affected women not desiring pregnancy. Circulating LH and FSH levels generally are quite low. The response to exogenous GnRH is variable, sometimes being diminished and sometimes normal in magnitude, but rarely may be absent (132,133). Although the primary defect in most individuals appears to be hypothalamic, with reduced GnRH synthesis or secretion, a primary pituitary defect may occasionally be present. In addition, partial gonadotropin deficiency may be more frequent than has been appreciated. Hyperprolactinemic Chronic Anovulation About 15% of amenorrheic women have increased circulating concentrations of prolactin,
