Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


occasionally be present. In addition, partial gonadotropin deficiency may be more frequent than has been appreciated. Hyperprolactinemic Chronic Anovulation About 15% of amenorrheic women have increased circulating concentrations of prolactin, but prolactin levels are increased in more than 75% of patients with galactorrhea and amenorrhea (134). Radiologic evidence of a pituitary tumor is present in about 50% of hyperprolactinemic women, and primary hypothyroidism always must be considered. Individuals with galactorrhea-amenorrhea (i.e., hyperprolactinemic chronic anovulation) frequently complain of symptoms of estrogen deficiency, including hot flushes and dyspareunia. However, estrogen secretion may be essentially normal (135). It is not clear if the hyperprolactinemia or the “hypoestrogenism” causes the accelerated bone loss seen in such individuals (136). Signs of androgen excess are observed in some women with hyperprolactinemia; androgen excess may rarely result in PCOS. In hyperprolactinemic women, serum gonadotropin and estradiol levels are low or normal. Most hyperprolactinemic women have disordered reproductive function, and it appears that the effects on gonadotropin secretion are primarily hypothalamic. The mechanism by which hypothalamic GnRH secretion is disrupted is unknown but may involve an inhibitory effect of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons (135, 137). It has been proposed that increased hypothalamic dopamine is present in hyperprolactinemic women with pituitary tumors but is ineffective in reducing prolactin secretion by adenomatous lactotropes. The dopamine can, however, reduce pulsatile LH secretion and produce acyclic gonadotropin secretion through a direct effect on hypothalamic GnRH secretion. It has been suggested that mild nocturnal hyperprolactinemia may be present in some women with regular menses and unexplained infertility (138). Galactorrhea in women with unexplained infertility may reflect increased bioavailable prolactin and may be treated appropriately with bromocriptine (139). Bromocriptine or cabergoline therapy may also be indicated in normoprolactinemic women with amenorrhea and increased prolactin responses to provocative stimuli (140). Hypopituitarism Hypopituitarism may be obvious on cursory inspection or it may be quite subtle. The clinical presentation depends on the age at onset, the cause, and the woman’s nutritional status. Loss of axillary and pubic hair and atrophy of the external genitalia should lead the physician to suspect hypopituitarism in a previously menstruating young woman who develops amenorrhea. In such cases, a history of past obstetric hemorrhage suggesting postpartum pituitary necrosis (i.e., Sheehan syndrome) should be sought (141). Failure to develop secondary sexual characteristics or to progress in development once puberty begins must always prompt a workup for hypopituitarism. Individuals with pituitary insufficiency often complain of
