Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


sought (141). Failure to develop secondary sexual characteristics or to progress in development once puberty begins must always prompt a workup for hypopituitarism. Individuals with pituitary insufficiency often complain of weakness, easy fatigability, lack of libido, and cold intolerance. Short stature may occur in individuals developing hypopituitarism during childhood. Symptoms of diabetes insipidus may be observed if the posterior pituitary gland is involved. On physical examination, the skin is generally thin, smooth, cool, and pale (i.e., “alabaster skin”) with fine wrinkling about the eyes; the pulse is slow and thready; and the blood pressure is low. An evaluation of thyroid and adrenal function is of paramount importance in these individuals. Thyroid replacement therapy must be instituted and the patient must be euthyroid before adrenal testing is initiated. Serum gonadotropin and gonadal steroid levels typically are low in hypopituitarism. Responses to exogenously administered hypothalamic hormones often fail to localize the cause to the hypothalamus or the pituitary gland in affected patients. Radiographic evaluation of the sella turcica is indicated in any individual with suspected hypopituitarism. The ovaries appear immature and unstimulated, but because oocytes still are present, ovulation can be induced with exogenous gonadotropins when pregnancy is desired. Exogenous pulsatile GnRH may also be used to induce ovulation if the disorder is hypothalamic. Moreover, oocytes may undergo some development, and even ovarian cysts may appear in the absence of significant gonadotropic stimulation. When pregnancy is not desired, maintenance therapy with cyclic estrogen and progestin is indicated to prevent signs and symptoms of estrogen deficiency. CHRONIC ANOVULATION DUE TO INAPPROPRIATE FEEDBACK IN POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME (PCOS) A Heterogeneous Disorder In 1935, Stein and Leventhal focused attention on a common disorder in which amenorrhea, hirsutism, and obesity were frequently associated (142) (Fig.4). Since that time, this syndrome has been the topic of innumerable studies (142a,142b). Figure 4. Facial hirsutism in a 17-year-old woman with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). With the development of radioimmunoassays for measuring reproductive hormones, it became clear that women with what is called PCOS shared several distinctive biochemical features. Compared with eumenorrheic women in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, affected women typically have elevated serum LH levels and low to normal FSH levels (143). Virtually all serum androgens are moderately increased, and estrone levels are generally greater than estradiol levels (144). Ovarian inhibin physiology is normal (145). Also increased in women with PCOS are levels of anti-mullerian
