Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


androgens are moderately increased, and estrone levels are generally greater than estradiol levels (144). Ovarian inhibin physiology is normal (145). Also increased in women with PCOS are levels of anti-mullerian hormone (AMH); it appears that the more severe the disorder, the higher are the levels of AMH (145a). The increased AMH levels appear due to the increased number of small antral follicles as well as to intrinsic characteristics of the granulosa cells in PCOS. Many women with the biochemical features of PCOS have small or even morphologically normal ovaries and are not overweight or hirsute. Not all women with PCOS present with the characteristic features. Moreover, excess androgen from any source or increased conversion of androgens to estrogens can lead to the constellation of findings observed in PCOS (146). Included are such disorders as Cushing syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, virilizing tumors of ovarian or adrenal origin, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, and obesity. In all of these disorders, the ovaries may be morphologically polycystic. Although no clinical and biochemical criteria describe the syndrome strictly, a conference convened by the National Institutes of Health (147) developed diagnostic criteria for PCOS: Clinical evidence of hyperandrogenism (e.g., hirsutism, acne, androgenetic alopecia) and/or hyperandrogemia (e.g., elevated total or free testosterone). Oligoovulation (i.e., cycle duration >35 days or <8 cycles per year). Exclusion of related disorders (e.g., hyperprolactinemia, thyroid dysfunction, androgen-secreting tumors, 21-hydroxylase-deficient nonclassical congenital adrenal hyperplasia.) A subsequent expert conference convened in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, in 2003 and sponsored in part by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) and the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) recommended that PCOS be defined when at least two of the following three features are present: 1) oligo- and/or anovulation, 2) clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism, and 3) polycystic ovaries. This definition also states that other androgen excess or related disorders should be excluded prior to assigning the diagnosis of PCOS (148,149). By these criteria neither hyperandrogenism nor ovulatory dysfunction is required to make the definition of PCOS. This latter definition is now the most widely accepted; it is becoming increasingly common to spell out the phenotypes of patients reported in studies of PCOS as recommended by an NIH consensus conference in 2012 (149a). A subsequent consensus conference on PCOS noted that there has been no overall agreement as to how to diagnose PCOS in adolescence (149b). Because both acne and irregular menstrual cycles are common
