Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


consensus conference on PCOS noted that there has been no overall agreement as to how to diagnose PCOS in adolescence (149b). Because both acne and irregular menstrual cycles are common in adolescents, while hirsutism develops slowly over time, it has been suggested that all three elements of the Rotterdam criteria should be present in teens in order to make the diagnosis of PCOS (149c). These investigators suggest that amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea should be present for at least two years after menarche (or until at least age 16), that the ovaries on ultrasound should be enlarged to greater than 10 cm 3 (because numerous small cysts are commonly present during adolescence), and that hyperandrogenemia and not just signs of androgen excess should be present to diagnose PCOS in teenagers. PCOS may be viewed as a state of chronic anovulation associated with LH-dependent ovarian overproduction of androgens. Clinically, the perimenarcheal onset of symptoms is a common feature. It has been estimated that PCOS affects approximately 5% of women of reproductive age, making it the most common form of chronic anovulation (150, 151). Some clinicians believe that PCOS may be the most common endocrinopathy. Although the cause of this disorder remains unknown, there is some evidence of autosomal dominant transmission in some affected individuals (152, 153). Disorders presenting similarly but with different underlying causes can be considered as having chronic anovulation with inappropriate feedback. Polycystic Ovaries Grossly, the ovaries of most women with PCOS are bilaterally enlarged and globular. (Fig.5) Figure 5. Gross and cut appearance of typical polycystic ovaries. Multiple small follicular cysts are apparent in the cut section. They are often described as having an “oyster shell” appearance because they have smooth, glistening capsules and are the appropriate color. The tunica albuginea is often thickened diffusely, and many cysts 3 to 7 mm in diameter are present on cut section. Because ovulation rarely occurs, corpora lutea may be present. Histologically, the follicular cysts are usually lined by granulosa cells and surrounded by a thickened and luteinized theca interna and are in various stages of maturation and atresia. When islands of luteinized thecal cells are found scattered throughout the ovarian stroma, not just around the follicles, the term hyperthecosis is sometimes used. The clinical syndrome accompanying this pathologic finding is typically characterized by massive obesity, severe hirsutism reflecting particularly excessive ovarian overproduction of androgens, acanthosis nigricans, glucose intolerance with insulin resistance, and
