Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


The clinical syndrome accompanying this pathologic finding is typically characterized by massive obesity, severe hirsutism reflecting particularly excessive ovarian overproduction of androgens, acanthosis nigricans, glucose intolerance with insulin resistance, and hyperuricemia. (Fig.6) Figure 6. Appearance of a woman with hyperthecosis, sometimes referred to as the HAIR-AN syndrome (hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, acanthosis nigricans). The obesity, hirsutism, acne, and acanthosis nigricans are obvious. Insulin action at the target cell appears defective in these patients, with some individuals having antibodies to insulin receptors and others apparently having a postreceptor defect (154, 155). PCOS and hyperthecosis appear to represent facets of the same disease process rather than two distinct entities. Some authorities, however, maintain that the two represent different disorders. The follicles in the ovaries of women with PCOS do not mature completely. However, in vitro studies have failed to detect any primary defect in the steroidogenic capacity of polycystic ovaries (156). Although there seems to be a relative deficiency in aromatase activity in the granulosa cells of polycystic ovaries, this deficiency can be corrected by FSH in vitro and in vivo. Other Clinical and Biochemical Features Although all women with PCOS produce androgens at increased rates compared with eumenorrheic women, only some present with hirsutism, largely because of varying sensitivity at the level of the hair follicle. The hyperandrogenism is rarely sufficient to produce overt virilization. Signs of markedly elevated androgen levels, including clitoromegaly, temporal balding, and deepening of the voice, may suggest an androgen-producing tumor, especially if these features developed rapidly. Women with PCOS invariably are well estrogenized, with normal breast development and abundant cervical mucus on examination. Because obesity is found in only about 50% of women with PCOS, it is doubtful that obesity is central to its cause. About 50% of women with PCOS have amenorrhea, about 30% have irregular bleeding, and about 12% have “cyclic menses” (146). No particular pattern of menstrual bleeding is characteristic of women with PCOS, although a history of oligomenorrhea is probably most common. Because only about 75% of women with PCOS are infertile, women with PCOS do ovulate occasionally. Two other biochemical features warrant discussion. First, obese and normal-weight women with PCOS generally release increased quantities of insulin in response to a standard glucose challenge compared with weight-matched eumenorrheic individuals (157, 158). Many investigators now regard the insulin resistance as the central abnormality in the disorder, but this has not been established with certainty.
