Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


challenge compared with weight-matched eumenorrheic individuals (157, 158). Many investigators now regard the insulin resistance as the central abnormality in the disorder, but this has not been established with certainty. Thus, regardless of body weight, 30 to 80 percent of women with PCOS experience insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia (159). Based on studies in a very well characterized subset of obese women with the disorder, the insulin resistance present in PCOS appears to represent a postreceptor signalling aberration and differs from the insulin resistance observed in non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and simple obesity (118). The compensatory hyperinsulinemia that results causes exaggerated effects in other tissues as well. These effects include increased ovarian androgen secretion; excessive growth of the basal cells of the skin leading to acanthosis nigricans in some women; increased vascular and endothelial reactivity, which may lead to hypertension and vascular disease; and abnormal hepatic and peripheral lipid metabolism, which may cause dyslipidemia. Thus, it is now recognized that women with PCOS are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in addition to endometrial carcinoma because of anovulation. Because treatment with a GnRH analogue reduces ovarian androgen secretion but does not correct the insulin resistance in women with PCOS, the defect in insulin action presumably is not due to abnormal sex steroid levels (160). The possibility that a defect in the secretion or action of insulin or some related growth factor is central to the cause of PCOS cannot be entirely excluded and is gaining increasing support as the cause of hyperandrogenemia in women with PCOS (161). The pivotal role of insulin resistance in PCOS is strongly suggested by the beneficial effects of insulin-sensitizing agents such as metformin, troglitazone, and D-chiro-inositol on metabolic and reproductive function, regardless of the patient’s weight (162-165). In addition, perhaps 10% to 15% of women with PCOS have mild hyperprolactinemia in the absence of radiographic evidence of a pituitary tumor, possibly because of chronic acyclic estrogen secretion (166). Although hyperprolactinemia is associated with increased adrenal production of DHEAS, the increased adrenal androgen production seen in women with PCOS usually does not correlate with the hyperprolactinemia. Pathophysiology of the Chronic Anovulation A growing body of evidence indicates that disordered insulin action precedes the increase in androgens in PCOS. The administration of insulin to women with PCOS increases circulating androgen levels (161, 167). The administration of glucose to hyperandrogenic women increases circulating levels
