Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


the increase in androgens in PCOS. The administration of insulin to women with PCOS increases circulating androgen levels (161, 167). The administration of glucose to hyperandrogenic women increases circulating levels of insulin and androgen (168). Weight loss decreases levels of insulin and androgens (169). The suppression of circulating insulin levels experimentally by diazoxide reduces androgen levels (170). The suppression of androgen secretion to normal levels with GnRH agonists does not lead to normal insulin responses to glucose tolerance testing in obese women with PCOS (160, 171, 172). The hyperinsulinemia may cause hyperandrogenemia by binding to IGF-I receptors in the ovary (173). Activation of ovarian IGF-I receptors by insulin can lead to increased androgen production by thecal cells (174). Moreover, independent of any effect on ovarian steroid production, increased insulin inhibits the hepatic synthesis of SHBG (175). Insulin directly inhibits insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 in the liver, permitting greater local activity of IGF-I in the ovary (176). Regardless of the cause of PCOS, it is possible to construct a rational pathophysiologic mechanism to explain the disorder (Fig.7). Figure 7. Pathophysiologic mechanisms associated with PCOS that may help explain the chronic anovulation. Regardless of the source or cause of androgen excess, a vicious cycle of events causing persistent anovulation commences. The androgen is converted to estrogen, primarily estrone, in the periphery. The estrogen feeds back on the central nervous system-hypothalamic-pituitary unit to induce inappropriate gonadotropin secretion with an increased LH to FSH ratio. The estrogen stimulates GnRH synthesis and secretion in the hypothalamus, causing preferential LH release by the pituitary gland. The estrogen may also increase GnRH by decreasing hypothalamic dopamine. Selective inhibition of FSH secretion by increased ovarian inhibin may also occur in PCOS. Possible inhibition of FSH secretion by increased androgen secretion has not been considered. The increased LH secretion stimulates thecal cells in the ovary to produce excess androgen. The androgen also inhibits production of SHBG, resulting in increased free androgen and predisposing affected women to hirsutism. The morphologic ovarian changes undoubtedly are secondary to hormonal changes. The absence of follicular maturation and the reduced estradiol production by the ovaries apparently result from a combination of inadequate FSH stimulation and inhibition by the increased concentrations of intraovarian androgen. The low levels of SHBG probably facilitate tissue uptake of free androgen, leading to increased peripheral formation of estrogen and perpetuating the acyclic chronic anovulation. The androgenic basis for the
