Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


The low levels of SHBG probably facilitate tissue uptake of free androgen, leading to increased peripheral formation of estrogen and perpetuating the acyclic chronic anovulation. The androgenic basis for the inappropriate estrogen feedback is partly shifted from the site of origin to the ovaries. The increased estrogens (and perhaps androgens) may also stimulate fat cell proliferation, leading to obesity. The current data suggest that there is no defect in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis in PCOS but rather that peripheral alterations result in abnormal gonadotropin secretion. Therapy Appropriate therapy demands that potential causes such as neoplasms be eliminated. Besides facilitating fertility, the aims of treatment in women with PCOS are three-fold: to control hirsutism, to prevent endometrial hyperplasia from unopposed acyclic estrogen secretion, and to prevent the long-term consequences of insulin resistance. The treatment must be individualized according to the needs and desires of each patient. For the anovulatory woman with PCOS who is not hirsute and who does not desire pregnancy, therapy with an intermittent progestin (e.g., medroxyprogesterone acetate, 5 to 10 mg orally, or micronized progesterone, 200 mg orally, for 10 to 14 days each month) or oral contraceptives if she is younger than 35 years of age, does not smoke, and has no other significant risk factor should be provided to reduce the increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia and carcinoma present in such a woman because of the unopposed estrogen secretion. The woman taking progestins intermittently should be informed of the need for effective barrier contraception if she is sexually active, because these agents as administered do not inhibit ovulation, and ovulation occasionally occurs in PCOS. There is no evidence that the use of low-dose combined oral contraceptive agents increases the risks associated with insulin resistance in women with PCOS, and the benefits in preventing endometrial hyperplasia are clearly established. The progestin-containing IUD can be used both for contraception and to prevent endometrial hyperplasia, especially for women who cannot or will not take oral contraceptives. Therapy for the woman with PCOS who is hirsute is somewhat different in some circumstances. In general, oral contraceptives provide initial therapy for affected women with mild hirsutism and provide protection from endometrial hyperplasia. For women with PCOS who are overweight, it is reasonable to encourage lifestyle changes (149a, 176a). It is also recommended that women with PCOS be screened for diabetes, typically by an oral glucose tolerance test, although measurement of hemoglobin A1C
