Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


to encourage lifestyle changes (149a, 176a). It is also recommended that women with PCOS be screened for diabetes, typically by an oral glucose tolerance test, although measurement of hemoglobin A1C may suffice (176a). Weight loss alone (of even less than 10%) may result in decreased insulin resistance and resumption of ovulation (177-179). However, lifestyle changes are difficult for patients to adopt. The use of insulin-sensitizing agents such as metformin is increasing but is not approved by the FDA. Whether the use of such agents will decrease the likelihood of the consequences of the metabolic alterations associated with insulin resistance is unclear. At present no data regarding the long-term safety and efficacy of these agents exist. What is clear is that only short-term trials of perhaps 3 months’ duration are needed to determine if insulin-sensitizing agents will be useful: responsive individuals will resume cyclic menstruation and ovulation in this short time frame and insulin levels will fall substantially (162,163,180,181). Predicting which individuals with PCOS will respond is not possible at the present time. However, many clinicians believe that the therapy is low in risk, and the agents are relatively inexpensive. The use of these agents should probably be contemplated only in women with well documented insulin resistance and PCOS. Metformin should be administered only if the patient’s creatinine is normal and should be discontinued during illnesses to prevent the occurrence of lactic acidosis. Individuals should be cautioned that they may anticipate nausea or diarrhea on beginning metformin. Consequently the drug should be increased slowly to the maximal dose of 2.5 g per day orally. For the woman with PCOS who wants to conceive, clomiphene citrate is used initially because of its high success rate and relative simplicity and inexpensiveness. A randomized trial has documented that letrozole is more effective than clomiphene in women with PCOS and a BMI >30 (181a). In fact, data are accumulating to indicate that letrozole is as effective as clomiphene in all women with PCOS, whether obese or not (181b). Both clomiphene citrate and letrozole can now be considered as first-line agents for inducing ovulation in PCOS even though letrozole is not approved for this indication by the U.S. FDA. 181b Other possible therapeutic approaches to ovulation induction include the use of gonadotropins (perhaps preceded by a GnRH analogue), FSH alone, pulsatile GnRH, and wedge resection of the ovaries at laparotomy (181c). Wedge resection or any other
