Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


induction include the use of gonadotropins (perhaps preceded by a GnRH analogue), FSH alone, pulsatile GnRH, and wedge resection of the ovaries at laparotomy (181c). Wedge resection or any other surgical manipulation of the ovaries should be performed only after all other methods of ovulation induction fail, an ovarian tumor is possible because of ovarian size or circulating androgen levels, or fertility is unimportant, because pelvic adhesions frequently result from surgery and may contribute to infertility. Laparoscopic ovarian follicular cautery or laser vaporization can also be used successfully to induce ovulation (182,183). However, these procedures also cause adhesion formation in a significant percentage of women. In addition, the success of medical therapy does not justify routine use of these procedures. There are some largely uncontrolled studies suggesting that insulin-sensitizing agents, alone or in combination with clomiphene citrate, may improve both ovulatory function and fertility in some women with PCOS (162, 163,180). A trial may be warranted in women who do not respond to clomiphene before considering the use of more expensive agents to induce ovulation. However, a large randomized clinical trial documented that clomiphene citrate is more effective than metformin in inducing ovulation and resulting pregnancy; moreover, there was no further improvement when the two agents were used concurrently (183a). Metformin should not be considered as first-line therapy for women with PCOS desiring pregnancy. CHRONIC ANOVULATION DUE TO OTHER ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC DISORDERS Cushing Syndrome Along with the well-known physical manifestations in Cushing syndrome-central obesity, moon facies, and pigmented striae-are the less visible endocrinologic changes of amenorrhea, hirsutism, and infertility. The mechanisms responsible for the chronic anovulation are unclear, but several possibilities exist. The various degrees of adrenal androgen excess in Cushing syndrome of all causes together with obesity may cause excessive extraglandular conversion of androgens to estrogens in fat cells and inappropriate acyclic feedback to the hypothalamic-pituitary unit (184). The increased levels of CRH and ACTH in Cushing disease may affect the hypothalamic-pituitary secretion of GnRH and LH, as suggested for hypothalamic chronic anovulation. Thyroid Dysfunction As a result of significant changes in the metabolism and interconversion of androgens and estrogens, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism are associated with menstrual disorders ranging from excessive and prolonged uterine bleeding to amenorrhea. The altered sex steroid metabolism leads to inappropriate feedback and chronic anovulation. The changes are corrected by appropriate treatment of the underlying thyroid disease. ABNORMAL UTERINE BLEEDING IN WOMEN OF REPRODUCTIVE
