Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


altered sex steroid metabolism leads to inappropriate feedback and chronic anovulation. The changes are corrected by appropriate treatment of the underlying thyroid disease. ABNORMAL UTERINE BLEEDING IN WOMEN OF REPRODUCTIVE AGE Etiology Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) is the most common indication for gynecologic consultation. AUB is also believed to be the indication for 80-90% of D&C procedures performed in nonpregnant women in the United States, accounting for about 350,000 procedures annually (185). By some measures AUB is the second most common indication for hysterectomy in the U.S. after uterine leiomyomas, accounting for approximately 20% or 120,000 procedures annually (186,187). AUB may be defined as uterine bleeding occurring at unexpected times or of abnormal duration and may take any of several forms, with the bleeding altered in frequency, duration, and/or amount. Because the terminology and definitions for disturbances of menstrual bleeding are so confused, it is best to use the term AUB and then to describe the bleeding pattern as precisely as possible (187a). AUB always must be differentiated from bleeding originating in the urinary or gastrointestinal tracts. Broadly speaking, AUB can be divided into “organic causes”, which are found in perhaps 25% of cases, and so-called “dysfunctional” (or anovulatory) uterine bleeding (Table 2) Table 2. Etiology of Abnormal Uterine Bleeding View in own window 1. Organic Causes a. Systemic disease i. Coagulation disorders (Primary or secondary) ii. Thyroid dysfunction iii. Liver disease a. Pregnancy-related disorders b. Malignancies c. Benign uterine abnormalities (i.e., fibroids, polyps) d. Iatrogenic causes (i.e., IUDs, estrogens) e. Lower genital tract disease f. Functional ovarian cysts and other benign ovarian neoplasms 2. Reproductive tract disease a. Pregnancy-related disorders b. Malignancies c. Benign uterine abnormalities (i.e., fibroids, polyps) d. Iatrogenic causes (i.e., IUDs, estrogens) e. Lower genital tract disease f. Functional ovarian cysts and other benign ovarian neoplasms 3. “Dysfunctional” (anovulatory) uterine bleeding (DUB) Organic causes can be divided further into those associated with any of a number of systemic diseases and those associated with disorders of the reproductive tract. DUB may be defined as resulting from a functional abnormality of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis and is present in the majority of women with AUB. It is perhaps best to refer to anovulatory bleeding rather than to DUB because many studies include in reports of DUB women who clearly have organic abnormalities. The frequency of the various causes of AUB varies with the age of the patient. DUB is
