Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


many studies include in reports of DUB women who clearly have organic abnormalities. The frequency of the various causes of AUB varies with the age of the patient. DUB is more common early and late in the reproductive years. Organic causes, especially neoplasms, increase with advancing age. In any woman of reproductive age, pregnancy must be ruled out, because bleeding related to complications of pregnancy is probably the most common cause of abnormal bleeding. Different abnormalities cause AUB during the prepubertal years. Newborn girls sometimes spot for a few days after birth because of placental estrogenic stimulation of the endometrium in utero. Withdrawal of the estrogen at birth leads to sloughing of the endometrium. Accidental trauma to the vulva or vagina is the most common cause of bleeding during childhood. Vaginitis with spotting, most often because of irritation from a foreign body, also may occur. Prolapse of the urethral meatus and tumors of the genital tract also must be considered in the differential diagnosis. When the bleeding is due to the ingestion of estrogen-containing drugs (typically oral contraceptives) by children, there is rarely significant pubertal development. Of course, sexual abuse always must be considered in the young girl presenting with abnormal bleeding. Thus, it is clear that most of the prepubertal causes of bleeding are really not uterine in origin. Although perhaps as many as half of all menstrual cycles are anovulatory when menses begin, the actual incidence of DUB in adolescents is low. Typically, anovulatory bleeding occurs at intervals longer than normal menstrual cycles, while bleeding due to organic causes tends to occur more frequently than regular menses. In most cases of anovulatory bleeding beginning in adolescence, there is spontaneous resolution. However, it is important to remember that up to 20% of patients with AUB during the teenage years have a primary coagulation disorder (188). It is also important to rule out pregnancy-related bleeding during the reproductive years. Any woman over the age of 35 with AUB must be evaluated for a malignancy, despite the fact that most causes of such bleeding are benign. Endometrial hyperplasia clearly is a possibility in women who do not ovulate on a regular basis, even at a much earlier age than 40. The finding of endometrial hyperplasia after the menopause always should result in a search for a source of estrogen, either from exogenous therapy or from an endogenous (commonly ovarian) neoplasm. Evaluation
