Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


finding of endometrial hyperplasia after the menopause always should result in a search for a source of estrogen, either from exogenous therapy or from an endogenous (commonly ovarian) neoplasm. Evaluation and Treatment In the evaluation of the woman with AUB, obtaining a thorough history is of paramount importance. Emphasis should be placed on learning the pattern and quantity of bleeding. Because most women are poor at estimating blood loss and recalling exactly when they bled, all patients should be asked to keep a prospective menstrual calendar in which they record days and severity of bleeding. Menses lasting for more than 8 days or in which more than 80 ml of blood is lost are probably abnormal (i.e., menorrhagia). It has been estimated that up to 20% of women have excessive menstrual blood loss and that the incidence is similar for African-American and white U.S. women (189). Obviously the physical examination also is important. The hemodynamic stability of any patient with abnormal bleeding should be assessed. The pelvic examination will rule out obvious organic causes. Warranted laboratory tests include measurement of hCG at the point of service, a complete blood count to assess hematological status, a platelet count and other coagulation studies to rule out a coagulation defect, and thyroid function studies to rule out a thyroid abnormality. Just which patients should undergo further assessment of the endometrium is problematic, as is the type of evaluation to be undertaken. An endometrial biopsy is indicated in any woman over age 35 with AUB, in any woman with a prolonged history of irregular bleeding, and in most, if not all, women with severe bleeding. Measurement of endometrial thickness by transvaginal ultrasound appears to be of value in postmenopausal women who are not taking exogenous estrogen. Several studies have indicated that there is almost never any significant pathology when the endometrial thickness is less than 5 mm (190). Sonohysterography (SHG), sometimes termed saline infusion sonography (SIS), has become increasingly popular because it can be done in the office at the time of the initial evaluation and appears almost as accurate as hysteroscopy in diagnosing abnormalities within the uterine cavity (191,192). Some clinicians prefer hysteroscopy because it is generally superior to blind biopsy in identifying abnormalities and allows for treatment of many abnormalities at the time of diagnosis. Unfortunately it is also the most expensive of the various procedures; moreover, it is not clear that
