Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


abnormalities and allows for treatment of many abnormalities at the time of diagnosis. Unfortunately it is also the most expensive of the various procedures; moreover, it is not clear that this procedure is needed to make the diagnosis in most cases. Until definitive data indicate when each of these procedures is warranted, physicians will need to exercise their individual judgment in evaluating women with AUB. The management of AUB also requires judgment, but a few principles serve the clinician well. First, rule out an organic cause for the bleeding. Then remember that hormonal therapy can almost always stop anovulatory bleeding, but both the patient and the physician must recognize that bleeding will recur at a later (hopefully controlled and planned) time. In general, medical management is always preferred for the treatment of DUB, especially if the patient is interested in future childbearing or if menopause will occur shortly. The actual management of DUB depends on the severity of the problem, the age of the patient, and her desires regarding future fertility. In young women, typically teenagers, with DUB, only reassurance and prospective charting may be necessary in those with mild irregular bleeding, especially because most adolescents will begin or resume regular ovulatory cycles within several months (188). In teens in whom the bleeding has been more prolonged and erratic such that there is some anemia (but the patient is hemodynamically stable), therapy must be individualized. If the young woman is sexually active (but not pregnant), a progestin-dominant oral contraceptive should control the bleeding and simultaneously provide contraception. Alternatively, a progestin such as medroxyprogesterone acetate (5-10 mg daily for 10-14 days) may be given every 30 to 60 days to induce intermittent “chemical curettage” and prevent chronic unopposed stimulation of the endometrium. However, it often takes several months before intermittent progestins can control irregular uterine bleeding. Oral iron therapy should always be provided as well. In general, the hormonal therapy can be discontinued, if desired, in 6 to 12 months. Most women will have regular menses when therapy is stopped, but thorough evaluation is warranted if irregular bleeding recurs. In acute severe menorrhagia (with signs of acute blood loss such that the patient is hemodynamically unstable), blood transfusion may be required to restore hemodynamic stability. Once more hormonal therapy is almost always effective in controlling the bleeding. Any of several regimens may be utilized, but in general large doses of estrogen
