Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


to restore hemodynamic stability. Once more hormonal therapy is almost always effective in controlling the bleeding. Any of several regimens may be utilized, but in general large doses of estrogen must be given initially and progestin must be added to stabilize the endometrium. For example, an oral contraceptive agent containing 35 micrograms of ethinyl estradiol may be given every 6 hours until the bleeding stops (generally within 48 hours). The dosage then may be tapered by reducing by one pill every other day (4,4,3,3,2,2,1,1 pills per day). Withdrawal bleeding may be permitted after the dosage has been reduced to one tablet each day or may be deferred for several days by continuing to administer one tablet daily. The patient then should be maintained on oral contraceptives given in the usual cyclic fashion for 6 to 12 months. If hormonal therapy cannot control the bleeding, the diagnosis of DUB should be questioned, and evaluation and biopsy of the endometrium are warranted. Treatment of the woman over age 35 with AUB is more problematic. Organic causes of uterine bleeding are more common and mandate at least visualization if not sampling of the endometrium. Hormonal therapy with a progestin alone or with estrogen and a progestin can be used to control bleeding; combination therapy may be more effective. It is clear that low-dose combination oral contraceptive agents are effective in the majority of women with DUB (193). Hysterectomy is more commonly employed in this age group, particularly if the patient no longer desires childbearing. A number of medications have proven effective in the treatment of menorrhagia associated with ovulatory menstrual cycles. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) are clearly of benefit in some, but not all, women with increased menstrual blood loss. Five of seven randomized trials concluded that mean menstrual blood loss was less with NSAIDs than placebo, while two showed no significant difference (194). This therapy can be used for long-term treatment because side effects, mainly gastrointestinal, are mild with intermittent therapy administered only when the patient is bleeding. They can be given in combination with oral contraceptives or progestins to achieve more effective reduction in menstrual blood loss. Although not approved by the FDA for this purpose, studies from Europe indicate that progestin-containing IUDs may be the most effective therapy for menorrhagia, effecting a reduction in blood loss of as much as 90% in some women (195). The androgenic steroid danazol is
