Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


progestin-containing IUDs may be the most effective therapy for menorrhagia, effecting a reduction in blood loss of as much as 90% in some women (195). The androgenic steroid danazol is also effective in reducing blood loss, even at relatively low doses of 200-400 mg per day, but side effects are common and more severe than with other medical therapies. Epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA), tranexamic acid (AMCA), and para-aminomethylbenzoic acid (PAMBA) are potent inhibitors of fibrinolysis and have been used effectively, particularly in Europe, to reduce menstrual blood loss, but side effects limit their utility (196,197). Tranexamic acid is now approved for use in the United States. Although extensive data are lacking, it is likely that GnRH analogs, perhaps with “add back” therapy to prevent bone loss, are very effective in reducing blood loss (198), but their expense mitigates using them except in those women who fail to respond to other methods of medical management and who wish to retain their childbearing capacity. A few other comments are warranted. For women of reproductive age who desire childbearing, induction of ovulation is an effective means of controlling anovulatory bleeding. More than half of functional ovarian cysts, most commonly follicular and corpora luteal cysts, induce some form of menstrual irregularity, ranging from amenorrhea to menorrhagia, and most resolve spontaneously. Clearly abnormal bleeding is also a common complaint of women using hormonal and other forms of contraception. It is also important to remember that thyroid dysfunction may cause any disorder of bleeding ranging from amenorrhea to menorrhagia. Lastly there is little if any role for the use of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate in the management of AUB. This is particularly true for the treatment of acute bleeding and for individuals in whom the cause of the bleeding has not been established with certainty. Although DMPA may be effective in some women, the drug is also known to cause irregular bleeding and may merely compound the problem. Other, more easily reversible forms of contraception are equally or more effective and should be used. There are several approaches to the surgical treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The appropriate procedure depends on the individual circumstances. Dilatation and curettage (D&C) is indicated for diagnostic purposes in those women in whom endometrial sampling is warranted but in whom endometrial biopsy in the office is not feasible or has been nondiagnostic. Although D&C has been found empirically to be effective in the
