Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


endometrial sampling is warranted but in whom endometrial biopsy in the office is not feasible or has been nondiagnostic. Although D&C has been found empirically to be effective in the management of acute uterine bleeding unresponsive to medical therapy, the therapeutic effect of the procedure is usually limited to the current bleeding episode. When D&C is performed for acute bleeding, it should be followed immediately by administration of cyclic exogenous estrogen and progestin in order to optimize long-term cycle control. It has been estimated that the blind technique of D&C misses the diagnosis of intrauterine lesions in 10 to 25% of patients. Several studies have indicated that hysteroscopy with directed biopsy is at least as accurate as D&C in detecting endometrial abnormalities. Difficulties with hysteroscopy include its cost, the skill required to perform the procedure and evaluate what is seen, and the fact that it is not useful as a simple screening procedure. Hysteroscopy is probably most useful in individuals with AUB in whom no lesion is detected by other methods but in whom the abnormal bleeding persists. Surgery that attempts to destroy the endometrium selectively, called endometrial ablation, has been reported for decades. Early approaches utilized thermocoagulation and irradiation. Hysteroscopic endometrial ablation can be conducted in several ways: using laser or electrical or thermal energy to coagulate or vaporize the tissue or resecting the endometrium with a loop electrode deployed via a modified urological resectoscope. Non-hysteroscopic endometrial ablation, involving blind destruction of the endometrium using computer-assisted energy delivery systems, is becoming increasingly popular because newly available approaches and those under development are less expensive than surgical approaches, require less training, and some can be performed in an office setting. Thermal balloon ablation systems are now available in the United States. Although trials comparing the various approaches are relatively uncommon, it appears that all the approved methods of endometrial ablation are equally effective (199-201). The reported incidence of complications with endometrial ablation is relatively low (200). A comprehensive survey of 87 Dutch hospitals indicates half of all complications are related to entry into the endometrial cavity (i.e., uterine perforation and cervical trauma) (202). Other complications include those related to anesthesia, failed access, hemorrhage, and the systemic absorption of distension media. Complications are more commonly encountered early in the experience of a given surgeon. Data from several reported series suggest that endometrial ablation will result in initial amenorrhea in 50-75% of
