Evaluation of Amenorrhea, Anovulation, and Abnormal Bleeding
KEYWORDS: women, ovarian, amenorrhea, bleeding, syndrome, failure, pcos, levels, endocrinol, clin, normal, ovarian failure, therapy, clin endocrinol, endocrinol metab


Complications are more commonly encountered early in the experience of a given surgeon. Data from several reported series suggest that endometrial ablation will result in initial amenorrhea in 50-75% of patients, acceptable reduction in blood loss in another 20-30%, and no significant reduction in blood loss in approximately 10% (199,201). Repeating the procedure a second time appears to be successful in over half the patients initially experiencing a treatment failure. There is class I evidence from a Cochrane review that use of GnRH agonists prior to endometrial ablation results in shorter procedures, greater ease of surgery, a lower rate of post-operative dysmenorrhea, and a higher rate of post-surgical amenorrhea (203). Several randomized trials allowed a meta-analysis which documented that women undergoing hysteroscopic endometrial ablation had shorter hospital stays, fewer post-operative complications, and resumed activities earlier than those undergoing hysterectomy for increased menstrual bleeding (204). However, there was a significant advantage in favor of hysterectomy in the improvement in heavy menstrual bleeding and satisfaction rates up to 4 years after surgery compared with endometrial ablation. Moreover, rates of re-operation in women undergoing endometrial ablation increase steadily over time after the initial surgery, up to about 40% at 4 years (205). The direct costs of endometrial ablation may well be greater than hysterectomy if patients are followed long enough after their initial procedure (205). Thus, currently endometrial ablation may be an appropriate alternative to hysterectomy for the rare case of DUB or menorrhagia that is unresponsive to conservative management in a woman who is not desirous of future childbearing. Ablation may be very useful in women who are sufficiently ill such that they are poor candidates for hysterectomy. The most common indication for the removal of uterine fibroids by myomectomy is menorrhagia, followed by pelvic pain or pressure and infertility. The reported effectiveness of myomectomy for menorrhagia is about 80%, but it is not clear what percentage of these patients have failed medical therapy. Although recurrence of myomas following myomectomy is observed in up to 50% of cases, reportedly only 10-15% of women undergoing myomectomy require subsequent surgery such as hysterectomy. MRI –guided focused ultrasound is being used increasingly to treat myomas without surgery. The effectiveness of hysterectomy for AUB (virtually 100%) has contributed to its popularity as a primary treatment modality for this disorder. Unfortunately, the inefficiency of hysterectomy, due to its greater morbidity, mortality, and cost, makes it an inappropriate
