Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


ABSTRACT Pediatric primary or monogenic dyslipidemias are a heterogeneous group of disorders, characterized by severe elevation of cholesterol, triglycerides, or rarely a combination of the two. Monogenic hypercholesterolemias have elevated low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and very high risk of premature atherosclerotic disease. They are caused by mutations in genes involved in the receptor-mediated uptake of LDL by the LDL receptor (LDLR) in hepatocytes. Autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia results from mutations in LDLR, apolipoprotein B-100 (APOB), or proprotein convertase subtilisin-like kexin type 9 ( PCSK9) . Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia is caused by mutations in the LDLR adaptor protein 1 ( LDLRAP1 ) gene. Type 1 hyperlipoproteinemia (Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome) have severe fasting hypertriglyceridemia secondary to accumulation of triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins, especially chylomicrons. It results from mutations in one or more genes that compromise chylomicron lipolysis and clearance. It has autosomal recessive inheritance caused by mutations in lipoprotein lipase ( LPL ), Apolipoprotein C-II( APOCII ), Lipase maturation factor 1( LMF-1 ), Apolipoprotein A-V( APOAV ), Glycosylphosphatidylinositolanchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1( GPIHBP1 ). Familial combined hypercholesterolemia is a complex genetic disease and primarily a disorder of adults. There is strong evidence demonstrating a log-linear relationship between total cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease risk. Severe hypertriglyceridemia has an increased risk of acute pancreatitis. Universal lipid screening with measurement of non-fasting non-HDL cholesterol should be performed in all children ages 9 –11 years and 17–21 years. Advanced genetic testing and counseling play very important role in patients with genetic dyslipidemia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Dyslipidemias are heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by abnormal levels of circulating lipids and lipoproteins. These abnormalities include elevations in cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia, Fredrickson Class IIa), triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia, Frederickson Classes I, IV and V), or a combination of the two (Fredrickson Classes III or IIb). Genetic disorders of high-density lipoprotein or hypocholesterolemias are extremely rare and discussed in other Endotext chapters. The etiology of genetic disorders are very complex, and can encompass from rare monogenic disorders due to single gene defects to complex polygenic basis ( 1 ). Meta-analysis of genome-wide association study identified 95 loci associated with abnormal total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG) ( 2 ). Recent studies have shown that most patients with HTG have a complex genetic etiology consisting of multiple genetic variants ranging
