Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


cholic acid Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency LIPA ( 18 ) 1 in 4 to 30 X 10 4 ↓ hydrolysis of cholesterol esters and triglycerides Autosomal Dominant Hypercholesterolemia Autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia (ADH) is characterized by severe life-long elevations in low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) with a concomitant 10-20 fold-increased risk of premature coronary heart disease (CHD) compared with the general population ( 11 ). Autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia is primarily caused by mutations in genes involved in the receptor-mediated uptake of LDL by the LDL receptor (LDLR) in hepatocytes ( Figure 2 ). Thus far, three genes have been found to cause the disorder: LDLR (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man [OMIM] # 143890, referred to as having familial hypercholesterolemia [FH]), apolipoprotein B-100 (APOB, OMIM # 107730, referred to as familial defective APOB ), and proprotein convertase subtilisin-like kexin type 9 ( PCSK9, OMIM # 603776, referred to as FH3) ( 5 ) . In ADH cohorts, mutation detection rates vary - as high as 90% in ethnically homogenous populations ( 19 - 23 ) and as low as 40% in a multiethnic US cohort ( 24 ). FAMILIAL HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA Brown and Goldstein ( 6 ) first demonstrated that autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia is due to dysfunctional LDLR. Pathogenic changes in LDLR result in impaired uptake and processing of LDL particles, which leads to decreased LDL clearance and elevated serum cholesterol levels. Over 1700 mutations in LDLR have been described thus far, and roughly about 1000 are likely to be pathogenic ( 7 , 25 - 28 ). Mutations can be predicted to be pathogenic using scoring tools such as Sorting Intolerant from Tolerant (SIFT) ( 29 ), Polymorphism Phenotyping v2 (PolyPhen-2) ( 30 ), or Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion (CADD) ( 31 ). Guo et al ( 32 ) recently developed a prediction model using structural modeling and bioinformatics algorithm called “Structure-based Functional Impact Prediction for Mutation Identification” (SFIP-MutID) for FH with LDLR single missense mutations. Among autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia patients with detectable mutations, LDLR mutations represent ~90% of cases, and recent large-scale exome sequencing studies have identified LDLR mutations as the most common genetic defect among all individuals with premature CHD ( 33 ). FH can occur as either homozygous (or compound heterozygous) or heterozygous, with a gene dosage effect. Homozygous FH is rare with a frequency of 1 in 1,000,000, whereas heterozygous FH affects 1 in 250-500. Higher frequencies have been reported
