Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


discovered in 2003 as a serine protease that degrades hepatic LDLRs in the endosomes thereby reducing receptor availability. PCSK9 gain-of-function (GOF) mutations cause increased LDRr degradation and reduced recycling to the cell surface, causing reduced LDL uptake and an increase in LDL-C concentration ( 42 ). Interestingly, functional studies show that different variants have different mechanisms to achieve the enhanced degradation of LDLr ( 43 - 46 ). Mutations upregulating activation of the PCSK9 gene were discovered in three French families with autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia but no mutations in LDLR or ApoB ( 47 ). PCSK9 GOF mutations represent less than 1% of cases, with approximately 30 variants described to date ( 48 ). Currently there are two FDA approved human monoclonal antibodies to PCSK9: alirocumab and evolocumab. They were approved in 2015 and work by neutralizing PCSK9, inhibiting the interaction between PCSK9 and the LDLR, leading to an increase in the number of LDL receptors and, finally, enhancing uptake of LDL particles. Autosomal Recessive Hypercholesterolemia (ARH) ARH is caused by bi-allelic mutations in the LDLR adaptor protein 1 ( LDLRAP1 ) gene. LDLR adaptor protein (LDLRAP1 or ARH) promotes the clustering of LDLRs into the clathrin-coated pits on the basolateral surface of hepatocytes by coupling the cytoplasmic tail of LDLR to structural components of the clathrin-coated pit and thus is essential for LDLR-mediated endocytosis. Inactivating mutations in LDLRAP1 lead to retention of LDLRs on the apical surface, thus severely reducing LDL uptake ( 15 ). Sitosterolemia, Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency, and Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis are discussed in other Endotext chapters. Clinical Features FH should be suspected in any child with elevated LDL-C along with family history of elevated LDL-C, tendon xanthomas, premature CHD, or sudden premature cardiac death. Cholesterol esters deposit in peripheral tissues like Achilles and extensor tendons giving rise to tendon xanthomas and their accumulation in arterial walls lead to development of plaques and atherosclerosis. Xanthomas are rarely seen in children and adolescents. However atherosclerosis is present from early childhood, and children with FH have endothelial dysfunction and increased carotid intima-media thickness ( 49 ). There are three diagnostic tools available for FH ( Figure 2 - 4 ): 1. The US MedPed Program diagnostic criteria ( 50 ): It utilizes total cholesterol levels specific to an individual’s age and family history. The levels were derived from mathematical modeling using published cholesterol levels for FH individuals in the
