Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


): It utilizes total cholesterol levels specific to an individual’s age and family history. The levels were derived from mathematical modeling using published cholesterol levels for FH individuals in the United States and Japan ( Figure 2 ). 2. The Simon Broome Register Group criteria ( 51 ): It utilizes cholesterol levels, clinical characteristics, molecular diagnosis, and family history ( Figure 3 ). 3. The Dutch Lipid Clinic Network criteria ( 52 ): It utilizes family history of hyperlipidemia or heart disease, clinical characteristics such as tendinous xanthomata, elevated LDL cholesterol, and/or an identified mutation ( Figure 4 ). Figure 2. US MedPed Program Diagnostic Criteria. Figure 3. The Simon Broome Register Criteria. Figure 4. The Dutch Lipid Clinic Network Criteria. LIPOPROTEIN(a) Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] consists of an LDL particle and apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] and has been shown to be associated with increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including CHD, myocardial infarction and ischemic strokes. An Lp(a) level >100 nmol/L) in Caucasians and >150 nmol/L in African American is considered a risk enhancing factor. National Lipid Association recommends measurement of Lp(a) in youth (< 20 years) with FH; family history of first-degree relatives with premature ASCVD; unknown cause of ischemic stroke; or a parent or sibling with elevated Lp(a) ( 53 ). Lp(a) is discussed in another Endotext chapter. FAMILIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (FCS) (TYPE 1 HYPERLIPOPROTEINEMIA) Type 1 hyperlipoproteinemia (T1HLP, OMIM# 238600) or familial chylomicronemia syndrome is characterized by severe fasting hypertriglyceridemia secondary to accumulation of triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins, especially chylomicrons. It results from mutations in one or more genes that compromise chylomicron lipolysis and clearance; mostly due to biallelic loss of function mutations in lipoprotein lipase ( LPL) gene ( 3 , 54 - 56 ), or rarely due to mutations in apolipoprotein CII ( APOC2 ), lipase maturation factor 1 ( LMF1 ), glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 ( GPIHBP1 ), and apolipoprotein AV ( APOA5) ( 57 , 58 ). These disorders typically show autosomal recessive inheritance with published estimates of prevalence of ~1:1,000,000. A recent study estimates that population prevalence could be as high as 1 in 300,000 ( 59 ). Genetics Table 2. Genetic Basis of Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome View in own window Gene Homozygote prevalence Gene product function Age of onset LPL 1 in 1 million (95% cases) Hydrolysis of TG, peripheral uptake of FFA Infancy or childhood APOC2 20 families Required cofactor of
