Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


prevalence Gene product function Age of onset LPL 1 in 1 million (95% cases) Hydrolysis of TG, peripheral uptake of FFA Infancy or childhood APOC2 20 families Required cofactor of LPL Childhood or adolescence LMF1 2 families Chaperone molecule required for proper LPL folding and/or expression Late adulthood APOA5 5 families Enhancer of LPL activity Late adulthood GPIHBP1 15 families Anchors LPL on capillary endothelium. Stabilizes binding of chylomicrons near LPL, supports lipolysis Infancy or childhood Lipoprotein Lipase (LPL) Deficiency FCS most commonly results from lipolytic defects due to deficiency of LPL. LPL is produced primarily by adipocytes and myocytes and binds to heparan sulfate, located at the heparin-binding site on the surface of capillary endothelial cells, allowing LPL to extend into the plasma and participate in the hydrolysis of TG carried in chylomicrons and very-low-density lipoproteins. Bi-allelic LPL mutations account for about 95% cases of FCS. More than 114 mutations in LPL have been described, and almost all of these have been shown to reduce or eliminate LPL activity in the homozygous state, preventing hydrolysis, and resulting in accumulation of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, primarily chylomicrons ( 3 , 60 ). Apolipoprotein C-II ( APOC2) Mutations APOC2 encodes for apolipoprotein (apo) C-II which is found on high-density lipoproteins (HDL), chylomicrons, and very-low-density lipoproteins, and acts as a key cofactor and an activator for LPL ( 61 , 62 ). Twenty families with disease causing mutations in ApoC2 have been reported in the literature. Lipase Maturation Factor 1 ( LMF1 ) Mutations LMF1 serves as a chaperone in the endoplasmic reticulum and is required for the posttranslational activation of LPL, thus playing a regulatory role in lipase activation and lipid metabolism ( 63 ). Two families with disease causing mutations in LMF1 have been reported in literature. Apolipoprotein A-V ( APOAV) Mutation Apo A-V is believed to stabilize the lipoprotein–enzyme complex and to enhance lipolysis; thus, when Apo A‑V is defective or absent, the efficiency of LPL-mediated lipolysis is decreased ( 64 , 65 ). Five patients with disease causing mutations in APOAV have been reported in literature. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-Anchored High-Density Lipoprotein-Binding Protein 1 ( GPIHBP1 ) Mutation GPIHBP1 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein on capillary endothelial cells, which transports LPL into capillaries ( 66 ). GPIHBP1 directs the transendothelial transport of LPL, helps anchor chylomicrons to the endothelial surface, and enhances lipolysis ( 67 ). Mutations in mutations in GPIHBP1 have been reported
