Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


66 ). GPIHBP1 directs the transendothelial transport of LPL, helps anchor chylomicrons to the endothelial surface, and enhances lipolysis ( 67 ). Mutations in mutations in GPIHBP1 have been reported in 15 families. Clinical Features FCS usually presents by adolescence although cases are often unrecognized until adulthood ( 60 ). Often, patients don’t get diagnosed until after developing pancreatitis ( 60 , 68 ), at which time triglycerides are noted to be severely elevated (at least > 1000 mg/dL). Other clinical features include eruptive or tuberous xanthomas, recurrent pancreatitis, lipemia retinalis, and hepatosplenomegaly. Some rare cases may present with failure to thrive, intestinal bleeding, anemia, or encephalopathy ( 69 - 71 ). Unique clinical features like neonatal transient obstructive jaundice due to xanthomas in pancreatic head region and asymptomatic renal xanthomas have been recently described ( 72 , 73 ). Several physical exam findings characterize FCS. On fundoscopic exam, a pale pink appearance of vessels can be noted, referred to as lipemia retinalis. Lipemia retinalis occurs due to light scattering of large chylomicron particles. Eruptive xanthomas - crops of discrete yellow papules on an erythematous base – can manifest on the back, buttocks, and extensor aspects of elbows and knees. The eruptive xanthomas clear as triglycerides decrease. Hepatosplenomegaly occurs due to triglyceride accumulation in the liver and spleen. Severe hypertriglyceridemia is an increased risk of acute pancreatitis, a serious condition often complicated by the systemic inflammatory response syndrome, multiorgan failure, pancreatic necrosis, and mortality rates as high as 20%. Even when not having pancreatitis episodes, some FCS patients suffer from bouts of abdominal pain . Diagnostic Approach FCS should be suspected in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia (> 1000 mg/dL) without any secondary cause (e.g., uncontrolled diabetes, alcohol use, etc.). Gene sequencing to look for homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in known genes such as L PL , APOC2 , APOA5 , LMF1 and GPIHBP1 may be performed. Although not always clinically available, several research labs can do sequencing or these genes can be included as part of targeted next-generation sequencing diagnostic panel for monogenic dyslipidemias. A molecular diagnosis aids in the early identification of at-risk family members. It might also help to establish candidacy for emerging therapies that target primary LPL deficiency, especially for patients who present at a young age. Treatment of these patients poses a significant challenge, as the current medications for hypertriglyceridemia such as fibrates, niacin, and
