Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


LPL deficiency, especially for patients who present at a young age. Treatment of these patients poses a significant challenge, as the current medications for hypertriglyceridemia such as fibrates, niacin, and omega-3 fatty acids are ineffective ( 55 , 74 ). The only effective therapy is extremely low-fat diet ( 55 , 75 ). Recent clinical trial of the gastric and pancreatic lipase inhibitor, orlistat, reduced serum triglycerides by greater than 50% in two patients with FCS due to GPIHBP1 mutations and was shown to be safe and highly efficacious in lowering serum triglycerides in children with FCS ( 76 ). Alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera®; AMT-011, AAV1-LPL(S447X)) is an adeno-associated virus serotype 1-based gene therapy, which was approved in Europe for adult patients with familial LPL deficiency in 2012 but has been subsequently withdrawn from the market in April 2017 ( 77 ). Volanesorsen, an antisense oligonucleotide against APOC3 mRNA, is approved to treat individuals with familial chylomicronemia syndrome in Europe but not the US. In a pooled analysis of four studies comparing 139 patients treated with volanesorsen a significant reduction in triglycerides was observed compared to placebo [TG level (MD: -73.9%; 95%CI: -93.5%, -54.2; p < .001) (77A). FAMILIAL COMBINED HYPERLIPIDEMIA (FCHL) FCHL is the most common inherited form on dyslipidemia. Its prevalence is estimated to be about 1 in 100 and thus is of importance for cardiovascular metabolic health of the population ( 78 ). A nomogram was created in 2004 to calculate probability of being affected by FCHL using three variables: age and gender adjusted triglyceride, total cholesterol, and absolute apoB levels. Points are calculated on point scale, translated into probabilities. The individual is considered as affected by FCHL if probability is at least 60%, in the setting of one other family member with FCH phenotype, and at least one individual in the family with premature cardiovascular disease (CVD) ( 79 ) . No single gene has yet been identified as a causative factor. It is a complex genetic disease and the features are determined by interaction of multiple FCHL susceptibility genes with environmental factors. The genes most frequently reported to be associated with FCHL are functionally related to plasma lipid metabolism and clearance, such as USF1, HL, PPARG, TNFRSF1B, LPL, LIPC , APOA1/CIII/AIV/AV and APOE ( 80 ) . Overproduction of VLDL particles and hepatic fat accumulation are both central aspects of FCHL. Increased free fatty acid flux
