Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


TNFRSF1B, LPL, LIPC , APOA1/CIII/AIV/AV and APOE ( 80 ) . Overproduction of VLDL particles and hepatic fat accumulation are both central aspects of FCHL. Increased free fatty acid flux (from dysfunctional adipose tissue) towards the liver, increased hepatic de novo lipogenesis, and impaired β oxidation results in hepatic fat accumulation ( 80 ). FCHL is typically a diagnosis of adults. Its diagnosis is very complex in children due to lack of long-term data linking lipid values measured in children to the expression of the disease in the adult state or in older people. Hyperapo B in children may be a precursor of other lipid abnormalities, and thus it is suggested as a good marker of early diagnosis of FCH ( 81 ). FAMILIAL HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA (FHTG) Similar to FCHL, FHTG is a complex genetic disease and the features are determined by the interaction of multiple susceptibility genes that increase triglyceride levels with environmental factors. Triglyceride levels are between 250-1000 mg/dL and LDL-c and apoB levels are not elevated. It is often accompanied by obesity and insulin resistance. FAMILIAL DYSBETALIPOPROTEINEMIA Dysbetalipoproteinemia is characterized by accumulation of remnant particles due to homozygous apoE2 genotype. The estimated prevalence is from 0.12% to 0.40% ( 82 ). A secondary insult such as insulin resistance, obesity, diabetes, hypothyroidism, or estrogen use decreases remnant clearance, increasing VLDL production. Patients have elevated total cholesterol (250-500 mg/dL) and triglyceride levels (250- 600 mg/dL), often with decreased HDL-C and LDL-C. This disorder is suspected when TG/apoB ratio is <10.0 and the diagnosis can be confirmed by VLDL-C/ plasma TG >0.69 plus an apoE2/E2 genotype ( 83 ). LIPODYSTROPHY Generalized and partial lipodystrophy syndromes are frequently associated with hypertriglyceridemia from late childhood and are discussed in details in another Endotext chapter (84,85). SCREENING There is strong evidence demonstrating a log-linear relationship between total cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Thus the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) along with the American Academy, issued integrated recommendations for cardiovascular (CV) risk reduction, including guidelines for management of hypertension, obesity, and hyperlipidemia ( 86 ). Universal lipid screening should be performed with measurement of non-fasting non-HDL cholesterol in all children ages 9 –11 years and 17–21 years. Those with abnormal levels should have two additional fasting lipid profiles measured 2 weeks to 3 months apart and averaged. Abnormal levels are then stratified by LDL cholesterol, TG levels, and risk factors.
