Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


levels should have two additional fasting lipid profiles measured 2 weeks to 3 months apart and averaged. Abnormal levels are then stratified by LDL cholesterol, TG levels, and risk factors. One of the important goals of the universal screening is identifying patients with FH. FH affects 1 in 250 population, and patients develop severe coronary artery disease and other vascular complications at a young age if not recognized and treated. Current evidence suggests that early detection of FH and cascade screening are required. Among heterozygous patients the long latent period before the expected onset of coronary artery disease provides an opportunity for initiating effective drug and lifestyle changes improving the prognosis of the disease ( 87 , 88 ). Universal screening in youth can also provide means of identifying affected family members through reverse cascade screening ( 89 ). With decreasing cost and increasing accessibility, incidentally identified variants are becoming common and the ACMG (American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics) recently published guidance on clinically actionable genes. LDLRR, APOB and PCSK9 are amongst these genes. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has devised a 3-tier system for actionable genomic applications; with tier 1 genes backed by strong evidence that supports that identification should alter management to prevent the disease. Currently, the hyperlipidemia–associated genes represent the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tier 1 list ( 90 , 91 ). Cost-Effectiveness Multiple studies have reported cost-effectiveness of screening. Goldman et al ( 92 ) showed the use of low-to-moderate doses of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor for primary prevention in patients with heterozygous FH was cost effective. Statins are now very inexpensive and generic. A detailed study from the United Kingdom compared the identification and treatment of FH patients by universal screening, opportunistic screening in primary care, screening of premature myocardial infarction admissions, and tracing family members of affected patients. They concluded that screening family members of people with familial hypercholesterolemia is the most cost effective option for detecting cases across the whole population ( 93 ). Another study showed that the cost-effectiveness of a family based screening program for FH in the Netherlands is between 25·5- and 32-thousand Euros per year of life gained ( 94 ). A recent study showed cost effectiveness if searching primary care databases for high-risk population of FH followed by cascade testing as only half of the carriers are identified by
