Genetics and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, familial, hypercholesterolemia, mutations, clinical, genetic, disease, free, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, familial hypercholesterolemia, cholesterol


). A recent study showed cost effectiveness if searching primary care databases for high-risk population of FH followed by cascade testing as only half of the carriers are identified by cascade screening at this time ( 95 ). GENETIC COUNSELING FH has an autosomal dominant inheritance with a gene dosage effect and the impact of diagnosis is likely to extend beyond the affected patient to multiple relatives across multiple generations. Identifying at-risk individuals is very important to prevent morbidity and mortality due to premature CVD. Given the complicated nature of genetic testing, there is significant role of genetic counseling for professionals treating hypercholesterolemic patients. Genetic counseling should begin when the proband is suspected to have diagnosis of FH. The discussion should include an explanation of inheritance patterns, information about genetic testing, including potential benefits, risks, and potential for incidental or uncertain findings. Once results are obtained, genetic counseling helps the patient in their interpretation. Genetic counselors should discuss the genetic tests results and interpretations and need to test family members in families with positive results. They also need to discuss that about 20–40% of FH patients do not have any unidentifiable mutations in Sanger sequencing (first line testing), and might benefit from new testing modalities like whole exome sequencing. FCS has autosomal recessive inheritance and genetic testing of the families help identify at risk individuals. Early identification of subjects at risk for developing HTG could prompt early lifestyle modification or evidence- based pharmacological intervention to reduce risk of clinical end points. Individuals that are heterozygous for LPL defects are at increased risk of developing hypertriglyceridemia, particularly in response to environmental insults such as obesity, diabetes, ETOH, etc. FCHL on the other hand is a complex disorder that both genetics and environment can play a role in its pathogenesis which can be explained to the families. REFERENCES 1. Berberich AJ, Hegele RA. The complex molecular genetics of familial hypercholesterolaemia. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2019; 16 :9–20. [ PubMed : 29973710 ] 2. Teslovich TM, Musunuru K, Smith AV, Edmondson AC, Stylianou IM, Koseki M, Pirruccello JP, Ripatti S, Chasman DI, Willer CJ, Johansen CT, Fouchier SW, Isaacs A, Peloso GM, Barbalic M, Ricketts SL, Bis JC, Aulchenko YS, Thorleifsson G, Feitosa MF, Chambers J, Orho-Melander M, Melander O, Johnson T, Li X, Guo X, Li M, Shin Cho Y, Jin Go M, Jin Kim Y, Lee JY, Park T, Kim K, Sim
