NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. [Updated 2026
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin-clavulanate, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, days, amoxicillin, jaundice, bilirubin, weeks, alt, drug, cases


Jan 24]. In: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Amoxicillin-Clavulanate Updated: January 24, 2026. OVERVIEW Introduction The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate is an oral antibiotic widely used in the treatment of mild-to- moderate bacterial infections including sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, cellulitis and community acquired pneumonia. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is currently the most common cause of clinically apparent, drug induced acute liver injury both in the United States and Europe. Background The combination of amoxicillin (a mox” i sil' in) and clavulanate (klav’ ue lan’ ate) is a commonly used antibiotic which is active against many bacterial organisms that cause sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, skin and tissue infections, and community acquired pneumonia. The combination consists of amoxicillin which is a semisynthetic, third generation penicillin and clavulanate which is a beta lactam that acts as an inhibitor of beta lactamase, the major bacterial enzyme responsible for penicillin resistance. Amoxicillin-clavulanate was approved for use in the United States in 1984 and, currently, approximately 10 million prescriptions are filled yearly, making it one of the most common antibiotic regimens used. Current indications are for mild-to- moderate bacterial infections due to known or suspected penicillinase resistant gram positive or gram negative organisms. This combination is provided in multiple dose combinations, typically as 250 to 875 mg amoxicillin with 125 mg of clavulanate, given two to three times daily for 7 to 10 days. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is available in multiple generic formulations and under the brand name Augmentin. Side effects are usually mild and self- limited and can include diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, headache, and rash. Rare but potentially serious adverse events include hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis, severe skin rash, Stevens Johnson syndrome, C. difficile diarrhea, interstitial nephritis, neutropenia, aplastic anemia and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatotoxicity Amoxicillin-clavulanate has been implicated in hundreds of cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury and is currently the most common cause of drug induced liver disease in most large case series from North and South America, Australia, and Europe. The onset of injury is typically a few days to as long as 8 weeks (average ~3 weeks) after initiation of therapy and often occurs after the course of antibiotic is completed, the delay being a few days to as long as six weeks. The onset is typically with fatigue, low grade fever, nausea, and abdominal
