NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. [Updated 2026
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin-clavulanate, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, days, amoxicillin, jaundice, bilirubin, weeks, alt, drug, cases


the course of antibiotic is completed, the delay being a few days to as long as six weeks. The onset is typically with fatigue, low grade fever, nausea, and abdominal pain, followed by pruritus and jaundice. The pattern of liver enzyme elevations is typically cholestatic with marked Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox elevations in alkaline phosphatase and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (Case 1). In some instances, aminotransferase levels are markedly elevated giving a mixed (Case 2) or hepatocellular pattern (Case 3), particularly in younger patients with earlier onset of injury. In children, amoxicillin-clavulanate hepatotoxicity is typically anicteric and presents with nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain rather than jaundice and itching. Th e pattern of serum enzyme elevations is also much more likely to be hepatocellular in children, but the course of illness is typically benign. Because the liver injury may present days or weeks after stopping therapy, the association of the liver injury with receipt of amoxicillin-clavulanate may be overlooked. Immunoallergic features (fever, rash, eosinophilia) can occur, but are not invariably present and are usually not prominent. Autoantibody formation is not common. Amoxicillin-clavulanate has been linked to rare instances of DRESS syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and vanishing bile duct syndrome. The hepatic injury is idiosyncratic and is estimated to occur after ~1 in 2,000 prescriptions. The injury is more common in men than women, in the elderly, and after multiple courses. Genetic studies indicate a link with HLA types, particularly the extended haplotype: DRB1*15:01-DRB5*01:01-DQB1*06:02 and independently with HLA-A*02.01. Likelihood score: A (well established cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of amoxicillin-clavulanate hepatotoxicity is unknown, but is probably immunoallergic in origin. Allergic manifestations can occur and include rash, fever, arthralgias and eosinophilia. Several studies have reported an HLA Class II association with DRB1*15:01 and the extended haplotype DRB1*15:01-DRB1*01:01- DQB1*06:02. An independent HLA Class I association has also been made with HLA-A*02:01. Less common but also linked to a greater risk of injury from amoxicillin-clavulanate is HLA-B*15:01 and to two non-HLA genes, variants in PTPN22 and ERAP2. In contrast, amoxicillin liver injury has been linked only to HLA- A*02:01 and not to the other amoxicillin-clavulanate risk alleles. Indeed, the liver injury from the combination appears to be due to the clavulanate rather than amoxicillin, as reexposure to amoxicillin alone has not been associated with recurrence (Case 5), whereas reexposure to the combination
