NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. [Updated 2026
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin-clavulanate, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, days, amoxicillin, jaundice, bilirubin, weeks, alt, drug, cases


the combination appears to be due to the clavulanate rather than amoxicillin, as reexposure to amoxicillin alone has not been associated with recurrence (Case 5), whereas reexposure to the combination is usually followed by a more rapid onset of a more severe hepatic injury, which can include prolonged cholestasis and development of cirrhosis. Other beta lactamase inhibitors (tazobactam and sulbactam) have not been reported to cause a similar hepatic injury, although it has been reported with other penicillins when combined with clavulanate (ticarcillin/ clavulanate). Outcome and Management The liver injury caused by amoxicillin-clavulanate is typically associated with jaundice and can be severe and prolonged (with jaundice lasting 4 to 24 weeks), but rarely results in lasting injury or death. Deaths due to amoxicillin-clavulanate hepatic injury have been described, but largely in patients with other comorbidities including cirrhosis or with multiple exposures. In addition, rare instances of prolonged cholestasis and vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported after acute amoxicillin-clavulanate injury. Corticosteroids have been used in patients with marked or prolonged cholestasis, but their efficacy has not been shown and their use cannot be recommended routinely. Cholestyramine or ursodiol may help alleviate symptoms but probably do not speed recovery. Rechallenge with amoxicillin-clavulanate results in recurrence and should be avoided. Unintentional re-exposure is not uncommon and often results in liver injury with a shorter latency to onset and longer period of recovery. Severe recurrences including deaths have been reported. Re-exposure a fter amoxicillin-clavulanate associated liver injury to amoxicillin alone, on the other hand, is usually tolerated and without recurrence of liver injury. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Aminopenicillins Other Drugs in the Subclass, Aminopenicillins: Ampicillin, Ampicillin-Sulbactam, Amoxicillin, Bacampicillin, Pivampicillin, Ticarcillin-Clavulanate Amoxicillin-Clavulanate 3 CASE REPORTS Case 1. Cholestatic hepatitis from amoxicillin-clavulanate.(1) A 75 year old man with a history of prostate cancer and regular alcohol use (2 to 3 drinks daily) was given amoxicillin-clavulanate (500 mg/125 mg) for chronic maxillary sinusitis. Because of persistent symptoms, the antibiotic was continued for 31 days. When seen in follow up two weeks later, he complained of jaundice and test results showed a total bilirubin of 42.7 mg/dL, ALT 194 U/L, AST 107 U/L, and alkaline phosphatase 257 U/L. Tests for acute hepatitis A, B, C and E were negative. Ultrasound of the abdomen showed no evidence of biliary obstruction or gallstones. During the hospitalization he developed profound anemia and thrombocytopenia requiring blood and platelet transfusions, and was
