NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. [Updated 2026
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin-clavulanate, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, days, amoxicillin, jaundice, bilirubin, weeks, alt, drug, cases


Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Comments Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) ~1 year 57 76 0.7 Albumin 4.5 g/dL Normal Values <65 <126 <1.2 Comment This case is a typical example of mild-to-moderate amoxicillin-clavulanate hepatotoxicity. The early appearance of itching and high alkaline phosphatase levels (~6 fold elevated) indicated that the injury was “cholestatic,” while the high AST and ALT levels (peak at 10-15 fold elevated) provided the evidence that the injury was “mixed”. The repeated courses of the combination within a short period of time may have predisposed to the hepatotoxicity. The jaundice and itching lasted only two weeks, and he eventually had full recovery. Case 3. Hepatocellular injury due to amoxicillin-clavulanate.(1) A woman in her 20s received a ten-day course of amoxicillin-clavulanate (500 mg/125 mg) twice daily for suspected sinusitis. She felt somewhat nauseated during therapy, but was then without symptoms until 8 to 9 weeks after stopping therapy when she developed anorexia, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain. She noted dark urine and jaundice and went to an emergency room where blood tests were taken showing a total bilirubin of 12.5 mg/dL, ALT 3500 U/L, AST 2554 U/L, and alkaline phosphatase 187 U/L. She was also on birth control pills and had intermittently taken cold and sinus remedies and loratadine for allergic sinusitis during the previous two months. She received a one-week course of nabumetone (a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent) and prednisone for acute neck spasms one month previously. She denied taking acetaminophen in the recent past and had no history of exposure to viral hepatitis or known risk factors for hepatitis or liver disease. She drank little alcohol and had never received amoxicillin-clavulanate previously. Tests for acute hepatitis A, B, C and E were negative as were tests for antinuclear and smooth muscle antibody. An ultrasound of the abdomen showed no evidence of biliary tract disease or gallstones. She did not undergo liver biopsy. Serum aminotransferase levels decreased while serum bilirubin rose to 27.2 mg/dL before falling (Table). Serum alkaline phosphatase levels were never very elevated. Prothrombin time was abnormal for a short period (peak INR 1.7). She recovered slowly and remained symptomatic with fatigue and abdominal discomfort for several months. When seen six months after onset of jaundice, she had no symptoms and serum bilirubin, aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels had returned to normal. Key Points Medication: Amoxicillin-clavulanate unknown dose twice daily for 14
