NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, pantoprazole, injury, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, proton, liver injury, proton pump, pump, drug, acute, inhibitors, days, pump inhibitors


NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug- Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Pantoprazole. [Updated 2019 Apr 15]. Bookshelf URL: Pantoprazole Updated: April 15, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Pantoprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and a potent inhibitor of gastric acidity which is widely used in the therapy of gastroesophageal reflux and peptic ulcer disease. Pantoprazole therapy is associated with a low rate of transient and asymptomatic serum aminotransferase elevations and is a rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Pantoprazole, (pan toe' pra zole) like other PPIs, blocks gastric acid production by binding to and inactivating the H+/K+-ATPase of gastric parietal cells, causing inhibition of the proton pump that transports H+ into the gastric lumen, the final common step in gastric acid production. Pantoprazole is a prodrug and is converted to the active form in the acidic secretory canaliculi of parietal cells. Because the inhibition is irreversible, acid secretion is suppressed for 24 to 48 hours, until new proton pump molecules have been synthesized and transported to the cell membrane. Pantoprazole was the fourth PPI approved for use in the United States (2000) and now is in wide use. Pantoprazole is available as delayed release tablets of 20 and 40 mg, and in 40 mg vials for parenteral use generically and under the brand name of Protonix. The typical dose of pantoprazole for peptic ulcer disease is 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks with similar long term maintenance doses. Twice daily doses are recommended for more severe cases of gastrointestinal reflux and peptic ulcer disease, and doses of up to 240 mg daily for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Pantoprazole is very well tolerated. Side effects are uncommon and usually mild, and include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, flatulence, skin rash, headaches and dizziness. Severe adverse events are rare but can include hypersensitivity reactions. Long-term use may be associated with bone fractures, acute interstitial nephritis, lupus erythematosus, vitamin B12 deficiency and hypomagnesemia. Hepatotoxicity Despite its wide use, pantoprazole has only rarely been associated with hepatic injury. In large scale, long term trials of pantoprazole, serum ALT elevations have occurred in less than 1% of patients and at rates similar to those that occur with placebo or comparator drugs. Only a small number of cases of clinically apparent liver hepatic necrosis which has been described with other
