NLM Citation: LiverTox®: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, pantoprazole, injury, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, proton, liver injury, proton pump, pump, drug, acute, inhibitors, days, pump inhibitors


at rates similar to those that occur with placebo or comparator drugs. Only a small number of cases of clinically apparent liver hepatic necrosis which has been described with other proton pump inhibitors. Clinically apparent liver injury due to proton pump inhibitors generally arises within the first 4 weeks of therapy and is characterized by an acute hepatocellular pattern of injury with rapid recovery upon withdrawal. Rash, fever and eosinophilia are 2 LiverTox® rare, as is autoantibody formation. In large case series of drug induced liver injury, pantoprazole has accounted for few instances of symptomatic acute liver injury. Likelihood score: C (probable rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The acute onset and rapid recurrence of hepatic injury with proton pump inhibitors suggests a hypersensitivity reaction, but may merely reflect altered metabolism or acute toxicity of a metabolic byproduct. Pantoprazole is metabolized predominantly by hepatic CYP 2C19 with lesser metabolism by CYP 3A4. Drug interactions may occur with agents that share these pathways of metabolism. Outcome and Management The mild and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase that have been observed during pantoprazole therapy are usually transient and may resolve even without dose modification. Clinically apparent liver injury due to pantoprazole is rare, but calls for prompt withdrawal of the agent. Cases of acute liver failure due to proton pump inhibitors have been described, but are exceedingly rare. There is no information about cross reactivity among the various PPIs after pantoprazole hepatotoxicity, but the PPIs all share a benzimidazole structure, and caution should be used in attempting to reintroduce another PPI after clinically apparent PPI associated hepatic injury. Drug Class: Antiulcer Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Proton Pump Inhibitors: Dexlansoprazole, Esomeprazole, Lansoprazole, Omeprazole, Rabeprazole CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver injury due to pantoprazole. [Modified from: Cordes A, Vogt W, Maier KP. [Pantoprazole-induced hepatitis]. Dtsch Med Wochenschr 2003; 128: 611-4. German. PubMed Citation] A 46 year old woman with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux developed epigastic pain 8 days after starting pantoprazole. She denied jaundice, dark urine, fever, rash or poor appetite. She had no history of liver disease, jaundice, alcohol abuse or risk factors for viral hepatitis. She took no other medications. Her serum aminotransferase levels had been normal 3 days previously when she underwent a routine upper endoscopy under midazolam anesthesia (which showed changes suggestive of gastroesophageal reflux disease). On examination, she had no fever, jaundice,
