Ventricular Premature Beats (VPB)
KEYWORDS: vpbs, ventricular, heart, patients, premature, beats, ventricular premature, heart disorder, premature beats, disorder, structural heart, treatment, class, coronary, structural


ischemic heart disease is suspected, an exercise test is done for diagnostic purposes and to determine the need for further testing to evaluate the severity of coronary artery disease and the potential for coronary revascularization (1). Treatment of Ventricular Premature Beats Beta-blockers or non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists for patients with bothersome symptoms Rarely, a class I or class III antiarrhythmic medication Rarely, ablation In the absence of a structural heart disorder, asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic premature VPBs have a benign prognosis and require no treatment other than reassurance (1). Treatment for VPBs is only required for relief from bothersome symptoms. Treatment begins with beta-blockers or non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (verapamil or diltiazem). These medications are particularly effective in patients with right or left ventricular outflow tract VPBs (1). Class I or class III antiarrhythmic medications may increase risk of mortality and are not commonly used in patients with a structural heart disorder. To help prevent and/or reverse VPB- induced cardiomyopathy, patients with medication-resistant VPBs and progressive ventricular systolic dysfunction are treated with transcatheter ablation (2). Ablation may also be offered if symptoms are intolerable (1). Ablation is particularly effective in patients with right or left ventricular outflow VPBs (1). In patients with a structural heart disorder, frequent VPBs (> 10/minute) correlate with increased mortality. Nevertheless, no studies have shown that pharmacologic suppression reduces mortality. 3/4 Patients in the post-myocardial infarction period have a higher mortality rate when treated with class I antiarrhythmics than with placebo (3). This finding probably reflects adverse effects of the antiarrhythmics. Beta-blockers (class II antiarrhythmics) should be used if indicated as part of guideline- directed therapy for the underlying structural heart disease. They are beneficial in symptomatic heart failure or if required for relief of symptoms resulting from VPBs. Non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (verapamil, diltiazem) should not be used in patients with significantly reduced left ventricular systolic function. If VPBs increase during exercise in a patient with coronary artery disease, evaluation for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary artery bypass graft surgery should be considered (1). Prognosis for Ventricular Premature Beats VPBs are not significant in patients without a heart disorder, and no treatment is required beyond avoiding obvious triggers. Therapy is offered only if symptoms are intolerable or if the VPBs are very frequent and, by inducing interventricular dyssynchrony, induce cardiomyopathy with heart failure. Other antiarrhythmics that suppress VPBs increase risk of more serious arrhythmias.
