Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


ABSTRACT The pineal gland was described as the “Seat of the Soul” by Renee Descartes and it is located in the center of the brain. The main function of the pineal gland is to receive information about the state of the light-dark cycle from the environment and convey this information by the production and secretion of the hormone melatonin. Changing photoperiod is indicated by the duration of melatonin secretion and is used by photoperiodic species to time their seasonal physiology. The rhythmic production of melatonin, normally secreted only during the dark period of the day, is extensively used as a marker of the phase of the internal circadian clock. Melatonin itself is used as a therapy for certain sleep disorders related to circadian rhythm abnormalities such as delayed sleep phase syndrome, non-24h sleep wake disorder and jet lag. It might have more extensive therapeutic applications in the future, since multiple physiological roles have been attributed to melatonin. It exerts physiologic immediate effects during night or darkness and when suitably administered has prospective effects during daytime when melatonin levels are undetectable. In addition to its role in regulating seasonal physiology and influencing the circadian system and sleep patterns, melatonin is involved in cell protection, neuroprotection, and the reproductive system, among other possible functions. Pineal gland function and melatonin secretion can be impaired due to accidental and developmental conditions, such as pineal tumors, craniopharyngiomas, injuries affecting the sympathetic innervation of the pineal gland, and rare congenital disorders that alter melatonin secretion. This chapter summarizes the physiology and pathophysiology of the pineal gland and melatonin. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PINEAL PHYSIOLOGY Pineal Anatomy and Structure The pineal gland in humans is a small (100-150 mg), highly vascularized, and a secretory neuroendocrine organ ( 1 ). It is located in the mid-line of the brain, outside the blood-brain barrier and attached to the roof of the third ventricle by a short stalk. In humans, the pineal gland usually shows a degree of calcification with age providing a good imaging marker (for a speculative discussion of pineal calcification see reference( 2 )). The principal innervation is sympathetic, arising from the superior cervical ganglia ( 3 ). Arterial vascularization of the pineal gland is supplied by both the anterior and posterior circulation, being the main artery supplying the lateral pineal artery, which originates
