Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


ganglia ( 3 ). Arterial vascularization of the pineal gland is supplied by both the anterior and posterior circulation, being the main artery supplying the lateral pineal artery, which originates from the posterior circulation ( 4 ). In mammals, the main cell types are pinealocytes (95%) followed by scattered glial cells (astrocytic and phagocytic subtypes) ( 5 ). Pinealocytes are responsible for the synthesis and secretion of melatonin. Main Function of the Pineal Gland The main function of the pineal gland is to receive and convey information about the current light-dark cycle from the environment via the production and secretion of melatonin cyclically at night (dark period) ( 6 , 7 ). Although in cold-blooded vertebrates (lower-vertebrate species), the pineal gland is photosensitive, this property is lost in higher vertebrates. In higher vertebrates, light is sensed by the inner retina (retinal ganglion cells) that send neural signals to the visual areas of the brain. However, a few retinal ganglion cells contain melanopsin and have an intrinsic photoreceptor capability that sends neural signals to non-image forming areas of the brain, including the pineal gland, through complex neuronal connections. The photic information from the retina is sent to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the major rhythm-generating system or “clock” in mammals, and from there to other hypothalamic areas. When the light signal is positive, the SCN secretes gamma-amino butyric acid, responsible for the inhibition of the neurons that synapse in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, consequently the signal to the pineal gland is interrupted and melatonin is not synthesized. On the contrary, when there is no light (darkness), the SCN secretes glutamate, responsible for the PVN transmission of the signal along the pathway to the pineal gland. However, it is important to note that in continuous darkness the SCN continues to generate rhythmic output without light suppression since it functions as an endogenous oscillator (master pacemaker or clock). The rhythm deviates from 24h and ‘free-runs’ in the absence of the important light time cue. Light-dark cycles serve to synchronize the rhythm to 24h. The PVN nucleus communicates with higher thoracic segments of the spinal column, conveying information to the superior cervical ganglion that transmits the final signal to the pineal gland through sympathetic postsynaptic fibers by releasing norepinephrine (NE). NE is the trigger for the pinealocytes to produce melatonin by activating the transcription of the mRNA encoding the enzyme arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase
