Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


through sympathetic postsynaptic fibers by releasing norepinephrine (NE). NE is the trigger for the pinealocytes to produce melatonin by activating the transcription of the mRNA encoding the enzyme arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT), the first molecular step for melatonin synthesis ( 8 ) ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Melatonin synthesis in the pineal gland. MELATONIN SYNTHESIS AND METABOLISM Melatonin Synthesis Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is synthesized within the pinealocytes from tryptophan, mostly occurring during the dark phase of the day, when there is a major increase in the activity of serotonin-N-acetyltransferase (arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, AA-NAT), responsible for the transformation of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT, serotonin) to N-acetylserotonin (NAS) ( Figure 1 ). Finally, N-acetylserotonin is converted to melatonin by acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase. The rapid decline in the synthesis with light treatment at night appears to depend on proteasomal proteolysis ( 9 ). Both AA-NAT and serotonin availability play a role limiting melatonin production. AA-NAT mRNA is expressed mainly in the pineal gland, retina, and to a lesser extent in some other brain areas, pituitary, and testis. Melatonin synthesis is also described in many other sites. AA-NAT activation is triggered by the activation of β1 and α1b adrenergic receptors by NE ( 9 ). NE is the major transmitter via β-1 adrenoceptors with potentiation by α-1 stimulation. NE levels are higher at night, approximately 180 degrees out of phase with the serotonin rhythm. Both availability of NE and serotonin are stimulatory for melatonin synthesis. Pathological, surgical or traumatic sympathetic denervation of the pineal gland or administration of β-adrenergic antagonists abolishes the rhythmic synthesis of melatonin and the light-dark control of its production. There is evidence that melatonin can be synthesized in other sites of the body (skin, gastrointestinal tract, retina, bone marrow, placenta and others) acting in an autocrine or paracrine manner ( 10 ). Very recently it has been demonstrated that in the mouse brain melatonin is exclusively synthesized in the mitochondrial matrix. It is released to the cytoplasm, thereby activating a mitochondrial MT1 signal-transduction pathway which inhibits stress-mediated cytochrome c release and caspase activation: these are preludes to cell death and inflammation. This is a new mechanism whereby locally synthesized melatonin may protect against neurodegeneration. It is referred to as automitocrine signaling ( 11 ). Except for the pineal gland, other structures contribute little to circulating concentrations in mammals, since after pinealectomy, melatonin levels are mostly undetectable ( 12 ). Importantly several other factors, summarized in
