Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


for the pineal gland, other structures contribute little to circulating concentrations in mammals, since after pinealectomy, melatonin levels are mostly undetectable ( 12 ). Importantly several other factors, summarized in Table 1 , have been related to the secretion and production of melatonin ( 13 , 14 ). Table 1. Factors Influencing Human Melatonin Secretion and Production ( 11 ),( 12 ) View in own window Factor Effect(s) on melatonin Comment Light Suppression >30 lux white 460-480 nm most effective Light Phase-shift/ Synchronization Short wavelengths most effective Sleep timing Phase-shift Partly secondary to light exposure Posture ↑ standing (night) Exercise ↑ phase shifts Hard exercise ß-adrenoceptor-A ↓ synthesis Anti-hypertensives 5HT UI ↑ fluvoxamine Metabolic effect NE UI ↑ change in timing Antidepressants MAOA I ↑ may change phase Antidepressants α-adrenoceptor-A ↓ alpha-1, ↑ alpha-2 Benzodiazepines Variable↓ diazepam, alprazolam GABA mechanisms Testosterone ↓ Treatment OC ↑ Estradiol ↓? Not clear Menstrual cycle Inconsistent ↑ amenorrhea Smoking Possible changes ↑↓ ? Alcohol ↓ Dose dependent Caffeine ↑ Delays clearance (exogenous) Aspirin, Ibuprofen ↓ Chlorpromazine ↑ Metabolic effect Benserazide Possible phase change, Parkinson patients Aromatic amino-acid decarboxylase-I Abbreviations: A: antagonist, U: uptake, I: inhibitor, MAO: monoamine oxidase, OC: oral contraceptives, 5HT: 5-hydroxytryptamine. Control of Melatonin Synthesis: A Darkness Hormone The rhythm of melatonin production is internally generated and controlled by interacting networks of clock genes in the bilateral SCN ( 15 ). Damage to the SCN leads to a loss of the majority of circadian rhythms. The SCN rhythm is synchronized to 24 hours mainly by the light-dark cycle acting via the retina and the retinohypothalamic projection to the SCN; the longer the night the longer the duration of secretion is, and the ocular light serves to synchronize the rhythm to 24h and to suppress secretion at the end of the dark phase, as explained above. Light exposure is the most important factor related to pineal gland function and melatonin secretion. A single daily light pulse of suitable intensity and duration in otherwise constant darkness is enough to phase shift and to synchronize the melatonin rhythm to 24h ( 16 ). The amount of light required at night to suppress melatonin secretion varies across species. In humans, intensities of 2500 lux full spectrum light (domestic light is around 100 to 500 lux) or light preferably in the blue range (460 to 480 nm) are required to completely suppress melatonin at night, but lower
