Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


light (domestic light is around 100 to 500 lux) or light preferably in the blue range (460 to 480 nm) are required to completely suppress melatonin at night, but lower intensities < 200 lux can suppress secretion and shift the rhythm ( 17 - 21 ). Previous photic history influences the response: living in dim light increases sensitivity. Furthermore, the degree of light perception between individuals is related to the incidence of circadian desynchrony; along these lines, blind people with no conscious or unconscious light perception show free-running or abnormally synchronized melatonin and other circadian rhythms ( 22 - 24 ). Some blind subjects retain an intact retinohypothalamic tract and therefore a normal melatonin response despite a lack of conscious light perception ( 25 , 26 ). It seems clear that an intact innervated pineal gland is necessary for the response to photoperiod change ( 27 ). Melatonin functions as a paracrine signal within the retina, it enhances retinal function in low intensity light by inducing photomechanical changes and provides a closed-loop to the pineal-retina-SCN system. All together, they are the basic structures to perceive and transduce non-visual effects of light, and to generate the melatonin rhythm by a closed-loop negative feedback of genes ( Clock , “Circadian locomotor output cycles kaput” and Bmal, “Brain and muscle ARNT-like” genes), positive stimulatory elements ( Per, “period ” and Cry, “Cryptochrome” genes), and negative elements ( CCG, clock-controlled genes) of clock gene expression in the SCN ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Diagrammatic representation of the control of production and the functions of melatonin, regarding seasonal and circadian timing mechanisms. Abbreviations: SCN: suprachiasmatic nucleus, PVN: paraventricular nucleus, SCG: superior cervical ganglion, NA: norepinephrine (noradrenalin), RHT: retino-hypothalamic-tract, CCG: clock-controlled genes. Based on an original diagram by Dr Elisabeth Maywood, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Neurobiology Division, Hills Road Cambridge, CB2 2QH, UK. Melatonin Metabolism Once synthesized, melatonin is released directly into the peripheral circulation (bound to albumin) and to the CSF without being stored. In humans, melatonin’s half-life in blood is around 40 minutes and it is metabolized within the liver, converted to 6-hydroxymelatonin mainly by CYP1A2 and conjugated to 6-sulfatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) for subsequent urinary excretion. The measurement of urinary aMT6s is a good marker of melatonin secretion, since it follows the same pattern with an approximate 2-hours offset ( 28 , 29 ). Overall, women have slightly higher values of plasma melatonin
