Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


good marker of melatonin secretion, since it follows the same pattern with an approximate 2-hours offset ( 28 , 29 ). Overall, women have slightly higher values of plasma melatonin at night than men ( 30 ). On average, the maximum levels of plasma melatonin in adults occur between 02.00 and 04.00 hours and are on average about 60 to 70 pg/mL when measured with high-specificity assays. Concentrations in saliva, like other hormones, are three times lower than in plasma. Minimum concentrations detected are below 1 pg/mL. The plasma melatonin rhythm (timing and amplitude) strongly correlates with urinary aMT6s. Although there is a large variability in amplitude of the rhythm between subjects, the normal human melatonin rhythm is reproducible from day to day intraindividually ( Figure 3 and 4 ). Figure 3. Average concentrations of melatonin in human plasma (black, N=133), saliva (blue, N=28) and 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) in urine (red, N=88) using radioimmunoassay measurements. Diagrammatic representation of mean normal values (healthy men and women over 18 years old) from Dr. J. Arendt. Stockgrand Ltd., University of Surrey, UK. Figure 4. Plasma melatonin and urinary aMT6s in hourly samples to show the delay in the rhythm of urinary aMT6s compared to plasma melatonin (mean/SEM, N=14). Red lines show typical urine sample collection times over 24-48h to determine timing of the rhythm in out-patient or field studies. Redrawn from R. Naidoo, Thesis, University of Surrey, UK, 1998. Melatonin Production During Development and Across Life At birth, melatonin levels are almost undetectable, the only fetal source of melatonin being via the placental circulation. Melatonin levels in fetal umbilical circulation reflect the day-night difference as seen in the maternal circulation. Maternal melatonin sends a temporal circadian signal to the fetus (called “maternal photoperiodic adaptative programming”), preparing the CNS to properly deal with environmental day/night fluctuations after birth. A melatonin rhythm appears around 2 to 3 months of life ( 31 ), levels increasing exponentially until a lifetime peak on average in prepubertal children; melatonin concentrations in children are associated with Tanner stages of puberty ( 32 ). Thereafter, a steady decrease occurs reaching mean adult concentrations in late teens ( 33 , 34 ). Values are stable until 35 to 40 years, followed by a decline in amplitude of melatonin rhythm and lower levels with ageing, associated with fragmented sleep-wake patterns ( 35 ). In people >90 years, melatonin levels are less than 20%
