Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


a decline in amplitude of melatonin rhythm and lower levels with ageing, associated with fragmented sleep-wake patterns ( 35 ). In people >90 years, melatonin levels are less than 20% of young adult concentrations ( 36 ). The decline in age-related melatonin production is attributed to different reasons; calcification of the pineal gland starting early in life and an impairment in the noradrenergic innervation to the gland or light detection capacity (ocular mydriases, cataracts) ( 2 , 37 ). Interestingly, pinealectomy accelerates the aging process and several reports suggest that melatonin has anti-aging properties ( 38 ). MELATONIN’S MECHANISMS OF ACTION Melatonin Target Sites and Receptors Melatonin’s target sites are both central and peripheral. Binding sites have been found in many areas of the brain, including the pars tuberalis and hypothalamus, but also in the cells of the immune system, gonads, kidney, and the cardiovascular system ( 39 , 40 ). Melatonin binding sites in the brain might vary according to species. Melatonin exerts both non-receptor and receptor-mediated actions. Non-receptor-mediated actions are due to amphipathic properties (of both lipo- and hydrophilic structure) that allows melatonin to freely cross the cell and nuclear membranes. It can be easily detected in the nucleus of several cells in the brain and peripheral organs ( 41 ). Antioxidant properties are one example of non-receptor-mediated actions of melatonin. On the other hand, melatonin has receptor-mediated actions. Two types of a new family of G protein coupled melatonin receptors (MT) have been cloned in mammals ( 42 ). Melatonin receptors are widely expressed, often with overlapping distributions. MT1 is primarily expressed in the pars tuberalis, the SCN together with other hypothalamic areas, pituitary, hippocampus, and adrenal glands, suggesting that circadian and reproductive effects are mediated through this receptor. MT2 is mainly expressed in the SCN, retina, pituitary and the other brain areas, and is associated with phase shifting ( 43 ). The affinity of melatonin is five-fold greater for MT1 than MT2. Melatonin administration induces ( 1 ) an acute suppression of neuronal firing in the SCN via the MT1 receptor, and ( 2 ) a phase-shifting of SCN activity through the MT2 receptor. However, agonists that exclusively act on one or another receptor have not been identified as yet, and the understanding of the role of each receptor in most of the tissues in which both receptors are present is difficult. Also, melatonin receptors are
