Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


been identified as yet, and the understanding of the role of each receptor in most of the tissues in which both receptors are present is difficult. Also, melatonin receptors are transiently expressed in neuroendocrine tissues during development, suggesting that melatonin has a role as a neuroendocrine synchronizer in developmental physiology ( 44 ). Chronobiotic Effects of Melatonin Figure 5. Phase shifting of circadian rhythms. From data in Middleton B. et al., J. Sleep Res, 2002, 11, Suppl 1, p 154, Melatonin phase shifts all measured rhythms abstr. No. 309. Rajaratnam SW, et al., J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2003;88:4303-9. Rajaratnam SW, et al., J Physiol 2004; 561:339-351. Phase shifting of circadian rhythms by melatonin ( Figure 5 ) was first described in the 1980s ( 45 ). Melatonin has chronobiotic effects and is able to synchronize and reset biological oscillations. Melatonin acts on oscillators according to a well-defined phase-response curve (PRC). PRC is characterized by phase-advance zone (early in the evening before the beginning of the nocturnal melatonin production), phase-delay zone (in the late night/early morning hours), and a non-responsive dead. zone (when melatonin levels are high) ( 46 ). The melatonin PRC is useful for the clinical administration of melatonin as a chronobiotic agent and treatment of sleep circadian and mood disorders ( 47 ). In addition to the circadian chronobiotic effects, melatonin importantly has chronobiotic seasonal effects and acts as a circannual synchronizer, one season determined by increasing duration of the nocturnal melatonin production (in the direction of the winter solstice) and the other season defined by the reduction of nocturnal melatonin production (in the direction of the summer solstice) ( 8 , 48 ). Interestingly, most of the clock genes are expressed in the pars tuberalis with a 24h rhythmicity different from their expression in the SCN ( 49 ), and these clock genes are influenced by melatonin with numerous potential seasonal effects. However, whether melatonin modulates the activity of the SCN via regulation of clock genes is unclear. Also, a central clock, independent of the SCN, can be entrained by food availability, temperature variations, forced activity and rest, drugs (melatonin itself), and timing ( 50 ). MELATONIN PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY As previously stated, melatonin can act through several mechanisms and at almost all levels of the organism. Therefore, it has multiple and diversified actions with immediate (endogenous melatonin, during the night) or prospective effects (exogenous melatonin, during
