Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


several mechanisms and at almost all levels of the organism. Therefore, it has multiple and diversified actions with immediate (endogenous melatonin, during the night) or prospective effects (exogenous melatonin, during the previous day). Hypomelatoninemia is more common, and it can be due to factors that affect directly the pineal gland, innervation, melatonin synthesis as a result of congenital disease; or secondary as a consequence of environmental factors and/or medications (shift work, spinal cord cervical transection, sympathectomy, aging, neurodegenerative diseases, genetic diseases, β-blockers, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors). Hypermelatoninemia is less common, and except for pharmacological effects, few conditions have been associated with high melatonin production: spontaneous hypothermia, hyperhidrosis syndrome, polycystic ovary syndrome, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, anorexia nervosa, and Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome that induces pineal hyperplasia. Melatonin During Puberty, Menstrual Cycle and Reproductive Function Neuroendocrine control of sexual maturation is influenced by the pattern of melatonin secretion as a consequence of the light-dark cycle, and in some species the photoperiod via melatonin secretion determines the timing of puberty ( 51 ). In vitro studies, in cultured prepuberal rat pituitary gland, showed that melatonin inhibits gonadotrophin-releasing hormone and therefore luteinizing hormone release, providing evidence for a potential causal role of melatonin in the timing of developmental stages ( 52 ) ( Figure 2 ). The mechanism by which melatonin inhibits GnRH secretion is not clear; recently, kisspeptin was suggested to mediate this effect. Lower melatonin levels have been associated with precocious puberty and higher levels in delayed puberty and hypothalamic amenorrhea compared to age-matched controls; however, a causal role of melatonin in pubertal development has not been described ( 53 , 54 ). Data on circulating melatonin, and its variation during the menstrual cycle, are inconsistent ( 55 ). In males, high melatonin doses (100 mg daily) potentiate testosterone-induced LH suppression, and a negative correlation between nocturnal serum LH and melatonin have been reported ( 56 , 57 ). Nevertheless, attempts to develop melatonin as a contraceptive pill in combination with progestin have not been successful ( 58 ). Interestingly, people living near the Arctic circle present lower conception rates during winter darkness, when melatonin levels are high, than in summer. In summary, the overall perception in human studies is that melatonin is inhibitory to human reproductive function. Melatonin and Core Body Temperature Melatonin plays a role in circadian thermoregulation. In particular, the melatonin peak is associated with the nadir in body temperature, together
