Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


to human reproductive function. Melatonin and Core Body Temperature Melatonin plays a role in circadian thermoregulation. In particular, the melatonin peak is associated with the nadir in body temperature, together with maximum tiredness, lowest alertness and performance ( 59 ) ( Figure 6 ). Exogenous administration of melatonin during the daytime reproduces this association, increasing fatigue and sleepiness and decreasing body temperature, especially if the subject is seated (posture dependent effect) ( 59 ). Along these lines, the rise in temperature during the ovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle is associated with a decline in the amplitude of melatonin. Figure 6. Relationship of plasma melatonin to other major circadian rhythms driven by the internal clock. Abbreviations: VAS: visual analogue scale. Reproduced from Rajaratnam SMW and Arendt J. Lancet 358:999-1005, 2001 by permission. Melatonin and Energy Metabolism and Glucose Homeostasis Melatonin is an important player in the regulation of energy metabolism and glucose homeostasis. It is responsible for the daily distribution of energy metabolism functions (daily phase of high insulin sensitivity, glycogen synthesis, and lipogenesis and a sleep phase associated with the usage of stored energy) ( 60 ). Interestingly, administration of melatonin in post-menopausal women induced a reduction in fat mass and increase in lean mass compared to placebo ( 61 ). Nocturnal melatonin secretion facilitates diurnal insulin sensitivity and preservation of beta cell mass and function ( 62 ) and low melatonin secretion has independently been associated to a higher risk for type 2 diabetes (T2DM) ( 63 ). In short sleepers or when there is a misalignment between waking time and melatonin secretion (melatonin secretion is not interrupted), insulin resistance and hyperglycemia can be observed. Melatonin administration can result in iatrogenic insulin resistance and hyperglycemia in the morning, depending when it is administered and on the metabolizing characteristics of the subject. Moreover, recently, some variants of the gene encoding for the MT-1B have been associated with reduced beta-cell function and increased risk for T2DM ( 64 ). Several cardiovascular effects have also been attributed to melatonin, such as, antihypertensive properties, regulation of heart rate, and vascular resistance ( 65 , 66 ). Melatonin, Antioxidant Properties and Cancer Antioxidant and anti-aging properties have also been attributed to melatonin. Melatonin acts as a potent free radical scavenger and antioxidant in vitro, independently of the presence of the receptor ( 38 , 67 , 68 ) protecting lipids, protein and DNA
