Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


acts as a potent free radical scavenger and antioxidant in vitro, independently of the presence of the receptor ( 38 , 67 , 68 ) protecting lipids, protein and DNA from oxidative damage. It is more effective than glutathione in reducing oxidative stress under many circumstances, being highly concentrated in the mitochondria. Although most of these effects in humans have been observed in supraphysiological doses of melatonin, the quantity of exogenous melatonin required to generate relevant antioxidant activity is not well established. Moreover, the clinical benefits of antioxidant supplements are not clear. Quote “research has not shown antioxidant supplements to be beneficial in preventing diseases”, https://www.nccih.nih.gov/health/antioxidants-in-depth#:~:text=Antioxidants%20are%20man%2Dmade%20or,be%20beneficial%20in%20preventing%20diseases . Also, there is growing recent evidence for anti-tumoral activity of melatonin ( 69 , 70 ). Melatonin seems to be useful as an oncostatic agent at the cellular level and slows the progression of cancer (most of the studies are focused on breast and prostate cancer). Interestingly, in rats when a carcinogen is given at night during the highest levels of melatonin, DNA damage is significantly lower (20%) than in rats that receive a carcinogen exposure during the day ( 71 ). Pinealectomy stimulates cancer initiation or growth in animals, and pineal calcification, that leads to a decline in melatonin production, have been associated with an increase in pediatric primary brain tumors ( 72 ). An ’Umbrella review’, whereby the results of numerous meta-analyses are combined, has provided important data on which of the numerous claims for melatonin therapeutic benefit stand up to scrutiny. A simplified version is provided here (see below). As mentioned previously, exposure to light during the “biological night” can suppress melatonin production, and it is also associated to a deleterious effect on health (i.e., increased risk of cancer in most epidemiology studies in night shift workers) ( 70 , 73 ). Night-shift workers present a higher incidence of hormone-dependent cancer which has been related to light-induced melatonin suppression which consequently increases estrogen production. A 50% increased risk to develop breast cancer in nurses exposed to rotating shift work has been documented ( 74 ). In contrast, a reduced risk for breast cancer was observed in blind women, with potentially higher levels of melatonin throughout all day (although there is no evidence that blind people produce more melatonin than sighted people) However, the mechanisms by which melatonin exerts any of oncostatic effects remains to be established. Miscellaneous The circadian annual
