Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


no evidence that blind people produce more melatonin than sighted people) However, the mechanisms by which melatonin exerts any of oncostatic effects remains to be established. Miscellaneous The circadian annual rhythm of prolactin secretion depends on the circadian melatonin signal. Melatonin regulates pars tuberalis timer cells, and coordinates prolactin-secreting cells which together function as an intrapituitary pacemaker timer system. Interestingly, several clock genes are expressed within the pituitary with a circadian rhythm independent of the SCN ( 75 ). Melatonin might act on the adrenal glands as an endogenous pacemaker. Glucocorticoids levels are low after the onset of darkness and rise after the middle of the night concomitantly with a decrease in melatonin levels. This is consistent with an inhibitory effect of melatonin through MT1 on glucocorticoid production. Interestingly, many antidepressant drugs increase the availability of the precursors (tryptophan and serotonin) and the major pineal neurotransmitter NE and therefore stimulate melatonin secretion. A melatonin agonist has been developed as an antidepressant through its actions on serotonin 2C receptors ( 76 ). If there is a link between this increase in melatonin production and the efficacy of antidepressant medications this needs further evaluation. Several conditions (congenital or acquired) might induce a dysregulation of the melatonin synthesis/signaling and affect rhythmic melatonin production: Pathological or traumatic sympathetic denervation (i.e., injury to the spinal cord) of the pineal gland or administration of β-adrenergic antagonists abolishes the rhythmic synthesis of melatonin and the light-dark control of its production ( 77 , 78 ). NE is the major transmitter via β1 adrenoceptors with potentiation by α1 stimulation. NE levels are higher at night, approximately 180 degrees out of phase with the serotonin rhythm. Both availability of NE and serotonin are stimulatory for melatonin synthesis. However, several other factors have been related to the secretion and production of melatonin ( 13 ) ( Table 1 ). In humans, administration of atenolol suppresses melatonin and enhances the magnitude of light-induced phase shift ( 79 ). In fact, several related observations suggest that endogenous melatonin acts to counter undesirable abrupt changes in phase. Pinealectomy i.e., abolishment of the melatonin rhythm, leads to a more rapid circadian adaptation to phase shift in rats ( 80 ). Craniopharyngioma patients often display low melatonin secretion as a result of SCN impairment associated with alterations in sleep pattern ( 81 ). Smith-Magenis syndrome (a congenital disorder due to a haplo-insufficiency of the retinoic
