Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


low melatonin secretion as a result of SCN impairment associated with alterations in sleep pattern ( 81 ). Smith-Magenis syndrome (a congenital disorder due to a haplo-insufficiency of the retinoic acid-induced 1 gene, involved in the regulation of the expression of circadian genes) patients present with an inverted rhythmic melatonin secretion and sleep difficulties that can be managed with melatonin administration in the evening and β-adrenergic blockers during the day to reduce melatonin secretion ( 82 ). Low levels of melatonin have been consistently associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) ( 83 ). The last enzyme in the synthesis of melatonin, acetylserotonin-O-methyltransferase, has been associated with susceptibility for ASD which could be an explanation for low melatonin levels in ASD ( 84 ). Interestingly, administration of melatonin has shown to be efficacious for insomnia in children with ASD ( 85 ). MELATONIN, CLINICAL APPLICATION AND THERAPEUTIC USE Literature on the clinical use of melatonin is extensive and has increased exponentially over the last decade. Melatonin effects on sleep are the most well-known; however, the finding of increased cancer risk in shift workers and that patients with neurodegenerative diseases, autism or depression present abnormal melatonin rhythms, have recently increased attention on the role of melatonin. Melatonin and Sleep Numerous factors and comorbidities are associated with chronic insomnia in the adult population, different from the circadian sleep-wake rhythm disorders. Some of these risk factors and comorbidities involve psychiatric conditions (i.e. depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder), medical conditions (i.e. pulmonary diseases, chronic pain, heart failure, hyperthyroidism, nocturia, gastroesophageal reflux, cancer, pregnancy, pruritus, HIV infection, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome), neurological conditions (i.e. Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s disease, peripheral neuropathies, strokes, brain tumors, headache syndromes), and medications (i.e. central nervous system stimulants or depressants, bronchodilators, antidepressants, diuretics, glucocorticoids, caffeine, alcohol). All these conditions should be ruled out before establishing the suspicion of a circadian sleep-wake rhythm disorder. The importance of melatonin levels for human sleep was apparently demonstrated by studies on pinealectomized subjects. These patients presented a disrupted 24h circadian rhythm, and a reduction of sleep time and quality, that were reversed after the administration of melatonin ( 86 , 87 ). However, another careful, prospective study using polysomnography before and following pinealectomy found no effect on sleep and similar data are reported in rats ( 88 - 90 ). Thus, the question is not resolved. Clearly it is not a sleep hormone since in nocturnal animals
