Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


sleep and similar data are reported in rats ( 88 - 90 ). Thus, the question is not resolved. Clearly it is not a sleep hormone since in nocturnal animals it is secreted during the active periods. Overall, exogenous melatonin has been shown consistently to reduce sleep latency, and less consistently increase total sleep time, reduce night awakenings, and ultimately improve sleep quality ( 91 ). The most obvious action is to optimize sleep timing with respect to the circadian clock: we sleep better when melatonin production (and thus the circadian clock) and sleep are correctly aligned. Diagnostic criteria of every circadian sleep-wake rhythm disorder were fully described by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (2014) ( 92 ). Circadian sleep wake-rhythm disorders evaluation The origin of a circadian rhythm disorder can be related either to an intrinsic abnormality in the circadian system itself (misalignment of the intrinsic circadian timing with the desired sleep schedule) or to external factors, as when individuals must be awake at times that are not synchronized with their intrinsic rhythms. Overall, sleep disorders result in clinically significant symptoms of insomnia, daytime sleepiness and impaired physical, neurocognitive (concentration, processing speed, memory), emotional and social functioning, as well as impaired functioning at work or school ( 92 ). Age and associated comorbidities can help in the differential diagnoses. Symptoms across sleeping disorders are non-specific; the key to properly identify them is the recognition of abnormal sleep-wake patterns using sleep diaries beyond the complaint of insomnia or daytime sleepiness ( 93 ). Time domain is very important for melatonin actions (immediate or prospective effects, chronobiotic, or seasonal effects); therefore, adequate melatonin measurement and time of administration are crucial. Actigraphy can supplement self-reported sleep diary information or be useful in situations of neurodevelopmental disorders where a sleep diary cannot be completed. Melatonin concentrations typically increase 90 to 120 minutes prior to the habitual bedtime if bright light (>10 lux) is absent. Preferentially frequent blood sampling every 30 to 60 minutes from six hours prior to and one hour following habitual bedtime is collected to assess the individual’s dim light melatonin onset (DLMO) and circadian phase. Samples should be collected in a dark environment (red light <10 lux) without interfering with sleep. In research studies a DLMO protocol is used as a valid and reliable indicator of circadian phase position, according to the time at which melatonin levels rise, and
