Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


with sleep. In research studies a DLMO protocol is used as a valid and reliable indicator of circadian phase position, according to the time at which melatonin levels rise, and is extremely helpful to guide the timing for melatonin therapy in each individual; however, this is rarely feasible for routine use in clinical settings ( 94 ). Alternatively, urinary excretion of 6-sulfatoxymelatonin is a good index of nocturnal melatonin production and it should be collected as sequential urine samples for 48h in order to calculate the timing of the peak or acrophase. Also, it is possible to measure melatonin in saliva, during the evening before sleep and this approach has been frequently used. But, in the case of for example very delayed melatonin rise the time of onset can be missed during sleep. Importantly, melatonin values vary individually and according to age and sex. Although, endogenous melatonin production is closely related with the onset and offset of sleep, few associations have been found between melatonin production and sleep stages ( 95 ), and sleep deprivation does not abolish the melatonin rhythm. Circadian sleep wake-rhythm disorders The primary goal of treatment of circadian sleep-wake rhythm disorders is to realign the circadian timing of sleep and wake with the required sleep-wake period. Appropriately timed and dosed melatonin, melatonin receptor agonists, and light therapy seem to be useful approaches ( 96 , 97 ). Following the melatonin PRC and taking the individual DLMO as the reference phase to decide the most suitable time of melatonin administration, according to the desirable effect, seem the most appropriate guide to decide when to start chronic melatonin therapy ( 98 - 100 ). Delayed and advanced sleep-wake phase disorders, non-24 hour, and irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorders are considered intrinsic circadian disorders; in contrast, jet lag and shift work disorders are due to an environmentally imposed misalignment. The most potent phase shifting factor (zeitgeber) is the environmental light-dark cycle ( 101 ). Light exposure during the last hours of the usual sleep period moves the circadian rhythm forward (phase advanced). On the contrary, light exposure in the evening and the first half of the usual sleep period moves the circadian rhythm back (phase delayed) ( Figure 7 ) ( 96 ). Advanced sleep-wake phase disorder is partially due to the physiologic advance that occurs with aging together with the weakening of circadian rhythms observed with aging. It can
