Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


( 96 ). Advanced sleep-wake phase disorder is partially due to the physiologic advance that occurs with aging together with the weakening of circadian rhythms observed with aging. It can be genetically determined in some families as well. Delayed sleep-wake phase disorder is more often seen in children with some neurodevelopmental disorders; these patients cannot sleep during the dark time and delay sleep onset until the early hours of the morning, sleeping much of the day. In these situations both bright light in the early morning and evening melatonin 5 hours before endogenous melatonin onset secretion (0.5-5 mg) has been shown to advance sleep time significantly ( 102 ), the magnitude of the advanced shift being dose-dependent. In contrast early “biological morning” administration of melatonin induces delayed shifts. The non-24-hour sleep-wake rhythm disorder is most commonly seen in blindness, since the light-dark cycle is the most powerful cue for synchronizing the hypothalamic pacemaker to the 24-hour day ( 103 ). Therefore, this disorder is characterized by a failure to maintain stable alignment to the 24-h day, and a “free-running” circadian rhythm system which usually shifts to a later and later phase position. Timed melatonin treatment has been successful in entraining free-running blind patients. The irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder is seen in patients with dementia, which a neurodegenerative process might induce a disruption of the circadian system with a consequent loss of modulatory influence on sleep and wakefulness ( 104 ). Figure 7. Representation of a simplified diagram of phase shifts of the circadian system, as evidenced by changes in melatonin rhythm itself, following oral treatment with fast release melatonin at different times. Biological night” is the time of endogenous melatonin secretion and defines “circadian time” which is independent of clock time. Jet lag occurs when crossing time zones, and one needs to sleep and be awake at times that are not aligned with one’s own circadian system. It is more severe when more time zones are crossed and if the direction of the travel is eastbound, as it is more difficult to advance than delay the natural circadian cycle. Melatonin accelerates the phase shift if given at the appropriate time prior to bedtime at destination, and the benefits of melatonin administration in the alleviation of jet lag seems to be greater with larger numbers of time zones ( 105 ). If melatonin is appropriately time-administered, self-rated jet lag can be
