Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


administration in the alleviation of jet lag seems to be greater with larger numbers of time zones ( 105 ). If melatonin is appropriately time-administered, self-rated jet lag can be reduced by 50 percent ( 106 ). The maximum advance shift obtainable with a single treatment of oral melatonin (3-5 mg) is approximately 1-1.5 h. For night shift workers wakefulness is required at the time that melatonin secretion is rising, and alertness is dissipating, and the opposite for the next day when melatonin secretion decreases, and circadian rhythms promote alertness. While some studies suggested that the use of melatonin improved sleep and increase daytime alertness in night shift workers compared to placebo ( 107 ), other studies have not shown beneficial effects ( 108 ). More data are needed before recommendations about melatonin as a therapy for shift workers can be made. However anecdotal evidence suggests that it is widely used for daytime sleep. Figure 8. Diagram to illustrate free-running of the sleep wake cycle and other circadian rhythms in non-24h sleep-wake disorder, frequently seen in totally blind people. Melatonin, usually in doses of 0.5 – 5mg daily can synchronize sleep and the circadian system to the 24h day with benefits for sleep, and daytime alertness. Melatonin and the CNS Individuals with neurodegenerative disorders (i.e., Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, autism) had significant flattened and attenuated melatonin rhythms compared to age-matched controls ( 37 , 109 ). Melatonin showed efficacy in managing the insomnia in elderly people or improving cognitive function associated with neurodegenerative disorders ( 110 ). It has reported effects on anxiety, cognitive function and memory. Knowing the wide distribution of melatonin receptors in the CNS, melatonin seems one of the promising neuroprotective agents to be tested in humans. However other studies have found deleterious effects of melatonin in elderly demented patients ( 111 ). Melatonin: Therapeutic Use Almost 200 randomized clinical trials on the use of melatonin and evaluation of clinical effects have been published. Moreover, several patents have been registered in relation to the therapeutic applications of melatonin and melatonin analogues (sleep disorders, neuroprotection, cancer). The American Academy of Sleep Science recommends the use of melatonin for jet lag, delayed sleep phase syndrome, and non-24h sleep wake disorder syndrome seen in blind people; however, there were few consensuses acknowledging its therapeutic benefits ( 112 ) until an ‘Umbrella’ review of meta-analyses identified consistent therapeutic targets
