Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


sleep wake disorder syndrome seen in blind people; however, there were few consensuses acknowledging its therapeutic benefits ( 112 ) until an ‘Umbrella’ review of meta-analyses identified consistent therapeutic targets ( 91 ). Interestingly, at least in animal models, appropriate melatonin dose administration can reverse most of the effects after a pinealectomy. Table 2. Melatonin’s Reported Significant Clinical Effects View in own window Breast cancer, risk of death down at 1 year Nocturnal hypertension, systolic and diastolic reduced Sleep latency shortened Sleep duration increased Melatonin onset advanced Core body temperature decreased In rodents, protective effects of melatonin in ischemic stroke Combined meta-analyses of studies meeting strict criteria (simplified from Posadzki PP et al. BMC Med (2018) 16: 18.) Several melatonin receptor agonists have been synthesized, some of them have higher affinity for the receptor than endogenous melatonin. Agomelatine (activity at the serotonin-2C receptor) functions as an anti-depressant, ramelteon (selective MT1/MT2 agonist) is marketed for use in sleep onset insomnia, tasimelteon (MT1/MT2 agonist), is commercialized for the treatment of circadian rhythm disorders particularly non-24h sleep wake disorder ( 113 , 114 ). Also, slow-release formulations of the natural biologic melatonin have been developed. The time of melatonin administration is critical, especially in chronic treatments, and the melatonin profile shows large interindividual variation; however, the profile of an individual is highly reproducible from day to day. Also, absorption, metabolism and excretion of melatonin vary between individuals and should be considered to get the desired clinical efficacy of the therapy. Ideally, although not feasible in a daily clinical practice, DLMO should be determined for each individual, and used as a timing reference for the prescription of melatonin. Alternatively, the time each individual goes to sleep could determine the time of administration of melatonin; it is advisable to take oral melatonin around 45 minutes to 1 hour before the usual bedtime (time to reach maximal plasma concentrations following oral immediate-release formulations). Moreover, the duration of the pharmacological profile should last until the usual wake time of the patient; thus, the type of pharmaceutical formulation (slow or fast release) is also an important consideration. However, there is little evidence for greater benefit of slow-release preparations. Route of administration, as well as age, liver function and potential drug interactions (since melatonin is metabolized in the liver), may influence plasma melatonin levels and should be taken into account ( 115 ). Sensitivities and pharmacokinetics of melatonin vary
