Physiology of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin
KEYWORDS: melatonin, pubmed, sleep, circadian, pineal, rhythm, light, secretion, phase, effects, gland, melatonin secretion, levels, pineal gland, production


potential drug interactions (since melatonin is metabolized in the liver), may influence plasma melatonin levels and should be taken into account ( 115 ). Sensitivities and pharmacokinetics of melatonin vary between individuals, and a lower dose of 0.3-0.5 mg might be more effective than higher doses in many subjects. There is no general consensus regarding dosage. A wide range of dose formulations are available, and the usage varies depending on the clinical application. The usual advice is to start with the lowest dose available. Low doses 0.1 to 0.3 mg/d that produce near physiological melatonin concentrations can be used for central clock synchronization; doses ranging from 0.6 to 5 mg/d for sleep disorders, or doses as high as 300 mg/d for neurodegenerative disorders (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) ( 116 , 117 ). There is a current tendency to recommend high pharmacological doses for ‘protective’ or antioxidant effects. What consequences these might have for the circadian aspects of melatonin function is not known. It should not be forgotten that melatonin has profound effects on the reproductive function of photoperiodic seasonal breeders and there is good evidence for residual photoperiodicity in humans. However in most clinical trials or studies using melatonin, it is well accepted that in general melatonin lacks toxic adverse events, and it is a safe drug at most of the usual tested doses from 0.5 to 5 mg/d ( 118 ). Whether dosage should be changed in chronic melatonin treatment according to the annual season requires further investigation; further studies are needed on the undesirable consequences of melatonin suppression in the long term (for example by beta blocking drugs or shiftwork). To summarize, benefits of melatonin and its analogues on circadian sleep disorders are consistently reported but for more generalized “insomnia” are often of low strength. The dose must be timed and individually adjusted as optimization will vary among individuals. More studies are required to develop treatment guidelines for different conditions. The long-term consequences of taking high dose melatonin especially in pediatrics need careful evaluation. Melatonin mechanisms of action and effects need much further work, to better understand the therapeutic value of melatonin and its potential applications. REFERENCES 1. L V. The Pineal Organ, Handbook of Mikroscopic Anatomy1981. 2. Tan DX, Xu B, Zhou X, Reiter RJ. Pineal Calcification, Melatonin Production, Aging, Associated Health Consequences and Rejuvenation of the Pineal Gland. Molecules. 2018; 23 (2) [ PMC free article :
