Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


. To quantify this responses in terms of degree dysbiosis, and (3) examin- dysbiosis, novel subgingival dysbiosis indices have been ing the implications of oral microbiota in the causal effect developed, utilizing some of those and other discrimi- of antibiotic treatment on periodontitis treatment out- nating genera and species . comes using a causal inference approach. By addressing However, it is important to acknowledge that the these intermediate goals, we aim to elucidate the pivotal current microbiome indices utilized in periodon- role of oral microbiota in mediating the impact of antibi- tal research have certain limitations. These indices otics on periodontitis treatment outcomes. focus on specific genera or species within the micro- bial community, providing a limited representation of Material and methods the overall microbiome composition. This approach Study characteristics may overlook the complex interactions and synergistic This study encompassed samples from subjects with and effects that occur within the entire subgingival ecosys- without periodontitis, obtained from the ABPARO pro- tem. Moreover, microbiome indices may fail to cap- ject (n = 815 samples), an internal validation (n = 40 sam- ture the dynamic nature of the oral microbiome and ples), and external validation (Griffen study (a) n = 29 the potential contributions of less abundant taxa that samples, and (b) n = 29 samples, and Pei study n = 28 could still play significant roles. To overcome these samples). The periodontitis patients originated from a limitations, this study will employ topic models, which 26-month long-term prospective, randomized, strati- consider the entire microbiome composition and its inherent complexity . By utilizing topic mod- pital centers) trial with parallel‐group design about the els, we can gain a more comprehensive and holistic impact of adjunctive Amoxicillin and Metronidazole on understanding of the microbial clusters and their rel- mechanical periodontal therapy (ABPARO study; 163 evance to periodontal treatment outcomes. patients . The raw reads for ABPARO samples can Our previous study showed that periodontal therapy, be publicly assessed at the European Nucleotide Archive particularly when combined with adjunctive antibiotic (PRJEB51017). The healthy subjects originated from use, can induce long-term reductions in dysbiosis in both non-smoking and smoking periodontitis patients Muenster, Germany (internal validation; 10 participants) . These reductions are achieved by decreasing the Additionally, sequencing data from individuals with a abundance of periodontal pathobionts and increas- healthy periodontium were obtained from the Sequence ing the prevalence of commensal bacteria within the Read Archive of
