Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


sequencing data from individuals with a abundance of periodontal pathobionts and increas- healthy periodontium were obtained from the Sequence ing the prevalence of commensal bacteria within the Read Archive of the National Center for Biotechnology Statistical analysis Information . These datasets, utilizing various Topic models were fitted using the topicmodels package sequenced variable regions and sequencing technolo- v 0.2 in R to all available samples. Each identified topic gies, were subjected to the same bioinformatics pipeline represents co-occurring microbial taxa indicating com- for consistent analysis. For further details, please refer to munities or patterns of microbes that frequently appear Table 1, which provides information on the study charac- together across different samples. Here, the number of teristics and accession numbers of these datasets. topics was deliberately fixed at two to ensure easy inter- pretability of the identified topics as the aim was to clas- Library preparation and bioinformatics sify topics to represent normobiotic or dysbiotic states In the case of the 40 newly acquired samples of the 10 based on the microbial contributions to each topic. By internal healthy control patients, bacterial genomic DNA validating our topics on other healthy and untreated was isolated and purified using a QiaAmp Mini DNA Iso- patients, we aimed to demonstrate that our identi- lation Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The 16S—libraries fied topics (normobiotic and dysbiotic) are consistent were prepared, normalized, pooled, and sequenced using reflections of a healthy oral microbiome and not merely an Illumina MiSeq system as previously published . artifacts of antibiotic targets (Table 1). The relative pro- The bioinformatics analysis utilized Illumina’s MiSeq portion of the dysbiotic to the normobiotic topic within Control Software v.2.6.2.1 and Cutadapt v.4.4 for each sample was used as a measure of the degree of dys- the initial processing of adapter- and primer-free FastQ biosis. Logistic regression models were used to assess files. The DADA2 package v.1.26.0 in R v.4.2.2 the association of degree of dysbiosis on below or above of low-quality bases and filtering of low-quality reads as sites with pocket probing depths ≥ 5 mm (%PPD ≥ 5 mm), previously described . Taxonomic labeling of ribo- percentage of sites with bleeding on probing (%Bleed- somal sequence variants (RSVs) was performed using a ing), and percentage of sites with further attachment loss Bayesian classifier and the eHOMD v.15.23 train- more than 1.3 mm compared to baseline (%AL 1.3 mm). ing sequences with the eHOMD
