Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


role of the microbiome in the causal sets were derived using the package dagitty 0.3 . effect of antibiotic treatment on further attachment loss, Results we applied the principles of causal inference and causal mediation methodology . We constructed a Directed Microbial composition and dysbiosis Acyclic Graph (DAG) to illustrate the causal structure The application of topic models allowed us to deter- of these relationships (Fig. 1). The DAG allowed us to mine the relative abundance of each topic within the oral visually represent the causal structure and to identify microbiota samples, providing a measure of dysbiosis. potential confounders, therefore informing our statistical Our results demonstrated a strong correlation (r = 0.81, models’ specification by identifying adjustment sets. It is p < 0.001) with a previously published Subgingival Micro- important to note that the DAG is specifically tailored to bial Dysbiosis Index and exhibited nearly identical represent the average causal treatment effect (that is, the long-term patterns as in our previous study (Supplemen- total effect) and the controlled direct effect (that is, the tary Fig. S1, ). direct effect, controlled for the microbiome as potential We identified two distinct microbial topics that mediator and potential confounders of the mediator-out- effectively captured known pathogenic drivers of peri- come association) of antibiotics on further attachment odontitis (dysbiotic topic) and species commonly asso- loss and should be interpreted only in this context. Two ciated with healthy oral microbiota (normobiotic topic) negative binomial models were fitted to estimate the total (Fig. 2). The normobiotic topic was characterized by (c) and direct (c’) effect of antibiotic treatment on %AL the presence of three Veillonella species (rogosae, par- 1.3 mm. Using Bayesian models, we obtained posterior vula, and dispar), as well as commensal species such draws of the difference in coefficients between the total as Rothia dentocariosa, Rothia nigrescens, and the ani- and direct effects (c–c’), thereby obtaining a point esti- malis subspecies of Fusobacterium nucleatum. Sam- mate and a credibility interval for the indirect effect. This ples from healthy periodontal specimens consistently methodology provided a robust approach to infer the exhibited high normobiotic topic loadings, irrespec- magnitude and uncertainty of the indirect effect medi- tive of differences in sequencing technology, hyper- ated through changes in oral microbiota post-treatment. variable region, and study population. All studies with Fig. 1 Directed acyclic graphs depicting the model approach for causal inference. Baseline characteristics influence the pattern of microbial
