Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


treat- decreased to 2.52% in the antibiotic treatment group ment (OR = 1.11, 95% CI [1.02–1.22]). Furthermore, we and 62.21% in the placebo group. Over time, the dys- calculated the Treat-to-target endpoint as ≤ 4 sites with biotic community increased again but remained below PPD ≥ 5 mm . Normobiosis in the oral microbiome baseline levels for the antibiotic treatment group, with was associated with improved treat-to-target endpoint a median topic relative abundance of 48.86% even after at 26 months after treatment (OR = 1.20, 95% CI [1.08– 26 months. 1.37]), but not earlier. Clustering to detect microbial treatment response pattern order of the response categories is non-responder (low- To further elucidate the interplay between the oral est), indifferent, short-term responder and responder at the individual patient level, we performed hierarchical The ordinal logistic regression examining the effect clustering. Patients who exhibited microbial dynamics of treatment and baseline microbiome on the microbial without a discernible pattern were classified as “indif- response pattern showed a strong association between ferent”. Three additional subgroups with distinct micro- the treatment and the microbial response pattern. Specif- bial dynamics were identified based on their response to ically, individuals who received adjunctive antibiotics (the periodontal therapy. “Non-responders” had a dysbiotic treatment) were more likely to fall into a higher response microbiome before treatment, which did not achieve a category. The odds ratio was 6.42 (95% CI: 3.30–12.89), transition to a normobiotic state after treatment. “Short- indicating that those in the antibiotic treatment group term responders” initially changed to a normobiotic had approximately 6.42 times higher odds of having a microbiome after treatment but subsequently reverted to higher treatment response category than those in the a dysbiotic state at the end of the study. Finally, “Respond- placebo group. Likewise, having a baseline normobiotic ers” transitioned to a normobiotic microbiome and main- microbiome was associated with 7.8 (95% CI 3.79–16.05) tained this state until the end of the study (Fig. 3). higher odds of falling into a higher response category. A negative binomial regression model was fitted to estimate Effects of microbial treatment response on clinical the effect of the response pattern on further attachment outcomes loss after treatment, controlling for the effects of antibi- We assume that the responder categories form an otic treatment. Here, the rate ratio was found to be 0.72 ordinal scale, premised on the observation that clini- (95% CI 0.54–0.95), implying that for
