Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


the responder categories form an otic treatment. Here, the rate ratio was found to be 0.72 ordinal scale, premised on the observation that clini- (95% CI 0.54–0.95), implying that for each increase in the cal attachment loss incrementally decreases as the treatment response category, the rate of attachment loss microbial response category improves (hence, the was reduced by approximately 28%. Fig. 3 Heatmap of microbial treatment response from individual patients and line‑graphs of median clinical parameters per response group over 26 months of periodontal therapy. Each row represents an individual patient summarized by the microbial treatment response: “0: non‑responders” that exhibited a dysbiotic microbiome before treatment, which remained dysbiotic throughout the study. The “1: indifferent” group showed no discernible pattern in microbial dynamics. “2: short‑term responders” initially transitioned to a normobiotic state after treatment but later reverted to a dysbiotic state. “3: responders” successfully transitioned to a normobiotic microbiome and maintained this state until the end of the study. % Bleeding: % Bleeding on probing; %PPD5mm: % of site showing PPD ≥ 5 mm; %AL1.3 mm: Percentage of sites with new attachment loss ≥ 1.3 mm Impact of microbial treatment response on antibiotic (c–c’). The indirect effect was 0.89 (95% CI 0.62–1.31), treatment efficacy indicating high variance in the mediating effect. There- We constructed a DAG to represent the framework of fore, while there was no evidence for a direct effect after causal relationships and to identify the role of the micro- adjusting for the mediator, the high variance in the indi- bial response categories and potential confounders. As rect effect implies that we cannot conclusively assert the antibiotic treatment was subject to randomization, we presence of mediation. can assume that the effects of treatment are independ- ent of any confounders, assuming that no selection bias Predicted further sites with attachment loss is present. However, it is safe to assume that the set of Using the microbial response categories, we obtained a confounders, sex, age, and smoking, will affect both, the predicted number of sites with further attachment loss, microbial treatment response as well the clinical out- considering the influence of antibiotic treatment and pla- come %AL 1.3 mm. As the variables have different scales cebo across diverse age groups and smoking statuses. The (ordinal mediator; count outcome), the most straightfor- data is presented as model predictions, representing the ward and interpretable approach to establish a mediation hypothetical absolute number
