Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


and smoking statuses. The (ordinal mediator; count outcome), the most straightfor- data is presented as model predictions, representing the ward and interpretable approach to establish a mediation hypothetical absolute number of sites with new attach- effect is to estimate the total and direct effect separately. ment loss ≥ 1.3 mm over a 26-month periodontal therapy A negative binomial regression was used to assess the for a patient with 24 teeth who has a total of 126 sites total effect of treatment on attachment loss. Note, that measured (Table 2). By comparing these numbers, we can this model was, as elucidated by the DAG, not adjusted assess the relative contributions of each individual effect for confounders. Here, the rate ratio was 0.73 (95% CI on the absolute numbers of sites with further attachment 0.57–0.93), indicating that antibiotic treatment was loss ≥ 1.3 mm, while all other effects are constant. associated with a 27% reduction in the rate of attach- To illustrate this approach, one may consider a hypo- ment loss. We further estimated the direct effect of treat- thetical non-smoker with 8 sites experiencing further ment on attachment loss (model c’), by adjusting for the attachment loss ≥ 1.3 mm. The model estimates a 19% response pattern along with age, sex, and smoking. The reduction in attachment loss with antibiotics, lead- rate ratio for the direct effect of treatment was found to ing to only 6.5 sites with attachment loss if this patient be 0.82 (95% CI 0.62–1.07), suggesting that after adjust- would have been treated with antibiotics. However, note, ing for the mediator and confounders of the mediator- that the effects of the model are multiplicative. Say, the outcome association, there was no more evidence for same individual is a smoker, the model would assume the antibiotic treatment effect on attachment loss. This an 85% increase in the number of sites with attachment change in the antibiotic treatment effect, when account- loss, resulting in 14.91 sites. Thus, the 19% decrease ing for the response pattern, provides evidence for the due to antibiotics now corresponds to a decrease of 2.8 mediating role of the microbial response pattern in the sites. Importantly, the effect of a better microbial treat- relationship between adjunctive antibiotics and attach- ment response is stronger than the additional effect of ment loss. However, to further investigate this mediation, the antibiotic treatment, supporting our previous find- we used the
