Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


highlighting the importance of individual microbial pro- ventions . files in treatment outcomes. We further highlight how However, whether a patient benefits from periodontal baseline characteristics shape the individual treatment therapy depends on the change in the microbiome after response and how substantial parts of the effect of antibi- therapy and not on whether the change in the microbi- otic treatment on periodontal health might be mediated ome was achieved by adjunct antibiotics or placebo. In through individual responses in the oral microbiome of addition, smoking status proved to be informative for the patients. potential clinical response to treatment. According to our The identification of two distinct microbial topics, the model (Table 2), non-smoking patients (< 45 years) with dysbiotic and normobiotic, allowed us to reliably capture the microbiome pattern “long-term responder” will have the health status of the oral microbiota of patients. The an absolute number of attachment losses at 5.42 sites dysbiotic topic predominantly consisted of well-known after adjunct antibiotics or at 6.63 sites with placebo. In periodontal pathogens such as Porphyromonas gingivalis, smokers, on the other hand, the number of sites with fur- Porphyromonas endodontalis, Treponema denticola, ther attachment loss will be 10.03 and 12.25 sites respec- and Fusobacterium nucleatum , while the normobi- tively. Our results therefore suggest that it would make otic topic included species commonly associated with a more sense for patients to stop smoking than to be pre- healthy oral microbiota such as Veillonella and Rothia scribed antibiotics. species . These findings support the notion that dys- The association between dysbiosis and clinical out- biosis in the oral microbiota involves a shift towards comes revealed consistent patterns throughout the study pathogenic microbial communities, accompanied by a period. Higher proportions of the dysbiotic topic were correlation between our topic model-based dysbiosis including increased probing depth and bleeding. Con- measure (Supplementary Fig. S1) and a previously estab- versely, a higher proportion of the normobiotic topic was ther indicated the reliability and validity of our approach. lower %PPD ≥ 5 mm and reduced percentage of bleed- However, our method provided a comprehensive view ing. These associations remained significant even after of dysbiosis by considering the relative contributions of adjusting for potential confounding factors, indicating multiple microbial topics, rather than focusing on a lim- the independent contribution of dysbiosis to the severity ited set of pathogenic bacteria. We further showed the of periodontal disease. Notably, the association
