Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


topics, rather than focusing on a lim- the independent contribution of dysbiosis to the severity ited set of pathogenic bacteria. We further showed the of periodontal disease. Notably, the association between stability and generalizability of the topics across different dysbiosis and clinical attachment loss remained signifi- study populations and methodologies . Regard- cant after 26 months, suggesting the long-term impact less of differences in sequencing technology, hypervari- of dysbiotic microbial communities on periodontal tissue able regions, and study populations, healthy periodontal destruction supporting pathobiont-based models for the specimens consistently exhibited high normobiotic topic prediction of periodontal destruction . relative abundance. This indicates that the normobi- The classification of the microbial treatment response otic topic represents a robust indicator of a healthy oral allowed us to group patients into distinct subgroups microbiota. The identification of a dominant normobiotic based on their microbial response to treatment. The topic in healthy subjects further emphasizes its potential “indifferent” subgroup exhibited microbial fluctuations as a useful reference for assessing dysbiosis in periodon- without a clear pattern, indicating the lack of treatment titis patients. influence on their oral microbiota. Conversely, the “non- Assessing the impact of periodontal treatment on responder” subgroup maintained a dysbiotic microbi- dysbiosis, we found that both antibiotic and placebo ome throughout the study, suggesting their resistance to treatment-induced changes. The “short-term responder” by the recent finding that the clinical benefit of antibiotic subgroup initially responded to treatment by transition- treatment is dependent on disease progression . We ing to a normobiotic state but subsequently reverted to can confirm similar findings on the total effect of anti- a dysbiotic state, indicating a reduced treatment effi- biotic treatment in our study (Supplementary Table S1), cacy. Finally, the “responder” subgroup demonstrated however, we could not investigate this behavior in detail, a sustained transition to a normobiotic microbiome, as no information on the periodontitis grade was availa- highlighting their favorable treatment response by tran- ble for 46.6% of the participants. This finding underscores sitioning into a microbial state comparable to that of the importance of microbial shifts as a key mechanism healthy patients. underlying the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in peri- To disentangle the role of the oral microbiota in the odontal therapy . Specifically, if antibiotics mechanisms involved in the effect of antibiotic treatment fail to induce the desired alterations in the oral micro- on attachment loss we investigate each potential pathway biome, their impact
