Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


antibiotics mechanisms involved in the effect of antibiotic treatment fail to induce the desired alterations in the oral micro- on attachment loss we investigate each potential pathway biome, their impact on attachment loss may be limited. separately. The results of the ordinal logistic regression This highlights the need to consider individual microbial analysis revealed that baseline characteristics are pre- profiles and responses when determining the most effec- dictive of differential treatment response and highlight tive treatment strategies . the role of baseline information in periodontal therapy, Furthermore, smoking and the categories of short- and especially the baseline microbiome, as previously shown long-term responses emerged as significant predictors of by the group of Zaura and others . The analysis of the treatment outcomes. The influence of smoking on peri- second path revealed that better treatment response in odontal health and treatment response has been exten- the oral microbiota is highly associated with less clini- sively documented, and our findings align with previous cal attachment loss. Those results give evidence that the research indicating that smoking negatively affects treat- might be mediated through response to treatment in the short- and long-term response categories as significant oral microbiota. We borrowed approaches from media- predictors suggests the existence of distinct subgroups tion methodology to further investigate the mediating with varying treatment responses, which may warrant role of the oral microbiome and the difference in the tailored therapeutic approaches. total and direct causal effect of antibiotic treatment on Our study introduces a novel approach to topic identi- attachment loss further supports this finding. However, fication that shares similarities with the results obtained the estimate of the magnitude of the indirect effect (the through SMDI but offers greater flexibility and generaliz- difference between the total and the direct effect) shows ability. Unlike SMDI, which focuses on specific dysbiotic high variability and should be interpreted with care, as patterns, our method considers the entirety of the micro- the analysis was designed to establish the presence, not biome and enables us to address more complex research the magnitude of the mediating effect. Therefore, the questions. Furthermore, the inclusion of additional topics analysis did not allow for an unbiased estimation of the allows for the identification of sub-topics that are vital for causal mediation effect, as not all assumptions could be examining fine-scale associations and making individual- met. Specifically, there might be more factors that con- ized predictions. To
