Kleine Bardenhorst et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:220 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: treatment, microbial, https, org, effect, doi org, doi, oral, https doi, response, microbiome, periodontal, antibiotic, periodontitis, loss


are vital for causal mediation effect, as not all assumptions could be examining fine-scale associations and making individual- met. Specifically, there might be more factors that con- ized predictions. To enhance the robustness of our analy- found the association of the microbiome and the out- sis, future studies could consider refining the analytical come that could not be controlled for in this study, i.e., approach by potentially incorporating a structural equa- compliance to oral hygiene, amount of smoking, predia- tion model. This advanced modeling technique would betes, or nutrition. enable a comprehensive evaluation of the interrelation- In a previous descriptive exploratory subgroup analy- ships among baseline factors, treatment response, and sis of the ABPARO trial , age and %PPD ≥ 5 mm attachment loss, thereby offering a more comprehensive were suggested to influence periodontitis progression. understanding of the underlying dynamics. It is worth Our findings confirm the relevant role of age. However, noting that the taxonomic resolution achieved in our due to the nature of our modeling approach, we can- study was limited to the genus level due to the utilization not directly control for %PPD ≥ 5 mm, as this variable is of short reads. While this level of resolution provided val- directly linked to our outcome. Despite this limitation, uable insights, future investigations employing long-read our model-based approach proves to be more robust sequencing technologies could potentially offer a higher against outliers compared to the exploratory analyses taxonomic resolution, enabling a more detailed charac- conducted in the previous study. Furthermore, the effect terization of the oral microbiota. of the treatment, as well as the association with treat- Our findings strongly endorse the concept that dysbio- ment response might be moderated by other factors (i.e., sis, marked by the prevalence of pathogenic microbial disease progression). This assumption is also supported communities, plays a pivotal role in the degradation of periodontal tissues. The identification of a normobiotic Funding Open Access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL. Deutsche topic linked with a healthy oral condition underscores its Forschungsgemeinschaft. Grant Numbers: 34425848, 468857272. potential as a valuable biomarker and therapeutic target in the context of periodontal management. Beyond this, Data availability The raw sequencing data used and/or analysed during the current study are our research hints at a broader implication—the poten- available via the ENA as stated in the manuscript. Patient information cannot tial use of oral microbial biomarker screening as
