NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver, alt, antihistamines, cetirizine, bilirubin, year, jaundice, alk, old, year old, developed, starting


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antihistamines. [Updated 2017 Jan 16]. Bookshelf URL: Antihistamines Updated: January 16, 2017. OVERVIEW Histamine is an important mediator of immediate hypersensitivity reactions acting locally and causing smooth muscle contraction, vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, edema and inflammation. Histamine acts through specific cellular receptors which have been categorized into four types, H1 through H4. Antihistamines not block or decrease the release of histamine, but rather ameliorate its local actions. Agents that specially block other H2 receptors are generally referred to as H2 blockers rather than antihistamines. H1 receptors are widely distributed and are particularly common on smooth muscle of the bronchi, gastrointestinal tract, uterus and large blood vessels. H1 receptors are also found in the central nervous system. The antihistamines are widely used to treat symptoms of allergic conditions including itching, nasal stuffiness , runny nose, teary eyes, urticaria, dizziness, nausea and cough. Their most common use alone or in combination with other agents is for symptoms of upper respiratory illnesses such as the common cold. The central nervous system effects of antihistamines include sedation and decrease in anxiety, tension and adventitious movements. Antihistamines are typically separated into sedating (first generation) and nonsedating (second generation) forms, based upon their central nervous system effects, the nonsedating agents being less likely to cross the blood-brain barrier. In addition, some antihistamines have additional anticholinergic, antimuscarinic or other actions. The antihistamines are some of the most commonly used drugs in medicine, and most are available in multiple forms, both by prescription and in over-the-counter products, alone or combined with analgesics or sympathomimetic agents. Common uses include short term treatment of symptoms of the common cold, seasonal allergic rhinitis (hay fever), motion sickness, nausea, vertigo, cough, urticaria, pruritus and anaphylaxis. The sedating antihistamines are also used as mild sleeping aids and to alleviate tension and anxiety. Many antihistamines are also available in topical forms, as creams, nasal sprays and eye drops for local use in alleviating allergic symptoms. The nonsedating antihistamines are typically used in extended or long term treatment of allergic disorders, including allergic rhinitis (hay fever), sinusitis, atopic dermatitis, and chronic urticaria. The antihistamines have several adverse side effects which are related to their antihistaminic actions. Side effec ts are, however, usually mild and rapidly reversed with stopping therapy or decreasing the dose. These common side effects include sedation,
