NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver, alt, antihistamines, cetirizine, bilirubin, year, jaundice, alk, old, year old, developed, starting


which are related to their antihistaminic actions. Side effec ts are, however, usually mild and rapidly reversed with stopping therapy or decreasing the dose. These common side effects include sedation, impaired motor function, dizziness, dry mouth and throat, blurred vision, urinary retention and constipation. Antihistamines can worsen urinary retention and narrow angle glaucoma. The antihistamines rarely cause liver injury. Their relative safety probably relates to their use in low doses for a short time only. The nonsedating antihistamines, however, are often used for an extended period and several forms have been linked to rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury which has generally been mild 2 LiverTox and self-limiting; the antihistamines most commonly linked to liver injury have been cyproheptadine, cetirizine and terfenadine (which is no longer in clinical use). The first generation oral antihistamines in clinical use (with common brand name(s) and year of approval in the United States, if available) include brompheniramine (Bromphen, Dimetapp), chlorpheniramine (Chlor- Timeton: 1971), carbinoxamine (Palgic), clemastine (Tavist: 1977), cyclizine (Marezine, Bonine: 1966), cyproheptadine (Periactin: 1961), diphenhydramine (Benadryl: 1946), dimenhydrinate (Dramamine), doxylamine (Unisom: 1948), hydroxyzine (Atarax, Vistaril: 1957), meclizine (Antivert: 1957), phenyltoloxamine (Acuflex), promethazine (Phenergan: 1957), and triprolidine (Triafed). Second generation antihistamines in general use and used orally include acrivastine (Semprex-D), cetirizine (Zyrtec: 1995), levocetirizine (Xyzal: 2007), loratadine (Claritin: 1993), desloratadine (Clarinex: 2001), and fexofenadine (Allegra: 1996). Links to descriptions of the different antihistamines are given below. References on the safety and hepatotoxicity of the various antihistamines are provided together at the end of this overview section. First Generation Antihistamines • Brompheniramine • Carbinoxamine • Chlorcyclizine • Chlorpheniramine • Clemastine • Cyclizine • Cyproheptadine • Dexbrompheniramine • Dexchlorpheniramine • Dimenhydrinate • Diphenhydramine • Doxylamine • Hydroxyzine • Meclizine • Phenyltoloxamine • Promethazine • Triprolidine Second Generation Antihistamines • Acrivastine • Cetirizine • Fexofenadine • Levocetirizine • Loratadine • Desloratadine ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 16 January 2017 Zimmerman HJ. H1 Receptor antagonists. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 717-8. Antihistamines 3 (Single author review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; mentions that only isolated instances of clinically apparent liver injury have been attributed to antihistamines and none to promethazine; antihistamines with more than a single case report of liver injury include cyproheptadine and terfenadine). period. Acta Med Scand 1967; 182: 491-501. PubMed PMID: 6054829. (Between
