Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


RESEARCH Open Access No molecular detection of tick-borne pathogens in the blood of patients with erythema migrans in Belgium Laurence Geebelen1,2* , Tinne Lernout1, Katrien Tersago1,3, Sanne Terryn4, Joppe W. Hovius5, Arieke Docters van Leeuwen6, Steven Van Gucht4, Niko Speybroeck2 and Hein Sprong6 Abstract Background: A number of tick-borne pathogens circulate in the Belgian tick population in addition to the causative agent of Lyme borreliosis. However, so far, only a few patients with tick-borne diseases other than Lyme borreliosis have been reported in Belgium. The aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence of other human tick-borne infections in Belgium and their possible clinical manifestation. Methods: Patients with fever (> 37.5 °C) after a tick bite or those with erythema migrans (EM) were included in the study. EDTA-blood samples were screened for the presence of DNA from Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Borrelia miyamotoi, Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Neoehrlichia mikurensis, spotted fever group rickettsiae (genus Rickettsia), Babesia spp., Bartonella spp., Spiroplasma ixodetis and tick-borne encephalitis virus, using multiplex PCR methods. A enrolled in the study. Three samples initially tested positive for N. mikurensis by quantitative PCR (qPCR), but the results could not be confirmed by other PCR methods, and repetition of the DNA extraction procedure and qPCR test was not successful. The qPCR test results for the other tick-borne pathogens were negative. Conclusions: In general, only a few patients with fever after a tick bite could be identified. Although no tick-borne pathogens were detected, their occurrence cannot be excluded based on the limited number of patients and the limitations inherent to current methodologies. This study underscores the possibility of false-positive PCR results and the necessity for the development of multiple independent tools for the sensitive and specific detection of emerging tick-borne pathogens. Keywords: Tick-borne pathogens, Neoerhlichia mikurensis, Lyme borreliosis, Erythema migrans, Ixodes ricinus, Neoehrlichosis Background North America . The tick Ixodes ricinus is the main Lyme borreliosis (Lyme disease), caused by spirochetes vector of Lyme borreliosis in Europe, and is known from the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s.l.) complex, to transmit several other infectious diseases as well, is the most common tick-borne disease in Europe and including tick-borne encephalitis (TBE), anaplasmo- sis and babesiosis . Some less known pathogens transmitted by these ticks, such as Borrelia miyamo- *Correspondence: Brussels, Belgium been found to be pathogenic to humans although only Full list of author information is available at the end of the article
