Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


spp. might exacerbate the course of Lyme bor- . In humans, many of these infections may occur reliosis, but information on the impact of other co-infec- asymptomatically or may cause non-characteristic, self- tions is lacking [22–24]. Due to the mild non-specific limiting, flu-like symptoms for which patients may not symptomatology of many tick-borne diseases, as well as seek medical assistance. However, some may occasion- a low awareness among physicians and patients and a ally cause severe disease, especially in immunocompro- lack of routinely available diagnostic tests, it is possible mised patients . In Belgium, no or only few cases of that several of these diseases are underdiagnosed . human tick-borne infections other than Lyme borrelio- In addition, many patients cannot remember a tick bite, sis have been reported . Although TBEV was not complicating diagnosis. detected in the ticks screened in that 2017 study, the The aim of this study was to evaluate the presence of first two human cases, classified as possible and prob- tick-borne pathogens other than Borrelia spirochetes able autochthonous, respectively, were diagnosed in using PCR techniques in blood collected from patients 2018 . For human granulocytic anaplasmosis, only with a recent tick bite and fever, a common symptom of few confirmed cases have been diagnosed, but every these other infections, and in patients with an erythema on symptoms and serology, and underdiagnosis is sus- of Lyme borreliosis. The study also aimed to investigate ness . Underdiagnosis also probably accounts presenting as fever or other symptoms to general practi- for the lack of reports on several other tick-borne path- tioners (GPs). ogens. Take, for example, human babesiosis: a Belgian Methods study showed the presence of antibodies against three Babesia species in blood collected from persons pre- Study design and participant enrollment senting with symptoms after a tick bite, yet no human Between June 2016 and August 2019, patients with fever although the relapsing fever spirochete B. miyamotoi after a tick bite or with an EM (including multiple EM) is present in ticks, no cases of B. miyamotoi disease, or were included in the study by a network of GPs set up of neoehrlichiosis, caused by infections with the intra- in areas endemic for tick bites and Lyme borreliosis in cellular bacterium N. mikurensis, have been reported Belgium. GPs were invited to participate in the study by in Belgium . The latter, previously called ‘Can- emails sent through
