Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


borreliosis in cellular bacterium N. mikurensis, have been reported Belgium. GPs were invited to participate in the study by in Belgium . The latter, previously called ‘Can- emails sent through the GP associations from these areas didatus N. mikurensis’, was only recently cultured suc- and by personal invitation by post. At the beginning of cessfully which is why it lost its candidatus status . the study the network consisted of about 50 GPs; this For the tick-borne spotted fever rickettsiae, such as R. number expanded during the study period to about 200 helvetica, R. monacensis or R. raoultii, no confirmed GPs from 2018 onwards. After registration, participat- autochthonous infections or cases have been reported ing GPs received packages by mail providing informa- in Belgium . Although Bartonella spp. DNA can tion on the study, including guidelines for the diagnosis be found in I. ricinus, it remains uncertain whether of an EM , blood sampling material and the inclusion they are a relevant vector for the transmission of the questionnaire for both groups of patients. Patients were disease . Bartonellosis, mainly cat-scratch dis- included prospectively around the time of their diagnosis ease caused by Bartonella henselae, has been regularly in order to collect an EDTA-blood sample of 6 ml dur- diagnosed in Belgium . Similarly, although found ing the acute phase of illness and before antibiotic treat- in ticks, the transmission of Spiroplasma ixodetis, ment was initiated. Patients aged < 18 years and pregnant women were not eligible for inclusion in the study. Poten- containing iQ multiplex Powermix, 3 μl of sample, 0.2 μM tial participants were also excluded when the geographi- of all primers and different concentrations for the differ- cal location where the tick bite occurred (if known) was ent probes. Positive plasmid controls and negative water not in Belgium, and when the EM diameter was < 5cm controls were used on every plate tested. The nucleic acid and the patient did not recall a tick bite or the delay in extractions of the EDTA-blood samples were also tested for appearance of EM was <2 days (if date of tick bite was the presence of tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) RNA. known) . The questionnaire consisted of a first part For the latter PCR analysis, a multiplex reverse transcrip- to be filled out together by the patient and GP, which tion real-time PCR was performed as described by Lindb- contained
