Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


For the latter PCR analysis, a multiplex reverse transcrip- to be filled out together by the patient and GP, which tion real-time PCR was performed as described by Lindb- contained questions on the diagnosis, treatment, comor- lom et al. . In short, reactions were carried out in a final bidities (including immunocompromising illness or treat- reaction volume of 20 μl that contained TaqMan Fast Virus ments), antibiotic use in the month before the blood 1-Step Master Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, sample was taken and symptoms at diagnosis (group with MA, USA) to which 5 μl of sample, 0.2 μM of all primers fever after tick bite), and a second part to be completed and 0.2 μM probes were added. An internal control was by the patients themselves on demographics, symptoms added to all samples. The amplification was performed on at diagnosis (EM patients) and exposure to tick bites. a Roche LightCycler 480 System set at the following cycling program: a 20-min reverse transcription step at 50 °C; fol- Sample preparation and molecular testing lowed by denaturation at 95 °C for 30 s; and then 50 cycles of 95 °C/10 s and 60 °C/30 s. Conventional PCRs were per- The whole blood-EDTA samples were sent by the GPs to formed on all samples that were found to be positive by the real-time PCR as confirmation for one or more targets, fol- aliquoted and stored at 80 °C. Aliquots were later sent in − lowed by Tris-borate-EDTA-agarose gel electrophoresis as batches to the Laboratory for Zoonoses and Environmen- previously described . In addition, samples positive in the real-time PCR for N. mikurensis were sent by normal Environment (RIVM), in the Netherlands. Total nucleic acid mail to the Department of Natural Science and Environ- extraction from the EDTA-blood samples was performed mental Health at the University of South-Eastern Norway to using a robotic workstation (MagNA Pure Compact Extrac- be analyzed with a second real-time PCR targeting another tion Robot; Roche, Basel, Switzerland) on 200 μl of EDTA- fragment of the groEL gene, as described previously . plasma (Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit I; Roche) in a diagnostic More specifically, the SYBR-green PCR set-up was used, laboratory setting, following the manufacturer’s instruc- and either 5 μl or 0.5 μl of DNA lysate was added in a final tions. To detect potential cross-contamination, negative reaction volume of 25 μl. EDTA-blood samples originally controls were included
