Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


5 μl or 0.5 μl of DNA lysate was added in a final tions. To detect potential cross-contamination, negative reaction volume of 25 μl. EDTA-blood samples originally controls were included in each batch of extractions. All sam- testing positive for N. mikurensis were extracted once again ples were analyzed with different (multiplex) real-time PCR at the RIVM in the Netherlands with the Qiagen DNeasy assays, with each assay based on various genes specific for Blood and Tissue Kit according to the manufacturer’s pro- the microorganism of interest, including B. burgdorferi s.l. tocol (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and tested again with the (two gene targets: ospA and flab) , B. miyamotoi (target: qPCR assay for N. mikurensis (target: groEL) . To mini- flagellin) , A. phagocytophilum (target: msp2) , N. mize contamination and false-positive samples, the DNA/ mikurensis (target: groEL) , spotted fever group rickett- RNA extraction, PCR mix reparation, sample addition, and siae (members of genus Rickettsia; target: gltA) , R. hel- (q)PCR analyses were performed in separated air-locked, vetica (target: gltA) Bartonella spp. (target: ssrA) , dedicated laboratories. Babesia microti (target: 18S rRNA) and Babesia spe- cies from the Babesia senso stricto clade (target: 18S rRNA) . A quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay for the detection Results of S. ixodetis was newly developed using primers targeting Patient characteristics and symptoms a 170-bp fragment of the RNA polymerase subunit, Spir_ rpoB-F (5′-TGT-TGG-ACC-AAA-CGA-AGT-TG-3′) and In total, blood samples were collected from 150 patients Spir_rpoB-F (5′-CCA-ACA-ATT-GGT-GTT-TGG-GG-3′), recruited by the GP network, of whom 17 patients were and probe 5′-(Atto425)-GCT-AAC-CGT-GCT-TTA-ATG- excluded from the study (Fig. 1). Of the 133 patients who GG(BHQ1)-3′ . Ticks removed from humans in all Bel- were included in the study, 119 had an EM (89.5%) and only 14 patients had fever after a recent tick bite without gian provinces, which had been collected and analyzed in a an EM. previous study, were also tested for S. ixodetis . Of 1515 Among these 133 patients, 62% and 43% of the EM ticks tested, 204 were positive (results shown in Additional patient group and fever after tick bite group, respectively, file 1: Database S1). These qPCRs were carried out on a were female. The mean age of all patients was 53 (range LightCycler 480 System (Roche Diagnostics Nederland B.V, 18–95) years. The majority of patients (74%) included Almere, the Netherlands) in a final reaction volume of 20 μl EM pa(cid:31)ent group Fever
