Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


co-infections. These results are where the samples tested negative. When the initial not completely unexpected, given the limited number of multiplex qPCR was subsequently repeated, it was also patients in the study and the inherent limitations of the negative. The DNA or RNA of other pathogens was not detection methods used. Prospective studies in other detected. The three samples initially positive for N. miku- countries that have also analyzed similar tick-borne path- rensis were from two male and one female EM patients, ogens with PCR also found only few infections: a study in of whom one was a young adult and two were aged > the Netherlands on 626 persons with a tick bite or an EM 80 years. The characteristics of these three patients and a study in Austria on 489 tick-bitten persons both are shown in Table 2. None reported suffering from an reported that about 2.6% of the participating patients immunocompromising disease or using immunosuppres- were positive for any of the pathogens researched [40, sive drugs, and none reported fever, although this latter 42]. However, a Norwegian study involving 70 patients information was unavailable for one patient. with symptoms, mainly EM, found bacterial DNA in In nine of the 14 patients presenting with fever after a 14% of the patients’ samples . Even though no tick- recent tick bite, the GP suspected Lyme borreliosis as the borne pathogens were detected in the blood samples in underlying cause, three reported an (atypical) erythema our study, their presence cannot be excluded. The PCR of < 5 cm. No pathogens were detected in these blood tests may not be sensitive enough to detect cases; as such, samples. additional serological tests could be of value, as was the case in a recent study in the Nordic countries, which Discussion found more infections based on seroconversion than by Prospective studies investigating the occurrence of tick- PCR tests . In addition, tissue tropism of the patho- borne infections other than Lyme borreliosis in persons gens and timing of the collection of the blood sample bitten by ticks and their ability to cause clinical disease have to be taken into account for all tick-borne diseases remain rare [9, 40, 42–44]. By including patients with when PCR is used as a diagnostic method . Noehr- fever after a recent tick bite in the present study, our aim lichia mikurensis, Babesia spp., B. miyamotoi and A.
