Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


when PCR is used as a diagnostic method . Noehr- fever after a recent tick bite in the present study, our aim lichia mikurensis, Babesia spp., B. miyamotoi and A. was to search for these pathogens in a group of patients phagocytophilum are expected to be found in the blood expected to be at a higher risk for infection. However, while B. burgdorferi s.l. on the other hand is not, which despite a broad molecular screening for various patho- explains why none of the EM patients in the study tested gens in this study, no tick-borne infections could be positive for the latter . Taken together, we detected in the 14 patients included in this group. Possi- were therefore unable to assess whether the fever in ble explanations are that the fever was caused by another patients with a recent tick bite could have been caused by infectious agent unrelated to the tick bite or by another infection with B. burgdorferi s.l. For some pathogens PCR tick-borne pathogen not searched for, that the detection assays are most sensitive during the acute phase of illness, methods for the current pathogens were insufficient (see and the detection period may be short. A Russian study below) or that an antibiotic treatment was taken before found that B. miyamotoi can only be detected by PCR sample collection. All 14 patients in this group (fever during the first 3 days of acute disease , and A. phago- after a recent tick bite) experienced other symptoms in cytophilum is expected to be detectible for < 2 weeks Table 2 Characteristics of the three erythema migrans patients who tested positive for Neoehrlichia mikurensis in the initial quantitative PCR test Patient Age (years) Sex Time between tick bite and T0 Symptoms at T0 #1 90 Female No recall of tick bite (30 days since EM (diameter: 30 cm) + start EM) #2 80–84 Male 28 days EM (diameter: 12 cm) #3 20–24 Male 35 days EM (diameter: 8 cm), general muscle pain, neck pain, fatigue, headache, nausea, cognitive difficulties (fever unknown) T0 Time of diagnosis by general practitioner, EM Erythema migrans Patient #2 suffered from dementia. The information on subjective symptoms might have been incomplete after disease onset . Although our expectation was underscore the need for complementary diagnostic tests, that patients with fever after a recent tick bite would such as serological tools, for N. mikurensis in
