Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


. Although our expectation was underscore the need for complementary diagnostic tests, that patients with fever after a recent tick bite would such as serological tools, for N. mikurensis in the future. be in this acute phase of infection, for eight of the 13 The current lack of these tests complicates research on patients for whom such data were available (missing data the presence and possible pathogenicity of these bacteria. on 1 patient), symptoms first appeared > 3 days before The recent cultivation of N. mikurensis can accelerate the the consultation with the GP, and for five patients they development of these tests . The possibility of false first appeared 2 weeks before inclusion. Patients with positive results has previously also been emphasized for ≥ an EM could have not yet reached or already passed this B. miyamotoi , highlighting the need for additional acute phase since for those remembering their tick bite, it independent confirmation of non-routine PCR results for took place at a median of 14 days before inclusion (range tick-borne pathogens in general. 1–102 days). Finally, antibiotic treatment before sample The detection of N. mikurensis DNA by PCR has been collection could result in a negative PCR result; since this reported in several studies. Similar to our results, a study is not necessarily the case, we still included these patients in symptomatic patients in Poland found that three in the study. For six patients it was reported that they had patients were positive for N. mikurensis by PCR (conven- taken at least one dose of an antibiotic before sample col- tional) testing, but ultimately no infection was reported lection (data missing on 2 patients), potentially impact- as the results could not be confirmed with sequencing ing the PCR result. One of the patients who had initially . However, in other studies, such as the prospective tested positive had taken an antibiotic in the week before studies from the Netherlands, Austria and Norway men- the blood draw, but no effect was expected. tioned above, N. mikurensis was detected in patients, In addition to the possibility of false negativity of PCR and identified as the most commonly found pathogen, results, the current study also emphasizes the possiblity with a prevalence of 1.1, 2.3 and 10% in these three stud- of false positivity of PCR results. Three samples were ies, respectively . The positive patients were positive for N. mikurensis
