Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


prevalence of 1.1, 2.3 and 10% in these three stud- of false positivity of PCR results. Three samples were ies, respectively . The positive patients were positive for N. mikurensis in the first qPCR performed, asymptomatic or had non-characteristic symptoms, such yet all three had high Ct values, indicating low levels of as fever, headache, arthralgia, myalgia and malaise. In N. mikurensis DNA in the sample. Although there were addition, N. mikurensis has been detected in two of 102 no irregularities or signs of contamination in the first persons bitten by ticks in a study in Sweden , qPCR result (bands were of the correct size, no second- in five asymptomatic foresters in Poland and in 12 ary bands, positive and negative controls correctly ana- subclinical/asymptomatic immunosuppressed patients lyzed) and previous testing with this qPCR method in Norway . Clinical cases have been reported in suggested that it is specific , the results could not be Europe, originating from Germany, Czech Republic, Swe- confirmed by a conventional PCR. As qPCR methods are den and Switzerland . generally more sensitive than conventional PCR methods Only 14 patients with fever after a recent tick bite and, in our experience, samples with high Ct values gen- could be included in this study over a period of > erally remain negative by conventional PCR, this result 3 years, whereas the number of patients with an EM was not completely unexpected. However, this result may was almost 10-fold higher. In addition, only five of the also represent non-specific or cross-reactive fluorescence 119 EM patients reported fever (unknown in 15 EM signals, and therefore the samples were further tested patients). There are a number of different explanations with the SYBR-green qPCR method from Norway, which that possibly explain this reported low prevalence of also did not confirm the positive test results. This second fever after a tick bite. First, it is noted that the most qPCR protocol uses different primer pairs and yields a common tick-borne disease is Lyme borreliosis, for longer PCR product than the first qPCR. The discrepan- which fever (alone or with an EM) is rare . Also, cies between the first and second qPCR might therefore the findings may suggest that other tick-borne dis- ity, caused, for example, by the reaction conditions or by occur in Belgium. Finally, patients with fever probably three samples were negative. Although some DNA deg- impact the
