Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


tick-borne dis- ity, caused, for example, by the reaction conditions or by occur in Belgium. Finally, patients with fever probably three samples were negative. Although some DNA deg- impact the public health system and the disease burden radation might have occurred during storage or transport of such cases is expected to be small more research is of the DNA samples, as the additional testing was per- needed on whether they develop long-term sequelae formed 2 years after the initial testing, the results were and whether they would need treatment. Furthermore, ultimately regarded as being negative. The discrepancies when comparing the number of patients included in in the PCR test results in this study are unsettling and both groups, it has to be acknowledged that patients not remembering a tick bite could be included in the Abbreviations Ct: Cycle threshold; EM: Erythema migrans; GP: General practitioner; s.l.: Sensu EM group (i.e. 36%), but not in the group of fever after lato; TBE: Tick-borne encephalitis; TBEV: Tick-borne encephalitis virus. a recent tick bite. In addition, it might have been more difficult for GPs to remember to ask a patient about a Supplementary Information recent tick bite when fever was present than to include The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. an EM patient in the study. However, to increase GPs’ org/ 10. 1186/ s13071- 021- 05139-w. awareness, each year, reminder emails were sent at the beginning of and halfway through the tick season, Additional file 1: Database S1. Dataset of qPCR results Spiroplasma emphasizing the need to enroll both patient groups. ixodetis. There was no difference in the GP’s work load in terms of including patients of both groups in the study, but Acknowledgements willingness to participate could have been higher for We are very grateful to the general practitioners participating in the inclusion of patients in this study, as well as to the patients themselves. We sincerely those patients with fever after a recent tick bite as the thank Professor Andrew Jenkins of the Department of Natural Science and in contrast to the case of EM patients in part of another testing of N. mikurensis positive samples with their SYBR-green real-time PCR. study . Authors’ contributions Given the low number of patients with fever after LG, TL and KT designed the study together with HS, NS and SVG. All authors a recent tick bite found in this study,
