Geebelen et al. Parasites & Vectors (2022) 15:27 Parasites & Vectors
KEYWORDS: patients, study, tick, fever, tick-borne, bite, pcr, tick bite, mikurensis, samples, pathogens, ticks, belgium, lyme, results


low number of patients with fever after LG, TL and KT designed the study together with HS, NS and SVG. All authors a recent tick bite found in this study, it could be useful contributed to the execution of the study. SVG and ST were responsible for the samples at Sciensano. HS and AD were responsible for the nucleic acid for future studies on infections other than Lyme borre- extractions and multiplex qPCR analyses and their interpretations. LG drafted liosis to extend inclusion criteria beyond fever, to include the manuscript, which was initially revised by HS, TL, JWH and KT. All authors patients with other flu-like symptoms after a recent tick further contributed to the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. bite, in order to increase the sample size. It might be useful to include patients who were bitten by a tick > Funding HS and JWH were supported by a grant from the European Interreg North Sea aimed for, as it has been suggested in the literature that Region program, as part of the NorthTick project, and by a grant from ZonMw this bacterium persists in the blood for a longer period, (project number 522003007, Ticking on Pandora’s box). The funders had no even up to months [42, 50–52]. It is expected that, in the role in the study design and interpretation, or the decision to submit the work for publication. future, more tick-borne pathogens will be discovered due to the increase in molecular methods and availability of Availability of data and materials next-generation sequencing, of which the pathogenicity The dataset analyzed during the current study is available from the corre- sponding author on reasonable request. will have to be investigated . Declarations Conclusions Ethics approval and consent to participate In this study, no tick-borne pathogen DNA/RNA was Informed consent was obtained from all study participants. Ethical approval was obtained from the “Comité d’Ethique Hospitalo-Facultaire detected as an infection in blood samples of patients with Saint-Luc UCL” (ref.: 2016/13AVR/166) which served as the principal ethical an EM or fever after a recent tick bite in Belgium and no committee for the study. Individual test results of the PCR analysis were not was described in the informed consent form. The study has been approved tion other than Lyme borreliosis was found. Although our by the Commission to Protect the Personal Privacy (Beraadslaging Nr. 16/038, results suggest that
