Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


adenocarcinomas (PDAC), and 37 cholangiocarcinomas cluded tumor samples obtained from SIC and PVC cases (CHC) from the HOPE study were used for comparison that were treated between January 2014 and March 2019, with SIC and PVC. from which data were analyzed for clinicopathological and molecular genetic factors. Histopathological diagnosis was assessed by at least 2.3 | Statistical analysis two pathologists. As the criteria for the histopathological diagnosis of invasion into the pancreas from gastrointes- Continuous variables are expressed as median and inter- tinal cancer, the presence of carcinoma on the mucosa quartile range (IQR) and were compared using the Mann– of duodenum or papilla of Vater was observed, without Whitney U- test. Statistical analysis was performed using could not be determined, we judged the cancer from gas- a graphical user interface for R (The R Foundation for trointestinal tract with the findings that the central of Statistical Computing). p < 0.05 was considered signifi- tumor was localized on the mucosal side of the gastroin- cant.26 For the statistical analysis of adjacent organ carci- testinal tract rather than on the pancreatic parenchyma, noma comparisons, the ratio between the two groups was with invading the pancreatic parenchyma in a continuous tested by Fisher's exact establishment test and corrected manner with the center of tumor. The UICC 8th edition for multiple testing by the Benjamini–H ochberg method. was referenced for staging.12 A false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05 was considered sta- We performed whole exome sequencing (WES) and tistically significant. The score value was calculated by deep sequencing of the custom cancer panel (CCP) using [Score = −log10 (FDR)], where a larger value indicates a blood samples collected during the surgery and fresh sur- more significant difference; the value multiplied by −1 gical samples obtained after surgery. Tumor and matched was listed for those with a higher frequency in Group 2 normal samples of SIC or PVC were collected from the compared with those with a higher frequency in Group 1. luminal side of the gastrointestinal tract. Driver gene Thus, a large positive score value indicated a significantly mutations were classified as in previous studies, accord- higher frequency of Group 1 compared with that of Group ing to predictability: Tier 1 was a driver mutation, Tier 2 2, while a large negative score value indicated a signifi- was a likely driver mutation, and Tier 3 was a predicted cantly higher frequency of Group 2
