Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


were no significant tients through comprehensive GEP.20 Based on the com- differences in CNV among the carcinomas. For pathway prehensive GEP data in various tumors, the results of a mutations (Figure S2), the MAPK pathway was more fre- two- dimensional t- SNE analysis are shown in Figure 2. quently mutated in SIC than in GAD. The WNT pathway This t- SNE plot is distributed along the expression levels was mutated less frequently in SIC than in CRAD, and of individual carcinoma types. Three (nos. 8, 9, and 15) more frequently in SIC than in GAD or PDAC. TP53 path- of the 15 patients showed similar expression patterns to way mutations were less frequent in SIC than in CRAD. pancreatic cancer. All three patients had histopathologi- Similar to SIC, we compared PVC with adjacent organ cal pancreatic invasion; thus, all had a TMB of less than carcinomas of GAD, CRAD, PDAC, and CHC (Figure 3). 1 in WES analysis. All gene expression patterns of the For gene expression (Figure S1), APOB had significantly FIGURE 1 Histopathological examination findings. The pictures of histopathological examination of six cases with pancreatic infiltration are shown. The number shown is the case number. The extent of the tumor is indicated by white dotted lines. The site of invasion is noted by arrowheads. The side with the arrowheads is the normal pancreatic tissue side from the white dotted line. The length of the black bar is equivalent to 1 mm scale. 11496 | NAKAMURA et al. FIGURE 2 We performed t- distributed stochastic neighbor embedding analysis from all gene expression data of 5143 patients. The cancer types of the cases in this study, such as the duodenum, papilla of Vater, and jejunum, are dotted. The case numbers are the same as in Table 1. Gastric adenocarcinoma, colorectal adenocarcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, cervical squamous cell carcinoma, and other carcinomas are also plotted for comparison. Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of cases of each cancer type. more frequent decreased gene expression in PVC than in p. Gln61Leu). Other than a KRAS mutation, the driver CRAD. There were no significant differences for somatic genes with higher frequencies of mutations were APC in mutations and CNV, nor any significant differences for two patients (16%) and TP53 in one patient (8%) among pathway mutations (Figure
