Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


using the Fisher exact test. The results corrected for multiple testing were then shown as false discovery rate (FDR). FDR <0.05 was defined as a statistically significant difference. The score value was calculated by [Score = −log10 (FDR)], where higher values indicate greater significant differences. Positive score values indicate that Group 1 is larger, while negative score values indicate that Group 2 is larger. TP53 and APC had significantly lower mutation frequencies in SIC than in CRAD, and KRAS had a significantly higher mutation frequency in SIC than in GAD. duodenal carcinoma with pancreatic invasion, in which overall study, were not found in any of the pancreatic in- BRAF V600E was found to be a driver gene mutation in vasion patients. the WES and was immunohistochemically confirmed to have MLH1 and PMS2 deletions. 4 | DISCUSSION 3.5 | Gene mutation of pancreatic Some genome- related studies have been reported on invasion case SIC and PVC, though to the best of our knowledge, few studies have performed the analysis with next genera- Histopathologically, six of the 15 patients showed pan- tion sequencing on fresh-f rozen samples.2,3,9 There has creatic invasion (Table 1, Figures 1,4). One patient with been only one study comparing FFPE samples to adjacent pancreatic invasion was classified as MSI- High with high organ carcinomas, which compared GAD and CRAD by TMB values (≥15 mutation/Mb). In contrast, there were molecular genetics.7 In this respect, Project HOPE has three patients with pancreatic invasion with low TMB a big advantage in that it supports comparisons among values (<1 mutation/Mb) and no driver mutation genes various types of carcinomas.19– 25,27 Moreover, the strong detected (nos. 8, 9, and 15). Additionally, among the pa- point of this study is that it is an overview study of the tients with pancreatic invasion, there were two with TP53 whole image which shows the positioning of SIC and PVC as a driver mutation, indicating that they were not MSI- in rare cancers among adjacent organ carcinomas, focus- High and had 15 mutation/Mb>TMB values ≥1 mutation/ ing on driver gene mutations, pathway mutations, CNV, Mb. These two TP53 mutations were a Tier 3 driver mu- and gene expression not only in GAD and CRAD, but also tation (c.450_460delACCCCCGCCCG, splice acceptor) in in PDAC and CHC, using fresh-f rozen samples. Among one patient of squamous cell carcinoma of the duodenum the genetic data obtained from 5143 patients with
