Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


(c.450_460delACCCCCGCCCG, splice acceptor) in in PDAC and CHC, using fresh-f rozen samples. Among one patient of squamous cell carcinoma of the duodenum the genetic data obtained from 5143 patients with various (no. 5) and a Tier 2 driver mutation (c. 994-1 G>A, splice carcinomas, it would be valuable for future studies to in- acceptor) in one patient of PVC (no. 14). In the PVC pa- vestigate which carcinomas have gene expression patterns tient with TP53 as the driver gene (no. 14), there was an that resemble those of SIC and PVC, which have ambigu- increase in CNV and MYC, and RECQL4 gene expression ous molecular genetic backgrounds because of their rare levels. KRAS mutations, which were more frequent in the occurrence. 11498 | NAKAMURA et al. FIGURE 4 The oncoprint of this study. The mutation signatures and pathway alterations are shown. The primary site, histology, pancreatic invasion, relapse, CA19- 9, tumor mutation burden, MSIsensor score, and copy number variation are shown from top to bottom, respectively. Each row represents a sample. As a result, while several studies have reported that the present study showed that the gene expression pattern of molecular biological characteristics of SIC are similar to SIC was similar not only to that of GAD and CRAD, but those of CRAD in the adjacent gastrointestinal tract,1,4 the also to that of PDAC in the pancreatic invasion patients. NAKAMURA et al. | 11499 Additionally, PVC did not resemble CHC, but rather re- organ carcinomas have molecular genetics similarities. sembled GAD, CRAD, and PDAC, suggesting it might be This issue is likely to be addressed in the future. appropriate to classify it separately from CHC, as in the The frequency of MSI-H igh cases in SIC ranges from 5% UICC or WHO classifications. Considering that in Japan, to 35%, and the proportion in this study (16%) fell within chemotherapy for SIC has recently been given according this range.1 In CRAD, MSI- High cases are classified into to CRAD and for PVC according to CHC, the findings of sporadic cases from somatic mutations and hereditary the current study suggest that chemotherapy with refer- cases associated with germline mutations.33 Similarly, in ence to molecular genetic subtypes is an option. the present SIC study, patients with the somatic mutation There are several panel sequencing datasets for SIC, type and Lynch syndrome were also extracted as MSI-H igh but not for PVC to our
