Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


whole genome sequencing in patients indicating that it was not specific to SIC. Furthermore, the with low TMB values. MAPK pathway mutations differed from GAD and TP53 Because both SIC and PVC are adjacent to the pan- pathway mutations from CRAD in SIC. Interestingly, creas and pancreatic invasion is reportedly a poor prog- these results suggest that SIC is unique from GAD and nostic factor,17,18 the patients with pancreatic invasion CRAD at the driver gene level, whereas it resembles either in this study were investigated using a molecular genetic GAD, CRAD, or PDAC in overall gene expression. approach. Six patients with SIC and PVC with pancreatic Our data newly showed that APOB gene expression invasion showed various patterns of gene expression. Our was significantly decreased in PVC compared with that data suggested that three patients had a PDAC-l ike pat- in CRAD. No statistically significant differences between tern, one patient had a CRAD-l ike pattern, one patient each carcinoma were observed for somatic mutations, had a border between GAD and CRAD, and one patient CNV, or pathway mutations. Unfortunately, this result with squamous cell carcinoma was near clusters of squa- may be from the small number of PVC patients included mous cell carcinomas in other organs. Although the pa- in this study. Other literature was cited to supplement tients showed a variety of patterns, PDAC- like patients the discussion. There are two relatively large case- count were the most common. It was proposed that either the surveys in PVC: the study by Yachida et al. using fresh- tumor itself that is causing pancreatic invasion resembles frozen samples and the study by Gingras et al. using FFPE PDAC at the gene expression level or the pancreatic tissue samples. In these studies, the association between genetic undergoing invasion is the source of the expression pat- mutations and histological phenotypic subtypes was an- tern. Although the expression levels of driver genes in SIC alyzed. Their findings suggested that the frequencies of or PVC patients with pancreatic invasion were not consis- KRAS, TP53, and SMAD4 mutations were increased in tent with the genes that are upregulated or downregulated the pancreaticobiliary type, while the incidences of APC, in PDAC, the comprehensive t- SNE analysis oddly showed TP53, and KRAS mutations were increased in the intes- these patients to be similar to PDAC. This is an issue to tinal type.16,31 These phenotypes are reportedly associ- be
