Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


showed TP53, and KRAS mutations were increased in the intes- these patients to be similar to PDAC. This is an issue to tinal type.16,31 These phenotypes are reportedly associ- be resolved in the future. For gene expression, TMB, MSI, ated with prognosis in SIC.32 However, no studies have and driver genes, the patients could be classified into reported on whether these phenotypes and the adjacent three molecular genetic subtypes. The molecular genetic 11500 | NAKAMURA et al. characteristics of the six patients with pancreatic invasion (supporting); supervision (equal). Teiichi Sugiura: Data were MSI- High in one, TP53 driver mutation in two, and curation (equal); resources (equal). Ryo Ashida: Data cu- TMB <1 mutation/MB without driver mutation (PDAC- ration (equal); resources (equal). Katsuhisa Ohgi: Data like gene expression) in three. For prognosis, four of the curation (equal); resources (equal). Etsuro Bando: Data six patients with pancreatic invasion showed recurrence: curation (equal); resources (equal). Keiichi Fujiya: Data in one patient with MSI- High, in one with TP53 mutation, curation (equal); resources (equal). Akio Shiomi: Data cu- and in two with TMB value <1 (PDAC-l ike gene expres- ration (equal); resources (equal). Hiroyasu Kagawa: Data sion). The results of this study suggest that the pancreatic curation (equal); resources (equal). Taisuke Imamura: invasion of SIC and PVC, which are considered to have Conceptualization (supporting); writing – review and ed- a poor prognosis, may have different molecular genetic iting (supporting). Goro Nakayama: Conceptualization backgrounds among them. (equal); writing – review and editing (supporting). There are several limitations of this study. First, the Yasuhiro Kodera: Conceptualization (supporting); writ- sample size of this study was small because of the rarity of ing – review and editing (supporting). Katsuhiko Uesaka: this carcinoma. The anatomic complexity of PVC makes Data curation (equal); resources (equal). Nobuyuki strict classification difficult, and there are few reports of Ohike: Data curation (equal); resources (equal). Tomoko molecular genetic analysis of small intestine and PVC Norose: Data curation (equal); resources (equal). Keiko combined. Therefore, it is desirable to clarify the molecu- Sasaki: Data curation (equal); resources (equal). Takashi lar genetics of SIC and PVC in a multicenter study. Second, Sugino: Data curation (equal); resources (equal). Sumiko when excised samples with small tumor diameters were Ohnami: Data curation (equal); resources (equal). removed for genetic studies, subsequent histopathological Takeshi Nagashima: Formal analysis (equal); visu- diagnosis has been difficult. Therefore, early- stage carci- alization (equal). Kenichi Urakami: Conceptualization
