Received: 29 November 2022 | Revised: 13 January 2023 | Accepted: 19 March 2023
KEYWORDS: patients, sic, pvc, mutations, mutation, gene, study, pancreatic, equal, data, crad, carcinoma, invasion, expression, cancer


Data curation (equal); resources (equal). removed for genetic studies, subsequent histopathological Takeshi Nagashima: Formal analysis (equal); visu- diagnosis has been difficult. Therefore, early- stage carci- alization (equal). Kenichi Urakami: Conceptualization nomas tended to be excluded from this study. Third, in (equal); writing – review and editing (supporting). Yasuto the case of pancreatic invasion, the duodenum and pan- Akiyama: Project administration (equal); supervision creas are anatomically adjacent to each other, so there is (equal). Ken Yamaguchi: Project administration (equal); a possibility of PDAC- derived tissue. However, although supervision (lead). KRAS mutations have been reported to be highly preva- lent in PDAC,37 this possibility is unlikely here because ACKNOWLEDGMENTS KRAS mutations were not observed in all patients with We thank J. Iacona, Ph.D., from Edanz ( pancreatic invasion in this study. Fourth, especially for com/ac) for editing a draft of this manuscript. patients with pancreatic invasion, it may be advisable to perform gene mutation and gene expression analyses on CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT FFPE samples to evaluate errors potentially arising from The authors have no conflict of interest to declare. tumor heterogeneity. Unfortunately, that was not possible in this study. It is desirable to evaluate the results when DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT the number of cases is accumulated. The data that support the findings of this study are avail- In conclusion, SIC is clinically treated with chemother- able on request from the corresponding author. The apy methods similar to those used for CRAD, and PVC is data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical classified as CHC in Japan. However, a new finding from restrictions. GEP of extensive organ carcinomas in this study suggests that these carcinomas may be similar to GAD, CRAD, and ETHICS STATEMENT PDAC. Additionally, it was also newly suggested that pan- Shizuoka Cancer Center started Project HOPE (High- creatic invasive cases may be classified into several sub- Tech Omics- Based Patient Evaluation) in 2014 to inves- types based on MSI-H igh and driver gene backgrounds, tigate the biological characteristics of cancer and the as well as gene expression patterns. In SIC and PVC, it is pathogenesis of individual cases following approval by the clinically desirable to consider a treatment based not only Institutional Review Board of Shizuoka Cancer Center on anatomical classification but also on molecular genetic (Approval Number 25- 33). profiling. However, this will require not only panel se- quences but also WES and GEP data,
