Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


are outlined in Table 2. Table 2 Causes of secondary hypertension. Assessment History History-taking is straightforward since, in most cases, hypertension is asymptomatic. However, symptoms can include headaches, transient ischemic attacks, mild visual disturbances, epistaxes, exertional dyspnea (if heart failure has developed), angina, claudication, weight gain (in Cushing's syndrome), nocturia, and hematuria (with renal disease). A full drug history is important and must include pharmacologically active preparations such as the combined contraceptive pill and herbal remedies, which are often not regarded by patients as drugs. Other important medications are steroids, sympathomimetics (eg, in cold cures), and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which can reduce the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and β-blockers. As with any cardiovascular disease, risk factors should be especially well documented. As full a family tree as possible should be drawn to document hypertension, diabetes, or early cardiac death. A history of smoking and physical activity should also be taken. More specific to hypertension, caffeine and alcohol intake should be recorded and some insight into diet and lifestyle stress should be acquired. Examination The physical examination has three specific objectives: documenting an accurate BP excluding possible secondary causes quantifying end-organ damage The BP should be measured in both arms, with the arm and manometer at the patient's heart level. Readings should be taken manually in a standardized way (most clinical trials use Korotkoff I and V – from the first sound heard to the complete disappearance of sounds). The use of a large-diameter cuff is essential in those with large arms. The general appearance of the patient may suggest Cushing's syndrome, a thyroid disorder, polycystic ovarian disease, sleep apnea, or acromegaly. All peripheral pulses should be taken to screen for vascular disease, but special attention should be paid, especially in young people, to radiofemoral delay (diminished and late pulses in the femoral arteries), which suggests aortic coarctation. If positive, the BP should be measured in all four limbs. Auscultation should also be carried out over the aorta and renal arteries for bruits suggestive of stenosis. Abdominal examination may reveal palpable kidneys in polycystic disease or a pheochromocytoma. End-organ damage can be detected by palpation of the apex beat, detection of bibasal crackles, and examination of the fundi. Diagnosis of hypertensive retinopathy is based on a four-stage grading system, as outlined in Table 3. Table 3 Stages of hypertensive retinopathy (Keith–Wagener classification). Investigations Investigations are aimed at diagnosing
