Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


Diagnosis of hypertensive retinopathy is based on a four-stage grading system, as outlined in Table 3. Table 3 Stages of hypertensive retinopathy (Keith–Wagener classification). Investigations Investigations are aimed at diagnosing rare secondary causes and quantifying end-organ damage. Only electrolytes, creatinine, fasting glucose, and lipids should be requested in every patient. A low potassium and raised sodium level suggests hyperaldosteronism – either primary (Conn's syndrome) or secondary to renal artery stenosis. This should prompt measurement of renin and 2/9 aldosterone levels. It should be noted that the potassium level is normal in 50% of cases of primary hyperaldosteronism. Raised calcium levels suggest possible hyperparathyroidism. If the symptoms suggest a thyroid problem, thyroid function should be tested. A low threshold should be adopted for the following: renal ultrasound urine microscopy (for casts and cells – glomerulonephritis) urine samples for testing: catecholamine metabolites (three samples, one every 24 hours, required in acid bottles) urinary free cortisol (one sample in a plain bottle – this can also be used for glomerular filtration rate and 24-hour protein tests) Once hypertension has caused end-organ damage, the risks associated with any given level of BP are higher. Evidence of end-organ damage should therefore be sought in all patients. Dip-stick urinalysis, tests for urea and electrolytes, and a renal ultrasound can reveal renal insufficiency. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) can be readily detected by electrocardiography or echocardiography (a chest x-ray is rarely necessary). Hypertension with LVH carries a particularly poor prognosis (the 5-year mortality is around 30%–40%) and is a powerful predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. A useful tool, both for generalists and specialists, is the 24-hour ambulatory BP recording. It is particularly useful when clinic measurements show variability, with resistant hypertension, or most commonly to diagnose "white coat" hypertension. An ambulatory BP measurement (ABPM) is not required for those who are at high risk already, either because of target organ damage or cardiovascular complications. Such patients can be treated on the basis of clinic measurements. Equally, an evidence-based approach suggests that those with mild hypertension, no target organ damage, and low estimated risk may be left untreated (but followed) without ABPM. Management Many randomized controlled trials have shown that BP reduction prevents the complications of hypertension. Early trials showed a significant improvement in the risk of stroke, but little or no reduction in coronary heart disease (CHD) events. Later trials, particularly those in the elderly, have also
