Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


trials showed a significant improvement in the risk of stroke, but little or no reduction in coronary heart disease (CHD) events. Later trials, particularly those in the elderly, have also shown a reduction in CHD events, although the benefit is not as great as observational studies predicted. A summary of hypertensive treatments is shown in Table 4. Table 4 Summary of hypertensive treatment. Lifestyle change Lifestyle changes are important in the management of patients with hypertension and can be used alone during an initial period for those with mild hypertension and low risk. Increasing fruit and vegetable intake can improve BP via an effect on potassium; in combination with a low-fat diet, this can reduce BP by up to 11/6 mm Hg. In addition, weight loss is associated with an approximately 2.5/1.5 mm Hg drop for each kilogram lost. Specific advice on abstaining from adding salt to food – during cooking and at the table – should be given to reduce salt intake to 1 teaspoon per day. Foods such as bread, stock cubes, and breakfast cereals are often surprisingly high in salt. Reducing salt intake can cut BP by approximately 5/3 mm Hg. 3/9 Alcohol, particularly when taken in a binge pattern, is associated with increased risk. The current American Heart Association guidelines state: "If an individual chooses to consume alcohol, the limit should be one drink [ie, half a pint of beer, one glass of wine, or one short drink] a day for women and two drinks a day for men. People who do not normally drink alcohol should not begin drinking." Regular exercise (walking rather than weight training), stopping smoking, and limiting caffeine intake can all assist in lowering BP and may independently reduce cardiac risk. Pharmacotherapy In most patients, altering lifestyle factors is not enough. For these people, there is the difficult balance of pharmacotherapy. Fewer than half of all hypertensive patients can be controlled on monotherapy, whilst one third require three or more drugs. Knowledge of the mechanisms of action of antihypertensives is important as it allows rational combinations to be chosen based on complementary mechanisms of action. There are four major groups of drug treatments for hypertension and several less frequently used classes. The sites of action of these antihypertensive agents are shown in Figure 1. Figure 1 Major physiological mechanisms of antihypertensives. See Figure 2 for details of centrally acting hypertensives. ACE: angiotensin-converting
