Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


sites of action of these antihypertensive agents are shown in Figure 1. Figure 1 Major physiological mechanisms of antihypertensives. See Figure 2 for details of centrally acting hypertensives. ACE: angiotensin-converting enzyme; AT: angiotensin. Beta-blockers Beta-adrenoreceptor blockers have been used for many decades in the treatment of hypertension and are one of the few classes of agents that have been proven to reduce mortality. They work by reducing cardiac output via negative inotropic and chronotropic actions. In addition, they block sympathetic nervous system stimulation of renin release by juxtaglomerular cells. As with all medications, their use is limited primarily by adverse effects. Asthma is generally considered to be an absolute contraindication, even with agents selective for the cardiovascular system (β - 1 receptors). Peripheral vascular disease and bradycardia are relative contraindications. In susceptible patients, heart block and heart failure may be initiated. The most commonly reported adverse effect is lethargy, and nightmares can occur with lipid- soluble β-blockers. As with all antihypertensives, erectile dysfunction (ED) is a problem. The best guide as to whether ED is iatrogenic is to determine whether the symptoms appeared suddenly. Nevertheless, β-blockers have significant advantages in patients with coexistent angina and anxiety, and also after MI. Diuretics Thiazide diuretics, such as bendrofluazide, are another class of agent for which randomized controlled trial evidence indicates an improvement in survival, and should be the first-line drug in the elderly and in those with systolic hypertension. They work by inhibiting NaCl reabsorption + in the distal tubule. This initially leads to an increase in Na loss and a reduction in plasma volume. However, the plasma volume soon recovers, leaving a reduced total peripheral resistance, for which the mechanism is unknown. Thiazide diuretics are widely used and very cheap, with a moderate side-effect profile (most commonly hypokalemia, dyslipidemia, and gout). Potassium levels should be checked regularly. Loop diuretics have a role to play in the place of thiazides when renal function is compromised (creatinine >180 μmol/L or 2 mg/dL) and on a short-term basis, in addition to thiazides, in resistant hypertension, where a significant proportion of patients suffer plasma volume overload. 4/9 Calcium-channel blockers A large number of calcium-channel blockers have been developed and there is good evidence of their ability to reduce BP. There are three subclasses: the dihydropyridines (nifedipine-like), the phenylalkylamine derivatives (verapamil), and the benzothiazepines (diltiazem). All work by blocking the entry of calcium into the smooth
