Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


ability to reduce BP. There are three subclasses: the dihydropyridines (nifedipine-like), the phenylalkylamine derivatives (verapamil), and the benzothiazepines (diltiazem). All work by blocking the entry of calcium into the smooth muscle cells of resistance vessels, thereby causing vasodilatation. Dihydropyridines cause vasodilatation without the bradycardic and negatively inotropic effects of diltiazem and verapamil (which limits the use of the latter agents to patients with normal left ventricular function) – so a simpler classification is "rate-limiting" and "non- rate-limiting". Short-acting dihydropyridines have become unpopular following reports of increased risk of MI at high doses. Longer-acting calcium-channel blockers are useful antihypertensives, especially as they are lipid-neutral. Side effects include ankle edema, headache, and flushing. Renin/angiotensin system antagonists Angiotensin is a potent vasoconstrictor, but also increases activity of the sympathetic nervous system by both central and peripheral mechanisms. Fortunately, the renin–angiotensin system provides a series of targets for pharmacological attack by ACEIs, angiotensin type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs), and aldosterone antagonists (spironolactone). ACEIs and ARBs tend to be well tolerated and have few contraindications, the most important of which is renal artery stenosis. It is important to monitor renal function and potassium levels during initiation and maintenance of these agents. ACEIs are contraindicated in women of child-bearing potential and may cause a troublesome cough through their inhibition of the enzyme responsible for bradykinin degradation. First-dose hypotension can be a problem in elderly patients on diuretics, although newer, longer-acting formulations have reduced this concern. ACEIs are lipid-neutral, improve insulin resistance, and may be able to induce regression of LVH. Alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists Alpha -antagonists (such as doxazosin and prazosin) are becoming more widely used in the 1 treatment of hypertension. They have a good side-effect profile (palpitations and occasional postural hypotension). In addition, they are reported to have beneficial effects on lipid profile and insulin resistance, and lack the negative effects on sexual potency of other antihypertensives, which is a particular advantage for diabetics. They work to reduce total peripheral resistance by blocking the sympathetic activation of α -receptors on resistance vessels. 1 Centrally acting sympathomimetics Clonidine and α-methyldopa, centrally acting α -adrenoceptor agonists, were once popular 2 choices, but are now less widely initiated outside specialist scenarios such as pre-eclampsia. They carry a risk of rebound hypertension on withdrawal. Other vasodilators Other vasodilators, such as hydralazine and the very potent minoxidil, are mostly used in resistant hypertension when standard agents fail. Use of the latter
