Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


rebound hypertension on withdrawal. Other vasodilators Other vasodilators, such as hydralazine and the very potent minoxidil, are mostly used in resistant hypertension when standard agents fail. Use of the latter is generally restricted by unpleasant side effects such as hypertrichosis. Imidazoline type 1 receptor agonists The identification of imidazoline receptors has revealed that the effects of older agents on the central nervous system reflect a relatively nonspecific central site of action mediated primarily through α -adrenoceptor agonism (see Figure 2). It seems that some of the adverse effects of 2 these agents, which are also mediated through this pathway, can be avoided by the use of selective imidazoline type 1 receptor agents. Early results suggest these agents are well tolerated, 5/9 with a dry mouth being the only frequently reported unwanted effect (13% at 3 weeks, 2% at 12 months). Figure 2 Centrally acting antihypertensives. Pharmacotherapy selection In the absence of compelling reasons to choose other medications, the first-line choice should remain a β-blocker or thiazide diuretic. These are the drugs for which clear evidence of mortality reduction exists. In addition, they are generally well tolerated. There are good reasons to consider β-blockers first in younger people and thiazides first in older people. However, the majority of patients will require more than one drug, and the choice should be rational. Here, synergistic action is important (see Figure 2). Good combinations are: thiazides (which cause secondary hyperreninemia) and ACEIs or ARBs (which block it) β-blockers (which act to reduce renin release and cardiac output) and calcium-channel blockers (which cause vasodilatation – do not combine β-blockers with verapamil or diltiazem) Following this, it is generally worth trying one of the other classes mentioned above. Treatment will be highly individualized depending on patient tolerance and efficacy, but some guidelines are outlined in Table 5. It is worth taking readings after each change of drug so that agents with no effect can be stopped. Table 5 Guidelines for hypertension pharmacotherapy. Systolic versus diastolic hypertension The question as to the relative importance of systolic and diastolic BP is common in the management of hypertension. For many years it was felt that as systolic hypertension was more common in the elderly it was an inevitable part of aging and arteriolar stiffening. As a result, the focus was primarily on diastolic BP. In fact, both systolic and diastolic BP predict mortality equally well. However, in the elderly
