Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


of aging and arteriolar stiffening. As a result, the focus was primarily on diastolic BP. In fact, both systolic and diastolic BP predict mortality equally well. However, in the elderly population with predominantly systolic BP, recent evidence suggests it is not the absolute values of systolic or diastolic hypertension, but the difference between the two that predicts mortality best, ie, the pulse pressure. This means that a patient with a BP of 160/80 mm Hg may be at higher risk than a patient with a BP of 160/90 mm Hg. This finding, which actually fits well with current thinking on reflected pressure waves in the stiffer arteries of older people, has little therapeutic relevance as yet because we do not have agents that preferentially improve pulse pressure. Thiazides and calcium-channel blockers reduce systolic hypertension more than diastolic, so these are the rational choices. However, the key for the future may be drugs that can restore vascular elasticity, and in this respect nitrates – which donate nitric oxide – are the most promising. Special populations Elderly patients It is a myth that hypertension is "normal" in the elderly and they have less to lose because of a shorter life expectancy. In fact, the absolute benefit from treatment of the elderly is much greater than that for younger hypertensives because of their larger absolute risk. However, it is true that the prevalence of hypertension is higher amongst the elderly. Optimum BP levels are the same for older people as they are for younger people, and evidence for treatment benefit extends until 6/9 at least 80 years. Taking pulse pressure into account (see "Systolic versus diastolic hypertension", above), the best agents are thiazide diuretics and long-acting dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers. Ethnic groups Afro-Caribbean blacks have a particularly high prevalence of hypertension and severe complications. Their presentation is unusual in that the renin–angiotensin system is often suppressed. As a result, β-blockers and ACEIs are unlikely to be successful as monotherapy in these patients. Diuretics, calcium-channel blockers, and salt restriction are all effective. Diabetics Hypertension is common in diabetics and plays a major role in the vascular complications of the disease. Recent studies have suggested there is more to gain from controlling hypertension in diabetics than there is in achieving normoglycemia. For this reason, particularly aggressive BP- lowering treatment is warranted in these patients. ACEIs, preferably combined with a thiazide diuretic, are the treatment of choice.
