Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


there is in achieving normoglycemia. For this reason, particularly aggressive BP- lowering treatment is warranted in these patients. ACEIs, preferably combined with a thiazide diuretic, are the treatment of choice. Previous avoidance of β-blockers or thiazide diuretics because of possible worsening of glycemic control needs to be reassessed in light of this information. Most recent studies show that both groups of drugs can be safely administered in diabetics. Pregnancy Hypertension occurs in up to 10% of pregnancies. The key distinction is between chronic hypertension in a pregnant woman and pregnancy-induced hypertension (pre-eclampsia) – defined as a rise in BP of >30/15 mm Hg from early pregnancy. Little is known about which agents are truly safe in pregnancy, but methyldopa is generally considered first line, with calcium antagonists or hydralazine regarded secondarily. Labetalol is sometimes used in the third trimester. In addition, trials in pregnant women with pre-eclampsia have suggested that magnesium sulfate injections may reduce the risk of eclampsia developing by as much as half. ACEIs should be avoided. Erectile dysfunction ED is a common problem in hypertensives. It is common because it can be caused by both hypertension (via vascular disease) and its treatment. Differentiating the two from psychogenic causes is a challenge. However, it is made easier by taking a full history: ask about desire, morning erections, erections during masturbation, the exact timing of onset, life stress, sexual history, alcohol, and nonprescription medication. Palpation of the penis for Peyronie's disease and the testes for atrophy should be added to the routine examination. If ED clearly relates to one particular medication, it is worth trying alternatives. If ED remains resistant, then possible treatments are vacuum devices, intraurethral alprostadil, and sildenafil. Patients with more than three risk factors for coronary disease should have an exercise test before starting sildenafil. Generalist management Hypertension is one of the few cardiovascular conditions where, in theory, the generalist can manage the whole process. Because of the overwhelming likelihood that any given hypertensive patient will have "essential" hypertension, only a small number of routine investigations are warranted. These are: urine dipstick blood glucose, electrolyte, and creatinine levels total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein ratio 7/9 electrocardiography However, in a young patient, a patient with severe hypertension without a family history, or with signs or symptoms suggesting a secondary cause, the full investigative program detailed above (see "Investigations") should be instituted. This is normally done predominantly within
