Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


without a family history, or with signs or symptoms suggesting a secondary cause, the full investigative program detailed above (see "Investigations") should be instituted. This is normally done predominantly within a specialist center. Refer with confidence In practice, hypertension specialists tend to see patients from one of the following four categories: patients with resistant hypertension patients from special groups with hypertension, eg, pregnant women or young people patients with known secondary hypertension patients with possible accelerated hypertension (see below) Most generalists would expect to try at least three agents and carry out basic investigations before referring the patient to a specialist for the management of resistant hypertension. Certainly, it would be unusual to make use of vasodilators in the community. However, in the special groups mentioned above, it would not be uncommon for the full work-up to be done from the beginning in a special center. Clearly, any suspicion of accelerated hypertension should result in immediate referral. Basic science BP is a normally distributed, polygenic trait. That is, an individual's BP results from the effects of many genes interacting with each other and the environment. Due in part to this, genetics has so far struggled to explain essential hypertension. However, early studies have suggested that up to 50% of variation within the general population could be explained by genetic factors. The experimental approach has involved studying affected sibling pairs and scanning the whole genome for chromosomal regions with higher levels of genetic marker similarity. Selectively bred animal models have also been used to study hypertension. Despite much effort, the only mutations that have been convincingly shown to be associated with hypertension are those of the ACE gene, and these gene polymorphisms are more strongly associated with atherosclerotic disease than hypertension. The role of the sympathetic nervous system in hypertension has been debated over many years. Most agree that, together with inadequate salt excretion, it plays an important initiating role (validating the choice of β-blockers as a first-line agent in young hypertensives). However, there is significant controversy as to its continuing role. The prevalent view is that the sympathetic nervous system plays only a minor part in chronic hypertension, and recent studies showing the benefit of ARBs over β-blockers reinforce this. Resistant hypertension Failure to reduce BP to <140/90 mm Hg with three or more drugs qualifies the patient as "resistant". Resistant hypertensives commonly suffer plasma volume expansion, despite the absence
