Hypertension - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: hypertension, patients, blockers, risk, agents, disease, table, treatment, resistant, reduce, patient, secondary, diastolic, used, elderly


Resistant hypertension Failure to reduce BP to <140/90 mm Hg with three or more drugs qualifies the patient as "resistant". Resistant hypertensives commonly suffer plasma volume expansion, despite the absence of clinical signs. In this situation, a more aggressive diuretic therapy can achieve targets where other combinations have failed to do so. Secondary causes are common in resistant 8/9 hypertensives – they should be referred to a specialist to ensure a full diagnostic work-up. Apparent therapeutic failure could be due to noncompliance; many patients who have been prescribed several different tablets for an asymptomatic condition respond by not taking all of the tablets as directed. Therefore, before altering the medication, determine whether the patient is actually taking it. Malignant (or accelerated phase) hypertension In about 1% of patients with hypertension, the condition follows an accelerated course. BP is markedly raised (diastolic >130 mm Hg) and is associated with grade III–IV retinopathy. There may be encephalopathy (headache, confusion, visual disturbance, seizures, and coma), cardiac failure, and rapidly deteriorating renal function. The vascular lesion associated with malignant hypertension is fibrinoid necrosis of the walls of small arteries and arterioles. The prognosis is very poor: untreated, 90% of patients die within 1 year, and even with treatment the 5-year survival rate is only 60%. Malignant hypertension is a medical emergency that requires immediate therapy. However, the fall in BP should be controlled and carefully monitored as cerebral and myocardial perfusion can become compromised, which could lead to infarction (an initial target diastolic BP should be around 100–110 mm Hg). The reduction in BP is achieved with parenteral agents, such as nitroprusside or labetalol, ideally with intra-arterial BP monitoring. If a pheochromocytoma is suspected, drugs such as phenoxybenzamine or phentolamine (α-adrenergic blockers) should be used first. Once the acute episode has been successfully treated, the BP can be further titrated down over the following weeks.
