Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


14–1 CHAPTER 14 GENETICS OF TYPE 2 DIABETES Jose C. Florez, MD, PhD, Miriam S. Udler, MD, PhD, and Robert L. Hanson, MD, MPH Dr. Jose C. Florez is Chief of the Diabetes Unit and an investigator in the Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, and Co-Director of the Program in Metabolism and Institute Member in the Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, and Associate Professor in the Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Dr. Miriam S. Udler is Clinical Fellow in the Diabetes Unit and Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, and Postdoctoral Fellow in the Programs in Metabolism and Medical & Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, and Research Fellow in the Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Dr. Robert L. Hanson is Clinical Investigator and Head, Genetic Epidemiology and Statistics Unit in the Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Phoenix, AZ. Received in final form April 4, 2016 SUMMARY Type 2 diabetes is thought to result from a combination of environmental, behavioral, and genetic factors, with the heritability of type 2 diabetes estimated to be in the range of 25% to 72% based on family and twin studies. Since early 2007, genome- wide association studies (GWAS) have led to an explosion of data for the genetics of type 2 diabetes and related traits. These GWAS have occurred on the back­ ground of genotyping arrays populated by common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), deployed in various cohorts that have coalesced to form large international consortia. As a result, a list of genetic loci that influence type 2 diabetes and quantitative glycemic traits has begun to accumulate. Over 100 type 2 diabe­ tes-associated loci have been identified, in addition to others involved in deter­ mining quantitative glycemic traits, such as insulin resistance. However, no variant that is widely shared across populations has been found to have a stronger effect than the rs7903146 SNP in TCF7L2, which itself has only a modest effect (odds ratio ~1.4). Nonetheless, GWAS findings have illustrated novel pathways, pointed toward fundamental biology, drawn attention to the role of beta cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes, confirmed prior epidemiologic observations, and provided possible targets for pharmacotherapy and pharma­ cogenetic clinical trials. On the other hand, the causal variants have only been identified for a handful of these loci, a substantial
