Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


and provided possible targets for pharmacotherapy and pharma­ cogenetic clinical trials. On the other hand, the causal variants have only been identified for a handful of these loci, a substantial proportion of the heritability of these phenotypes remains unexplained, and this has tempered expectations with regard to their use in clinical prediction. Together, the approx­ imately 100 loci associated with type 2 diabetes thus far explain ~10%–15% of the genetic predisposition to the disease. Limitations of early GWAS included insufficient sample sizes to detect small effects, a nearly exclusive focus on popu­ lations of European descent, an imperfect capture of uncommon genetic variants, an incomplete ascertainment of alternate (non-SNP) forms of genetic variation, and the lack of exploration of additional genetic models. As the community embraces complemen­ tary approaches that include systematic fine-mapping, custom-made replication, denser genotyping arrays, platforms that focus on functional variation, next-gen­ eration sequencing techniques, systems biology approaches, and expansion to non-European populations, the coming years will witness exponential growth in the understanding of the genetic architecture of metabolic phenotypes. Whether these findings prove useful in disease prediction or therapeutic decision-making must be tested in rigorously designed clinical trials. TYPE 2 DIABETES AS A GENETIC DISEASE The explosive parallel growth in the prev­ alence of the related metabolic disorders of obesity and type 2 diabetes in much of the developed and developing worlds over the past few decades is almost certainly driven by environmental and behavioral factors, since genetic components do not change in an appreciable manner over such a short time period. However, several lines of evidence suggest that vari­ ation in DNA sequence does contribute to type 2 diabetes risk. First, twin studies have shown that concordance for type 2 diabetes is greater for monozygotic twins (who share 100% of their DNA sequence) than for dizygotic twins (who, like siblings, share approximately 50% of their DNA sequence) (1,2,3,4,5). Second, the incidence of diabetes is much higher in certain racial/ethnic groups, despite an environment that is relatively comparable to that of neighboring populations (6,7,8). Third, family history is an independent risk factor for the development of diabetes in population studies (9,10). And fourth, rare familial forms of diabetes, caused by mutations in single genes (hence, termed monogenic or Mendelian), prove that single base pair changes in the coding regions of key genes, which lead to alterations in protein sequence and function, are sufficient to cause hyper­
