Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


monogenic or Mendelian), prove that single base pair changes in the coding regions of key genes, which lead to alterations in protein sequence and function, are sufficient to cause hyper­ glycemia in the diabetic range (11,12). Consistent with this notion, the heritability of type 2 diabetes estimated in a set of Scandinavian families ranges from 25% to 69% (13), and a large international meta-analysis of twin studies has reported a heritability estimate as high as 72% (14). 14–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Taken together, these observations illus­ trate that rapid changes in the global epidemiology of type 2 diabetes are likely caused by environmental and behavioral factors overlaid on a background of genetic predisposition. This genetic predis­ position may vary across populations, in some measure due to their divergent genetic history and unequal selection pressures in specific geographic regions. Thus, it is well known and described else­ where in this volume (see Chapter 13 Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes) that the risk of type 2 diabetes differs in the various ethnic groups that compose the U.S. population, and the presumption is that some of these differences are genetic in nature (15). Why is genetic exploration relevant? Regardless of whether genetic predictors become useful markers of disease onset or progression in clinical practice, the identification of genetic variants asso­ ciated with type 2 diabetes illuminates pathogenic mechanisms from which ther­ apeutic windows may emerge. Because germline genetic variation always predates the onset of disease, the arrow of time establishes a causal relationship that is not evident with other biologic associa­ tions. Thus, the genetic approach has a unique opportunity to shed light on the pathophysiology of diabetes in its various manifestations, helping unravel its clinical heterogeneity and potentially refine thera­ peutic strategies. DISCOVERY OF TYPE 2 DIABETES GENES Before the sequencing of the human genome was accomplished, genetic mapping was dependent on the genera­ tion of anonymous genetic markers and their anchoring on specific locations in the genome. This task, first achieved with restriction fragment length polymor­ phisms and then with other markers, such as microsatellites or sequence tag sites, enabled the introduction of whole-genome linkage analysis and positional cloning, which proved extremely useful in the iden­ tification of genetic mutations that cause monogenic disease. The linkage approach, which depends on the cosegregation of a causal mutation with the anonymous marker along the lines of inheritance in pedigrees composed
