Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


genetic mutations that cause monogenic disease. The linkage approach, which depends on the cosegregation of a causal mutation with the anonymous marker along the lines of inheritance in pedigrees composed of affected and unaffected members, is particularly useful for traits where disease-causing alleles are highly penetrant: that is, the presence of the genetic variant virtually always co-occurs with disease, and its absence co-occurs with absence of the disease. As such, in the diabetes field, linkage analysis facilitated the discovery of the genes that underlie the various types of monogenic diabetes, such as maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) (12,16) or neonatal diabetes (17,18,19); these are described in detail in Chapter 7 Monogenic Forms of Diabetes. In complex diseases, where the pheno­ type presumably arises as a combination of several genetic variants and their inter­ action with the environment, successful linkage analysis is considerably more difficult. Though it succeeded in demon­ strating the strong influence of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region on type 1 diabetes (20,21), by and large, linkage analysis did not yield reproducible positive results for type 2 diabetes. This is because in type 2 diabetes there is not a single genetic locus that exerts a very strong effect in the general population or even in individual family pedigrees. Thus, the effect of genetic variation is probabilistic rather than deterministic; a substantial proportion of people with some risk vari­ ants may be disease-free, whereas others who carry protective alleles may instead have type 2 diabetes, due to a constel­ lation of other factors. In such situations, the amount of information provided by meioses within families, on which the power of linkage analysis depends, is greatly reduced, and the number of fami­ lies required can be inordinately large. To demonstrate the effect of genetic varia­ tion on human phenotypes, an alternative approach was needed: association testing, which simply asks whether a specific allele is significantly overrepresented in diabetes cases compared to controls without diabetes, and which, with large sample size, has greater statistical power to detect a common variant of weak effect. Its major limitation—prior to 2005—was that only a handful of variants could be tested at a time, which required some prior biologic knowledge on the existence of such variants and the role of a given gene in diabetes pathophysiology. Although multiple genetic associations were described before 2005, only two of these stood the test of time, both
