Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


such variants and the role of a given gene in diabetes pathophysiology. Although multiple genetic associations were described before 2005, only two of these stood the test of time, both at variants that change the amino acid sequence in genes that encode antihyperglycemic drug targets: the p.Pro12Ala polymorphism in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma 2 (encoded by PPARG) (22) and the p.Glu23Lys polymorphism in the islet ATP-dependent potassium channel Kir6.2 (encoded by KCNJ11) (22,23). A third locus, a noncoding variant in the transcription factor 7-like 2 gene (TCF7L2), was discovered by large-scale association testing in areas of sugges­ tive linkage (24). The common intronic rs7903146 polymorphism had the stron­ gest statistical association (though with a modest odds ratio ~1.4) and the most widespread effect on type 2 diabetes risk (Figure 14.1) (25,26), albeit with an inter­ esting exception in some Native American populations (27). The panorama changed dramatically with the advent of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) (28). Several factors coalesced to enable the conduct of GWAS: the discovery of millions of single nucle­ otide polymorphisms (SNPs) and their deposition in public databases; the manu­ facturing of genotyping arrays that could simultaneously query hundreds of thou­ sands of SNPs with great precision; the understanding of an underlying correlation structure between SNPs, driven by the finite number of recombination events in human history, which reduced the complexity of the variation to be interro­ gated; the recognition that the scientific imperative of reproducibility required the acceptance of strict statistical thresholds that accounted for the universe of possible hypotheses in the human genome; and Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes 14–3 FIGURE 14.1. Chronological Listing of Type 2 Diabetes-Associated Genes, Plotted by Year of Definitive Publication and Approximate Effect Size Genes identified via the candidate gene approach are shown in green (*), genes identified via agnostic genome-wide association approaches are shown in blue (no symbol), genes identified by exome sequencing are shown in orange (†), and genes identified by whole-genome sequencing are shown in red (‡). TCF7L2 (shown at 2006) was discovered by dense fine-mapping under a linkage signal. TBC1D4 (shown last at 2014) was identified by exome sequencing of a locus found to be associated with a diabetes-related quantitative trait. Approximate allelic effect sizes were derived from the DIAGRAM (Diabetes Genetics Replication and Meta-analysis consortium) European ancestry meta-analysis (66) and the Asian ancestry meta-analysis (55) when possible. Gene names that are underlined denote identification
