Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


cemia and impaired glucose tolerance. However, many of these GWAS only captured common variants, because imputation of ungenotyped variants depended on available reference panels from resources such as the HapMap (70). The introduction of massive parallel sequencing techniques and the concom­ itant dramatic drop in cost allowed for efficient, high-fidelity sequencing of thousands of samples. This enabled three major developments: first, denser refer­ ence panels could be developed for more accurate imputation of less common variants (71); second, targeted genotyping arrays that included less common but likely functional variation (e.g., coding variants) could be designed; and third, the allelic spectrum captured in case-control or quantitative trait studies could be expanded into less common frequencies, so that population genetics by which a rare variant may rise to prominence in a specific ethnic group could be exploited. Arrays containing exome content deployed in large populations have identified coding variants in established or novel genes associated with type 2 diabetes or related quantitative traits (72,73,74). By detecting a robust association signal in the coding region of a specific gene (e.g., SGSM2 and proinsulin levels) (72), these studies serve to advance the candidacy of said gene as the causal locus, from within the various possibilities under a noncoding GWAS association peak (42). Beyond genotyping, sequencing of whole exomes in Europeans (75) and Mexicans (76) has also yielded novel associations, and the extensive genetic and pedigree data available in the Icelandic population have allowed whole-genome sequences in 2,630 Icelanders to be extrapolated to a sample size of 11,114 type 2 diabetes cases and 267,140 controls for additional discovery (77). Finally, whole-genome sequencing in 2,657 European individuals with and without diabetes and whole- exome sequencing in 12,940 individuals from five ancestry groups have begun to shed light on the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes in a more systematic fashion, in terms of plausible effect sizes, observed allelic frequencies, and the potential number of causal variants (78). All in all, these studies support a model in which type 2 diabetes is caused by hundreds or thousands of loci of modest effects, with no major role for low-frequency variants of strong effects in disease predisposition. INSIGHTS GAINED The tremendous success of GWAS and their follow-up for type 2 diabetes and other human phenotypes have resulted in a number of insights into the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes. Although the functional variants at most type 2 diabetes-associated
