Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


2 diabetes and other human phenotypes have resulted in a number of insights into the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes. Although the functional variants at most type 2 diabetes-associated loci are not yet known, most associated loci are located near genes that were previously unsus­ pected to play a role in type 2 diabetes pathophysiology. This observation highlights the complexity of the disease phenotype and the power of agnostic approaches in unearthing new knowledge. Conversely, it brings to the forefront the constraints imposed by prior knowledge on scientific inquiry and points to the inad­ equacy of prior candidate gene selection efforts, as most “logical” candidate genes did not yield significant associations. This observation does not necessarily minimize the role of such biologic candidates on glucose homeostasis; rather, it may indi­ cate natural selection’s little tolerance for functional variation in those key genes. Noncoding variation can affect human phenotypes. The SNPs with the strongest associations are often found in introns, regulatory regions, or intergenic segments, i.e., they do not change the amino acid sequence of the encoded proteins. Furthermore, for the most part, no obvious missense SNP has been identified in coding regions for which the associated SNP was a proxy and, thus, might have explained the association signal. The human genome is rife with regulatory sequences that influence the timing, loca­ tion, and level of expression of genes (79), and these are thought to have a substan­ tial impact on human biology. Most genetic determinants of type 2 diabetes have modest effects. No common variant that is widely shared across popu­ lations has been found to have a stronger effect than the rs7903146 SNP in TCF7L2. The handful of variants with stronger effects (e.g., TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter in Greenland, odds ratio ~10 (68), or HNF1A p.Glu508Lys in Mexico, odds ratio ~5 (76)) are either rare or unique to specific populations. Moreover, pioneering whole- exome and whole-genome sequencing experiments in thousands of samples across multiple ethnic groups have failed to unveil a plethora of rare variant associa­ tions, and they have not provided support for the hypothesis that common variant association signals are undergirded by rare variants of strong effects (78,80). Thus, the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes appears to involve hundreds of variants with modest effects (66,78,81). While rare variants might be found that have stronger effects in specific families or population groups, they are most likely to be
