Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


involve hundreds of variants with modest effects (66,78,81). While rare variants might be found that have stronger effects in specific families or population groups, they are most likely to be private, as shared rare variants of strong effects should have been found by linkage. A corollary of this observation is that any single variant is unlikely to have significant predictive power in the individual, and even when many variants are combined into a genotype risk score (GRS), predictive power is poor. Together, the approximately 100 loci associated with type 2 diabetes thus far explain ~10%–15% Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes 14–7 of the familial aggregation of the disease, or 5.7% of the variance in type 2 diabetes susceptibility (66). The majority of genetic variants that influence type 2 diabetes risk affect beta cell function (Figure 14.2) (35,82,83). Human studies have shown that most of the identified variants (whether causal or tagging a causal variant) are associated with impaired beta cell function, directly or indirectly (83). Insulin secretion appears to be more heritable than insulin resis­ tance (39,84), confirming the pathogenic hypothesis put forth by early geneticists, by which a mostly environmental insult causing insulin resistance is overlaid on a mostly genetic predisposition to beta cell dysfunction. The genetic architecture of beta cell function and insulin action seem to differ (Figure 14.3) (39). As mentioned, measures of estimating beta cell function in humans are more amenable to genetic approaches (i.e., they have a higher likeli­ hood of yielding significant findings) than measures of insulin sensitivity (39,84). Incorporating adiposity as a modulator of insulin resistance (43) or focusing genetic investigation on more sophisticated and FIGURE 14.2. Two-Dimensional Plot of Type 2 Diabetes-Associated Loci Placed in Relationship to Beta Cell Function and Insulin Resistance Fasting measures of beta cell function (HOMA-B, X axis) and insulin resistance (HOMA-IR, Y axis) were obtained by homeostasis model assessment. The majority of loci are associated with impaired beta cell function, though some do clearly impact insulin resistance. Colors and shapes denote the significance level of the association to HOMA-B. The two KCNQ1 associations are distinguished by the notation KCNQ1 for rs163184 and KCNQ1* for rs231362. SOURCE: Reference 35, copyright © 2010 Nature Publishing Group, reprinted with permission FIGURE 14.3. Quantile-Quantile Plots for Genome-Wide Association Studies of Beta Cell Function and Insulin Resistance Homeostasis model assessments of beta cell function (HOMA-B) and insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were generated for
