Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


FIGURE 14.3. Quantile-Quantile Plots for Genome-Wide Association Studies of Beta Cell Function and Insulin Resistance Homeostasis model assessments of beta cell function (HOMA-B) and insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were generated for the Meta-analyses of Glucose and Insulin-related Traits Consortium (MAGIC) meta-analysis of fasting glycemic traits. The quantile-quantile plot illustrates the observed p-values in the full distribution versus those that would be expected under the null hypothesis of no association. The HOMA-B p-values have a larger deviation from expected compared to HOMA-IR, indicating that genetic associations with HOMA-B are more likely to be detected than those with HOMA-IR. The fasting insulin distribution (not shown) parallels that of HOMA-IR, suggesting that the plot illustrates the true genetic architecture of the trait and is not affected by the use of a mathematical formula to calculate HOMA-IR. Because the same number of samples and types of insulin assays were used to estimate HOMA-B and HOMA-IR, sample size and assay heterogeneity cannot be invoked to explain the observed difference. SOURCE: Reference 39, copyright © 2010 Nature Publishing Group, adapted with permission 14–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition refined measures of insulin sensitivity (45) has yielded additional loci; nevertheless, the majority of type 2 diabetes-associated loci for which a physiologic mechanism has been determined seem to influence beta cell function (35,83). Insulin resis­ tance might be influenced by fewer loci, less frequent variants or those with more modest effects, or a stronger environ­ mental component. The genes that elevate fasting glucose in normal individuals are not necessarily the same genes that cause type 2 diabetes. While a simple model would predict that any locus that raises fasting glucose should raise risk of type 2 diabetes, the exploration of genetic determinants of glucose homeostasis in nondiabetic individuals has yielded a number of variants that do both (i.e., raise fasting glucose and increase type 2 diabetes risk), but also a non-trivial number that raise fasting glucose without appreciably increasing risk of type 2 diabetes. This observation has led physiologists to consider not just the magnitude of the glucose increase, but the manner in which this happens, as relevant to the emergence of disease (39). A simple elevation of the glucose set point, for example, may not necessarily lead to hyperglycemia in the diabetes range, if beta cell function is otherwise intact; however, an alteration that leads to progressive beta cell deterioration would cause diabetes in the future. Genetic studies
