Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


hyperglycemia in the diabetes range, if beta cell function is otherwise intact; however, an alteration that leads to progressive beta cell deterioration would cause diabetes in the future. Genetic studies support prior epidemiologic observations. A GWAS for fasting glucose yielded significant associations near two circadian genes (MTNR1B and CRY2) (39). A growing literature implicates circadian dysregulation, through epidemiologic reports (85), animal studies (86,87), and human perturbation experiments (88), in metabolically deleterious phenotypes. Thus, a GWAS for glycemia provides a potential genetic link between the two systems. Similarly, a SNP in ADCY5 has been associated with fasting glucose, type 2 diabetes, and low birth weight, once again corroborating the known relationship between being born small for gestational age and future risk of obesity and diabetes (89). In addition, SNPs in FTO and MC4R contribute to obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes, thus connecting various components of the metabolic syndrome (67,90). Most common risk variants are shared across ethnic groups. Although GWAS of comparable size and power have not yet been performed in non-European populations, when investigators have tried to ascertain whether common variants that influence these traits in people of European descent also do so in individuals of other continental ancestries, by and large, they have found similar effects; though, some loci do show heterogeneity. Once allele frequency differences and altered haplotype structures are taken into account, analogous patterns of association emerge in African American, Hispanic, Asian, or Native American popu­ lations (Figure 14.4) (56,91,92,93). Genetic information does not add much beyond clinical variables for type 2 diabetes prediction. Commonly ascertained clinical variables are fairly precise at capturing future risk of type 2 diabetes (10); thus, adding the set of common variants known to date (which only explains a minor fraction of the genetic predisposition to type 2 diabetes) does not seem to improve predictive accuracy at the individual level or the ability to discriminate between risk strata in a clinically mean­ ingful way (94,95,96). Prediction is slightly improved in younger individuals, in whom clinical risk factors are not yet fully manifest. FIGURE 14.4. Loci Initially Identified in Populations of European Descent Appear to Have Similar Effects in Other Racial/Ethnic Groups Genetic risk scores constructed from variants associated with fasting glucose by the Meta-analyses of Glucose and Insulin-related Traits Consortium (MAGIC) investigators (39) or the Diabetes Genetics Replication and Meta-analysis (DIAGRAM) consortium (35) in populations of European descent also predict,
