Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


glucose by the Meta-analyses of Glucose and Insulin-related Traits Consortium (MAGIC) investigators (39) or the Diabetes Genetics Replication and Meta-analysis (DIAGRAM) consortium (35) in populations of European descent also predict, in aggregate, rising glucose or type 2 diabetes in other racial/ethnic groups. (A) Data obtained for fasting glucose from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1991–1994 (92). (B) Data obtained for type 2 diabetes using the IBC (ITMAT-Broad-CARe) chip (56). AfAm, African American; As, Asian; His, Hispanic; MA, Mexican American; NHB, non-Hispanic black; NHW, non-Hispanic white. SOURCE: References are listed within the figure legend. Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes 14–9 An intensive lifestyle intervention is effec­ tive in people with the highest burden of known risk alleles. The Diabetes Prevention Program showed that an inten­ sive lifestyle intervention, consisting of dietary and physical activity components, is effective even in the quartile of partici­ pants who carry the highest load of known risk variants (Figure 14.5) (97). Genetic variation may affect drug response. Genetic information may eventually be used to guide medication choices in type 2 diabetes. Though this is the standard of care for monogenic diabetes with examples in both MODY and neonatal diabetes (98,99), the potential of genetically guided therapy is yet to be realized in common type 2 diabetes. A polymorphism in a metformin transporter may affect glycemic response to metformin (100,101,102), and a GWAS for metformin response in people with type 2 diabetes has identified a polymorphism near the ATM gene that influences metformin response in several independent cohorts (103,104), although it does not seem to exert the same effect for diabetes prevention in people with prediabetes (105). Some sulfonylureas are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9, and patients with loss-of-function variants in this gene are at increased risk of sulfonylurea-related hypoglycemia (106). These early pharma­ cogenomic lessons suggest that genes relevant to drug response may be the same as those that increase risk for type 2 diabetes, or they may be different. LIMITATIONS OF CURRENT APPROACHES (AND THEIR SOLUTIONS) Despite the overwhelming success of GWAS strategies in advancing knowledge of the genetic determinants of type 2 diabetes, a number of limitations must be recognized. These limitations have been identified by the research community and are being addressed to complement gaps in understanding. GWAS were initially undertaken only in populations of European descent. A large swath of genetic variation is unique to other populations, especially
