Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


are being addressed to complement gaps in understanding. GWAS were initially undertaken only in populations of European descent. A large swath of genetic variation is unique to other populations, especially those of African descent, due to the bottleneck introduced when a limited subset of human ancestors migrated out of Africa. In addition, genetic vari­ ants have been identified that, though present in Europeans, are much more common in other populations, thereby acquiring greater statistical power to detect modest effects. As described above, GWAS efforts in East Asian (46,47,48,49,50,55,57,60,62), South Asian (51,58,59), African American (54,63), Hispanic (52,53,61), and Native American (64) cohorts have already yielded novel genome-wide significant findings, many of which are also seen in Europeans. As larger consortia and trans- ethnic meta-analyses are undertaken, more novel findings are expected to come to light. GWAS of large cohorts suffer from rela­ tively crude phenotyping. Because sample size is paramount to achieve adequate statistical power, GWAS are typically carried out in very large population cohorts where only limited phenotyping is feasible. The estimates of beta cell function or insulin sensitivity derived from simple measures, such as fasting glucose or insulin (107) (as opposed to those obtained from more labor-inten­ sive and costly dynamic testing), are relatively imprecise. However, some of the participating cohorts do have more sophisticated phenotyping: while the participants have contributed their simple traits to the meta-analytic efforts, the investigators are also able to form subcon­ sortia where additional physiologic inquiry can be carried out. This type of analysis has been performed for proinsulin levels adjusted for fasting insulin (42), various dynamic measures of insulin secretion (44), and insulin sensitivity derived from clamp studies (45), and it is underway for insulin sensitivity derived from oral glucose tolerance tests (108) and insulin clearance (109,110). GWAS only capture common variants. Due to the composition of genotyping arrays and statistical issues around rare observations, most GWAS to date have concentrated solely on common variation (i.e., minor allele frequency >5%). The introduction of next-generation DNA sequencing technologies has allowed for a downward expansion in the character­ ization of shared uncommon variation, as sequencing >1,000 individuals from multiple ethnic groups in the 1000 FIGURE 14.5. An Intensive Lifestyle Intervention, as Deployed in the Diabetes Prevention Program, is Effective Regardless of Genetic Risk Score for Type 2 Diabetes Diabetes Prevention Program participants were stratified by quartile of genetic risk constructed by adding risk alleles from
