Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


Prevention Program, is Effective Regardless of Genetic Risk Score for Type 2 Diabetes Diabetes Prevention Program participants were stratified by quartile of genetic risk constructed by adding risk alleles from 34 known type 2 diabetes-associated variants. Whereas the GRS predicts diabetes incidence in the placebo arm, it does not do so in the lifestyle arm; indeed, the intervention is highly effective in reducing diabetes incidence even in the quartile with the highest genetic risk. GRS, genetic risk score; ILS, intensive lifestyle; MET, metformin; PBO, placebo. SOURCE: Reference 97, copyright © 2011 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association 14–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Genomes Project (71) has produced a catalog of uncommon variants that can be captured by their correlation to previously known common variants. Imputation to these 1000 Genomes panels is expanding the subset of testable variants in extant meta-analyses. The pioneering whole- exome (75,76) and whole-genome (77) sequencing studies described above are beginning to yield fruit, particularly when expanded to larger multi-ethnic samples (78). Nevertheless, under a model that the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes is composed of several thousand variants of modest effects (66,81), even sequencing experiments require sample sizes of upwards of 25,000 cases to detect true associations, as either effect size or allele frequency is limiting (111). Most analyses have not taken into account interactions with the environ­ ment. Type 2 diabetes results from complex interactions among multiple genetic and environmental factors, and the rapid rise of its prevalence cannot be attributed to genetics. Because most GWAS are designed to detect loci that have main effects on type 2 diabetes risk, regardless of the environmental context, many variants whose impact varies according to an environmental parameter might be missed. This is due in part to the imprecision inherent to environmental measures and the noise introduced by a single cross-sectional environmental exposure; in contrast, genotyping methods are extremely accurate, and the genetic exposure is uniform across an individual’s lifetime. Nevertheless, analyt­ ical methods are being developed that allow for the joint inquiry of main gene effects and gene × environment inter­ actions (112), and these methods have already been deployed to identify loci for insulin sensitivity (43) and for the regula­ tion of body mass index (113). Analyses of predictive properties have only included the SNPs meeting genome-wide significance. Analytical methods have been developed that utilize information from the entire
