Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


regula­ tion of body mass index (113). Analyses of predictive properties have only included the SNPs meeting genome-wide significance. Analytical methods have been developed that utilize information from the entire genome (114,115), and these methods may provide better predic­ tive properties than models that use only the established SNPs that have met genome-wide significance. The clinical utility of such approaches remains to be determined. Most analyses are simple additive tests for association and do not explore more complex modes of inheritance. There are good statistical reasons to primarily base GWAS experiments on the additive genetic model, in which the presence of two copies of the risk allele in an individual essentially doubles the risk associated with a single allele. This may not always be the case: in the two extreme examples, under a dominant model, two copies of the risk allele will not add any further risk to that conferred by a single copy, and under a recessive model, the risk will not be made manifest unless both copies are present. While the majority of type 2 diabetes-asso­ ciated SNPs have been found to exert their action via an additive model, this is expected as their discovery took place precisely under such a model. A compre­ hensive examination of alternative modes of inheritance is needed in the existing GWAS datasets, which now are reaching adequate sizes to compensate for the smaller number of homozygous minor allele carriers and for the penalty incurred by additional statistical testing. Similarly, tests of gene × gene interactions (epis­ tasis) and accounting for divergent effects depending on parental line of inheritance, where that information is available (116), are likely to yield additional loci. GWAS only identify correlated SNPs but do not yield the causal variant. Because GWAS leverage the correlative structure of the human genome to identify asso­ ciations, they simply point to regions of the genome in which certain alleles are overrepresented in cases versus controls. Identifying which of the SNPs present in that segment is the actual molecular cause of the disease phenotype requires fine-mapping and functional studies. Fine- mapping can be performed by sequencing and saturation genotyping of all variants in the associated segment, retesting them and their haplotypes (linear arrangements of SNPs in a chromosome) for association with the phenotype. While custom-made arrays have been designed to achieve this task in type 2 diabetes and related meta­ bolic traits (69), the
