Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


SNPs in a chromosome) for association with the phenotype. While custom-made arrays have been designed to achieve this task in type 2 diabetes and related meta­ bolic traits (69), the conditional statistical testing that is required to distinguish the strength of the association of one variant from another’s is laborious and requires inordinate sample sizes. Oftentimes, func­ tional experiments are needed to establish which of the equally associated variants is pathogenic; these efforts have succeeded in some cases, for instance, in identifying the p.Ser1369Ala polymorphism in the sulfonylurea receptor gene ABCC8 as the likely culprit for gliclazide response, rather than its tightly linked nearby polymor­ phism p.Glu23Lys in KCNJ11 (117). The road from association to function is arduous. As intimated in the previous point, a genetic association does not necessarily yield insights into molecular function. While this may be relatively easier to establish for coding missense variants that change amino acid sequence (because appropriate protein-based exper­ iments can be designed), only a handful of type 2 diabetes associations fulfill this description (KCNJ11 p.Glu23Lys/ABCC8 p.Ser1369Ala, SLC30A8 p.Arg235Trp, and GCKR p.Pro446Leu). For many other variants that fall in regulatory regions, a different sort of investigation must be designed (118). The publication of a comprehensive catalog of functional regu­ latory elements in the human genome and availability of public tissue expression data linked to genotype data should facilitate this task enormously (79,119). The ability to perform genome editing (e.g., with CRISPR/CAS9) in informative experimental systems, such as induced pluripotent stem cells, should also greatly expand the ability to investigate function. A pioneering illustration of how such an effort can yield fruits was achieved for TCF7L2: fine-mapping had established rs7903146 as the likely culprit SNP, and physiologic studies had placed its patho­ genic activity squarely in the beta cell (120,121); an intelligent integration of these data with areas of open chromatin in beta cells, combined with expression experiments, led to the determination that Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes 14–11 rs7903146 affects an enhancer element that regulates TCF7L2 expression (122). In another example, KLF14 had been asso­ ciated with type 2 diabetes, but the risk allele appeared to cause insulin resistance (35); by combining the GWAS finding with expression datasets in adipose tissue, the associated SNP was discovered to influ­ ence expression of KLF14, which itself is a master regulator of adipose gene expres­ sion and thereby responsible for multiple metabolic phenotypes (123). Analogous experiments
