Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


SNP was discovered to influ­ ence expression of KLF14, which itself is a master regulator of adipose gene expres­ sion and thereby responsible for multiple metabolic phenotypes (123). Analogous experiments have clarified the role of SNPs around the glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit 2 gene (G6PC2) (124). A fuller description of successful associa­ tion-to-function efforts in type 2 diabetes is available elsewhere (125). THE FUTURE OF RESEARCH ON THE GENETICS OF TYPE 2 DIABETES Given the rapid progress achieved in genetic discovery in type 2 diabetes and the multipronged approach deployed to overcome experimental limitations, there is great hope that the pace will be maintained and a substantial part of the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes will be elucidated in the coming years. If this vision is realized, a number of conceptual advances can be expected. The nosology of disease will be refined. Type 2 diabetes, diagnosed solely on the basis of the final common pathway of hyperglycemia, is likely a heterogeneous syndrome that can be caused by a variety of processes (126). Genetic etiologies have already helped classify the various forms of MODY and neonatal diabetes, and an analogous exercise could take place in type 2 diabetes. The categoriza­ tion of the disease into subtypes based on genetic determinants of physiology, prog­ nosis, or predisposition to complications should help stratify the patient population into groups for which therapeutic or surveillance decisions might be better tailored. Novel pathways will be identified. Unsuspected biology is already being uncovered via genetic discovery. With a greater number of genetic loci at hand, pathways or systems (e.g., cell proliferation) can be identified, some of which may be amenable to the develop­ ment of new therapeutics. Genetic discovery may identify drug targets. As mentioned above, among the initial type 2 diabetes genetic associations were coding variants for PPARG, the gene that encodes the target of thiazolidinedi­ ones (22), and KCNJ11/ABCC8, the genes that encode the targets for sulfonylureas (23,127). More recent studies have identi­ fied the target for glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists as another type 2 diabe­ tes-associated gene (73,74). This proof of principle for established type 2 diabetes drug targets indicates that among the many type 2 diabetes-associated loci, there might be other genes for which a suitable drug might be found or devel­ oped. Aggregating all of the genetic data in humans and model systems, as well as ancillary associations that might point
