Chapter 14: Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, genetic, variants, consortium, risk, association, van, insulin, loci, genet, glucose, chen, genome-wide


for which a suitable drug might be found or devel­ oped. Aggregating all of the genetic data in humans and model systems, as well as ancillary associations that might point to off-target effects, will be essential if the genomic revolution is to catalyze new drug discovery. Stratification of patients may allow for better targeting of public health or clinical trial interventions. Some preventive or therapeutic measures may be too expen­ sive to deploy in the population at large, or they may be futile in specific subgroups. Genetic characterization may help identify the groups of people more likely to benefit from particular public health strategies. Similarly, the efficiency of clinical trials may be enhanced by enrolling participants who are more likely to reach the desired endpoints or benefit from the agents being tested. Genetics may facilitate the implementa­ tion of precision or personalized medicine. Though it is not yet clear that genetic information will be powerful enough to apply therapeutic decisions at the individual level, it may help do so for specific subgroups. For example, genetic approaches may unveil who is more likely to develop a particular diabetic complica­ tion. For such an approach to be feasible, researchers envision that in the not too distant future, any individual who joins a public or private health care system would be genotyped or sequenced for the full list of actionable genetic variants (e.g., those that modify risk of common diseases or response to available medications), such that his/her information is available in the electronic medical record. When the time comes to make specific screening or therapeutic decisions, genetic information filtered through appropriate decision support tools would automatically guide the practitioner into the course of action most appropriate to the person and situa­ tion at hand. CONCLUSION In sum, the genetics of type 2 diabetes is in a steep discovery curve. Progress has been uneven, however, with most efforts focused on common variants and popu­ lations of European descent. The rapid and continuing progress in genotyping and sequencing technologies, with a concomitant improvement in affordability, the growing understanding of the human genome, and the ongoing development of analytical tools and methods present an optimistic perspective on the future. Whether this newfound knowledge will translate into improved patient care depends on the ability to design and execute genetically based and outcomes- driven clinical trials. 14–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS GWAS .
