NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: patients, atezolizumab, checkpoint, liver, immune, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, therapy, cancer, inhibitors, injury, hepatitis, checkpoint inhibitors, adverse


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Atezolizumab. [Updated 2022 Jun 23]. Bookshelf URL: Atezolizumab Updated: June 23, 2022. OVERVIEW Introduction Atezolizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody to programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), which acts as a checkpoint inhibitor and is used in the immunotherapy of several forms of advanced or metastatic cancer. Atezolizumab like other checkpoint inhibitors has major side effects and particularly immune related conditions, including acute hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury that can be serious and even life threatening. Background Atezolizumab (a" te zoe liz' ue mab) is a humanized monoclonal immunoglobulin G1 antibody to the programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) which has distinctive immunomodulatory activity and is used as a checkpoint inhibitor in cancer immunotherapy. The programmed cell death receptor 1 (PD-1) is an important checkpoint protein that is expressed on activated T and B cells. Binding of the ligand to PD-1 activates programmed cell death pathways that terminate or down regulate cytotoxic T cell responses. Monoclonal antibody binding to the PD-L1 by atezolizumab prevents its engagement with the PD receptor and subsequent induction of the cellular pathways that down regulate T cell responses. Inhibition of this pathway allows for a continued activation and proliferation of cytotoxic T cells and proinflammatory cytokines. The enhancement of cytotoxic reactivity may play a beneficial role in cancer immunotherapy by breaking immunological tolerance to cancer cell neoantigens. Atezolizumab has been shown to improve response rates and survival in several forms of advanced and metastatic cancer and was approved for use in the United States in 2016, the fourth monoclonal antibody checkpoint inhibitor introduced into cancer immunotherapy, the others being ipilimumab (anti- atezolizumab now include advanced forms of urothelial carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and melanoma. Atezolizumab is available in solution for injection in single use vials of 840 mg in 14 mL and 1200 mg in 20 mL (both 60 mg/mL) under the brand name Tecentriq. The dose and timing of injections varies by indication; typical regimens are 840 mg every 2 weeks, 1200 mg every 3 weeks or 1680 mg every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. As with most checkpoint inhibitors, side effects of atezolizumab are common and can include fatigue, headache, musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, weight loss, fever, cough, dyspnea, pruritus,
