NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: patients, atezolizumab, checkpoint, liver, immune, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, therapy, cancer, inhibitors, injury, hepatitis, checkpoint inhibitors, adverse


most checkpoint inhibitors, side effects of atezolizumab are common and can include fatigue, headache, musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, weight loss, fever, cough, dyspnea, pruritus, and rash. Importantly, as a result of the immune enhancement, between 15% and 25% of treated patients develop immune related side effects. These reactions are high grade in 10% of patients and can include enterocolitis, dermatitis, endocrinopathy, pneumonitis, neuropathy, nephritis and hepatitis. Most of these reactions respond to discontinuation and immunosuppressive therapy, but some have resulted in fatalities and some have required permanent discontinuation of the checkpoint inhibitor and long term 2 LiverTox immunosuppressive therapy. Baseline screening and regular monitoring for these adverse events during atezolizumab therapy is recommended. Early recognition and prompt management of side effects is an integral component of proper use of checkpoint inhibitors. Checkpoint inhibitors should be used only by health care professionals with training in immunotherapy and experience in the management of the side effects of immunomodulatory agents. Other rare but potentially severe adverse effects of atezolizumab include infusion reactions and embryo-fetal toxicity. Hepatotoxicity In preregistration controlled trials of atezolizumab in various forms of metastatic cancer, serum aminotransferase elevations occurred in 20% to 30% of patients but were generally transient, mild and not associated with symptoms or jaundice. These rates of serum enzyme elevations are similar to those with other forms of chemotherapy for advanced malignancies. Serum ALT elevations above 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 1% to 4% of patients and generally led to temporary or permanent discontinuation. Importantly, in 1% to 2% of patients the serum enzyme elevations evolved into clinically apparent immune mediated liver injury. The onset of injury was usually after 2 to 4 cycles or 1 to 3 months after starting treatment. The pattern of enzyme elevation was usually hepatocellular but was sometimes mixed and even cholestatic. Liver histology usually demonstrated a pan-lobular hepatitis with focal or confluent necrosis and prominent lymphocytic infiltrates of activated T cells, compatible with an immune mediated hepatic injury. More severe forms of hepatitis can demonstrate centrilobular (zone 3) necrosis. Despite features of immune mediated liver injury, autoantibodies are generally not present and immunoglobulin levels are normal. Because of the serious nature of the liver injury, monitoring with routine liver tests (including alkaline phosphatase) is recommended for patients who receive checkpoint inhibitor therapy. Treatment with corticosteroids generally results in a rapid
