NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: patients, atezolizumab, checkpoint, liver, immune, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, therapy, cancer, inhibitors, injury, hepatitis, checkpoint inhibitors, adverse


nature of the liver injury, monitoring with routine liver tests (including alkaline phosphatase) is recommended for patients who receive checkpoint inhibitor therapy. Treatment with corticosteroids generally results in a rapid and biochemical response is inadequate, calling for addition of a second immunosuppressive agent such as azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. Restarting atezolizumab or another checkpoint inhibitor after resolution of the hepatic injury is sometimes possible, but can result in recurrence of injury and has not been shown to improve outcome of the cancer chemotherapy. A proportion of patients receiving atezolizumab develop cholestatic rather than hepatocellular liver injury. Cholestatic forms of immune mediated liver injury generally arise later than the hepatocellular forms (after 3 to 10 cycles) and are often accompanied by abdominal pain and jaundice. Alkaline phosphatase levels are markedly elevated while aminotransferase levels are only modestly increased. Imaging studies may show irregular dilatation of the intra- and/or extra-hepatic bile ducts and thickening of the gall bladder and bile duct wall, but without evidence of frank obstruction. Liver biopsy shows portal inflammation and bile duct injury and endoscopic biopsy of the bile duct epithelium shows inflammation and scarring. The general features suggest a secondary form of sclerosing cholangitis referred to as checkpoint inhibitor cholangiopathy. Therapy with corticosteroids may improve alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin levels but rarely leads to complete recovery, and long term cholestasis and hepatic failure can occur. Some patients with a cholestatic form of immune related intrahepatic portal bile ducts resulting in a vanishing bile duct syndrome similar to primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). The effects of PD-L1 inhibition on chronic hepatitis B are not well defined but convincing examples of reactivation of hepatitis B have been described due to other checkpoint inhibitors. Most cases have occurred in patients with preexisting HBsAg, but rare instances were reported in individuals suspected of having with anti- HBc without HBsAg. Thus, screening patients for HBsAg, anti-HBc and anti-HBs is appropriate before initiating immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors. Patients with HBsAg should be considered for prophylaxis with an antiviral agent with potent activity against HBV such as entecavir or tenofovir. In patients with anti-HBc without HBsAg, monitoring and close attention to liver test abnormalities is probably adequate if antiviral therapy can be Atezolizumab 3 introduced rapidly for early evidence of reactivation. There has not been adequate experience with atezolizumab in regard to the risk of reactivation of hepatitis B to provide rates of reactivation with
