NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: patients, atezolizumab, checkpoint, liver, immune, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, therapy, cancer, inhibitors, injury, hepatitis, checkpoint inhibitors, adverse


rapidly for early evidence of reactivation. There has not been adequate experience with atezolizumab in regard to the risk of reactivation of hepatitis B to provide rates of reactivation with and without antiviral prophylaxis. Likelihood score: B (likely cause of clinically apparent liver injury and probable cause of reactivation of hepatitis B). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism of liver injury due to atezolizumab is likely to be immunologically mediated and is usually at least partially responsive to corticosteroid or immunosuppressive therapy. Liver biopsies in cases of hepatocellular injury and bile duct epithelial cell biopsies in cholangiopathic injury demonstrate necrosis and inflammatory cell infiltration with cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, suggesting that the checkpoint inhibition allowed for activation of T cells directed at hepatocyte or cholangiocyte cell surface antigens. Outcome and Management Guidelines for management of patients receiving atezolizumab recommend monitoring of liver tests and interrupting therapy for patients who develop serum aminotransferase elevations above 3 times the ULN, and discontinuing treatment for values above 8 times the ULN in patients without preexisting abnormalities or tumor involvement of the liver (in whom elevations of 5 and 10 times the ULN are used). Corticosteroid therapy can be considered for patients with persistent ALT elevations or if symptoms or jaundice arise, initiating therapy with high dose intravenous methylprednisolone and switching to oral prednisone after 1 to 2 days, continuing tapering doses for at least 30 days. Most cases of hepatitis due to checkpoint inhibitors resolve with prompt institution of immunosuppressive therapy which can be discontinued in 1 to 3 months. In some cases, adding a second agent (such as mycophenolate mofetil, azathioprine, antithymocyte globulin, infliximab or tacrolimus) and prolonged immunosuppression may be necessary. The few fatal cases that have been reported during immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors occurred in patients who had other severe immune related adverse events (Stevens Johnson syndrome, capillary leak syndrome) or who had an immune related cholangiopathy resistant to immunosuppressive therapy. Restarting atezolizumab after severe liver injury requiring corticosteroid therapy can be followed by recurrence of liver injury and is not recommended. Switching to other checkpoint inhibitors improved by re-introduction of checkpoint inhibitor therapy after severe immune related adverse events. Thu s, restarting therapy should be undertaken only after careful evaluation of the residual cancer status. Drug Class: Antineoplastic Agents, Monoclonal Antibodies, Checkpoint Inhibitors PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Atezolizumab – Tecentriq® DRUG CLASS Antineoplastic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at
