Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


to link with public health practice to better enable the translation of this knowledge into policies that can alter the environment in a way that promotes an active lifestyle for all. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Surveillance data from the general US population indicate a continued increase in the prevalence of overweight and obesity that is consistent with weight gain trends observed globally among industrialized countries ( 1-3 ). Myriad environmental, behavioral, physiological, and genetic factors contribute to the development of human obesity. However, the common underlying feature leading to these conditions is a positive energy balance. Attenuated metabolic responses to environmental exposures combined with predisposing factors and overall low energy expenditure may contribute to this positive energy balance. Although exercise is most effective in the prevention of obesity ( 4 , 5 ), it can also contribute to weight loss and to weight maintenance over the long-term. Numerous intervention studies have evaluated the role of exercise training of various modes and intensities on the reduction of body weight and adiposity ( 6 ), and there is little doubt about the established benefits of increasing physical activity to the attainment and the maintenance of healthy body weight throughout the life span. Moreover, since exercise itself improves metabolic, respiratory, and cardiovascular function independent of weight loss ( 6 ), it has special significance for people with obesity who are at increased risk for obesity-related chronic conditions. In this chapter, we will describe the importance of exercise for the prevention and treatment of obesity, as well as to the prevention of weight regain following weight-loss therapy. In addition, this chapter will address the contributions of the built environment to the onset and possible reversal of obesity at the population level. THE ETIOLOGY OF OBESITY Inactivity and obesity are closely linked conditions accounting for a large burden of chronic disease and impaired function. Over the past several decades, ever-decreasing levels of daily energy expenditure, along with a ready supply of calorie-dense foods, have resulted in a marked disruption to energy regulatory systems, which are still genetically programmed for the subsistence efficiency of our late-Paleolithic ancestors ( 7 , 8 ). As stated previously, the underlying agent in the etiology of obesity is a long-term positive energy balance. However, the relative importance of excess energy intake over low energy expenditure to
