Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


As stated previously, the underlying agent in the etiology of obesity is a long-term positive energy balance. However, the relative importance of excess energy intake over low energy expenditure to this imbalance is controversial. Ultimately, the pathways determining the rate and extent of a positive energy balance with weight gain are complex, and the unique and combined contributions of heredity, physiology, and behavior, to the development of obesity are not understood completely—especially since the influence of any one of these primary factors is usually modified by a constellation of other secondary factors endemic to our current obesogenic environment ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Public health model illustrating the multifactorial model etiology of obesity. The traditional public health of disease transmission applied to obesity etiology. In this model, the impact of the agent (positive energy balance) can be modified by a number of host (specific to the individual) and environment (specific to collective behaviors or conditions) factors. In addition, a variety of vehicles/vectors are responsible for transmitting the causal agent. The 2018 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans , 2 nd Edition ( 6 ), along with the 2020 World Health Organization (WHO) Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior Guidelines ( 9 ) recommend for all adults 150-300 min/week of moderate-intensity physical activity (e.g., brisk walking) or 75-150 min/week of vigorous-intensity activity for the prevention of excessive weight gain, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, and functional decline. These recommendations also include muscle strengthening exercises on two days/week. Although specific recommendations pertaining to sedentary behavior have not been made thus far, the evidence linking extended sedentary time to morbidity and all-cause mortality is growing ( 6 ). Indeed, both the 2018 Guidelines for Americans and the WHO Guidelines stress that everyone should "move more and sit less" ( 6 ) and "every move counts" ( 9 ). Importantly, current guidelines now stress the joint association between physical activity and sedentary time. For example, the health impact of sedentary behavior (particularly television viewing) becomes especially detrimental when combined with low levels of physical activity ( 6 , 10 ). People can compensate for large amounts of sedentary time during the day (i.e., 8–14 h) by increasing their physical activity to achieve at least 30 min of accumulated moderate-intensity activity throughout the day. However, the more sedentary one is, the more accumulated activity is necessary to compensate ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The joint effects
