Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


of accumulated moderate-intensity activity throughout the day. However, the more sedentary one is, the more accumulated activity is necessary to compensate ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The joint effects of physical activity on health and function. The red zone is harmful, while the green zone is healthful, suggesting that the more sedentary one is, the more accumulated physical activity they need to compensate. The Role of Exercise in Weight Loss and Weight Maintenance Population physical activity guidelines may be more effective for health promotion and the primary prevention of chronic disease risk factors than they are for the reversal of already established chronic conditions. Although increasing physical activity and reducing sedentary time has demonstrated benefits to improved health and function, even among people with chronic disease or with disabilities ( 6 , 9 ), it is important to note that the minimum recommendation of 150 min/week of moderate-intensity physical activity, may not be sufficient to reverse these chronic conditions. Indeed, the treatment or reversal of some established conditions may require a dose of physical activity closer to 300 min/week. This may be especially true for the reversal of obesity and for weight loss maintenance. Although population- and laboratory-based data are limited, it appears that about 45–60 min/day of moderate-intensity activity is necessary to transition from overweight to normal weight, and ≥ 60 min/day may be necessary to transition from obesity ( 11-14 ), at least for a large part of the population with overweight and obesity who spend considerable time sitting throughout the day. In addition, there is substantial individual heterogeneity regarding a person's weight loss responsiveness to an exercise regimen, and this responsiveness may vary by age, sex, degree of obesity, adipose tissue distribution, and even adipocyte size ( 15-17 ). Thus, the benefits of increased physical activity to cardiovascular and metabolic health notwithstanding, its effectiveness per se for substantial weight loss and in the reversal of obesity may be less so. Weight loss of 1–2 pounds (0.5–1 kg) per week is generally recognized as safe and effective ( 18 ). Weight loss at this recommended rate, however, would require a negative energy balance of ~ 500–1000 kcal/day over an extended period of time. Such an energy deficit is difficult to achieve by lowering energy intake (dieting) alone. More importantly, such drastic decreases in caloric intake could result in nutritional deficiencies and the loss of lean mass, thereby
