Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


is difficult to achieve by lowering energy intake (dieting) alone. More importantly, such drastic decreases in caloric intake could result in nutritional deficiencies and the loss of lean mass, thereby lowering the metabolic rate ( 19 ). Also, adherence to such a degree of caloric restriction is difficult to maintain over long periods of time and, therefore, increases the likelihood of relapse and compensatory weight re-gain. On the other hand, whether exercise alone (without coincident caloric restriction) significantly alters body weight in people with obesity is debatable. Assuming that 60 min/day of moderate-intensity activity is necessary for meaningful weight loss for people with obesity, a man would need to perform 68–136 min/day of moderate-intensity walking (7.9 kcal/min), and a woman may have to perform 72–145 min/day of the same activity (6.4 kcal/min) to achieve 500-1000 kcal/day deficit necessary for a weight loss of 1–2 pounds (0.5–1 kg)/week ( 20 ). Further, although this walking pace (3.5 mph or 3.8 METs) may be comfortable for most people, sustaining it for over 60 min on 7 days/week may not be feasible for people with obesity. Indeed, it may be quite difficult for people with obesity to perform the volume (i.e., intensity, frequency and duration) of exercise necessary for meaningful weight loss in the absence of caloric restriction. Therefore, most evidence currently indicates that both exercise and caloric restriction are necessary components of a successful weight loss program. People who are successful in losing substantial amounts of body weight through diet alone often quickly regain it. Weight regain is often seen following exercise-, medication-, and even surgery-induced weight loss, indicating that adaptations to a negative energy balance contribute to the obesity epidemic. Laboratory findings report that the level of daily energy expenditure necessary to prevent the re-gain of body weight following obesity is also quite high relative to the modern-day lifestyle ( 17 ). This challenge may be the result of changes in body composition or the body's overall adaptive energy expenditure and metabolic response to exercise that limits weight loss to activity alone ( 8 , 21 ) ( Figure 3 ). The 2003 consensus statement from the International Association for the Study of Obesity ( 14 ) recommended 60–90 min/day of moderate-intensity activity or about 35 min/day of vigorous activity for successful weight maintenance following the reversal of obesity, which, again, exceeds the upper threshold of current physical activity recommendations (
