Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


moderate-intensity activity or about 35 min/day of vigorous activity for successful weight maintenance following the reversal of obesity, which, again, exceeds the upper threshold of current physical activity recommendations ( 6 , 9 ). Figure 3. Changes in Total energy expenditure ADJ, resting metabolic rate ADJ, and activity energy (CPM/d), (right, Pontzer ( 8 ), with permission are consistent with the findings shown in the schematic of exercise impact on body weight demonstrating a new equilibrium after an initial weight loss (left ( 21 )), with permission In sum, caloric restriction without exercise may result in a loss of lean mass along with adipose tissue, thereby resulting in a drop in the metabolic rate and setting the stage for weight re-gain. The amount of daily exercise that is necessary to achieve a healthy weight loss without caloric restriction may not be feasible over time for people with obesity, thus again resulting in relapse. Most research now supports the conclusion that exercise combined with caloric restriction increases the net caloric deficit induced by a weight loss program and markedly attenuates the loss of both fat-free and total body mass ( 19 ). Finally, as is the case through the period of dynamic weight loss, those who combine caloric restriction with exercise are more successful in maintaining that weight loss over time, compared with those relying on either diet or exercise alone. THE ROLE OF RESISTANCE TRAINING FOR WEIGHT LOSS AND MAINTENANCE Both aerobic and resistance exercise will preserve lean tissue during the period of dynamic weight loss, and this is primarily a function of the volume of exercise performed over the weight-loss period (i.e., dose-response). Resistance training is especially effective at preserving lean body mass during dynamic weight loss, although the amount of protein in the diet may impact this effectiveness ( 22 ). A program that combines caloric restriction with both aerobic and resistance training generally leads to greater weight loss and improved overall health, compared to a program combining caloric restriction with only aerobic exercise ( 11 , 13 ). Of note is that the benefits of strength training to health and function can be independent of weight loss. For example, one 5-month study in older men and women with obesity that used both caloric restriction and resistance training led to reduced abdominal obesity, reduced hypertension, and improved metabolic syndrome without any changes in body weight ( 23 ).
