Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


with obesity that used both caloric restriction and resistance training led to reduced abdominal obesity, reduced hypertension, and improved metabolic syndrome without any changes in body weight ( 23 ). This is likely due to the increase in lean mass with resistance training, as well as the resulting quantitative and qualitative improvements in vascular and muscle function. Another study of older adults with obesity combined caloric restriction with one of three other exercise interventions: 1) aerobic exercise alone; 2) resistance training alone and 3) aerobic exercise and resistance training. Total body weight loss was similar across the three different exercise groups. However, the greatest improvements in measures of physical function were observed in the combined aerobic exercise with resistance training group ( 24 ). Thus, the benefits of resistance training extend beyond fat loss to include improved metabolic and physical function—and this may be especially so for older people. THE ROLE OF TOTAL DAILY ACTIVITY IN WEIGHT MAINTENANCE Evidence suggests that total daily accumulated energy expenditure is the strongest predictor of weight loss in people with obesity ( 25-27 ). Therefore, an alternative to the typical recommendation of large continuous bouts of exercise may be intermittent exercise, which can result in a similar weight loss but with improved adherence over the long-term. Also, the integration of increased physical activity as part of an overall lifestyle change (e.g., more walking and stair climbing as part of the daily routine) may be as successful in promoting weight loss as is a structured exercise program. Given the high degree of negative energy balance required for weight loss, however, high levels of lifestyle activity combined with caloric restriction are now prescribed for both initial and long-term weight loss for people with overweight and obesity. The Physical Activity Level (PAL) has become a method of expressing total daily energy expenditure (TEE) in multiples of the resting metabolic rate (RMR: PAL = TEE/RMR), and thus far, few studies have examined its relation to weight regulation at the population level. Data from men in the Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study cohort indicate that a daily PAL >1.60 METs·24 h -1 (i.e., an average daily TEE 60% above RMR) is optimal for preventing meaningful weight gain (~ 0.82–0.91 kg·y -1 ( 13 )) through middle-age ( 4 ). Moreover, increasing daily activity from the low PAL category (<1.46 METs·24 h -1 ) to the moderate (1.46–1.60 METs·24 h -1
