Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


-1 ( 13 )) through middle-age ( 4 ). Moreover, increasing daily activity from the low PAL category (<1.46 METs·24 h -1 ) to the moderate (1.46–1.60 METs·24 h -1 ) or high (>1.60 METs·24 h -1 ) categories resulted in a slight weight loss over time in this cohort ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Predicted weight change over time by PAL change category among men in the Aerobic Center Longitudinal Study (ACLS) cohort. PAL=average daily physical activity level expressed as the ratio of total energy expenditure to the resting metabolic rate (TEE/RMR). Models adjusted for age, sex, height, baseline weight, and smoking. DiPietro, et al. Int J Obesity. 28:1541-1547,2004 ( 4 ) The most useful strategy for accomplishing this average level of daily physical activity is exchanging passive or very low intensity activities (i.e., those involving sitting) for moderate-intensity activities that have energy requirements of about 3–6 METs. Moderate-intensity activities may have a substantially greater impact on the PAL than vigorous activities since vigorous activity is usually performed for very short periods of time and then can be compensated for by reduced volitional activity throughout the remainder of the day ( 28 ). Therefore, the best way to increase the average daily PAL from sedentary (1.5 METs·24 h -1 ) to active (>1.6 METs·24 h -1 ) is to add about 45–60 minutes of moderate-intensity activity to the daily routine. As described above, using either a continuous or intermittent exercise routine is equally effective in increasing overall TEE. THE IMPACT OF WEARABLE DEVICES In 2014, 10% of adult Americans over the age of 18 years reported owning an activity tracking device, and by 2016, the Worldwide Survey of Fitness Trends identified wearable technology as the most popular growing fitness trend, estimating the market to be around $6 billion ( 29 ). This survey was recently updated, reporting that wearable technology remained the number one trend for 2020, and the market reached an estimated $95 billion ( 30 ). Most large technology companies have incorporated activity monitoring technology into cellular phones, while larger corporations, including Apple and Google, have continued to expand their product lines to feature new models of watches, wristbands and other clothing devices with activity tracking capabilities. The most popular and affordable devices remain somewhat restricted to measuring step count and distance traveled. New products are constantly in development given the high demand. Even though technological
