Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


capabilities. The most popular and affordable devices remain somewhat restricted to measuring step count and distance traveled. New products are constantly in development given the high demand. Even though technological advancements have reportedly improved these devices, debate among product engineers, research scientists and others involved in this industry regarding their accuracy still persists. Data indicate that these devices are less consistent with the measurement of overall activity duration, energy expenditure, and sleep quality, so they may require further testing and more advanced algorithms before being used in research ( 31 ). Advanced devices are in development that are capable of measuring biometric signs, such as stress, strain, impact forces, in addition to metabolic parameters (e.g., glucose and lactic acid) and the tracking of physical activity ( 32 ). Despite some limitations, such devices are quite useful in helping people to monitor their own daily caloric intake, energy expenditure, sleep patterns, and overall health profile. These devices may also serve to increase motivation among those starting an exercise program because they can help to set goals and provide immediate feedback, although whether or not this is so for long-term weight loss programs is questionable ( 32 ). Ideally, such devices can sync with the electronic health record (EHR), thereby allowing health care providers a chance to objectively monitor a patient's lifestyle behaviors. PERSONAL AND ONLINE TRAINING Personal training has remained in the top 10 fitness trends reported since 2006, and popularity has increased as online training has become more accessible ( 30 ), especially during the strict quarantine policies imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. It is reasonable to suspect that there will be a continued use of online training programs in 2021 and beyond. Unfortunately, like wearable devices, training fees and internet access may be luxuries not available to low-income households, and although some communities have facilities that provide free web access to the public (e.g., public libraries), they may not be feasible locations for virtual exercise training. Thus, virtual exercise solutions that consider the financial limitations of current fitness trends are needed. PROMOTING AN ACTIVE LIFESTYLE THROUGH THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT There are few surveillance data on physical activity patterns over many years in representative populations that use consistent methods of data collection. Data from consumer groups and national monitoring and surveillance systems among persons living in the United States generally show a stable pattern of both leisure time
