Exercise Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, activity, obesity, physical, energy, physical activity, exercise, loss, weight loss, health, pubmed, caloric, training, min, restriction


major facilitating role in promoting an active lifestyle, urban planners, local zoning officials, those responsible for the construction of residences, developments, and supporting transportation systems, and members of the community must work together in the design of more activity-friendly environments. SUMMARY Most research to date suggests that exercise is more effective in the prevention of overweight and obesity than it is in its reversal. Weight loss programs that combine exercise with caloric restriction can maximize the net caloric deficit while reducing the loss of fat-free mass. Adding resistance training to aerobic exercise will enhance muscle quantity and quality, thereby providing health benefits independent of weight loss. Accumulating the necessary exercise and lifestyle physical activity in intermittent bouts, rather than one long continuous bout, can improve adherence and the success of weight loss and maintenance regimens. Future research should focus on the prevention of excess weight gain over the life course. In addition to the behavioral and intervention studies of the past several decades, an understanding of the regulatory processes governing energy intake, energy storage, and energy expenditure and how the reinstatement of exercise can correct the disruption of neural pathways is vital to the future of obesity research. Molecular and clinical studies that can identify candidate genes and other biomarkers of energy regulation responding to exercise should link with large epidemiologic studies to determine the relations among these biological markers, physical activity patterns and long-term weight gain among various populations. Controlled intervention trials should continue to test the dose-response relation between physical activity duration (min/week), volume (kcal/week), and/or intensity and various functional endpoints as rigorously as do pharmacological trials. Finally, public health science needs to link with public health practice to better enable the translation of this knowledge into policies that can alter the environment in a way that promotes an active lifestyle for all. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported in part by grants from the National Institutes of Health, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute ( HL135089 to and TS and NSS). REFERENCES 1. Inoue Y., Qin B., Poti J., Sokol R., Gordon-Larsen P. Epidemiology of obesity in adults: Latest trends. Curr Obes Rep. 2018; 7 :276–88. [ PMC free article : PMC6215729 ] [ PubMed : 30155850 ] 2. Ogden C. L., Fryar C. D., Martin C. B., Freedman D. S., Carroll M. D., Gu Q., et al. Trends in Obesity Prevalence by Race and Hispanic Origin-1999-2000 to
