www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


P.O. Box 2713, Doha, Qatar. 12Microbiologia E Virologia, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, 27100 Pavia, Scientific Reports | (2025) 15:2527 | 1 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Most vector-borne infections in the USA can be attributed to pathogens transmitted via tick bites. Of all tick- borne infections identified to date, Lyme disease is the most prevalent infection1. Lyme disease is a potentially serious bacterial infection transmitted by ticks and was first reported in the mid-1970s in the USA. The etiological agent was identified later as Borrelia burgdorferi2–4. Several studies have reported the presence of co-infections along with B. burgdorferi5 including Babesia spp.6, Bartonella spp.7, Ehrlichia spp.8, Anaplasma phagocytophilum8, Powassan virus (POWV)9, Toxoplasma gondii10, Rickettsia spp.11, tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV)12, and West Nile virus (WNV)13. Additionally, prolonged exposure to B. burgdorferi and other tick-borne pathogens could potentially weaken the patient’s immune system increasing the risk of infections by Epstein Barr virus (EBV)14, cytomegalovirus (CMV)14, parvovirus B19 (B19V)5, coxsackie B virus15, herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV- 1)16, herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2)16, and human herpes virus 6 (HHV-6)14. Ticks have been shown to transmit more than one infectious agent in a single bite. For instance, a study by Wormser et al. showed that there was a risk of getting infected with (A) phagocytophilum (30%) and (B) microti (24%) along with B. burgdorferi17. Currently, multi-tiered testing is carried out for diagnosing tick-borne infections18 ( In this method, the infectious agents are tested sequentially, starting with B. burgdorferi. This method is time-consuming and can often lead to delayed diagnosis, accompanied with high cost to the patient18,19 ( Testing for multiple infections in a single run can help physicians arrive at an accurate diagnosis especially since Lyme disease shares symptoms with other vector- borne co-infections20. The existing diagnostic assays possess various limitations that restrict their applicability in the diagnosis of these infections. The diagnosis of Lyme disease and other infectious diseases using several blot-based and single-plex ELISA tests remain rudimentary in terms of arriving at a diagnostic conclusion21. Additionally, blot-based assays may have overlapping proteins with similar mass requiring additional testing to tease out the specific antigen to which the antibody is bound. A multiplex system can detect the biomarkers of Lyme disease, potential co-infections, and other infections in a single run. A serology-based multiplexing system may be preferred to a PCR multiplex system mainly due to its accessibility, for instance using dried blood spots (DBS)22. Due to the
