www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


a single run. A serology-based multiplexing system may be preferred to a PCR multiplex system mainly due to its accessibility, for instance using dried blood spots (DBS)22. Due to the transient nature of the organisms, the timeline in which the patients are bacteremic/ viremic/parasitemic is short making it difficult to obtain genetic material of the pathogens for nucleic acid-based diagnosis. However, this limitation is overcome by using serology23. A serology-based system is also ideal for population screening and surveillance since it can indicate past exposure to a pathogen. Our customisable protein microarray design includes antigens physically separated by design unlike blot assays and can multiplex across species. Multiplexing can also be done across antigen types such as recombinant proteins, peptides, and lysates simultaneously. This method can lower test costs since all the manufacturing is automated using bio customised semiconductor processes similar to how electronic chips are made. The multiplex microarray has three main advantages over the existing technologies. It has an ultra-high-density array surface with high reproducibility and better throughput. It can detect a large number of antibodies against varied infectious agents at the same time. Detection of antibodies can be performed using low sample volumes with low cost and a fast turnaround time21. Given the flexible nature of the multiplex platform, we aimed to provide a multiplexed testing solution for Lyme disease, its co-infections, and other possible infections of interest. Materials and methods Patients sera The sera were collected from 2990 (843 samples and 2147 controls) individuals after seeking appropriate Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals under respective collaborators (Supplementary Table 1). The study was conducted under the ethical principles that have their origins in the Declaration of Helsinki. The Western Institutional Review Board, WIRB (work order #1-1574995-1) waived the need for informed consent requirement. Table 1 lists the provided samples for Lyme disease, co-infections, and other infections along Supplementary Table 2 provides information regarding the vendors and strains of the pathogens used in the study. These reference sera were tested at Vibrant America Clinical Labs (Clinical Laboratory Improvement (CLIA) and College of American Pathologists (CAP) accredited facility) by laboratory personnel in a blinded manner. The sera from healthy patients were considered negative and were used to set the cut-off values and were investigated under IRB (work order #1-1574995-1) determined by WIRB to employ de-linked and de-identified human specimens and medical data for research findings. The negative sera were collected
