www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


values and were investigated under IRB (work order #1-1574995-1) determined by WIRB to employ de-linked and de-identified human specimens and medical data for research findings. The negative sera were collected from across the US including endemic and nonendemic regions for these infections. Processing of wafers Wafers were functionalized as described previously21,24 ( Briefly, silicon wafers were exposed to an environment of pure oxygen for 2 h followed by washing (deionized water) and coating (1% (vol/vol) with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES) in N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP). Curing was carried out at 120 °C for 60 min under an N atmosphere and humidity-controlled environment. Coating and incubation of the wafer with a co-polymer solution of poly (L-lysine) and poly (lactic acid) for 24 h were carried out to increase the binding efficiency of the surface on to which the antigens were immobilized via passive adsorption/ hydrophobic interactions with the copolymers [Fig. 1]. Scientific Reports | (2025) 15:2527 | 2 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Total number of Pathogen samples, N Source (scientist/company) Basis of Diagnosis RT-PCR, Blood Babesia microti 70 Parasitology Laboratory, Wadsworth Center (NYSDOH) Smear Babesia microti 118 Seracare, Boca Bio, Private Clinics Serology, RT-PCR Bartonella henselae 10 Dimosthenis Chochlakis (University of Crete) Physician Anaplasma phagocytophilum 118 Private clinics, Boca Bio RT-PCR, Serology Ehrlichia chaffeensis 120 Private clinics, Boca Bio RT-PCR, Serology Rickettsia typhi 70 Lucas Blanton (University of Texas Medical Branch) Physician Rickettsia rickettsii 21 Angélica Escárcega-Ávila (Autonomous University of Ciudad Juarez) Physician Tick-borne encephalitis 111 Daniel Rużek (Czech Academy of Sciences) Physician West Nile virus 20 Gheyath K. Nasrallah (Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar) Physician Coxsackie virus 45 iSpecimen Serology Cytomegalovirus 43 DLS Serology Cytomegalovirus 138 Daniele Lilleri (Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo) Physician Cytomegalovirus 37 Seracare Serology Epstein Barr virus 20 Gheyath K. Nasrallah (Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar) Physician Epstein Barr virus 43 Seracare Serology Epstein Barr virus 14 iSpecimen Serology Toxoplasma gondii 24 Seracare Serology HSV-1 20 Gheyath K. Nasrallah (Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar) Physician HSV-1 31 Seracare Serology HSV-2 19 Gheyath K. Nasrallah (Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar) Physician HSV-2 27 Seracare Serology HHV-6 20 Gheyath K. Nasrallah (Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar) Physician Table 1. Sample cohort for each pathogen. The table provides an overview of the pathogens used in the study, along with total number of samples, sample source, and basis of diagnosis. The detailed information regarding the ‘basis of diagnosis’ is provided in Supplementary Table 9. Immobilization of antigens The antigens included in the assay are listed in Table
