www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


basis of diagnosis. The detailed information regarding the ‘basis of diagnosis’ is provided in Supplementary Table 9. Immobilization of antigens The antigens included in the assay are listed in Table 2. Pathogens transmitted by ticks and their respective antigens for potential future additions are listed in Fig. 225–30 ( The recombinant antigens were expressed in E. coli bacteria using full-length cDNA coding for the respective antigens fused with a hexa histidine purification tag. The whole cell lysate was obtained from organisms cultured according to ATCC protocols prior to lysing them which yielded a cocktail of the cell membrane, cell wall, and cytosolic proteins. Peptide antigens were synthesized by photolithography as shown in our previous publications31,32. The capture antigens including the recombinant antigens that mimic the natural pathogen and the whole-cell lysate were incubated on the wafer at a concentration of 1.0 µg/ml and reacted for 24 h at 4 °C. The unbound antigens were Scientific Reports | (2025) 15:2527 | 3 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Fig. 1. Wafer Processing, Antigen Immobilisation, Pillar Plate Assembly. A poly (lactic acid) and poly (L-lysine) copolymer solution is coated onto the silicon wafers and further immobilized with protein probes [steps 1–3]. The wafers are then diced into microchips using a stealth dicing process [step 4]. A standard die sorting system is used to pick and place the microchips onto carrier plates [step 5]. The carrier tapes are loaded onto a high throughput surface mount technology (SMT) component placement system and individual microchips are placed onto 24-pillar plates. Each pillar consists of 87 microchips [step 6]. Created using Figma, Version 116.15 ( removed by washing with aqueous phosphate buffer and the unreacted substrate was quenched with a blocking solution containing bovine serum albumin (BSA) and glycine. The immobilized antigens were classified with unique identifiers assigned to each wafer. In this study, we employed the microarray to detect Lyme disease, co-infections, and other agents of interest including, B. microti, B. henselae, A. phagocytophilum, E. chaffeensis, R. typhi, R. rickettsii, POWV, TBEV, WNV, coxsackie B virus, CMV, EBV, B19V, T. gondii, HSV-1, HSV-2, and HHV-6 [Fig. 2]. Pillar plate assembly Individual wafers were stealth diced into 0.70 × 0.70mm2 microchips for each antigen. A standard die-sorting system was used to pick and place these wafers onto individual carrier tapes. The carrier tapes were then placed onto a high-throughput surface mount technology (SMT) component placement system. Finally, microchips were mounted onto
