www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


pick and place these wafers onto individual carrier tapes. The carrier tapes were then placed onto a high-throughput surface mount technology (SMT) component placement system. Finally, microchips were mounted onto 24 pillar plates and each pillar contains 87 microchips with each chip designated for one antigen – recombinant protein, peptide or whole cell lysates [Fig. 1]. Immunochip assay and antibody detection Serum samples were probed using 1:20 dilution on the pillar plate and incubated for 1 h at room temperature followed by alternate washing and incubation as described previously21. The plate was then incubated for an hour with the secondary antibody (1:2000 dilution of Goat Anti-Human IgG HRP and Goat Anti-Human IgM HRP individually) and washed with TBST buffer followed by DI Water. The plates were left for drying preceding the addition of chemiluminescent substrate and the performance of chemiluminescent imaging. An enhanced IgM sensitivity was achieved by pre-reacting the sera with goat anti-human IgG leading to IgG stripping prior to IgM testing. The detection of multiplex antibodies is based on the chemiluminescent immunoassay and can be performed using < 200 µL of serum. Sample dilution, multi-step incubation, and multi-solution washing are programmed into liquid handlers. The immunochip has the capacity to assay 192 individual specimens in 2 h. Raw chemiluminescent signals for each probe are extracted and converted into intensity plots by an in-house reporter software. This method of automatic antigen detection can dramatically shorten the turnaround time, reduce the cost of labor and instrument, and eliminate the need for manual handling and subjective interpretation of the WB or IB test results when compared to the traditional two-tiered testing recommended by the CDC. All the antibodies are detected in a single run. Data Analysis An in-house software extracts the chemiluminescent signals from the generated images which were converted to intensity plots. The average intensity of each antibody was compared with the cut-off values assigned for each antigen to track seropositivity. Scientific Reports | (2025) 15:2527 | 4 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Pathogen Cell Lysate / Peptide Recombinant Antigen(s) Whole cell lysate - B31 strain, 297 strain. B. burgdorferi VlsE1, DbpB, OspC, p28, p30, OspA, OspB, BmpA, p41, p45, p58, p66, p83-93 C6 peptide B. mayonii Whole cell lysate B. afzelii BmpA, DbpA, OspA, OspC, p100 B. garinii DBpA, OspC B. bavariensis p58, VlsE1, DbpA B. spielmanii DBpA, OspC B. hermsii Whole cell lysate B. turicatae Whole cell lysate B. miyamotoi GlpQ B.
