www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


Yellow, orange - Moderate positive (CU = 10.1–20); White - Negative (CU ≤ 10). described here. The full data set would be available to the physicians to make a nuanced diagnosis instead of a narrow subset of antigens run on ELISAs. Discussion Ticks are among the most important sources of vector-borne infections in the US50. The spread of ticks across the US has been steadily increasing over the past decades. In parallel, the discovery of novel pathogens that are spread by ticks has also seen dramatic increases51. Currently, there are 14 major tickborne diseases according to the CDC namely, Lyme disease, babesiosis, ehrlichiosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI), hard tick relapsing fever, soft tick relapsing fever, tularemia, anaplasmosis, Colorado tick fever, bourbon virus, heartland virus, Rickettsia parkeri rickettsiosis, 364D rickettsiosis, and Powassan virus52 ( Patients are rarely tested for all possible infections that could be transmitted via a tick bite53. The current diagnostic tests are severely limited in distinguishing various tick- borne infections and several studies have revealed that non-Lyme disease tick-borne infections are heavily underdiagnosed54. Among varied testing options, PCR and serology-based assays are reliable and most widely used. PCR has several advantages as it detects pathogenic DNA/RNA which conclusively proves the organism’s presence. It Scientific Reports | (2025) 15:2527 | 8 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ has high specificity and has a high throughput with assay run times of about 2 h. It can also detect the infection during its early stages55. There are however certain drawbacks to testing using PCR, especially with tickborne infections. Pathogens transmitted by vectors may be transient in the blood resulting in clinically false negative PCR in tick-borne diseases and other infections, namely, B. burgdorferi, R. typhi, T. gondii, HSV-1, EBV, TBEV, and WNV23. PCR testing requires specialised laboratories and equipment for testing. PCR may not detect all strains and variants and is limited to detecting known pathogens56. Multiplexing with PCR is limited due to fixed number of analytes that can be parallelly read using PCR instrumentation. Serology-based testing has several advantages when it comes to tick-borne infection testing. It has the ability to comprehensively assess immune responses and simultaneously detect exposure to multiple pathogens including previous and unresolved infections. Testing two times with a time interval in between can also help diagnose active infections based on altered serum antibody profiles. Simultaneous detection of antibodies against multiple tick-borne pathogens and other related pathogens
