www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


with a time interval in between can also help diagnose active infections based on altered serum antibody profiles. Simultaneous detection of antibodies against multiple tick-borne pathogens and other related pathogens using a single sample and providing a comprehensive view of the patient’s immune response is a key advantage of serology-based multiplex testing23. The testing can also be done in resource poor settings with collection using DBS as described for Covid-1922. Serological testing can diagnose tick-borne diseases even in the later stages when pathogen detection through molecular methods becomes more challenging23,57. It also reduces the risk of false negatives57. Serological multiplex testing being cost-effective can also contribute to surveillance and epidemiological studies by providing valuable data on the prevalence and distribution of tick-borne diseases, enhancing our understanding of disease dynamics58. Patients can be asymptomatic during the initial stages or may not remember the tick-bite. Serology is useful to detect the infection in such cases. However, serological studies have their own limitations. Serological testing may not be able to detect early/recent infections. It relies heavily on the timing of sample collection and the host’s immune responses. In certain cases, molecular testing may be needed to confirm serological testing23. Despite all this, the benefits of serology testing outweigh its limitations which is why it is recommended by the CDC as the standard of testing for Lyme disease. Apart from PCR and ELISA serology tests, IFA and culture methods have also been suggested for diagnosing tick-borne infections. Testing using IFA is limited due to a lack of standardized antigenic targets, the subjective establishment of positive thresholds, and cross reactivity. These factors can result in varying accuracy of IFA results across laboratories23. Furthermore, bacterial or viral cultures are not recommended for the diagnosis of tick-borne infections. This is due to the time-consuming nature of the test, the need for special media, and procedures that are only performed at specific laboratories59,60. This study employed a serology-based microarray developed at Vibrant to multiplex Lyme disease and other tick-borne infections along with a few other infections of interest. The uniqueness of the microarray lies in the application of the immunodominant antigens that eliminate nonspecific binding with high sensitivity needed for accurate diagnosis. Antigens could be evaluated in a multiplex setting to gauge their performance with clinical samples to pick the ideal set of antigens for any infection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report
