www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, igm, antigens, igg, testing, cell, tick-borne, disease, virus, table, lysate, cell lysate, microarray, pathogens, lyme disease


multiplex setting to gauge their performance with clinical samples to pick the ideal set of antigens for any infection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on a broad panel of antigens for Lyme disease, co-infections, and other related infections in such a flexible format. The structure of the Vibrant pillar plate is designed to encompass 400 probe chips at each pillar facilitating the detection of an array of co-infections in a single run, saving cost, labor, and time. Further compaction of the chip allows improved performance by enhancing multiplexing and widening its clinical applications. The microarray platform is advantageous over other existing gold standards for tick-borne diseases and was able to overcome several of their limitations. Average time for multitier testing for several tickborne pathogens could take several months whereas the microarray technology takes only about a day to perform21. The microarray detected 17 tick-borne and other infections along with Lyme disease with sensitivities and specificities listed in Table 3. In conclusion, the protein microarray with a multiplex of antigens was validated for Lyme disease, co- infections, and other related infections. Simultaneous testing for Lyme disease, co-infections, and other related infections makes the diagnosis and treatment easier and quicker. This approach caters to the diagnostic needs of patients owing to its high sensitivity and specificity, affordable cost, quick availability of results, and low sample volume requirement. Measures for syndromic surveillance, diagnostic preparedness in disease outbreak in controlling tick-borne infections. As the known repertoire of antigens increases, this flexible microarray format can be customised to include the new antigens. Future editions could also include other infections/agents namely Colorado tick fever, heartland virus, R. parkeri, tick-borne relapsing fever, and tularemia which can be tested in parallel. Novel antigens for pathogens which may include whole cell lysates, recombinant proteins or peptide epitopes can be added as the science progresses leading to continuous improvement in diagnostic technology for detecting tick-borne infections. Data availability The data used to support the findings of this study can be acquired from Karthik Krishna (karthik@vibrantsci. com). Received: 16 January 2024; Accepted: 24 December 2024
