Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711
KEYWORDS: des, esophageal, symptoms, case, patient, dysphagia, esophagus, spasm, esophageal spasm, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, disorder, chest, imaging, corkscrew


Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711 Available online at www.sciencedirect.com journal review ✩, ✩ ✩ Yasir Kawther Hani Al-Dujaili a, Sajjad Ghanim Al-Badri b ,∗ a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t Article history: Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) is a rare motility disorder characterized by uncoordinated Received 7 November 2024 esophageal contractions, often presenting with dysphagia and chest pain. This case de- Revised 23 November 2024 scribes a 70-year-old male who presented with atypical symptoms of DES, including episodic Accepted 6 December 2024 dysphagia to solids, postprandial vomiting, and chest pain triggered by cold liquids. Initially misdiagnosed as indigestion, further evaluation with barium swallow imaging revealed a “corkscrew”esophagus, leading to the diagnosis of DES. The patient’s symptoms improved Keywords: with isosorbide dinitrate. This case underscores the importance of imaging in diagnosing Diffuse esophageal spasm DES, particularly in patients presenting with nontraditional symptoms, and highlights the Corkscrew esophagus need for individualized management of this complex disorder. Dysphagia ©2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of University of Washington. Atypical symptoms This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license Barium swallow ( ) nitric oxide deficiency or lower esophageal sphincter dysfunc- Introduction tion. These disrupted pathways may lead to the intermittent and painful contractions that define DES . Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) is a rare esophageal motility The diagnosis of DES often involves barium swallow stud- disorder characterized by uncoordinated, simultaneous mus- ies and esophageal manometry, which can reveal the abnor- cle contractions in the esophagus, often leading to symptoms mal contraction patterns specific to DES. Treatment is chal- such as dysphagia and chest pain. This disorder is most com- lenging and varies based on symptom severity and patient monly identified by the distinctive “corkscrew” appearance response. Options include smooth muscle relaxants, such seen in imaging studies, a result of repetitive, nonpropulsive as calcium channel blockers or nitrates, with more inva- contractions that segment the esophagus. The exact cause of sive procedures like botulinum toxin injections, endoscopic DES remains uncertain, although it may involve disruptions myotomy, or surgical intervention considered for refractory in the neural regulation of the esophagus, potentially linked to cases . ✩ Competing Interests: We declare that we have no financial or nonfinancial interests that could be perceived as a potential conflict of interest. ✩✩ Acknowledgments: No source of funding was received.
