Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711
KEYWORDS: des, esophageal, symptoms, case, patient, dysphagia, esophagus, spasm, esophageal spasm, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, disorder, chest, imaging, corkscrew


Competing Interests: We declare that we have no financial or nonfinancial interests that could be perceived as a potential conflict of interest. ✩✩ Acknowledgments: No source of funding was received. ∗ Corresponding author. E-mail address: (S.G. Al-Badri). 1930-0433/©2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of University of Washington. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( ) Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711 1709 Fig. 1 –Barium Swallow of a 75-year-old male (A shows the AP view, B shows the lateral view). The upper and middle thirds of the esophagus appear normal, while the lower third demonstrates multiple indentations (indicated by the blue arrows) suggestive of “corkscrew esophagus”. Both lungs are clear with no evidence of infiltration or masses. The trachea is midline in position with no signs of deviation. The cardiac silhouette is normal in size and shape with no signs of cardiac abnormality. The spine and ribs are normal with no signs of fractures or lesions. Both diaphragms are on the same level with the presence of normal gastric bubble. In this case, we discuss a 70-year-old male who presented testinal or esophageal disorders, malignancies, or connective with atypical symptoms of DES, including episodic dysphagia, tissue diseases. The patient denied any history of smoking, ex- postprandial vomiting, and a unique sensitivity to cold liquids. cessive alcohol consumption, or exposure to toxins that could Initially misdiagnosed and treated for indigestion, further affect esophageal motility. evaluation and imaging revealed the characteristic corkscrew The initial presentation began with symptoms suggestive esophagus, leading to a diagnosis of DES. This case highlights of indigestion, for which he was assessed and treated for sus- the diagnostic complexities of DES, particularly when present- pected Helicobacter pylori infection with a standard eradi- ing with nontraditional symptoms, and underscores the im- cation regimen. However, his symptoms persisted, prompt- portance of imaging in identifying this rare disorder. ing a more thorough diagnostic evaluation. Laboratory tests at this stage were unremarkable, including complete blood count (CBC), basic metabolic panel, and liver function tests, all within normal ranges (WBC: 6.5 × 10 ³/ μL [4-11 × 10 ³/ μL], Case presentation hemoglobin: 14.2 g/dL [13.5-17.5 g/dL], creatinine: 0.9 mg/dL [0.6-1.2 mg/dL]). Inflammatory markers, such as C-reactive A 70-year-old male presented with a 3-month history of protein, were also within normal limits. episodic dysphagia, specifically affecting the intake of solid Given the ongoing nature and
