Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711
KEYWORDS: des, esophageal, symptoms, case, patient, dysphagia, esophagus, spasm, esophageal spasm, diffuse, diffuse esophageal, disorder, chest, imaging, corkscrew


as C-reactive A 70-year-old male presented with a 3-month history of protein, were also within normal limits. episodic dysphagia, specifically affecting the intake of solid Given the ongoing nature and severity of the episodes, our foods. Each episode of dysphagia lasted between 3-7 days, team conducted a more thorough evaluation, which included and these episodes were associated with several other symp- a Barium Swallow examination during an active dysphagia toms, including postprandial vomiting, particularly follow- episode. The Barium Swallow revealed a proximally dilated ing both food and liquid intake, as well as constipation. esophagus with a tightly constricted distal segment, forming The patient also reported experiencing dull, nonradiating an appearance resembling a “corkscrew,”indicative of an un- chest pain that worsened with the consumption of cold derlying esophageal motility disorder ( Fig. 1 ). fluids. Subsequent diagnostic efforts included esophageal The patient’s medical history was significant for cardiovas- manometry, which revealed impaired relaxation of the lower cular disease, including a myocardial infarction 5 years prior, esophageal sphincter (median IRP: 41 mmHg; normal: < 15 which required percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and mmHg) and hypercontractile esophageal peristalsis (mean stent placement. He has been on regular follow-ups for cardiac DCI: 9047 mmHg ·sec ·cm; normal: < 8000 mmHg ·sec ·cm). diac events reported. His surgical history was unremarkable tile esophageal motility disorder consistent with diffuse apart from the PCI. Family history revealed no known gastroin- esophageal spasm (DES). 1710 Radiology Case Reports 20 (2025) 1708–1711 Esophageal and gastric endoscopy revealed a Z line located agement. However, other cases suggest that medications like 37 cm from the incisors, without evidence of structural le- calcium channel blockers and botulinum toxin injections sions, inflammation, or neoplastic changes. Biopsies obtained may also be beneficial, albeit with variable effectiveness . during endoscopy were unremarkable, ruling out eosinophilic When medical management fails, more invasive interven- esophagitis or other inflammatory conditions. These findings, tions, such as peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) or surgical combined with manometry results, were consistent with the myotomy, may be considered. For instance, Shiwaku et al. re- diagnostic criteria for diffuse esophageal spasm (DES). port a successful POEM procedure in a patient unresponsive Following this diagnosis, the patient was prescribed isosor- to medical therapy, resulting in significant improvement in bide dinitrate at a once-daily dose, which proved effective in symptoms . reducing the severity of his dysphagia, chest pain, and related Surgical approaches are generally reserved for
