Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas of the Large Bowel HIRANI C. POLK, JR., M.D. Froml the Price Instituite of Surgical Research and the Departmenits of Surgery A LARGE NUMBER and wide variety of survival.14 Some informative correlations technics have been utilized in this century have developed from these studies. A case in an effort to improve the survival of pa- in point is the observation that direct neo- tients with adenocarcinoma of the large in- plastic extension to an adjacent organ is testine. Miles' demonstration of the value of not a statistically more adverse prognostic patterns of local growth and dissemination sign than one to five regional lymph node in designing appropriate resections was a metastases. Many colorectal tumors are major advance,6 but subsequent treatment eagerly resected in the presence of obvious modifications, with the possible exception or suspected regional spread, but few are of the "no touch isolation" technic 17 have so attacked when the tumor extends into proved ofvery limited usefulness in increas- another organ. It has been established that ing the true salvage rate of patients harbor- tumor size is not a determinant of regional ing colorectal adenocarcinoma. Indeed, at metastases in large bowel cancer.12' 13 Ac- least two studies indicate that virtually all tually, the seemingly advanced colorectal improvement in overall survival has been cancer which has invaded another organ due to increased rates of operability and often bears specific extremely favorable bio- resectability and to striking decreases in logic characteristics, viz. the tendency to treatment or operative mortality.', 10 well-differentiated histologic appearance, The continuing studies of Spratt and asso- large size without regional lymph node me- ciates have better defined many character- tastases, long duration without dissemina- istics of large intestinal cancer with respect tion, "pushing" tumor margins, and the to both treatment options and effect upon microscopic presence of inflammatory re- sponse about the primary tumor. Further- Presented at the Southern Surgical Association more, metastases via the drainage routes of Meeting held at Hot Springs, Virginia, December the invaded organ almost never occur. 6-8, 1971. The purpose of the report is to describe Supported in part by Clinical Cancer Training a specific attempt to ascertain whether such grants to the Universities of Louisville aind Miami Schools of Medicine. lesions, approached aggressively, could be EXTENDED RESECTION FOR LARGE BOWEL CANCER 893 treated for cure with acceptable treatment plastic extension at all costs. The tumor and
