Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


Miami Schools of Medicine. lesions, approached aggressively, could be EXTENDED RESECTION FOR LARGE BOWEL CANCER 893 treated for cure with acceptable treatment plastic extension at all costs. The tumor and mortality and morbidity and with significant its attachments should not be disturbed contribution to increasing long-term patient until a thorough assessment of distant meta- salvage. static sites and coexistent intra-abdominal problems have been completed. Explora- Materials and Methods tory dissections to establish resectability Adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum must neither violate the tumor nor commit was initially diagnosed in 437 patients at one via destruction of blood supply to a Florida, in 1965-1970 inclusive. Thirty pa- ble nor biologically wise. On occasion, de- tients underwent extended or multiple or- termination of resectability requires more gan resections in an effort to control pri- th,an token imagination, both as to extirpa- mary or recurrent cancer during this period. tion and reasonable reconstruction. Whether This report concerns the 24 such patients the adherent organ is so by virtue of inflam- personally cared for by the author, either mation or neoplastic atttachment should be directly or as attending surgeon on the determined only upon pathologic study of wardservice. Specifically excluded are those the speciment; to biopsy or attempt separa- patients undergoing standard pelvic exen- tion is to promote dissemination. To com- teration 1 and those requiring multiple or- promise upon some margins of resection in gan resections for exposure. The value of an often massive, multiple organ excision is both these procedures in selected instances a temptation which must be ignored at all is well documented. costs. The entire tumor must be removed Preparation of the patient for such opera- enbloc and, insofar as possible, withrespect tions does not deviate significantly from that to Turnbull's "no-touch isolation" technic.17 for patients expected to have standard re- The latter goal cannot always be achieved, sections. However, the bulky tumor mass particularly in pelvic dissections where one was often palpable and in more than half must often "get a handle" upon the lesion. the patients, extension to adjacent organs Finally, the methods of reconstruction must was suspected preoperatively. Judicious re- be chosen for their security. Indeed, the sole plenishment of red cell deficits 7and a short hospital death was predicated by complica- course of a systemic antibiotic to minimize tions arising from ureteral reconstruction wound and intra-abdominal infection 8 were after right colectomy with en bloc
