Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


hospital death was predicated by complica- course of a systemic antibiotic to minimize tions arising from ureteral reconstruction wound and intra-abdominal infection 8 were after right colectomy with en bloc segments regularly practiced. Intestinal preparation of iliac crest, abdominal wall, a loop of consisted only of laxatives and liquid diets. small bowel, and much of the right ureter. The operative procedures per se were so Preferred technics forabdominalwallrecon- thoroughly individualized that no technics struction have been described elsewhere." became routine. However, the procedures were generally based upon certain concepts Results which may be of use to others contemplat- ing such resections. First and foremost is The median age of the 24 patients was 63 the mental anid emotional preparation to years at the time of resection. Mean anes- undertake a resection which is not standard thesia time and intraoperative blood trans- and often requires moment to moment im- fusion volume were 215 minutes and 625 provisation. Should abdominal wall in- ml., respectively. The median duration of volvement be suspected, the incision must hospitalization was 18 days. The median be placed so as to contribute, or at least maximum chordal dimension of the primary not interfere with, abdominal wall recon- tumor was 8 cm., indicative of the very struction. The incision must avoid the neo- large size of the cancers in question. The 894 POLK Ann. Surg. * June 1972 Vol. 175 * No. 6 TABLE 1.AdditionalOrgansExcised after extensive abdominal wall resection, partial cystectomy and segmental small Abdominalwall 7 Uterus 6 bowel resection for a cancer recurrent in Smallbowel 4 her incision after a previously compromised Stomach, vagina, bladder, ureter 3 each re-excision of the surgical wound for iso- Liver, duodenum, S &0 2 each lated recurrent cancer. The 19 patients treated for extensive pri- disease include the sole hospital death mean number of organs resected was 2.7 mary and is specified in Table 1. One of the 24 and five other patients in whom cancer was patients (4%o) died in the hospital two not controlled by even extended resection; they survived nine, 16, 27, 30, and 36 months after operation; a total of nine pa- months after operation. Three died of dis- tients sustained at least one major com- seminated without local plication. cancer recurrence whereas the other two suffered largely from Five individuals underwent multiple or- gan excisions for recurrent colorectal adeno- failure to control their cancer locally. Nine
