Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


without local plication. cancer recurrence whereas the other two suffered largely from Five individuals underwent multiple or- gan excisions for recurrent colorectal adeno- failure to control their cancer locally. Nine carcinoma; three were treated for two re- patients are well and clinically free of can- currences of the disease. All patients with cer six, 18, 23, 24, 25, 30, 40, 42, and 47 recurrent carcinoma had microscopically months after operation. Among the sur- confirmed neoplastic invasion of adjacent vivors are the two patients in whom adja- cent organ involvement proved to be only organs. inflammatory. Of the 19 patients requiring extended re- Another patient is presently alive with section for primary large bowel carcinomas, liver metastases 30 months after resection two had onlyinflammatory adhesions to the and three patients died of intercurrent dis- adjacent organs. The cause of adherence to without evidence of 32, 41, and the 29 additional organs resected in these ease cancer 55months after extended resection. Absence 19 patients was carcinoma in 25 organs and inflammation in four. of tumor was confirmed in two at autopsy. Survival of patients following extended resection is summarized in Table 2. The Discussion author personally examined each survivor This report is but a link in a growing in April-June 1971 to ascertain his clinical chain of data as to the biologic variability status. Three of the five patients treated for of colorectal The relatively favor- cancers. recurrence died of the disease 10, 30 and 33 able tumor-free survival rate of 42%o and months after multiple organ resection; one the longevity of patients ultimately dying patient is alive with clinical re-recurrence of carcinoma in our highly selected experi- 36 months after extended operation. The ence are strong evidence that one can clin- other patient is free of cancer 17 months ically select tumors which bear less virulent than do ordinary large bowel courses can- Others have indicated much.15 cers. as TABLE2. SutrvivalafterExtendedResection Whether such efforts will increase the over- Mean or all recovery from colorectal cancer remains # Pts. % Median Surv. to be seen. An educated guess suggests that about 8% ofpatients seenmay be amenable Hosp. deaths 1 4 to extended resection for cure and40% may Deadrec. cancer 8 33 28 mo. Deadintercurrent dis. 3 41 mo. be "cured." The net increase in survival, Alive withcancer 2 33 mo. at best, is then three to four patients per Alive andwell 10
