Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


mo. Deadintercurrent dis. 3 41 mo. be "cured." The net increase in survival, Alive withcancer 2 33 mo. at best, is then three to four patients per Alive andwell 10 42 25 mo. hundred Perhaps the major contribu- seen. EXTENDED RESECTION FOR LARGE BOWEL CANCER 895 tion of this effort is that extended, multiple only five of 37 (14%o) patients with histo- organ resections can be accomplished with logic verification of cancerous involvement acceptable risk to the patient. Indeed, the of another organ were alive 5 years after operative (hospital) mortality for these resection. Similar comparisons from the cases is identical to that for standard colo- present report indicate eight of 24 of such medical centers.10 earlier time post-resection. Abdominal wall It is obvious that those patients seem- involvement was virtually the only site ingly well after multiple organ resections associated with favorable survival in Co- for extensive primary cancers must be fol- penhagen; the present report indicates a lowed for a longer period to ascertain that broader applicability. El Domeiri and the salvage anticipated will be realized. Whiteley4 have also described significant This may be especially true in view of the tumor control among patients whose re- relatively favorable tumor characteristics sectable cecal cancer involves abdominal which led to the patients' being selected for wall. acteristics may portend slow growth and tation of many of the tenets advanced in late recurrence. this report long preceded the rationale Our seeming lesser success with exten- which evolved from the studies of Spratt sively recurrent colorectal adenocarcinomas and colleagues. In 1946, Sugarbakerl6 de- may be but an obvious expression of the scribed appreciable salvage among patients less favorable nature of the tumor destined requiring multiple organ resections for ex- to recur. Spratt and I have studied the en- tensive colorectal carcinoma and noted that tire follow-up process and concluded that extension to adjacent organs was frequently more aggressive treatment of certain locally not accompanied by other adverse prog- recurrent colorectal adenocarcinomas was nostic determinants of the cancer. Subse- warranted." Dunphy, among others, has de- quently, Van Prohaska and associates18 de- scribed favorable results from attempts to scribed a similar experience with a com- control recurrent tumors in such patients.2 mendable proportion of apparent cures and The five patients with recurrent cancer in- but one death among 21 such resections. volving several organs were an especially Indeed, initially all of the principles and
