Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


apparent cures and The five patients with recurrent cancer in- but one death among 21 such resections. volving several organs were an especially Indeed, initially all of the principles and challenging group and it may be that a concepts espoused in this report may be 20%o conversion rate to tumor-free status is found in the earlier narratives of Sugar- acceptable. For example, only one of these baker and Van Prohaska. patients allowed the excision of as few as Such reports lend some credence to the two organs and one man required the re- likelihood that 2- to 3-year survivals, even section of portions of five organs to excise in these relatively favorable tumors, will be all gross tumor. generally equitable to 5-year control fig- This report is by no means unique for ures. Of 23 patients in the experience of there has been an irregular flow of reports Sugarbaker and Van Prohaska who ulti- partially defining the role of such resections mately died of tumor, the median survival for selected colorectal cancers. Recently, was just under 2 years, a figure well within Jensen, Balslev, and Nielson briefly de- the time range of this study. scribed their experience in Copenhagen5 in which 10%o of all admissions withcolonic Summary adenocarcinoma required "extensive sur- gery." Their operative mortality rate was Seemingly advanced adenocarcinomas of 227%o for such operations. They found that the large bowel which invade adjacent or- POLK Ann. Surg. * June 1972 Vol. 175 - No. 6 gans but bear other favorable prognostic tients with and without Cancer. Ann. Surg., 8. Polk, H. C., Jr. and Lopez-Mayor, J. F.: Post- Multiple organ resections in judiciously se- operative Wound Infection: A Prospective lected patients with such tumors appear to Study of Determinant Factors and Preven- tion. Surgery, 66:97, 1969. control the neoplasm in a substantial num- 9. Polk, H. C., Jr. and Spratt, J. S., Jr.: Recur- ber of patients and may be conducted with rent Colorectal Carcinoma: Detection, Treat- ment and Other Considerations. Surgery, 69: acceptable operative risk. Such undertak- 9, 1971. ings may allow a small but clearly identifi- 10. Polk, H. C., Jr., Spratt, J. S., Jr., Copher, G. H. and Butcher, H. R., Jr.: Surgical Mor- able increase in overall patientsalvagefrom tality and Survival from Colonic Carcinoma. adenocarcinoma of the large bowel. Arch. Surg., 89:16, 1964. 11. Polk, H. C., Jr. and Warren, W. D.: Incisions and Related
