Extended Resection for Selected Adenocarcinomas
KEYWORDS: patients, cancer, resection, large, tumor, carcinoma, organ, survival, recurrent, colorectal, multiple, resections, colon, extended, bowel


Van Prohaska, Jr., Govostis, M. C. andWasick, tions for Preoperative Transfusions Based on M.: Multiple Organ Resection for Advanced Analysis of Blood Volumes and Circulating Carcinoma of the Colon and Rectum. Surg., Proteins in Normal and Malnourished Pa- Gynecol. Obstet., 97:177, 1953. DISCUSSION Also, I would be interested in his assessment of the value of the colonoscope in the management DR. JAMES E. DAVIS (Durham): I will limit my of such polyps. Obviously, this instrument was remarks to Dr. McSwain's paper and would like to not available to him at the time this series of ask three questions: cases was being accumulated, but had it been We were encouraged this morning by Dr. available, conceivably the 21 per cent of his Rhoads to remove polyps of the colon, and since patients who underwent laparotomy might have Dr. McSwain is renowned both as a pathologist been avoided. and as a surgeon, I would be interested in his opinion concerning the importance of the size DR. EUCENE M. BRICKER: I am going to confine of a polyp. Is it safe to observe, without removal, my remarks to the paper that was presented by a polyp of certain size? Dr. Polk. I am impressed with the fact that none of his I wish to congratulate Dr. Polk on what I juvenile polyps were associated with polyps that consider to be a worthwhile study and a very ex- have a greater propensityformalignant change,and cellent presentation. As he suggests, it is probable in his series associated polyps were not removed. that application of the principles he enumerated to Has this safely been documented by others, and advanced and recurrent lesions such as he de- is it safe to leave multiple polyps if one is scribed will not appreciably affect the over-all proved to be of the juvenile type? survival rate of colorectal cancer; but there need
