Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


Summary • The technology described in this briefing is Carnation Ambulatory Monitor (CAM). It is an ambulatory cardiac monitor used for detecting cardiac arrhythmias. • The innovative aspects are a low noise floor, leading to more accurate and clearer signal detection. The device can also be worn for up to 14 days. • The intended place in therapy would be as an alternative to existing ambulatory cardiac monitors in people with suspected arrhythmias. • The main points from the evidence summarised in this briefing are from 4 studies (including 3 prospective comparative studies and 1 retrospective study in children) including a total of 125 adults and children. They show that CAM is at least as effective as other ambulatory cardiac monitors in adults with suspected arrhythmias. • Key uncertainties around the evidence are that the study sample sizes are small. • The cost of CAM is between £110 and £145 per person (if the analysis is done in the hospital) or £150 to £200 per person (if the analysis is done externally by the company; all excluding VAT), depending on the number of days recorded, if the device is posted and analysis costs. The cost of standard care for electrocardiogram monitoring or stress testing is £127 for outpatients and £62 as a directly accessed diagnostic service. The technology Carnation Ambulatory Monitor (CAM; Bardy Diagnostics, Inc.) is a P-wave centric electrocardiogram (ECG) patch monitor for people with suspected cardiac arrhythmias. The device can monitor a person remotely for up to 14 days. The device is placed along the sternum to optimise P-wave signal capture. The device comprises of a battrode which has 2 electrodes, one below where the monitor will clip in and the second located on the xyphoid point. The battrode has a slim hourglass shape and has long-term adhesive (suitable for sensitive skin) to hold the device in place on the skin. A recorder clips into the battrode before being attached to the sternum. The recorder has a button which is pressed to start recording and is then additionally pressed when the patient is experiencing a symptom. The timings of the start of the recordings and symptom events needs to be recorded in the supplied patient diary. After the CAM patch has collected recordings for up to 14 days, the device is posted back to the hospital or external data processing centre for analysis. The CAM patch is linked
