Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


CAM patch has collected recordings for up to 14 days, the device is posted back to the hospital or external data processing centre for analysis. The CAM patch is linked to ECG analysis services and tools. After data are collected, a secure web-based portal is used for uploading and analysing ECG data, accessing and managing patient reports. The data can be analysed internally or by the company's ECG technicians who will prepare a report. The cardiologist would receive a full report within 2 working days. The report shows the ECG traces with different time scales (8 seconds, 56 seconds and 40 minutes) to provide context around an episode or event. Innovations The company claims the device has a low noise floor, leading to more accurate and clearer signal detection than similar devices. The device can be worn for up to 14 days, unlike a Holter monitor which is generally used for between 24 and 48 hours, which makes it suitable for people with symptoms of arrhythmia that happen more than 24 hours apart. The device is also wire free and is water resistant, meaning that it can be worn in the shower and during exercise. However, users are advised to avoid showering or strenuous exercise for at least 24 hours after applying the patch. They also recommend avoiding environments or activities that lead to excessive sweating and advise against any activity which involves fully submerging the device in water, such as swimming or submerging the device whilst bathing. Current care pathway The CAM is intended for use in those who need extended duration cardiac monitoring for people with suspected cardiac arrhythmias. NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation states that standard care for people with suspected arrhythmias is assessment using manual pulse palpation followed by an ECG. In people with suspected paroxysmal atrial fibrillation undetected by standard ECG recording, use of a 24-hour ambulatory ECG monitor is recommended in people with suspected episodes less than 24 hours apart. An event recorder ECG is recommended for people with symptomatic episodes more than 24 hours apart. The following publications have been identified as relevant to this care pathway: • NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation • NICE's guideline on transient loss of consciousness ('blackouts') in over 16s • NICE's medical technologies guidance on Zio XT for detecting cardiac arrythmias • NICE's medical technologies guidance on WatchBP Home A for opportunistically detecting atrial fibrillation during diagnosis
