Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


over 16s • NICE's medical technologies guidance on Zio XT for detecting cardiac arrythmias • NICE's medical technologies guidance on WatchBP Home A for opportunistically detecting atrial fibrillation during diagnosis and monitoring of hypertension. Population, setting and intended user The CAM is indicated for detecting cardiac arrythmias in anyone weighing 10 kg or more. This includes using the device for diagnosing paediatric arrhythmias. The device can be fitted in a clinic or at home by a patient. Once used, the device can be posted back to the hospital or an external centre for analysis. The device pack comes with instructions for placing and activating the device and a patient diary. The device would be prescribed by a consultant cardiologist in a secondary or tertiary care setting. Patients need to press the button on the device and record the time and date in their diary if they experience any symptoms of their suspected arrhythmia. Costs Technology costs The cost of the device depends on the number of days the device is used for, if the analysis is done externally, and if the device is posted. This leads to a cost between £110 and £145 per person (if the analysis is done in the hospital) or £150 to £200 per person (if the analysis is done externally by the company): • 2-day monitoring, £110 (excluding VAT) • 7-day monitoring, £125 (excluding VAT) • 14-day monitoring, £140 (excluding VAT). Reporting costs are £40 per person for the 2- and 7-day service and £55 for the 14-day report. If the reporting is done in the hospital there are no reporting costs. If the device is directly mailed to the patient, there is an extra charge of £5 for the postage and administration costs. If the device is fitted in a clinic there are no additional postage charges. The company states that most devices would be fitted in a clinic. Costs of standard care ECG monitoring or stress testing is £127 for outpatients and £62 for directly accessed diagnostic services (EY51Z, National schedule of NHS costs for 2019 to 2020). The Zio XT monitoring services cost £265 per patient (excluding VAT). This figure includes the cost of the biosensor and the cost of analysing and reporting the data. Resource consequences The CAM patch is currently being used at 18 NHS hospitals. It is a single-use device which could be used as an alternative to the
