Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


reporting the data. Resource consequences The CAM patch is currently being used at 18 NHS hospitals. It is a single-use device which could be used as an alternative to the Holter monitor. This device can be used for up to 14 days, meaning that longer recordings can be done compared with Holter monitors. Because the device can be posted back, an additional hospital appointment is not needed. The company offers free training on device usage, fitting and data analysis (using their software). The software is provided for free and can be installed on as many computers in the hospital as needed. Regulatory information Carnation Ambulatory Monitor is a CE-marked class IIa medical device. Equality considerations NICE is committed to promoting equality of opportunity, eliminating unlawful discrimination and fostering good relations between people with particular protected characteristics and others. Cardiac arrhythmias can develop in people of any age but are more common in those aged over 60. Women tend to be at higher risk of certain arrhythmias, whereas men are 3 times more likely to develop atrial fibrillation at any age. However, of those people who develop atrial fibrillation, women have a much higher incidence of morbidity and mortality. The area of where the Carnation Ambulatory Monitor patch is applied will need shaving if hair is present. Some religions forbid cutting or shaving bodily hair. To show the device is working correctly, an LED light flashes when the recorder is attached to the battrode. People with a visual impairment may need help to check that the device is assembled and placed correctly. Religion, disability, age and sex are protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010. Clinical and technical evidence A literature search was carried out for this briefing in accordance with the interim process and methods statement for medtech innovation briefings. This briefing includes the most relevant or best available published evidence relating to the clinical effectiveness of the technology. Further information about how the evidence for this briefing was selected is available on request by contacting mibs@nice.org.uk. Published evidence Four studies are summarised in this briefing. This includes 3 prospective comparative studies in adults and 1 retrospective single-arm study in children. A total of 125 people were included in the studies. The clinical evidence and its strengths and limitations is summarised in the overall assessment of the evidence. Overall assessment of the evidence Two of the included full text papers
