Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


studies. The clinical evidence and its strengths and limitations is summarised in the overall assessment of the evidence. Overall assessment of the evidence Two of the included full text papers compare using Carnation Ambulatory Monitor (CAM) with either Holter monitors or Zio XT. One study compared 4 external cardiac monitors and uses an implanted pacemaker to test for recording accuracy. These studies found that the CAM device led to equivalent or enhanced detection of atrial fibrillation. There was positive patient experience in wearing the device, particularly when compared with Holter monitor use. Two of the studies show CAM use over 24 hours to 48 hours. This could be considered as a limitation because the CAM device can be used for up to 2 weeks and may be more appropriate for longer term use where arrhythmias may not be detected within a 48-hour period. The evidence is also limited by having small sample sizes. In the single-arm study in children, the CAM device was being used in those under 10 kg, which is not recommended by the company. Only 1 study was done in the UK, which could limit the generalisability of the evidence to the NHS. Eysenck et al. (2020) Study size, design and location Prospective randomised study comparing 4 external cardiac monitors on 21 adults with implanted pacemakers and known atrial fibrillation in the UK. Intervention and comparator All patients acted as their own control and wore 4 external cardiac monitors (Zio XT, NUUBO vest, CAM, Novacor 'R' test 4) for 2 weeks each in randomised order. All patients also had dual chamber permanent pacemakers implanted, which detect arrhythmias to a high level of sensitivity and specificity. Key outcomes CAM measures of atrial fibrillation burden were compared with the implanted pacemaker. The CAM device was found to correlate with the pacemaker (R-square value 0.9618). CAM more accurately identified the presence or absence of atrial fibrillation than the Novacor 'R' test 4 device (odds ratio 5.8; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.1 to 32.1; p=0.042). Zio XT was also significantly more accurate than Novacor 'R' test 4 (odds ratio 12.3; 95% CI 1.4 to 110.3; p=0.02). CAM was significantly more comfortable during initial application than Novacor 'R' test 4 (p=0.024), but there was no significant different in comfort between the devices during the recording phase. All the devices were found to be more expensive than Novacor 'T' test 4 when both
