Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


there was no significant different in comfort between the devices during the recording phase. All the devices were found to be more expensive than Novacor 'T' test 4 when both device and clinical care costs were considered. Strengths and limitations This randomised study was done in the UK but was limited by having a small sample size. Most of the comparisons are with the Novacor 'R' test 4 device because it was viewed to be the most commonly used external cardiac monitor in the UK that can record for more than 48 hours. The study reviewed the 4 devices at separate intervals rather than at the same time which limits the comparability between devices. However, this was thought to be reasonable because of the risk of artefacts being generated on the recordings. People in the study had dual chamber permanent pacemakers implanted which is not generalisable to the atrial fibrillation population. Rho et al. (2018) Study size, design and location Prospective comparative single centre study of 29 adults needing ambulatory electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring in the US. Intervention and comparator All patients simultaneously wore a CAM and Zio XT monitor for 7 days. Key outcomes A total of 86.7 plus or minus 0.6 arrhythmias were detected using Zio XT and 121.7 plus or minus 2.1 for CAM (p<0.001). Of the arrhythmias identified, atrial tachycardia was most diagnosed, and was more frequently identified with CAM than Zio XT (22.3 plus or minus 0.6 compared with 8.7 plus or minus 3.2, p<0.001). ECG clarity was ranked as high in all 29 CAM reports (100%) and on 4.5 (16%) of the Zio XT reports (p<0.001). Higher ECG clarity was mostly because of the greater ability to see P-waves when using the CAM device. Patient experiences were comparable and positive for both devices. Strengths and limitations This prospective study had a small sample size. The analysis was done using multiple reviewers with averaged rhythms decisions to compensate for subjectivity in individual reviewing opinions. Company analysis centres were also unaware of the research to prevent analysis bias. Smith et al. (2017) Study size, design and location Prospective comparative study including 50 adults needing continuous ECG recording in the US and New Zealand. Intervention and comparator All patients simultaneously wore a CAM and Holter monitor for 24 hours. Key outcomes The CAM patch identified rhythms in 23 people (46%) that changed management, compared with 6 in the
