Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


patients simultaneously wore a CAM and Holter monitor for 24 hours. Key outcomes The CAM patch identified rhythms in 23 people (46%) that changed management, compared with 6 in the Holter group (12%; p<0.01). All 6 Holter recordings with clinically significant arrhythmias were also found when using the CAM patch. The CAM patch ECG intervals PR, QRS and QT correlated well with the Holter ECG intervals having correlation coefficients of 0.93, 0.86, and 0.94, respectively. In terms of comfort, 48 people (96%) preferred wearing the CAM patch. Strengths and limitations The study compared 2 devices at the same time on the same person, which allowed direct data comparison. However, the CAM patch was only used for 24 hours (in line with normal Holter monitor use) which limits the evidence on comfort of CAM patch use for up to 14 days. Romme et al. (2021) Study size, design and location Retrospective study of 25 children aged 0 to 15 months needing ECG monitoring in the US. Intervention and comparator CAM patches worn for 48 hours. Five children wore a secondary CAM patch horizontally (leading to a total of 33 reports). Key outcomes The mean age was 4.2 plus or minus 5 months and the mean weight was 5.3 plus or minus 2.4 kg. P-waves were identifiable in all 33 reports and led to changes in medical management in 30% of children. Horizontal patch placement led to smaller amplitude P- waves. Strengths and limitations This study included children who weighed less than 10 kg. The company specify that their device is for use in children and adults weighing more than 10 kg. The retrospective study sample size was small and the monitoring time was limited to 48 hours, which may not be reflective of real-world use. Sustainability The company claims the technology will reduce the number of clinic visits needed. The device is also smaller than other patch monitors and the battrode can be recycled. The device packaging is made of paper and cardboard which can be recycled. There is no published evidence to support these claims. Recent and ongoing studies • Optimized Continuous 7-day Detection of Arrhythmias in Dialysis Population by a Patch With a High Resolution Differentiation of Atrial Activity. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04071054. Status: unknown. Indication: arrhythmia, dialysis complications. Devices: CAM. Estimated study completion date: December 2020. Austria. • Comparative Study of the CarnationTM Ambulatory Monitoring Sternal ECG Patch System
