Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04071054. Status: unknown. Indication: arrhythmia, dialysis complications. Devices: CAM. Estimated study completion date: December 2020. Austria. • Comparative Study of the CarnationTM Ambulatory Monitoring Sternal ECG Patch System With a Conventional 24-Hour 7 Lead Holter Monitor Recorder. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04241692. Status: enrolling by invitation. Indication: children with known or suspected cardiac arrhythmia. Devices: CAM, 7-lead Holter Monitor recorder. Estimated study completion date: March 2023. US. Expert comments Comments on this technology were invited from clinical experts working in the field and relevant patient organisations. The comments received are individual opinions and do not represent NICE's view. All 3 of the experts were familiar with or had used this technology before. Level of innovation All experts acknowledged that this technology was not as innovative as other ambulatory cardiac monitors available. One expert said that the device was a novel solution during the COVID-19 pandemic to manage diagnostic waits for cardiac monitors. Two experts said that device would be more comfortable for people to use than standard care which uses Holter monitors. This is because Holter monitors uses standard electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes with wires connecting to a recording box. The experts agreed the patch-type devices are less intrusive than standard ambulatory monitors and are becoming more widely used in the NHS. Potential patient impact Two experts said that when compared with Holter monitors, these patch-type devices are less intrusive because there is no need for cables and they are smaller and water resistant (and so does not need to be removed when showering). One expert said that longer monitoring is also likely to improve diagnostic yield, especially in those with relatively infrequent symptoms. If diagnostic yield is improved it is also likely to reduce the need for more invasive procedures. Two experts noted that the device can be sent via post and be self-applied by the patient and then posted back after the monitoring period. This could be more convenient than other monitoring options available and reduce the need for hospital visits. One expert further commented that this will also benefit people with poor mobility, where attending hospital appointments may be more difficult. Potential system impact One expert said that the diagnostic pathway is unlikely to change. However, because of improved comfort compared with Holter monitors, people are more likely to use the device for the entire monitoring period. This could lead to increased diagnostic yield through having a longer,
