Carnation Ambulatory Monitor for ambulatory detection of cardiac arrythmias
KEYWORDS: device, cam, study, holter, monitor, patch, people, monitoring, ecg, cardiac, monitors, devices, used, arrhythmias, evidence


improved comfort compared with Holter monitors, people are more likely to use the device for the entire monitoring period. This could lead to increased diagnostic yield through having a longer, continuous, monitoring period. The device could also reduce in-hospital work through reports being done externally and could lead to time savings for device preparation because of the device being single use. One expert said that the cost of the device is likely to be offset by an improved diagnostic yield, which can reduce need for repeat testing or repeat appointments. It could also reduce hospital physiologist time needed for data analysis and reporting, if the assessment was done externally. One expert further said that this would reduce hospital waiting times for cardiac monitoring. Applying the device at home and posting it back would also reduce the hospital time needed. One expert said that the training would be simple and similar to other technologies and that further training would be supported by the company. One expert also said that the instructions to use the device are simple and the patch is easy to apply. Another expert said that familiarisation was needed for registering patients onto the device portal and that some training would be needed for trusts wanting to use their own technicians to analyse data. General comments One expert stated that this is a very low risk technology and any risks would be shared by other ECG monitors. The most common adverse reaction to these devices is a skin reaction to the adhesive material, although they say the incidence of this is low. One expert said that it would be useful to have a 14-day monitoring study comparing other similar patch-type devices used in the NHS. One expert said that larger population studies would be needed. One expert said that cost compared with Holter monitors would be a barrier to wider uptake of the device. They said that there would be a reduction in capital cost but an increase in consumables cost if the device replaced Holter monitoring. Patient organisation comments Representatives from 3 patient organisations, Syncope Trust And Reflex anoxic Seizures (STARS), AF Association, and Arrhythmia Alliance, gave the following comments. The benefits of the device are that its more comfortable than a Holter monitor and is less obstructive when doing everyday activities. This includes being able to wear the device while showering and exercising. It is also discrete,
