Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


the risk factors for diabetic enteropathy and the relationship between diabetic enteropathy and impaired glycemic control and to develop novel approaches to managing diabetic enteropathy are critical. Type 1 diabetes is associated with gluten-sensitive enteropathy (also known as celiac disease [CD]). CD is very common (approximately 5%) in patients with type 1 diabetes, is often overlooked clinically, and may be asymptomatic while patients accrue health consequences, including growth retardation, bone demineralization, and eventually, symptoms. CD is readily detectable, and at the very least, those looking after patients with type 1 diabetes should have a very low threshold for testing. Screening at initial diabetes diagnosis and yearly for at least 5 years later should be considered in children and at least once in adults. Conversely, there is also a twofold increase in type 1 diabetes in patients with a prior diagnosis of CD (hazard ratio 2.4, 95% confidence interval 1.9–3.0). Gastric autoantibodies are common in type 1 diabetes and can lead to progressive loss of parietal cell mass and hypochlorhydria (low stomach acid) in a significant percentage of patients. It behooves the physician to be aware of this association and vigilant of its conse­ quences as the patient ages. In summary, studies suggest the prevalence of selected GI symptoms (e.g., constipation) are greater in individuals with diabetes than in controls. For other symptoms, the prevalence is generally not different in persons with diabetes compared to those without. Further studies are necessary to accurately estimate the prevalence of GI symptoms in people with diabetes and to identify the risk factors for these symptoms. 27–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION Although most attention has traditionally focused on the stomach, diabetes can affect the entire gastrointestinal (GI) tract, as implied by the term diabetic enterop­ athy. This chapter details the epidemiology and summarizes the salient features of the pathophysiology, clinical features, and management of diabetic enteropathy. This chapter does not address the relation­ ship between diabetes and certain chronic liver diseases and gallstone disease, which can be found in Chapter 26 Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes. In addition, this chapter does not discuss pancreatitis leading to diabetes, which is covered in Chapter 6 Other Specific Types of Diabetes, or pancreatitis in those with diabetes, which is very infrequent, but for which diabetes may be a risk factor (1,2). Information on diabetes and cancers, including those of the GI tract, is presented in
