Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


with diabetes, which is very infrequent, but for which diabetes may be a risk factor (1,2). Information on diabetes and cancers, including those of the GI tract, is presented in Chapter 29 Cancer and Diabetes. DATA RESOURCES AND THEIR LIMITATIONS There are no national studies on the epide­ miology of GI symptoms and sensory motor disturbances in diabetes. The understanding of these issues is primarily derived from the Rochester Epidemiology Project and other community-based studies that are described in the individual sections. The Rochester Epidemiology Project resides in Olmsted County, Minnesota. The Olmsted County population comprises approximately 100,000 persons, of whom 96% are white; sociodemographically, the community is similar to the U.S. white population (3). In Olmsted County, 80% of the population resides within 5 miles of Rochester, and residents receive their medical care almost exclusively from two group practices, Mayo Medical Center and Olmsted Medical Center. Annually, more than 80% of the entire population is attended by one or both of these prac­ tices, and nearly everyone is seen at least once during any given 3-year period (3). A unique medical record linkage system, the Rochester Epidemiology Project, enables this population to be enumerated, allowing samples to be drawn. Studies from Australia were primarily conducted in randomly selected adults age ≥18 years who were on the electoral rolls for Penrith and the Blue Mountains areas west of Sydney, Australia (4,5) and in another cohort of randomly selected subjects from the mailing list of Diabetes Australia, a nonprofit organization that provides informational support to some 100,000 individuals with diabetes (6). While the Olmsted County studies included people with type 1 and 2 diabetes, the studies from Australia were predominantly conducted in people with type 2 diabetes. FUNCTIONAL GASTROINTESTINAL DISTURBANCES AND SYNDROMES GASTROINTESTINAL SYMPTOMS: PREVALENCE AND RISK FACTORS Studies conducted in selected patient groups, often at tertiary referral centers, suggest that GI symptoms are common in persons with diabetes. However, these studies are prone to selection and other biases. In community studies, which avoid these biases, the prevalence of GI symptoms is, for the most part, either not different or only slightly higher than in people without diabetes (Tables 27.1–27.3). Thus, in the Rochester Diabetic Neuropathy Study, only 1% of diabetes patients had symptoms of gastroparesis, and only 0.6% had nocturnal diarrhea (Table 27.1) (7). In another study from Olmsted County, Minnesota, the prev­ alence of upper or lower (i.e., irritable
