Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


patients had symptoms of gastroparesis, and only 0.6% had nocturnal diarrhea (Table 27.1) (7). In another study from Olmsted County, Minnesota, the prev­ alence of upper or lower (i.e., irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, and fecal incontinence) GI symptoms was not significantly different between individuals with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes and age-matched controls (Table 27.1) (8). However, laxative use, and hence the combination of constipation and/or laxa­ tive use, was more common in persons with type 1 diabetes (27.0%) than controls (19.0%) but similar in those with type 2 diabetes (17.0%) and controls (15.0%) (Table 27.2) (8). Calcium channel blockers, female sex, and higher psychosomatic symptom scores were associated with constipation and/or laxative use (8). While the prevalence of constipation and/or laxative use was more common in type 1 diabetic individuals than controls, the higher prevalence was influenced by sex and psychosomatic symptom checklist score. The latter is a measure of physical symptoms (e.g., low back pain, high blood pressure) that might be related to stress. In males, but not females, with type 1 diabetes, constipation and/or laxative use were more prevalent than in sex-matched controls even after adjusting for psychosomatic symptom checklist score and regardless of the use of consti­ pating drugs. Two studies (i.e., from Olmsted County and a Finnish population) reported that people with type 1 diabetes had a lower prevalence of heartburn (8,9). In contrast, a study from Australia found that the prevalence of several upper and lower GI symptoms was higher in 423 patients with predominantly (95%) type 2 diabetes than in controls (Table 27.1 and Table 27.3) (4). Taken together, these data suggest that GI manifestations are common among patients with diabetes presenting for care. However, in the general population, the prevalence of GI manifestations is not substantially higher among people with diabetes compared to matched controls, perhaps partly because the prevalence of GI symptoms, mostly attributable to functional GI disorders (e.g., irritable Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes 27–3 bowel syndrome), among people without diabetes in the community is relatively high and approaches 10% (10). FUNCTIONAL GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Gastrointestinal dysmotility in diabetes is multifactorial: a role for extrinsic (i.e., sympathetic and parasympathetic) neural dysfunction, hyperglycemia, hormonal disturbances, and even intrinsic (i.e., enteric) neural dysfunction, which results from loss of excitatory and inhibitory neurons and interstitial cells of Cajal, have been implicated (11). Studies in animal models demonstrate that neural dysfunc­ tions are attributed
