Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


hypokalemia) and uremia may also aggravate impaired motor function in diabetic patients. Iatrogenic gastroparesis may result from treatment with amylin or glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogs (28,29,30). Epidemiology. Only one population- based study, which was conducted in 227 residents with type 1 diabetes, a random sample of 360 residents with type 2 diabetes, and an age- and sex-stratified random sample of 639 nondiabetic resi­ dents from Olmsted County, has evaluated the risk of developing gastroparesis in diabetes (Table 27.1) (31). Over a 10-year time period, the risk of developing gastroparesis was 5.2% in persons with type 1 diabetes (hazard ratio [HR] 33, 95% confidence interval [CI] 4.0–274, adjusted for age and sex versus controls), 1% in those with type 2 diabetes (HR 7.5, 95% CI 0.8–68, adjusted for age and sex versus controls), and 0.2% in controls. The risk of gastroparesis in type 1 diabetes was significantly greater than in type 2 diabetes (HR 4.4, 95% CI 1.1–17). Gastroparesis was documented by physi­ cian diagnosis, by evaluating GE with scintigraphy, or by symptoms and retained food at endoscopy. However, because gastroparesis was identified only in people who presented for care, people who had an asymptomatic delay in GE may not have been identified in this study. Table 27.4 provides the risk factors for diabetic gastroparesis identified in this study (31). Among persons with type 1 diabetes, only heartburn predicted the incidence of gastroparesis. Longitudinal studies from Australia suggest that similar to functional GI disor­ ders, GI symptom turnover also occurs in diabetes. Turnover refers to appear­ ance and disappearance of symptoms over time. In one study, considerable turnover in GI symptoms was observed 3 years after the initial assessment in patients with type 2 diabetes (6). However, appearance and resolution was balanced; hence, overall prevalence was compa­ rable at follow-up. Several factors, but not glycemic control, predicted symptom change; these factors varied among symp­ toms. In another cohort of 139 diabetic subjects, of whom approximately 50% had type 1 diabetes and 5% had severe autonomic dysfunction, symptom turn­ over varied between 15% and 25% in the diabetic group and was not significantly different from controls (32). Symptom turnover was not associated with glycemic control or autonomic neuropathy but, rather, with depression (i.e., appearance and disappearance of depression were associated with gain and loss of GI symp­ toms, respectively). Natural History. Minimal data are avail­ able on the natural history of diabetic
