Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


both § Early satiety, postprandial fullness, bloating, nausea, or vomiting ║Self-reported diarrhea or constipation, loose or watery stools, >3 bowel movements per day, urgency, fecal inconti­ nence, <3 bowel movements per week, lumpy or hard stools, or anal blockage ¶ >3 bowel movements per day, urgency, or loose or watery stools # <3 bowel movements per week, lumpy or hard stools, or anal blockage SOURCE: Reference 4, copyright © 2001 American Medical Association, reproduced with permission. All rights reserved. 27–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition correlation between initial and subsequent assessments was limited, as evidenced by a correlation coefficient of 0.56 (34). Two studies have evaluated the associa­ tion between diabetic gastroparesis and mortality or morbidity. In a study of 86 patients with diabetes, of whom 56% had delayed emptying of solids and 28% had delayed emptying of liquids, approxi­ mately 25% had died by follow-up at least 9 years later. Gastroparesis was not asso­ ciated with mortality after adjustment for other disorders (36). However, this study did not ascertain the relationship between diabetic gastroparesis and other medical conditions. A second study compared three parallel cohorts of patients with diabetes (i.e., 94 with symptoms and delayed GE, 94 with classic symptoms of delayed GE but normal scintigraphy, and 94 with no symptoms of gastroparesis) (37). In this study, diabetic gastroparesis was associated with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, retinopathy, and increased hospitalization. Compared to patients with GI symptoms alone, patients with diabetic gastroparesis also had more hospital days (25.5 vs. 5.1 per 1,000 patient-days). Mortality was statistically nonsignificantly higher in the group with diagnosed gastroparesis. In the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases Gastroparesis Clinical Research Consortium, the incident death rate (IDR) was 0.015 deaths per person- year. The IDRs were significantly higher in diabetic patients compared with idiopathic cases (0.0266 vs. 0.0094) and in those with delayed compared to normal gastric emptying (0.0189 vs. 0.0031) (38). Thus, among patients with GI symptoms, the GE assessment can identify patients with a worse prognosis. Whether this increased morbidity is driven by gastropa­ resis is unknown. Data on long-term natural history in the community are lacking. Diagnostic Tests. Diagnostic testing is guided by symptom pattern and severity. Since delayed GE may predispose to hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes (39), consideration should be given to eval­ uating emptying even in patients with unexplained hypoglycemia without GI symptoms. In patients with upper GI
