Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


samples are collected simply with a straw and sealable container, and the excreted 13CO2 is stable. A 13C-spirulina GEBT has been approved for use in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration. GE can also be measured by a nondi­ gestible capsule, SmartPill® wireless motility capsule, which records luminal pH, temperature, and pressure during GI transit, providing a measure of GE time. In the pivotal study, GE measured by a capsule and by scintigraphy at 4 hours were significantly correlated with a coefficient of 0.73 (45). Compared to scin­ tigraphic emptying at 4 hours, the capsule had 86% sensitivity and 92% specificity for diagnosing gastroparesis. After initial testing to identify disturbances of transit, more detailed testing with intraluminal techniques (i.e., antropyloroduodeno­ jejunal manometry) may be useful for characterizing motor dysfunctions and guiding therapy (16). Autonomic function tests are useful for identifying autonomic dysfunctions (e.g., vagal neuropathy) that are associated with gastroparesis. Reduced variability of the cardiac RR interval provides a simple screening assessment of vagal dysfunction (46). Management. The principles of gastropa­ resis management are to address fluid and nutritional requirements, improve glycemic control, and treat symptoms. These measures have been summarized in guidelines (47). Diarrhea Definition. Diabetic diarrhea is defined by loose and frequent stools, generally more than three bowel movements daily in patients with diabetes. Epidemiology. Some, but not all, popu­ lation-based studies, which have been exclusively based on type 2 diabetes (4,5) or combined both patients with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes (8), reported a higher prevalence of diarrhea in patients with diabetes than in nondiabetic controls (Table 27.1). For example, in a sample of 423 patients with predominantly (95%) type 2 diabetes, 15.6% reported diarrhea or constipation versus 10% of nondia­ betic controls (4). A systematic review of all English-language observational studies and trials from inception through April 2010 highlighted the known link between metformin and diarrhea (48). For example, among 5,021 participants in five randomized controlled trials, the inci­ dence of diarrhea was higher for subjects treated with metformin (15%–24%) than for those treated with thiazolidinediones (3%–8%) (48). Likewise, the incidence was higher for metformin (2.5%–50%) than for sulfonylureas (0%–13%) treatment (48). No systematic assessments have been conducted of the clinical features, risk factors, or natural history of diabetic diarrhea. Diagnostic Tests. If diarrhea cannot be attributed to metformin or ingestion of incompletely absorbed carbohydrates, further assessment should be considered, particularly
