Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


features, risk factors, or natural history of diabetic diarrhea. Diagnostic Tests. If diarrhea cannot be attributed to metformin or ingestion of incompletely absorbed carbohydrates, further assessment should be considered, particularly in type 1 diabetes. Drugs used in diabetes may also result in diarrhea (49). The association between type 1 diabetes and CD is considered separately in this chapter. A 24-hour stool collection to quantify stool weight and fat content should be performed to identify fat malabsorption. While CD and bacterial overgrowth can cause malabsorption, testing for these conditions should be considered even when stool examina­ tion does not reveal malabsorption. A duodenal aspirate to assess for bacterial overgrowth and duodenal biopsies to exclude CD can be obtained at upper GI endoscopy. While lactulose or glucose hydrogen breath tests are widely used to identify bacterial overgrowth, their use is limited, since rapid delivery of the substrate to the colon can also give rise to an early breath hydrogen peak (50). Management. Diabetic diarrhea is treated symptomatically with loperamide, pref­ erably administered 30 minutes before meals, in the dose range of 2–16 mg per day. Consumption of artificial sweeteners that contain the osmotically active sugar substitute sorbitol should be reduced. Second line approaches are clonidine, 0.1 mg orally (51) or by patch in patients who do not experience significant postural hypotension. Amitriptyline, which has anti­ cholinergic effects, may reduce intestinal cramping and transit. Octreotide (25–50 μg subcutaneously 5–10 minutes before meals) delays small intestinal transit (52) and may also reduce secretory diarrhea associated with rapid intestinal transit 27–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition (53). Octreotide may reduce small bowel bacterial overgrowth in chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction (54); however, this study assessed for bacterial overgrowth by breath testing. Indeed, by delaying small intestinal transit, octreotide may predispose to bacterial overgrowth. Constipation Definition. Constipation is defined by bowel symptoms: infrequent bowel move­ ments, hard stools, excessive straining during defecation, a sense of anorectal blockage during defecation, the need for anal digitation during defecation, and a sense of incomplete evacuation after defecation (55). Although diarrhea may alternate with constipation, these bowel disturbances usually occur in isolation. Pathophysiology. In general, primary constipation results from colonic motor dysfunction or a defecatory disorder (i.e., disordered rectal evacuation). Similar to idiopathic chronic constipation, patients with diabetes and constipation may have colonic dysmotility and/or anorectal dysfunctions (i.e., impaired relaxation of the anal sphincter or pelvic floor during defecation) (56). Patients with
