Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


idiopathic chronic constipation, patients with diabetes and constipation may have colonic dysmotility and/or anorectal dysfunctions (i.e., impaired relaxation of the anal sphincter or pelvic floor during defecation) (56). Patients with colonic dysmotility have an impaired colonic contractile response to a meal and delayed colonic transit (57). Patients with reduced rectal sensation may not perceive the desire to defecate. Compared to euglycemia, acute hyperglycemia inhib­ ited the colonic contractile response to gastric distention and proximal colonic contraction elicited by colonic distention in healthy subjects (58). However, acute hyperglycemia did not significantly affect fasting or postprandial colonic tone, motility, compliance, and sensation, or rectal compliance and sensation in healthy people (59). Secondary causes of constipation include medications; calcium channel blockers were associated with an increased risk of constipation in a commu­ nity-based study (8). Epidemiology. The epidemiology of constipation is presented in the section Gastrointestinal Symptoms: Prevalence and Risk Factors. Diagnostic Tests. Anorectal manometry and rectal balloon expulsion are initial tests and generally suffice to diagnose or exclude defecatory disorders (60). After excluding or managing defecatory disor­ ders, consideration should be given to evaluating colonic transit by radiopaque markers or by scintigraphy. In one community-based study of 10 patients with diabetes and constipation, three had prolonged 24-hour colonic transit, and three had abnormal evacuation. Overall colonic transit was slower in diabetic patients with constipation than controls (56). Intraluminal assessments of colonic phasic motility (by manometry) and tone (by barostat) are only available in highly specialized centers and provide a refined assessment of colonic motor dysfunction in patients with slow transit constipation. Management. With one exception (i.e., the use of pyridostigmine) (61), these recommendations for managing constipa­ tion in diabetes are adapted from recommendations for managing idiopathic constipation; no specific trials have been conducted in diabetic patients with consti­ pation. The pelvic floor disorders are preferably managed with pelvic floor retraining by biofeedback therapy rather than laxatives; magnetic resonance imaging or barium proctography are only required in selected patients (60). Pelvic floor retraining by biofeedback therapy is the cornerstone for managing defecatory disorders; laxatives are used as an adjunct to pelvic floor retraining. In the absence of pelvic floor dysfunction, fiber supplemen­ tation and pharmacological agents (i.e., osmotic and stimulant laxatives) are the mainstays for chronic constipation (60,62). The cholinesterase inhibitor pyridostigmine has been shown to accelerate colonic transit and improve symptoms (61). OTHER CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Dysphagia and Heartburn Esophageal dysmotility, typically characterized
