Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


mainstays for chronic constipation (60,62). The cholinesterase inhibitor pyridostigmine has been shown to accelerate colonic transit and improve symptoms (61). OTHER CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Dysphagia and Heartburn Esophageal dysmotility, typically characterized by impaired peristalsis with simultaneous contractions, may cause dysphagia and may be related to cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy in diabetes (63). Two studies (i.e., from Olmsted County and a Finnish population) reported that people with type 1 diabetes had a lower prevalence of heartburn (8,9). Case series suggest that gastro­ esophageal reflux and dysfunctional esophageal peristalsis are correlated to the duration of type 2 diabetes (64). In another study, erosive esophagitis was more prevalent in type 2 diabetic patients with than without peripheral neuropathy (65). Diabetes was also an independent risk factor for Barrett’s esophagus in the population. Indeed, type 2 diabetes was associated with a 49% increase in the risk of Barrett’s esophagus, independent of other known risk factors, including obesity (odds ratio 1.49, 95% CI 1.16–1.91). This association was stronger in women than men (66). Diabetes may predispose to gastroesophageal reflux either directly or through obesity. Obesity predisposes to gastroesophageal reflux, by disrupting the gastroesophageal junction reflux barrier (67,68,69) and independently via injurious effects of increased abdominal visceral fat (70). Also, delayed GE may conceivably predispose to GE reflux in diabetes. Fecal Incontinence Fecal incontinence refers to uncontrolled leakage of liquid or solid stool in the absence of a temporary diarrheal illness (e.g., acute gastroenteritis). The incidence, prevalence, and risk factors of fecal incontinence in diabetes are unknown. Loose stools and anorectal dysfunctions contribute to fecal incontinence in diabetic diarrhea. Compared to patients with diabetes without fecal incontinence and healthy controls, patients with diabetes and fecal incontinence have a higher threshold for rectal perception of balloon distention (i.e., reduced sensation) (71,72). A sympathetic neuropathy may impair internal anal sphincter functional and anal resting pressures, while a pudendal neuropathy may result in reduced anal squeeze pressure (73,74,75). Reduced rectal sensation has also been reported. Regulating stool consistency is the initial approach for managing fecal continence. In addition, pelvic floor retraining with biofeedback therapy can improve rectal sensation and enhance coordination between perception of rectal distention and contraction of the external anal Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes 27–9 sphincter (72). However, biofeedback therapy is less effective in patients with markedly reduced rectal sensation. A descending colostomy may be required and may improve the quality of life in patients with severe diarrhea associated
