Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


therapy is less effective in patients with markedly reduced rectal sensation. A descending colostomy may be required and may improve the quality of life in patients with severe diarrhea associated with fecal incontinence. Abdominal Pain Diabetic patients are susceptible to the usual causes of abdominal pain. Diabetes is associated with an increased prevalence of gallstones and of mesenteric ischemia caused by generalized atherosclerosis (76). Thoracolumbar radiculopathy may result in pain in a dermatome distribution that does not cross the midline. Tests and management are guided by the specific features of pain and associated symptoms. ASSOCIATION OF TYPE 1 DIABETES WITH IMMUNE-RELATED GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS CELIAC DISEASE IN TYPE 1 DIABETES This section reviews the association between CD and type 1 diabetes. Much of the CD in persons with type 1 diabetes is minimally or not at all symptomatic. The prevalence of type 1 diabetes in patients with CD is summarized. In addition, data on the impact of the detection and treat­ ment of CD on the management of type 1 diabetes are reviewed. It is important for clinicians, epidemiologists, and others involved in the care and management of patients with type 1 diabetes to recognize the common association with CD. There are few data on the prevalence of CD or even celiac autoimmunity in patients with latent autoimmune diabetes of adults (LADA) and type 2 diabetes. One very small study identified no increased risk of CD markers in patients with LADA and type 2 diabetes (77). A second smaller study suggested an increase in antigli­ adin antibodies in patients with LADA compared to type 2 diabetes; however, no significant differences were made with any of the celiac-specific serology of tissue transglutaminase (TTG) immuno­ globulin A (IgA) antibodies or endomysial antibodies (78). Definition, Genetics, and Immune Response CD is primarily an enteropathy that occurs in individuals with a genetic predisposition who are on a gluten-containing diet. The disease usually responds to gluten with­ drawal; though, complete resolution is not universal, especially when subjects are detected as adults. The known genetic predisposition primarily includes the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type DQ2 or DQ8, encoded by DQA1’05XX:DQB1’02XX or DQA1’03XX:DQB1’0302. The HLA genes are considered essential for the disease, but not sufficient. Additionally, other non-HLA genes have been associated with risk for CD, and some of these genes also overlap those associated with type 1 diabetes (Table 27.5). (Please see Chapter 12 Genetics of Type
