Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


genes have been associated with risk for CD, and some of these genes also overlap those associated with type 1 diabetes (Table 27.5). (Please see Chapter 12 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes for more information on genes associated with type 1 diabetes risk.) Each of these gene loci accounts for a very small contribution to the actual risk, and all collected contribute no more than 10% of familial risk of CD. Insufficient data have been collected to identify the precise polymorphisms and their functional consequences associated with these non-HLA markers for CD susceptibility, though incorporation of the non-HLA gene polymorphisms can improve prediction of disease risk (79). In CD, the immune response to gluten and especially to incompletely digested immu­ nogenetic peptides that are transformed via targeted deamidation of specific gluta­ mines to glutamic acid enable a potent cellular and humoral immune response. The primary drivers of the cellular immune response to gluten that occurs in CD are gluten-responsive CD4 T cells resident in the lamina propria of the intestine. These CD4 cells recognize gliadin peptides and most especially deamidated gliadin peptides when presented by antigen-pre­ senting cells expressing DQ2 or, more rarely, DQ8. This cellular response results in the release of cytokines that drives an inflammatory cascade that produces the lesion characteristic of CD (80). This results in substantial damage to the small intestinal architecture and reduction in absorptive capacity, increased net secretion, and other consequences of inflammation. The humoral response is characterized by IgA and immunoglob­ ulin G (IgG) antibodies directed against native and deamidated gliadin, as well as IgA antibody to the widely expressed autoantigen TTG. Selective IgA deficiency is substantially more common in CD, and CD is more common in selective IgA deficiency (81). In IgA deficiency, the TTG antibodies are of the IgG isotype. In addi­ tion to the adaptive immune response, a potent innate immune response occurs to other protein components of wheat (82). This involves a stress response of the enterocyte, activating CD8 intraepithelial lymphocytes that become cytotoxic in concert with interleukin (IL)-15 (83). In addition, other changes in the mucosa occur, including increased expression of surface transferrin receptor, which also functions as a soluble IgA receptor and may permit transcellular transport of gliadin molecules. CD has been associated with type 1 diabetes, but not with type 2 diabetes. While some first thought that hidden CD might trigger diabetes, it has since become
