Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


gliadin molecules. CD has been associated with type 1 diabetes, but not with type 2 diabetes. While some first thought that hidden CD might trigger diabetes, it has since become clear that the association is due to shared genetic and perhaps overlapping environmental triggers (Table 27.5) (84). CD appears to be seen primarily in the DQ2+ subjects and much less so in the DQ8+ patients with type 1 diabetes (85). Combined, the inflammatory responses in CD result in dramatic alteration of the architecture of the small intestine char­ acterized by mixed cellular infiltration of the lamina propria with lymphocytes, macrophages, eosinophils, plasma cells, leading to crypt hyperplasia and cytotoxic CD8 T cells in the epithelium, producing shortening and eventually flattening of the villi (86). These changes predominately affect a variable length of the proximal 27–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition small intestine (87). This injury increases permeability and impacts absorption, as well as secretion. In addition, the inflammation can result in discomfort, pain, obstruction, ulceration, and even perforation. Beyond the small intestine, manifestations of malabsorption can include metabolic bone disease, iron deficiency, anemia, coagulopathy from vitamin K deficiency, and peripheral neuropathy from vitamin B12, vitamin B6, vitamin E, or copper deficiency. Other systemic manifestations include derma­ titis herpetiformis, peripheral neuropathy, male and female infertility, recurrent miscarriages, cerebellar ataxia, and severe cognitive impairment, hyposplenism, predisposition to infection, or predispo­ sition to malignancies. The malignancies include enteropathy-associated lymphoma, small bowel adenocarcinoma, and those outside of the small intestine, including esophageal cancer, melanoma, non-Hod­ gkin lymphoma, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (88). Epidemiology CD affects 0.71% of the U.S. population age ≥6 years (89) and similar or greater numbers in most global locations studied (90). Studies undertaken in the general population, as well as in groups at risk for CD, have demonstrated that CD affects approximately 1% of non-Hispanic whites. Most patients with CD in the United States, as many as 83%–93%, remain unde­ tected (89). The proportion of CD among hospital discharge diagnoses is less than 0.1%, though it is higher—0.28%—in patients who also have a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes (Figure 27.2). This proportion has risen significantly from previous years according to a new analysis of data from the National Hospital Discharge Surveys 1996–2010 performed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition (Figure 27.2). Of note, CD was defined based on International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision (ICD-9), code 579.0, and the standard errors
