Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


symptoms to a GFD. Intestinal biopsies, while still recom­ mended for the confirmation of CD, are subject to sampling and interpretation error. Documenting a response to a GFD by histologic improvement is not often performed and is considered unnecessary to confirm the initial diagnosis. However, some practitioners will routinely rebiopsy an adult with CD to ensure that healing is occurring. In type 1 diabetes, as in other circum­ stances, a positive TTG antibody test alone is not sufficient to confirm CD. Indeed, those with low-level positives may revert to negative despite remaining on a gluten-containing diet (104). There is insuf­ ficient evidence to support starting a GFD in patients with even sequentially posi­ tive TTG antibodies, though persistently high titer TTG is a strong predictor of CD (105). The positive predictive value varies substantially. HLA type is unlikely to be helpful in that a large proportion of patients with type 1 diabetes will carry the same HLA susceptibility for CD; though, it should be noted that 50% of type 1 diabetes patients do not carry DQ2, and their risk of CD is 10 times lower than those with at least one copy of the high-risk haplotype. The need for biopsy confirmation of the diagnosis of CD is especially important in those without symptoms of CD (106). Management The treatment of CD requires a GFD—the avoidance of wheat, barley, and rye. Occasionally, patients are also sensitive to oats, though they are the exception. Once CD is detected, treatment is justi­ fied in all patients given the increased risk of long-term complications (107). Symptomatic patients will respond to a GFD (Table 27.10). Even patients who do not report any symptoms at the time of diagnosis can subsequently report benefit with the GFD (108). In those with type 1 diabetes, CD is often discovered as part of a screening program and may have few symptoms. The treatment with a GFD presents special challenges to add to the disease management burden of type 1 diabetes. The reported compliance with GFD varies but is less than perfect (Table 27.11) (109). While virtually none of these studies are from the United States, differences in community support and the recent popularity of the GFD may make treatment easier to achieve. TABLE 27.9. Manifestations of Celiac Disease 1. Classic malabsorption: diarrhea, steatorrhea, weight loss, fat soluble vitamin deficiencies (D, E, A, and K), deficiencies of iron, B12, zinc,
