Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


A single study has suggested that the diminished bone density found at the time of detection of CD improves with a GFD (112). Effect of Gluten-Free Diet on Diabetes Control and Complications It has been suggested that a GFD may have subtle consequences on glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) and increased total insulin dose needed. This may be due to improved carbohydrate digestion and absorption. The impact on A1c has either been no effect or a beneficial effect (Table 27.13). Studies have usually compared patients before and after insti­ tution of a GFD. The risk of vascular complications may be greater in patients with CD, though it is not yet known whether the detection and treatment of CD in these doubly affected patients impact the likelihood of development of vascular disease (84,113,114). One small study of 21 patients by Malalasekera et al. (115) demonstrated that institution of a GFD led to reduction in urinary microalbumin­ uria. A very small study of 19 subjects by Skovbjerg et al. (116) suggested that CD was more common in patients with nephropathy compared to those diabetic individuals without nephropathy. One paper suggested lower values of choles­ terol and triglycerides in the patients with CD and type 1 diabetes compared to those with type 1 diabetes alone (117). Further studies on the role of CD with type 1 diabetes in vascular risk factors are needed. Role of Gluten in Triggering Diabetes Two-thirds of prospective cohort studies have suggested that early cereal intro­ duction at age 3 months or earlier is associated with increased risk of islet cell autoimmunity in newborns (118,119). However, the BABYDIET trial showed that delaying gluten introduction until age 12 months in those at risk of type 1 diabetes does not appear to protect from the devel­ opment of diabetes-related autoimmunity or diabetes itself (118). INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are immune-based disorders affecting the small and large intestine. IBD incorporates both Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. TABLE 27.12. Impact of Gluten-Free Diet for Celiac Disease Detected in Patients With Type 1 Diabetes LOCATION, YEARS (REF.) STUDY POPULATION NUMBER FOLLOWED KEY FINDINGS COMPLIANCE North America United States, started in 1998 (158) and 1999 (105) Cohort children 71 Low BMI, lower BMD, ferritin, and vitamin D over time. No effect of delay in GFD. United States, NR (112) Asymptomatic diabetic children 11 Improvement in A1c after GFD; also bone mineral density Canada, 2009–2010
