Chapter 27: Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, celiac, symptoms, celiac disease, risk, study, children, diabetic, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, gastric


is based on the use of corticosteroids. Studies that report the development of diabetes in patients with ulcerative colitis generally have little data measuring the actual risk. While it is well recognized that the chronic use of corticosteroids substantially increases the risk of diabetes, there are relatively few case-control studies and very few data for patients with IBD. In one case-control series of 55 adult patients with active Crohn’s disease, treatment with systemic corticosteroids substantially increased the risk of hyperglycemia (124), though the confidence intervals overlapped 1.0. There are very few data regarding the risk of diabetes in patients with IBD treated with corticosteroids. AUTOIMMUNE GASTRITIS Autoimmune gastritis can also be asso­ ciated with type 1 diabetes because of a common genetic background or tendency to autoimmunity (125,126). Autoimmune gastritis is a T cell-mediated disease marked by the presence of autoantibodies directed against the H+/K+ ATPase in the parietal cells of the stomach. This tissue-specific autoimmunity can result in reduction of acid production in the stomach, hypochlorhydria, and iron deficiency. The gastric mucosa can become atrophic. Consequent to the loss of ability of the parietal cells to produce acid, the neuroendocrine cells of the stomach reduce the negative regulation that is exerted by the acid pH via soma­ tostatin, thereby leading to unrestrained gastrin secretion. Hypergastrinemia may be seen in 7% of patients with type 1 diabetes (127). Vitamin B12 deficiency is uncommon, though it can occur in patients with markers for pernicious anemia (127). This hypersecretion of gastrin leads to hypertrophy of enterochromaffin cells in the stomach, which in turn can lead to carcinoid development (128). The loss of parietal cell mass leads to reduced digestive acid that is needed for effec­ tive cleavage of vitamin B12 from food sources and also reduces intrinsic factor production. Both lead to vitamin B12 defi­ ciency (i.e., pernicious anemia) (125). The acid-producing cells of the stomach also produce pepsinogen, which is activated by low pH to aid in digestion. Diagnosis Atrophic gastritis can be detected by the identification of parietal cell antibodies (PCAs) or, more recently, the ATP4A autoantibody (129) in the serum, low serum pepsinogen I, the demonstration of atrophy of the gastric body mucosa on endoscopic biopsies, and often by very high levels of gastrin in the fasting state. Autoantibodies may exist long before the results of loss of parietal cell mass and function become apparent in the form of
