Atrial arrhythmias - PMC
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, rate, ventricular, waves, flutter, atrioventricular, beats, atrial tachycardia, block, min, beats min, fibrillation, ventricular rate, atrial fibrillation


In adults a tachycardia is any heart rate greater than 100 beats per minute. Supraventricular tachycardias may be divided into two distinct groups depending on whether they arise from the atria or the atrioventricular junction. This article will consider those arising from the atria: sinus tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, and atrial tachycardia. Tachycardias arising from re-entry circuits in the atrioventricular junction will be considered in the next article in the series. 1/14 Supraventricular tachycardias From the atria or sinoatrial node Sinus tachycardia Atrial fibrillation Atrial flutter Atrial tachycardia From the atrioventricular node Atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia Atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia Clinical relevance The clinical importance of a tachycardia in an individual patient is related to the ventricular rate, the presence of any underlying heart disease, and the integrity of cardiovascular reflexes. Coronary blood flow occurs during diastole, and as the heart rate increases diastole shortens. In the presence of coronary atherosclerosis, blood flow may become critical and anginal-type chest pain may result. Similar chest pain, which is not related to myocardial ischaemia, may also occur. Reduced cardiac performance produces symptoms of faintness or syncope and leads to increased sympathetic stimulation, which may increase the heart rate further. 2/14 Electrocardiographic characteristics of atrial arrhythmias Sinus tachycardia P waves have normal morphology Atrial rate 100-200 beats/min Regular ventricular rhythm Ventricular rate 100-200 beats/min One P wave precedes every QRS complex Atrial tachycardia Abnormal P wave morphology Atrial rate 100-250 beats/min Ventricular rhythm usually regular Variable ventricular rate Atrial flutter Undulating saw-toothed baseline F (flutter) waves Atrial rate 250-350 beats/min Regular ventricular rhythm Ventricular rate typically 150 beats/min (with 2:1 atrioventricular block) 4:1 is also common (3:1 and 1:1 block uncommon) Atrial fibrillation P waves absent; oscillating baseline f (fibrillation) waves Atrial rate 350-600 beats/min Irregular ventricular rhythm Ventricular rate 100-180 beats/min As a general rule the faster the ventricular rate, the more likely the presence of symptoms—for example, chest pain, faintness, and breathlessness. Urgent treatment is needed for severely symptomatic patients with a narrow complex tachycardia. 3/14 Electrocardiographic features Differentiation between different types of supraventricular tachycardia may be difficult, particularly when ventricular rates exceed 150 beats/min. Electrocardiographic analysis should include measurement of the ventricular rate, assessment of the ventricular rhythm, identification of P, F, or f waves , measurement of the atrial rate, and establishment of the relation of P waves to the ventricular complexes Knowledge of the electrophysiology of these arrhythmias
