Atrial arrhythmias - PMC
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, rate, ventricular, waves, flutter, atrioventricular, beats, atrial tachycardia, block, min, beats min, fibrillation, ventricular rate, atrial fibrillation


P, F, or f waves , measurement of the atrial rate, and establishment of the relation of P waves to the ventricular complexes Knowledge of the electrophysiology of these arrhythmias will assist correct identification. Evaluation of atrial activity on the electrocardiogram is crucial in this process. Analysis of the ventricular rate and rhythm may also be helpful, although this rate will depend on the degree of atrioventricular block. Increasing atrioventricular block by manoeuvres such as carotid sinus massage or administration of intravenous adenosine may be of diagnostic value as slowing the ventricular rate allows more accurate visualisation of atrial activity. Such manoeuvres will not usually stop the tachycardia, however, unless it is due to re-entry involving the atrioventricular node. Sinus tachycardia Sinus tachycardia is usually a physiological response but may be precipitated by sympathomimetic drugs or endocrine disturbances. The rate rarely exceeds 200 beats/min in adults. The rate increases gradually and may show beat to beat variation. Each P wave is followed by a QRS complex. P wave morphology and axis are normal, although the height of the P wave may increase with the heart rate and the PR interval will shorten. With a fast tachycardia the P wave may become lost in the preceding T wave. 4/14 Causes of sinus tachycardia Physiological—Exertion, anxiety, pain Pathological—Fever, anaemia, hypovolaemia, hypoxia Endocrine—Thyrotoxicosis Pharmacological—Adrenaline as a result of phaeochromocytoma; salbutamol; alcohol, caffeine Recognition of the underlying cause usually makes diagnosis of sinus tachycardia easy. A persistent tachycardia in the absence of an obvious underlying cause should prompt consideration of atrial flutter or atrial tachycardia. Causes of atrial fibrillation • Ischaemic heart disease • Cardiomyopathy (dilated or hypertrophic) • Hypertensive heart disease • Sick sinus syndrome • Rheumatic heart disease • Post-cardiac surgery • Thyrotoxicosis • Chronic pulmonary disease • Alcohol misuse (acute or • Idiopathic (lone) chronic) Open in a new tab Rarely the sinus tachycardia may be due to a re-entry phenomenon in the sinoatrial node. This is recognised by abrupt onset and termination, a very regular rate, and absence of an underlying physiological stimulus. The electrocardiographic characteristics are otherwise identical. The rate is usually 130-140 beats/min, and vagal manoeuvres may be successful in stopping the arrhythmia. Atrial fibrillation 5/14 This is the most common sustained arrhythmia. Overall prevalence is 1% to 1.5%, but prevalence increases with age, affecting about 10% of people aged over 70. Causes are varied, although many cases
