Atrial arrhythmias - PMC
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, rate, ventricular, waves, flutter, atrioventricular, beats, atrial tachycardia, block, min, beats min, fibrillation, ventricular rate, atrial fibrillation


the most common sustained arrhythmia. Overall prevalence is 1% to 1.5%, but prevalence increases with age, affecting about 10% of people aged over 70. Causes are varied, although many cases are idiopathic. Prognosis is related to the underlying cause; it is excellent when due to idiopathic atrial fibrillation and relatively poor when due to ischaemic cardiomyopathy. Atrial fibrillation is caused by multiple re-entrant circuits or “wavelets” of activation sweeping around the atrial myocardium. These are often triggered by rapid firing foci. Atrial fibrillation is seen on the electrocardiogram as a wavy, irregular baseline made up of f (fibrillation) waves discharging at a frequency of 350 to 600 beats/min. The amplitude of these waves varies between leads but may be so coarse that they are mistaken for flutter waves. Conduction of atrial impulses to the ventricles is variable and unpredictable. Only a few of the impulses transmit through the atrioventricular node to produce an irregular ventricular response. This combination of absent P waves, fine baseline f wave oscillations, and irregular ventricular complexes is characteristic of atrial fibrillation. The ventricular rate depends on the degree of atrioventricular conduction, and with normal conduction it varies between 100 and 180 beats/min. Slower rates suggest a higher degree of atrioventricular block or the patient may be taking medication such as digoxin. Fast atrial fibrillation may be difficult to distinguish from other tachycardias. The RR interval remains irregular, however, and the overall rate often fluctuates. Mapping R waves against a piece of paper or with calipers usually confirms the diagnosis. Atrial fibrillation may be paroxysmal, persistent, or permanent. It may be precipitated by an atrial extrasystole or result from degeneration of other supraventricular tachycardias, particularly atrial tachycardia and/or flutter. Atrial flutter Atrial flutter is due to a re-entry circuit in the right atrium with secondary activation of the left atrium. This produces atrial contractions at a rate of about 300 beats/min—seen on the electrocardiogram as flutter (F) waves. These are broad and appear saw-toothed and are best seen in the inferior leads and in lead V1. The ventricular rate depends on conduction through the atrioventricular node. Typically 2:1 block (atrial rate to ventricular rate) occurs, giving a ventricular rate of 150 beats/min. Identification of a regular tachycardia with this rate should prompt the diagnosis of atrial flutter. The non-conducting flutter waves are often mistaken for or merged with T waves and become apparent only if the
