Atrial arrhythmias - PMC
KEYWORDS: atrial, tachycardia, rate, ventricular, waves, flutter, atrioventricular, beats, atrial tachycardia, block, min, beats min, fibrillation, ventricular rate, atrial fibrillation


tachycardia with this rate should prompt the diagnosis of atrial flutter. The non-conducting flutter waves are often mistaken for or merged with T waves and become apparent only if the block is 6/14 increased. Manoeuvres that induce transient atrioventricular block may allow identification of flutter waves. The causes of atrial flutter are similar to those of atrial fibrillation, although idiopathic atrial flutter is uncommon. It may convert into atrial fibrillation over time or, after administration of drugs such as digoxin. Atrial tachycardia Atrial tachycardia typically arises from an ectopic source in the atrial muscle and produces an atrial rate of 150-250 beats/min—slower than that of atrial flutter. The P waves may be abnormally shaped depending on the site of the ectopic pacemaker. Types of atrial tachycardia Benign Incessant ectopic Multifocal Atrial tachycardia with block (digoxin toxicity) The ventricular rate depends on the degree of atrioventricular block, but when 1:1 conduction occurs a rapid ventricular response may result. Increasing the degree of block with carotid sinus massage or adenosine may aid the diagnosis. There are four commonly recognised types of atrial tachycardia. Benign atrial tachycardia is a common arrhythmia in elderly people. It is paroxysmal in nature, has an atrial rate of 80-140 beats/min and an abrupt onset and cessation, and is brief in duration. Incessant ectopic atrial tachycardia is a rare chronic arrhythmia in children and young adults. The rate depends on the underlying sympathetic tone and is characteristically 100-160 beats/min. It can be difficult to distinguish from a sinus tachycardia. Diagnosis is important as it may lead to dilated cardiomyopathy if left untreated. 7/14 Conditions associated with atrial tachycardia Cardiomyopathy Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Ischaemic heart disease Rheumatic heart disease Sick sinus syndrome Digoxin toxicity Multifocal atrial tachycardia occurs when multiple sites in the atria are discharging and is due to increased automaticity. It is characterised by P waves of varying morphologies and PR intervals of different lengths on the electrocardiographic trace. The ventricular rate is irregular. It can be distinguished from atrial fibrillation by an isoelectric baseline between the P waves. It is typically seen in association with chronic pulmonary disease. Other causes include hypoxia or digoxin toxicity. Atrial tachycardia with atrioventricular block is typically seen with digoxin toxicity. The ventricular rhythm is usually regular but may be irregular if atrioventricular block is variable. Although often referred to as “paroxysmal atrial tachycardia with block” this arrhythmia is usually
