The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


and altered peripheral metabolism of T4 and T3, combine to produce a state marked by diminished serum and tissue supplies of thyroid hormones. Nevertheless, some observers accept the low hormone levels as valid, but maintain that this is a (unique) situation in which such lack of hormone is not truly hypothyroidism (i.e., the “euthyroid sick syndrome”). Lastly, there is even greater uncertainly about hormone replacement therapy, in considerable part because the opinion that replacement treatment should not be given has been repeated so many times, even though there is effectively no factual support for that view. We need controlled clinical trials in order to answer the question. It can not be solved by oft-stated opinions. Low T 3 States Starvation, and more precisely carbohydrate deprivation, appears to rapidly inhibit deiodination of T 4 to T 3 by type 1 iodothyronine deiodinase in the liver, thus inhibiting generation of T 3 and preventing metabolism of reverse T 3 (rT 3 ). 10 Consequently there is a drop in serum T 3 and elevation of reverse T 3 . Since starvation induces a decrease in basal metabolic rate, 11 it has been argued, teleologically, that this decrease in thyroid hormone represents an adaptive response by the body to spare calories and protein by inducing some degree of hypothyroidism. Patients who have only a drop in serum T 3 , representing the mildest form of the NTIS, do not show clinical signs of hypothyroidism. Nor has it been shown that this decrease in serum T 3 (in the absence of a drop in T 4 ) has an adverse physiologic effect on the body or that it is associated with increased mortality. Nonthyroidal Illness Syndrome With Low Serum T 4 As the severity of illness, and often associated starvation, progresses, there is the gradual development of a more complex syndrome associated with low T 3 and usually low T 4 levels. Generally thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels are low or normal despite the low serum hormone levels, and rT 3 levels are normal or elevated. A large proportion of patients in an intensive care unit setting have various degrees of severity of NTIS with low T 3 and T 4 . Plikat et al. found that 23% of patients admitted to an ICU during a 2-year period had low free T 3 , low free T 4 , and low or normal TSH, and
