The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


found that 23% of patients admitted to an ICU during a 2-year period had low free T 3 , low free T 4 , and low or normal TSH, and that these findings gave a greatly increased risk of death. 12 Girvent et al. note that NTIS is highly prevalent in elderly patients with acute surgical problems and is associated with poor nutrition, higher sympathetic response, and worse postoperative outcome. 13 Surprisingly, during the past 4 decades, some endocrinologists have assumed that NTIS is a beneficial physiologic response, 14-17 but factual evidence for this view is unavailable. However it seems illogical to consider NTIS as an evolutionarily derived physiologic response, since survival with the severity of illness seen in NTIS patients would be almost impossible except in modern ICUs. A marked decrease in serum T 3 and T 4 in NTIS is associated with a high probability of death. NTIS was found in a group of 20 patients with severe trauma, among whom 5 died, and the drop in T 3 correlated with the Apache II score. 18 NTIS found in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation was associated with a high probability of fatal outcome. 19 NTIS was typical in elderly patients undergoing acute surgery and was associated with a worse prognosis. 20 All of 45 non-dopamine-treated children with meningococcal septicemia had low T 3 , T 4 , and thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), without elevated TSH. When serum T 4 levels drop below 4 g/dL, the probability of death is about 50%, and with serum T 4 levels below 2 g/dL, the probability of death reaches 80%. 21-23 Obviously such associations do not prove that hypothyroidism is the cause of these complications or deaths, but the fact of hypothyroidism must at least raise the consideration of treatment. Interpretations of NTIS Several conceptual explanations of NTIS can be followed through the literature: 1. The abnormalities represent test artifacts, and assays would indicate euthyroidism if proper tests were employed. 2. The serum thyroid hormone abnormalities are due to inhibitors of T 4 binding to proteins, and the tests do not appropriately reflect free hormone levels. Proponents of this concept may or may not take the position that a binding inhibitor is present throughout body tissues, rather than simply in serum, and that the binding inhibitor may also inhibit uptake of hormone by cells or prevent binding to nuclear T 3 receptors and
