The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


throughout body tissues, rather than simply in serum, and that the binding inhibitor may also inhibit uptake of hormone by cells or prevent binding to nuclear T 3 receptors and thus inhibit action of hormone. 3. In NTIS, T 3 levels in the pituitary are normal because of enhanced local deiodination. In this concept the pituitary is actually euthyroid, while the rest of the body is hypothyroid. This presupposes enhanced intrapituitary T 4 > T 3 deiodination as the cause. 4. Serum hormone levels are in fact low, and the patients are biochemically hypothyroid, but this is (teleologically) a beneficial physiologic response and should not be altered by treatment. 5. Lastly, NTIS is in part a form of secondary hypothyroidism, the patient’s serum and tissue hormone levels are truly low, tissue hypothyroidism is present, this is probably disadvantageous to the patient, and therapy should be initiated if serum thyroxine levels are depressed below the danger level of 4 μg/dL. SERUM HORMONE LEVELS AND TISSUE HORMONE SUPPLIES IN NTIS Serum T 3 and Free T 3 With few exceptions, reports on NTIS indicate that serum T 3 and free T 3 levels are low. 24-30 Liver Iodothyronine D1 normally produces up to 80% of circulating T3 via T4>T3 deiodination, the remainder coming from the thyroid directly, or by a contribution from ID2 in muscle as noted below. ID1 in liver is down-regulated in severe illness, and this is certainly an important contributor to the low T3 in blood. One presumed cause is reduced nutrition, especially of carbohydrate, but direct effects of cytokines on liver may also be involved The problem presumably is exacerbated by hypothyroidism, which also down-regulates ID1. Chopra and co-workers reported that free T 3 levels were low (Fig. 1), 31 or in a second report, often normal. 32 However, it is important to note that in the second report, the patients with “NTIS” actually had average serum T 4 levels that were above the normal mean and did not have significant NTIS. Sapin et al. compared free T 3 levels found in patients with NTIS by direct dialysis, microchromatography, analogue, two-step immune extraction, and a labeled antibody RIA method. 30 Results were significantly below normal by five of the methods and low in the most severe cases by one method. Faber et al. evaluated thyroid hormone levels in 34 seriously ill patients, most of whom had low T
