The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


the methods and low in the most severe cases by one method. Faber et al. evaluated thyroid hormone levels in 34 seriously ill patients, most of whom had low T 4 and free T 4 index values, and found generally normal free T 3 and free T 4 using an ultrafiltration technique. 33 A point to consider is that some ultrafiltration techniques fail to exclude thyroid hormone–binding proteins from the filtrate and give spuriously high free hormone values. 34 Figure 1 Free T3 concentrations in different groups of patients, as reported by Chopra et al, reference 32. In this report, patients with NTIS have significantly lowered Free T3 levels than do normal subjects. Serum rT 3 may be reduced, normal, or elevated and is not a reliable indicator of abnormal thyroid hormone supply. While it may be expected that rT 3 should always be elevated, this is not true, and often it is within the normal range. Peeters et al. 35 found in patients with NTIS, serum TSH, T 4 , T 3 , and the T 3 /rT 3 ratio were lower, whereas serum rT 3 was higher than in normal subjects (P < 0.0001). Liver D1 is down-regulated, and D3 (which is not evident in liver and skeletal muscle of healthy individuals) is induced, particularly in disease states associated with poor tissue perfusion. The level of rT 3 reflects the action of several enzymes and presumably, as well, tissue metabolic function. Induction of D3 would tend to increase rT 3. Degradation of rT 3 is reduced by decreased function of the same D1 enzyme that generates T 3 . However, formation of rT 3 is limited by the low level of substrate (T 4 ) in serum and in tissues and perhaps by inhibition of T 4 entry into cells. Personal experience treating patients with NTIS (unpublished) shows that when T 4 is given and repletes serum hormone levels, generation of rT 3 rapidly increases, and levels often become significantly elevated. Serum T 4 Serum T 4 levels are reduced in NTIS in proportion to the severity and, probably, length of the illness. 24-35 In acute, short-term trauma such as cardiac bypass 36 or in short-term starvation, 37 there is no drop in serum T 4 . However, with increasing severity of trauma, illness, or infection, there is a drop in T 4 which may become extreme. As
