The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


there is no drop in serum T 4 . However, with increasing severity of trauma, illness, or infection, there is a drop in T 4 which may become extreme. As indicated, serum T 4 levels below 4 μg/dL are associated with a marked increased risk of death (up to 50%), and once T 4 is below 2, prognosis becomes extremely guarded. In neonates, low total T 4 and TSH are associated with a greater risk of death and severe intraventricular hemorrhage. It is suggested that thyroid hormone supplementation might be a potential benefit in infants with the lowest T 4 values. 27 Total serum T 4 is reduced in part because of a reduction in TBG. One reason for this reduction appears to be because of cleavage of TBG. Schussler’s group recognized a rapid drop in TBG to 60% of baseline within 12 hours after bypass surgery, and their data suggest that this is due to cleavage of TBG by protease, which causes TBG to lose its T 4 -binding activity. 38 Further studies by this group demonstrated the presence of a cleaved form of TBG present in serum of patients with sepsis. 39 The impact of meningococcal sepsis on peripheral thyroid hormone metabolism and binding proteins was studied in 69 children with meningococcal sepsis. All children had decreased total T 3 and total T 3 /rT 3 ratios without elevated TSH. Lower total T 4 levels were related to increased turnover of TBG by elastase. Lowered TBG is a partial explanation for lower total T 4 and T 3 in NTIS. 40 Serum Free Thyroxine A major problem in understanding NTIS is in analyzing data on the level of free T 4 . Free T 4 is believed by most workers to represent hormone availability to tissues, although it is in fact intracellular T 3 that binds to the receptors. The results of free T 4 assays in NTIS are definitely method dependent. They may be influenced by a variety of variables, including (alleged) inhibitors present in serum or the effect of agents such as drugs, metabolites, or free fatty acids in the serum or assay. Assays which include an estimate of TBG capacity to estimate free hormone typically return low values for calculated free thyroxine in NTIS. Methods using T 3 analogs in the assay also give levels that are depressed. The free T 4 level determined by
