The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


return low values for calculated free thyroxine in NTIS. Methods using T 3 analogs in the assay also give levels that are depressed. The free T 4 level determined by dialysis varies widely, as does T 4 measured by ultrafiltration 25-29 ; the majority of reports are of low values, but in some samples nnormal or rarely elevated values. 25,26,41-43 In theory, methods utilizing equilibrium dialysis may allow dilution of dialyzable inhibitors. Compounds such as 3-carboxy-4-methyl-5-propyl-2-furan-propanoic acid, indoxyl sulfate, and hippuric acid, can accumulate in severe renal failure. 44 However, these compounds probably do not interfere with serum hormone assays. Free fatty acids, if elevated to 2 to 5 mmol/L, can displace T 4 binding to TBG and elevate free T 4 . Free fatty acids almost never reach such levels in vivo. 45,46 However, even small quantities of heparin (0.08 units/kg given IV, or 5000 units given SC), commonly given to patients in an ICU, can lead to in vitro generation of free fatty acids during extended serum dialysis for “free T 4 “ assay and falsely augment apparent free hormone levels. 47 This is probably a common and serious problem, which explains many instances of apparently elevated free T 4 levels in patients with acute illness. Results obtained using ultrafiltration also are variable. Wang et al. 48 found that in patients with NTIS, free T 4 measured by ultrafiltration was uniformly low (average of 11.7 ng/L), but when measured by equilibrium dialysis, free T 4 was near normal, at 18 ng/L. By ultrafiltration, free T 3 was also (not surprisingly) found to be low and similar to free T 3 by radioimmune assay. Chopra 32 found levels below the normal mean, ±2 SD, when measured by dialysis; 6 of 9 were low when measured by ultrafiltration, and 7of 9 were low when measured by standard resin-uptake-corrected free T 4 . The means of the NTIS patients in this study were clearly below the mean of normals. Thus, although free T 4 is low in most assays that involve a correction for TBG levels, there is still some question as to the true free T 4 in patients with NTIS. It is of interest that this problem does not carry over to estimates of free T 3 , which are depressed in most studies. There might be two reasons for this difference. Firstly, the depression of total T 3
