The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


carry over to estimates of free T 3 , which are depressed in most studies. There might be two reasons for this difference. Firstly, the depression of total T 3 is proportionately greater than of total T 4 . Secondly, factors which affect thyroid hormone binding are more apt to alter T 4 assays than T 3 , since T 4 is normally more tightly bound to TBG than is T 3 . IS THERE EVIDENCE FOR SUBSTANCES IN SERUM WHICH CAN AFFECT T 4 BINDING TO PROTEINS? Mendel et al. 49 carefully review the studies that have claimed the presence of dialyzable inhibitors of binding and point out that many of these studies must be viewed with caution 44,45,50-53 .Numerous artifacts are present in both dialysis assays and ultrafiltration assays. They also point out that while the low free T 4 by resin uptake assays found in NTIS generally do not agree with the clinical status of the patient, it is equally true that clinical assessment generally does not fit with the high free T 4 results found by some equilibrium dialysis assays in NTIS. An argument that completely refutes the importance of factors in serum inhibiting binding of thyroid hormone is provided in the clinical study of Brent and Hershman (Fig. 2). 54 These Figure 2 Patients with severe NTIS were randomized and left untreated or given T4 iv over two weeks. Serum T3, T4, and TSH concentrations are shown for the survivors of the control filled circles), and T4-treated empty circles), groups during the study period and at the time of follow-up. Upper and lower lines designate the normal range. Note the prompt recovery of T4 values to the normal range immediately following i.v. treatment with T4. Also note the elevated TSH levels in some patients. T3 levels did not return to normal following T4 treatment for up to two weeks. (Reference 54) researchers gave 1.5 μg of T 4 per kg body weight daily to 12 of 24 patients with severe NTIS and followed serum hormone levels over 14 days. T 4 levels returned to the normal range within 3 days of therapy. Thus the serum thyroxine pool was easily replenished, and T 4 levels reached normal values. Not surprisingly, because of reduced T 4 >T 3 deiodination, T 3 levels did not return to the normal range until the end of the study period in
