The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


normal values. Not surprisingly, because of reduced T 4 >T 3 deiodination, T 3 levels did not return to the normal range until the end of the study period in the few patients who survived. However, the ability of intravenous thyroxine in replacement doses to promptly restore the plasma pool to normal clearly shows that neither a loss of serum TBG nor an inhibitor of binding could be the main cause of low serum T 4 in this group of severely ill patients. With growing acceptance of decreased thyroid secretion and decreased peripheral t3 production as causes of low T4 and T3, there has been little emphasis on serum T4 binding inhibitors in recent literature. Some contribution by low TBG levels may, or may not (see below) play a role, but any role for binding inhibitors in producing this syndrome must be marginal TSH LEVELS Serum TSH in NTIS is typically normal or reduced and may be markedly low, although usually not less than 0.05 μU/mL. 16,24,25,28,29,31,55 However, to use usual endocrinology logic, these TSH levels are almost always inappropriately low for the observed serum T 4 and T 3 . Third-generation assays with sensitivity down to 0.001 U/mL may allow differentiation of patients with hyperthyroidism from those with NTIS, although there can be overlap in these very disparate conditions. 56 Serum TSH in patients with NTIS may have reduced biological activity, perhaps because of reduced thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) secretion and reduced glycosylation. Some patients are found with a TSH level above normal, and elevation of TSH above normal commonly occurs transiently if patients recover from NTIS (Fig. 3). 29,54 This elevation of TSH strongly suggests that the patients are recovering from a hypothyroid state, during which the ability of the pituitary to respond had been temporarily inhibited. Figure 3 T3 and TSH concentrations are shown in patients with nonthyroidal illness who were eventually discharged from hospital (left panels). The broken line indicates Â± 2 SD of the mean value in the normal subjects. The right panel displays T3 and TSH concentrations in patients with NTIS who died. Subjects are indicated by numbers. Note the elevated TSH in some patients who recovered, and the generally dropping T3 and low TSH levels in patients who died. (Reference 29) Responsiveness of the pituitary to TRH during NTIS is variable: many patients respond less than normal, 57 and others respond normally. 58 “Normal”
