The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


levels in patients who died. (Reference 29) Responsiveness of the pituitary to TRH during NTIS is variable: many patients respond less than normal, 57 and others respond normally. 58 “Normal” responsiveness in the presence of low TSH may suggest that there is a hypothalamic abnormality as a cause of the low TSH and low T 4 . There is also a diminution or loss of the diurnal rhythm of TSH, 59 and in some studies, there is evidence for reduction of TSH glycosylation, with lower TSH bioactivity. 60 A logical explanation is that the low TSH is in fact the proximate cause of the low thyroid hormone levels. Hypothalamic function is impaired in patients with NTIS and TRH mRNA is low, resulting in low TSH and thus low output of thyroid hormones by the thyroid. There is other evidence of diminished hypothalamic function in patients with serious illness. Serum testosterone drops rapidly, as do follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). 61,62 Typically serum cortisol is elevated as part of a stress response, and because metablism of corticol is reduced. Some patients develop hypotension in association with apparent transient central hypoadrenalism, have low or normal serum ACTH, and cortisol levels under 20 μ g/dL. Some of these patients respond dramatically to cortisol replacement and may manifest normal adrenal function at a later time if they recover. Centrally mediated hyposomatotropism, hypothyroidism, and pronounced hypoandrogenism were observed in a study of patients in the catabolic state of critical illness. In these patients, pulsatile LH secretion and mean LH secretions are very low, even in the presence of extremely low circulating total testosterone and low estradiol. Pulsatile growth hormone (GH) and TSH secretion are also suppressed. Interleukin 1 β (IL-1β ) levels are normal, whereas IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α ) are elevated. Exogenous IV gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) partially return serum testosterone levels toward normal but do not completely overcome hypoandrogenism, suggesting that combined deficiency of GH, GnRH, and TSH secretagogues may be important in this low androgen syndrome. 63 THYROID HORMONE TURNOVER Kaptein et al. 64,65 studied a group of patients who were critically ill, all of whom had total T 4 below 4 μg/dL, low fT 4 index, low normal free T 4 by dialysis, and TSH which was normal or slightly elevated. In these patients, the mean T 4 by dialysis was significantly below the normal mean. There
