The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


normal free T 4 by dialysis, and TSH which was normal or slightly elevated. In these patients, the mean T 4 by dialysis was significantly below the normal mean. There was on average a 35% decrease in thyroxine disposal per day ( Table 1 ). The T 4 production rate in NTIS was significantly below the mean of 17 normal subjects (p < 0.005). In a similar study of T 3 kinetics, 65 free T 3 was found to be 50% of normal serum values. The production rate of T 3 was reduced by 83% ( Table 2 ). These two studies document a dramatic reduction in provision of T 4 and T 3 to peripheral tissues, which would logically indicate that the effects of hormone lack (hypothyroidism) should be present. A third study reported dramatically reduced total T 4 and T 3 turnover, with normal thyroidal secretion of T 3 in patients with NTIS due to uremia. 66 However, this was a calculated rather than directly measured value of T3 secretion, was highly variable, and does not negate the extreme reduction in T 3 supply due to diminished T 4 >T 3 conversion in peripheral organs. T 4 ENTRY INTO CELLS AND GENERATION OF T 3 Thyroid hormone is transported actively into tissues by several specific transporters including MCT8, and in the pituitary OATP1C1. In the cell it is metabolized by enzymes which activate it to T3, or inactivate it to rT3, or promote excretion via sulfation or glucuronidation. Iodotyrosine deiodinase type 1 (ID1) is found in liver, kidney and thyroid, and the enzyme present in liver is considered a main source of T3, possibly providing 80% of the total, the remainder coming largely from the thyroid. ID1 is down-regulated in hypothyroidism, and in NTIS, reducing serum T3 levels. ID2 is present in brain and pituitary, and is responsible for local production of T3 in those tissues. Recent data show that D2 present in muscle may also contribute to serum T3. ID2 is up-regulated by hypothyroidism, and is up-regulated in NTIS. The third enzyme, ID3, deiodinates the inner thyronine ring, converting T4 to rT3 and T3 to T2. It’s activity in liver is up-regulated in NTIS. Using deiodination of T 4 as an index of cellular transport of T 4 into rat hepatocytes, Lim et al. 67 and Vos et al. 68 found that serum from patients with NTIS
