The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


, triiodothyronine.*Patients receiving dopamine. Peeters et al. 73 investigated 79 patients who died after intensive care, some of whom received thyroid hormone treatment. Tissue iodothyronine levels were positively correlated with serum levels, indicating that the decrease in serum T 3 during illness is associated with decreased levels of tissue T 3 . Higher serum T 3 levels in patients who received thyroid hormone treatment were accompanied by higher levels of liver and muscle T 3 , with evidence for tissue-specific regulation. Tissue rT 3 and the T 3 /rT 3 ratio were correlated with tissue deiodinase activities. Monocarboxylate transporter 8 expression was not related to the ratio of the serum/tissue concentrations of the different iodothyronines. 73 TR LEVELS Information on expression of TRs in human tissues during illness is limited. Increased expression of the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) for thyroid hormone receptors α1, α2, and β1 has been reported in cardiac tissue of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy; α1 and α2 isoforms also had increased expression in ischemic heart disease. 74 Rodriguez-Perez et al. studied subcutaneous fat and skeletal muscle in patients with septic shock. 75 In muscle, mRNA for TRβl and RXR gamma was reduced, and mRNA for RXR alpha was increased, compared to normals. In adipose tissue, MCT8, TRβ1, TRα1, and RXR gamma mRNAs were lower. The authors conclude that in these patients, tissue responses were related to decreased hormone levels and decreased hormone action. In animals, starvation and illness are associated with a reduction in thyroid hormone receptor levels. In experimental studies in mice, LPS induces NTIS, and this is associated with an early decrease in binding of the RXR/TR dimer to DNA due to limiting amounts of RXR, and later an up to 50% decrease in levels of RXR and TR protein. - Lado-Abeal and co workers found in humans with prolonged NTIS that expression of TRbeta1, TRalpha1, and RXRgamma in striated muscle were reduced compared to normals, and that these changes were unrelated to expression of NFkB1( Figure 4 )(78). . Figure 4 THRA, THRB1, RXRG, RXRA, AND PPARG PROTEIN levels were evaluated by western blotting. ORGAN SPECIFIC RESPONSES IN NTIS In contrast to a uniform whole body response, there are wide variations in responses to thyroid hormone supply and action in different tissues, and between the response to acute illness and chronic illness. These multifactorial systems involve serum TH levels, TH transporters, deiodinases, TH receptors,
