The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


thyroid hormone supply and action in different tissues, and between the response to acute illness and chronic illness. These multifactorial systems involve serum TH levels, TH transporters, deiodinases, TH receptors, and enzyme responses which are under different regulation in individual tissues (79). In reviewing these data it is useful to note that meaning of data often must be “interpreted”, and that this can depend on the mind-set of the reviewer. In the hypothalamus in an animal model of NTIS, TH transporters MCT10 and OATP1C1 (but not MCT8) were increased, and hypothalamic D2, considered a major source of local T3, was up-regulated, but there was no corresponding increase in tissue T3.. TRalpha and beta mRNA expression levels were not altered ( Figure 4 )(80). Tissue levels of T3 and T4 are reduced in chronic NTIS in both experimental models and in humans. Thus the know low TRH mRNA levels in the hypothalamus reflect the action of neural signals, and not an hypothesized local tissue hyperthyroidism. On the other hand, the “low normal” T3 levels in the hypothalamus, in the presence of low serum T3 levels, presumably reflect the actionof D2, and may provide a partial explanation of why TSH is not usually elevated in NTIS. Data on the pituitary are few. D2 levels have not shown consistent changes. In animal models TRbeta2 levels are reported to be reduced in acute NTIS. In humans with fatal illness, pituitary T3 levels were low. The overall picture is of central down-regulation of the hypothalamus and pituitary and low levels of tissue T3 despite increments in transporter activity and D2 deiodinase( Figure 5 ). These findings fit with the observed correction of TSH and TH levels in human NTIS through administration of TRH. Figure 5 T3 and T4 content in Hypothalamus of chronically ill animals with NTIS.(From Mebis et al(80). Liver D1 and D3 activity are reduced in acute NTIS. In man MCT8 and MCT10 may be reduced in acute but not chronic NTIS. Several enzymes that are responsive to TH have reduced activity in acute NTIS in animals. The data fit with reduced metabolic activity in this organ. In chronic NTIS in man, reduced serum T3 and T4 and normal or elevated RT3 are characteristic. Liver T3 is low in chronic human NTIS, and is directly related to serum T3. MCT8, but not MCTt10, are increased in liver and muscle in prolonged NTIS (81).
