The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


characteristic. Liver T3 is low in chronic human NTIS, and is directly related to serum T3. MCT8, but not MCTt10, are increased in liver and muscle in prolonged NTIS (81). Expression levels of TRalpha and beta mRNA are reported to be reduced, or increased. Metabolic activity is probably reduced, but in relation to oxygenation and nutrients as well as TH activity. In a rabbit model of chronic NTIS, serum and liver T3 and liver D1 activity were low. Interestingly replacement with basal levels T4 or T3 did not reverse these abnormalities, but 3-5 fold increments, or TRH administration, did so (82). This study offers several interesting points. There was a very strong correlation between serum and tissue hormone levels, so tissue entry was snot a problem. The requirement for more than replacement dose T4 to restore tissue hormone is mainly due to repletion of very diminished stores of T4, in this 6 day treatment protocol. No evidence was found for an important role of T4-sulfo conjugates. The response in muscle is less well defined. D2 increases and D3 is decreased in acute NTIS in an animal model, and there is evidence for decreased TR expression. Changes in enzyme responses do not show a consistent pattern. In chronic NTIS, human muscle D3 is augmented, while D2 has been found low, or increased. Muscle MCT8 is increased (81), and this has been proposed as a response to hypothyroidism, since TH treatment in a rabbit model of NTIS returns the transporters to normal. Enzymatic activity is presumed low but good data are lacking. Prolonged infusion of lipopolysaccharide in pigs induced a severe NTIS state, associated with generally low tissue TH levels, reduced TH transporters, and low TR-beta levels, suggesting reduced TH sensitivity and hypothyroidism(83). ARE PATIENTS WITH NTIS CLINICALLY HYPOTHYROID? It is straightforward that the typical clinical parameters of severe hypothyroidism are absent in patients with NTIS. However, these patients usually present with a serious illness and are diagnostically challenging in view of their complicated state. Many are febrile, have extensive edema, have sepsis or pneumonia, may have hyper metabolism associated with burns, have severe cardiac or pulmonary disease, and in general have features that could easily mask evidence of hypothyroidism. Further, the common clinical picture of hypothyroidism does not develop within 2 to 3 weeks of complete thyroid hormone deprivation, but rather requires a much longer period for expression. General laboratory tests
