The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


common clinical picture of hypothyroidism does not develop within 2 to 3 weeks of complete thyroid hormone deprivation, but rather requires a much longer period for expression. General laboratory tests are also suspect. Thus starvation or disease-induced alterations in cholesterol, liver enzymes, TBG, creatine kinase, and even basal metabolic rate generally rule out the use of these associated markers for evidence of hypothyroidism. Angiotensin-converting enzyme levels are low, 84 as seen in hypothyroidism, while high-affinity testosterone-binding globulin (TeBG) and osteocalcin levels are not altered. 85 Antithrombin III levels are reduced in a septic rat model of NTIS. T 3 supplementation returned the sepsis-induced decrease in antithrombin III levels toward normal. 86 MECHANISM OF THYROID HORMONE SUPPRESSION IN NTIS It is probable that the cause of NTIS is multifactorial and may differ in different groups of patients. Specifically, the changes in liver disease and renal disease are probably somewhat different from those occurring in other forms of illness. Certainly one important cause of the drop in serum T 3 is a decreased generation of T 3 by type 1 iodothyronine deiodinase. 87 Reduced entry of T 4 into cells is not a major problem. Some studies have suggested that individuals with NTIS may have selenium deficiency, and this may contribute to a malfunction of the selenium-dependent iodothyronine deiodinase.However, supplements of 500 μg of selenium given to patients in a surgical ICU during the first 5 days after serious injury caused only modest changes in thyroid hormones. The data did not suggest a major role for selenium deficiency in this condition. 88 The overall daily metabolic consumption of thyroid hormone, both thyroxine and T 3 , is radically diminished in the NTIS syndrome in the presence of low hormone serum levels. The reduced degradation cannot produce the lowering of serum hormone levels; a primary reduction in degradation would increase serum hormone. The change in degradation must be due to the low hormone supply, and other factors. Schussler and co-workers have observed a sharp drop in TBG levels during cardiac bypass surgery, which their studies indicate is due to some selective consumption of TBG. It is possible that this occurs because of activation of serine protease inhibitors (serpins) at sites of inflammation, which cleave the TBG into an inactive form. 38 Considerable evidence suggests that an alteration in hypothalamic and pituitary function causes the low production of T 4 , which in turn
