The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


cleave the TBG into an inactive form. 38 Considerable evidence suggests that an alteration in hypothalamic and pituitary function causes the low production of T 4 , which in turn causes the low production of T 3 . In rats, starvation reduces hypothalamic mRNA for TRH, reduces portal serum TRH, and lowers pituitary TSH content. 89 A recent study documents low TRH mRNA in hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei 90 in NTIS patients (Fig. 6). Responses to administered TRH vary in different reports, being suppressed or even augmented. 57,58 Administration of TRH has been suggested as an effective Figure 6 In situ hybridization study demonstrating mRNA for TRH in the periventricular nuclei of a subject who died with NTIS in Panel A, and a subject who died accidentally in Panel B. mRNA for TRH is significantly reduced in patients with NTIS. (Reference 90) means of restoring serum hormone levels to normal in individuals with NTIS. A recent report by Van den Berghe and co-workers proves that administration of TRH to patients with severe NTIS leads directly to increased TSH levels, increased T 4 levels, and increased T 3 levels. 91 This data is strong support (albeit not proof) for the role of diminished hypothalamic function as a crucial factor in NTIS. Quite possibly the production of TRH, and responses to TRH, are reduced by cytokines (to be discussed later) or by glucocorticoids. 92 The diurnal variation in glucocorticoid levels at least in part controls the normal diurnal variation in TSH levels, perhaps by affecting pituitary responsiveness to TRH. 93 High levels of glucocorticoids in Cushing’s disease suppress TSH and cause a modest reduction in serum hormone levels. 94 High levels of glucocorticoids are known to suppress pituitary response to TRH in man. 92 Stress-related elevation of glucocorticoids in animals causes suppression of TSH and serum T 4 and T 3 hormone levels. 95 Thus stress-induced glucocorticoid elevation may be one factor affecting TRH and TSH production. Why should pituitary production of TSH be diminished in the presence of low serum thyroid hormone levels? One idea was that augmented intrapituitary conversion of T 4 to T 3 allowed the pituitary to remain suppressed while the rest of the body was actually hypothyroid. While some data supported this idea in a uremic rat model of NTIS 96 , careful studies in both experimental animals(82,83) and man, described above, disprove this concept. Another suggestion is
