The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


some data supported this idea in a uremic rat model of NTIS 96 , careful studies in both experimental animals(82,83) and man, described above, disprove this concept. Another suggestion is that some other metabolite of thyroxine may be involved in control of pituitary responsiveness. For example, possibly triiodothyroacetic acid (triac) or tetraiodothyroacetic acid (tetrac) generated by metabolism of thyroxine could control pituitary responsiveness, 92 but there is no experimental proof of this idea, and even if true, it would mean that the pituitary was normal but the rest of the body hypothyroid. As suggested earlier, elevated serum cortisol levels could play a role. The most obvious possibility is that low TSH stems from diminished TRH production, as previously described. It must also be remembered that the defect in pituitary function is not restricted to TSH, but that LH and FSH are also suppressed in seriously ill patients, and testosterone is reduced, in contrast to the generally augmented glucocorticoid levels. Quite possibly these changes are the effect on the hypothalamus of neural integration of multiple factors including stress, starvation, glucocorticoids, and cytokines. Van den Berghe has stressed that the changes in endocrine function seen during severe illness have a biphasic course. Possibly the initial suppression of T 3 levels represents a genetically engineered adaptive response of the organism, allowing reduced metabolic rate and conservation of energy and protein stores for a longer period of time, while the animal or man goes through a period of starvation. However, the circumstances surrounding severe illness, and the resuscitative efforts applied in an intensive care unit over 1 or more weeks, seem to be a different reponse. This second phase of the syndrome, with associated suppression of thyroid hormone and other pituitary hormones and a variety of other changes, may represents a maladaptive response. Patients in this situation tend to have elevated insulin levels, nitrogen wasting, retention of fats if calories are made available, and a variety of other metabolic abnormalities that include neuropathy and cardiomyopathy. These authors consider that provision of multiple hormonal support, including thyroid hormone, growth hormone, and androgens, may be beneficial. 97,98 CYTOKINES IN NTIS In a series of septic patients studied shortly after admission to an ICU, total T 4 , free T 4 , total T 3 , and TSH were depressed, and IL-1β, soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R), IL-6, and TNF-α were elevated. 99 The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis was activated
