The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


, free T 4 , total T 3 , and TSH were depressed, and IL-1β, soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R), IL-6, and TNF-α were elevated. 99 The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis was activated as expected. The data suggest central suppression of TSH as the cause of the problem, but the relation to cytokines is unclear, as seen in the following reports. Hermus et al. 100 showed that continuous infusion of IL-1 in rats causes suppression of TSH, T 3 , and free T 4 . Higher doses of IL-1 were accompanied by a febrile reaction and suppression of food intake, which presumably played some role in the altered thyroid hormone economy. IL-1 did not reproduce the diminution in hepatic 5′-deiodinase activity believed to be so characteristic of NTIS. IL-1 is also known to impair thyroid hormone synthesis by human thyrocytes and is enhanced in many diseases associated with NTIS. 101 van der Poll et al. 102 studied the effect of IL-1 receptor blockade in human volunteers to determine if it could alter the NTIS induced by endotoxin. Blockade of IL-1 activity was achieved by infusing recombinant human IL-1 receptor antagonist, but this did not prevent the drop in T 4 , free T 4 , T 3 , and TSH or the rise in rT 3 caused by endotoxin. This is evidence against an important role for IL-1. Interferon γ Interferon-γ (IFN-γ) 100 μg/m 2 administered subcutaneously to normal volunteers did not alter TNF-α levels, caused a small elevation of IL-6 levels, and thus did not support a role for IFN-γ in the pathogenesis of the euthyroid sick syndrome in humans. 103 Tumor Necrosis Factor TNF is another proinflammatory cytokine that is thought to be involved in many of the illnesses associated with NTIS.Infusion of recombinant TNF in man by van der Poll et al. 104 produced a decrease in serum T 3 and TSH and an increase in rT 3 . Free T 4 was transiently elevated in association with a significant rise in FFA levels. These studies suggest that TNF could be involved in producing NTIS. Recombinant IL-6 given to humans activates the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis, and this could play a role in suppressing TSH production. However, Chopra et al. 105 did not find TNF to be closely correlated with hormone changes in NTIS. van der Poll et al. 1063 gave human subjects endotoxin, which caused lowering of T 4 ,
