The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


did not find TNF to be closely correlated with hormone changes in NTIS. van der Poll et al. 1063 gave human subjects endotoxin, which caused lowering of T 4 , free T 4 , T 3 , and TSH. TNF blockade by a recombinant TNF receptor-IgG fusion protein did not alter the response, indicating that TNF did not cause the changes in hormone economy induced by administration of endotoxin. Nagaya et al. 107 proposed a mechanism through which TNF could reduce serum T 3 . TNF-α was found during in vitro studies to activate nuclear factor kB (NF-kB), which in turn inhibits the T 3 -induced expression of 5′-DI, which would lower T 3 generation in liver. However, as noted above, activation of liver NFkB is not seen in NTIS. Interleukin 6 Serum IL-6 is often elevated in NTIS, 108 and its level is inversely related to T 3 levels. Stouthard et al. 109 gave recombinant human IL-6 chronically to human volunteers. Short-term infusion of IL-6 caused a suppression of TSH, but daily injections over 42 days caused only a modest decrease in T 3 and a transient increase in rT 3 and free T 4 concentrations. IL-6 could be involved in the NTIS syndrome, although the mechanism was not defined. In an animal model of NTIS studied by Wiersinga and collaborators, 110 antibody blockade of IL-6 failed to prevent the induced changes in thyroid hormone economy typical of NTIS. Boelen et al. studied the levels of IFN, IL-8, and IL-10 in patients with NTIS and found no evidence that they had a pathogenic role. 111 Short-term administration of recombinant IFN-γ to normal subjects caused a minimal elevation of IL-6, no alteration in TNF, and did not significantly alter thyroid hormone levels. Michalaki et al. observed that serum T 3 drops early after abdominal surgery as an early manifestation of the NTIS syndrome, prior to an increase in serum IL-6 or TNF-α, suggesting that these changes in cytokines do not induce the drop in T 3 . 113 The potential interaction between cytokines and the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis is certainly complicated, and cytokines themselves operate in a network. For example, IL-1 and TNF can stimulate secretion of IL-6. Activation of TNF and IL-1 production is associated with the occurrence of cytokine inhibitors in serum, which are actually fragments of the cytokine receptor or actual receptor antagonists. Soluble TNF receptor and IL-1
