The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


and IL-1 production is associated with the occurrence of cytokine inhibitors in serum, which are actually fragments of the cytokine receptor or actual receptor antagonists. Soluble TNF receptor and IL-1 RA are receptor antagonists, which can inhibit the function of the free cytokines. These molecules are increased in many infectious, inflammatory, and neoplastic conditions. Boelen et al. 113 found evidence that the NTIS is “an acute phase response” generated by activation of a cytokine network. Soluble TNF, soluble TNF receptor, soluble IL-2 receptor antagonist, and IL-6 all inversely correlated with serum T 3 levels. While the studies noted fail to pinpoint one cytokine as the crucial mediator, we can be convinced that striking changes in cytokines co-occur during NTIS and probably play a pathogenic role by mechanisms yet undefined. OTHER FACTORS ALTERING SERUM T 4 SUPPLY Altered CNS Metabolism In healthy men going through two 4.5-hour-long sessions of induced hypoglycemia, TSH, fT 3 and fT 4 are significantly reduced. 114 Perinatal asphyxia, recognized by low Apgar scores, is associated with a depression of TSH, T 4 , and T 3 , and the reductions are greatest in infants with hypoxic/ischemic encephalopathy. In this study, 6 of 11 infants with fT 4 < 2ng/dL died. These data suggest, not surprisingly, that reduced substrate or O 2 supply to the CNS could induce hypothalamic/pituitary dysfunction. 114,115 Glucagon Administration of glucagon to dogs caused a significant fall in serum T 3 , suggesting that stress-induced hyperglucagonemia may be a contributor to the NTIS syndrome by altering intracellular metabolism of T 4 . 116 Dopamine Dopamine given in support of renal function and cardiac function must play a role in many patients who develop low hormone levels while in an intensive care unit setting. Dopamine inhibits TSH secretion directly, depresses further the already abnormal thyroid hormone production, and induces significant worsening of the low hormone levels. Withdrawal of dopamine infusion is followed by a prompt dramatic elevation of TSH, a rise in T 4 and T 3 , and an increase of the T 3 /rT 3 ratio. All of these changes suggested to Van den Berghe et al. 117 that dopamine makes some patients with NTIS hypothyroid, inducing a condition of iatrogenic hypothyroidism, and that treatment (presumably by administering thyroid hormone), “should be evaluated.” Leptin Leptin plays a key role in control of thyroid hormone levels during starvation in animals. During starvation, leptin
