The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


and that treatment (presumably by administering thyroid hormone), “should be evaluated.” Leptin Leptin plays a key role in control of thyroid hormone levels during starvation in animals. During starvation, leptin levels drop. With this there is diminished stimulation of TRH, thus diminished secretion of TSH, and lowered thyroid hormone levels. Administration of leptin appears to work via the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus to induce production of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), and thus α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (αMSH), and reduce Agouti-related protein (AgRP). Normally αMSH stimulates the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R), whereas AgRP suppresses it. Presumably through these actions, a lack of leptin during starvation leads to diminished stimulation of the MC4R receptor on the TRH neurons in ventricular nuclear centers and thus diminished TRH secretion. Administration of leptin partially reverses this sequence. 118 These actions appear to be part of an energy-conserving scheme related to thyroid changes during starvation and are associated with leptin-induced increase in appetite, decreased energy expenditure, and modified neuroendocrine function. The relevance of this to human physiology is as yet unclear, but the data strongly suggest that leptin is involved in the down-regulation of thyroid function during acute starvation. 118-120 In clinical trials, stimulation of growth hormone secretion by GH secretogogues lead to increased insulin and leptin levels in severely ill ICU patients. To date, studies of leptin levels in patients with NTIS have indicated they are normal or elevated, not low. 121 Atrial Natriuretic Peptides Atrial natriuretic peptides, including amino acids 1 to 30, amino acids 31 to 67 (known as vessel dilator ), 79 to 98 (kaliuretic hormone), and 99 to 126 (atrial natriuretic hormone), derived from the ANH prohormone, significantly decreased circulating concentrations of total T 4 , free T 4 , and free T 3 , when given to healthy humans for 60 minutes. A reciprocal increase in TSH lasted for 2 or 3 hours after cessation of the administration of these hormones, suggesting that the effect was a direct inhibition of thyroid hormone release from the thyroid gland rather than an action of the hormones upon the hypothalamus or pituitary. No data are available on these factors in NTIS 122 (Table 4). DIAGNOSIS Typically the endocrinologist is presented with a severely ill patient in whom there is no prior history suggestive of pituitary disease, in whom clinical findings of hypothyroidism are either absent or masked by other disorders, with a T 4 and FTI
