The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


whom there is no prior history suggestive of pituitary disease, in whom clinical findings of hypothyroidism are either absent or masked by other disorders, with a T 4 and FTI (by an index method) that are low, a low or normal TSH, and, if measured, a low T 3 . If T 4 is below 4 μg/dL in this setting, the diagnosis of NTIS, associated with a potentially fatal outcome, may be assumed; rT 4 may be normal or elevated and is not diagnostic. An elevated TSH suggests the presence of prior hypothyroidism, which should be treated. Finding positive antithyroid antibody titers supports the diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism but does not prove it. Serum cortisol should be measured. Transient, apparently central, hypoadrenalism may occur in severe illness. 123-125 Cortisol should be above 20 μg/dL, and commonly is above 30. If below 20, ACTH should be drawn, and the patient may be given supportive cortisol therapy. Serum cortisol should certainly be determined if thyroid hormone is to be given. Since CBG may be reduced, it is advisable to measure serum free cortisol if possible. It is useful to determine FSH in postmenopausal women as a sign of pituitary function, but this is less clearly valuable in men. If there is a reason to consider hypopituitarism, a CAT scan of the pituitary is appropriate, or at least a skull film. Use of aspirin, dilantin, and carbamazepine should be noted, since they can lower T 4 and FTI as measured by several “index” methods. Dopamine used in the setting of severe illness can induce clear-cut hypothyroidism. Hyperthyroidism is the typical cause of suppression of TSH below 0.1 μU/mL, but it is rarely difficult to exclude this diagnosis in the setting of severely depressed T 4 and T 3 . IS THYROID HORMONE TREATMENT OF NTIS ADVANTAGEOUS OR DISADVANTAGEOUS? Two valuable studies are available on replacement therapy using thyroid hormone in patients with NTIS. In the study by Brent and Hershman, 54 replacement with 1.5 μg T 4 IV per kilogram body weight daily, in 12 patients, promptly returned serum T 4 levels to normal (thereby proving that a binding defect was not the cause of the low T 4 ) but did not normalize T 3 levels over a period of 2 to 3 weeks. However, in both the treated and control group, mortality was 80%. 54 Clearly this excellent small study, which
