The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


normalize T 3 levels over a period of 2 to 3 weeks. However, in both the treated and control group, mortality was 80%. 54 Clearly this excellent small study, which used for primary therapy what would now be considered the wrong hormone, failed to show either an advantageous or disadvantageous effect. It is possible that the failure to show a positive effect was due to the failure of T 3 levels to be restored to normal. In a study of severely burned patients given 200 μg T 3 daily, again there was no evidence of a beneficial or disadvantageous effect. 126 Mortality was not so great, as in the Brent and Hershman study, but it is entirely possible that the high levels of T 3 given worsened the hypermetabolism known to be present in burn patients and could have, at these levels, been disadvantageous. An important study by Acker et al. certainly advises caution regarding T 4 therapy in patients with acute renal failure. Numerous studies in animals have documented a beneficial effect of T 4 therapy in experimental acute renal failure. 127 In a randomized, controlled prospective study of patients with acute renal failure (ARF), treated patients received 150 μg of thyroxine a total of four times intravenously over 2 days. 128 The single difference recognized in the subsequent laboratory data was a suppression of TSH. T 4 treatment had no effect on any measure of ARF severity. Among other questions, it is not clear that serum T 3 levels were ever altered. However, mortality was higher in the thyroxine group (43% versus 13%) than in the control group. It is of interest that, as the authors state, “the observed mortality in the controls in this study was less than that typically seen in our institution in ARF and ICU patients, whereas the 43% mortality noted in the thyroid group better approximates both our experience and that reported in the literature for ICU patients.” It will be difficult to replicate this study (although this reader believes it should be replicated). But it is uncertain whether the small dose of thyroxine administered over 2 days actually is related to the mortality, considering that the mortality in the treated group was that usually observed, whereas the control happened to have a much lower mortality. 128 The same group has also studied the effect of thyroid hormone treatment on posttransplant acute tubular
