The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


that usually observed, whereas the control happened to have a much lower mortality. 128 The same group has also studied the effect of thyroid hormone treatment on posttransplant acute tubular necrosis. T 3 treatment during the posttransplant period did not alter outcome in a beneficial or derogatory manner. 129 Studies from animals are often quoted in the literature as an argument against treatment of NTIS or for the therapy. A study of sepsis induced in animals showed no difference in mortality with treatment, but some animals treated with thyroid hormone died earlier than did those that were untreated. 130 Chopra et al. induced NTIS in rats by injection of turpentine oil. The reduction in T 4 , T 3 , free T 4 index, and TSH were associated with no clear evidence of tissue hypothyroidism, and urinary nitrogen excretion was normal. Thyroid hormone replacement with T 4 or T 3 did not significantly alter enzyme activities or urinary nitrogen excretion. 131 Healthy pigs were subjected to 20 minutes of regional myocardial ischemia by Hsu and collaborators, 132 and this was associated with a drop in T 3 , free T 3 , and elevated rT 3 . Some animals were treated with 0.2 μg T 3 per kilogram for five doses over 2 hours. While myocardial infarction size was not altered, the pigs treated with T 3 showed a more rapid improvement in cardiac index. Oxygen consumption did not alter. It should be noted that the T 3 levels fell back to normal levels within 4 hours of the last T 3 dose, suggesting that more prolonged therapy might have been beneficial. Katzeff et al. 133 studied a model of NTIS induced by caloric restriction in young rats. In these animals, T 3 was reduced, and there was a decrease in LV relaxation time, SERCA2 mRNA, and αMHC mRNA. All changes were reversed to normal values by supplementation with T 3 , suggesting that the low-T 3 syndrome was related to the pathologic cardiac changes. Sepsis and multisystem organ failure are often associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and consumption of coag inhibitors such as antithrombin III. Chapital studied a model of sepsis in rats and showed that T 3 supplementation reduced the decrease in antithrombin III levels, which presumably would reflect a beneficial effect. 134 Dogs subjected to hemorrhagic shock recovered more cardiovascular function when given T 3 intravenously than
