The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


reduced the decrease in antithrombin III levels, which presumably would reflect a beneficial effect. 134 Dogs subjected to hemorrhagic shock recovered more cardiovascular function when given T 3 intravenously than did untreated animals. 135 Neurologic outcome after anoxia is improved in dogs by T 3 treatment. 136 Short-term studies on T 3 replacement of patients in shock, in patients with respiratory disease, in subjects who are brain dead and potential organ donors, and in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafts all suggest modest cardiovascular benefits from the administration of T 3 . One study reports benefit by replacing T 3 to elevate the depressed T 3 levels in premature infants. 137 Other studies found no apparent effects. Children treated with T 3 postoperatively when they have undergone cardiac surgery also require less cardiac support(138). T 3 administration (one dose of approximately 6 μg IV) did not alter cardiac performance in brain-dead transplant donors. 139 Coronary artery bypass, as studied by Klemperer and collaborators, 36 was associated with a drop in serum T 3 ; IV administration of T 3 elevated T 3 above normal, augmented cardiac output, and reduced the need for pressor support but had no other effect. In this study, however, the patients had a very favorable prognosis and minimal NTIS, so the study primarily shows that administration of T 3 had no adverse effect under these circumstances. In a study of patients after heart transplant, patients with the low T3 syndrome (NTIS) had higher mortality, higher incidence of acute rejection, highest number of re-operations, and higher incidence of infections, compared to those without NTIS (140). In a study reported several years ago, T 3 administration to critically ill neonates with severe respiratory distress appeared to improve survival. Infants of less than 37 weeks gestational age or weighing less than 220 grams were given prophylactic doses of thyroxine and T 3 daily and had a lower mortality rate than untreated infants. 137 Use of thyroid hormone replacement in children after cardiac surgery has been extensively reviewed by Haas et al., with the conclusion that it is a desirable treatment option, especially in high-risk patients. 141 Goarin et al. studied the effect of T 3 administration in brain-dead organ donors and found that although it returned T 3 levels to normal, it did not improve hemodynamic status or myocardial function. 142 Pingitore et al. gave T 3 by IV
