The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


donors and found that although it returned T 3 levels to normal, it did not improve hemodynamic status or myocardial function. 142 Pingitore et al. gave T 3 by IV infusion for 3 days to patients with chronic heart failure. Heart rate, plasma nor-epinephrine (down 52%), natriuretic peptide, and aldosterone (down 23%) were all significantly diminished, and ventricular performance improved, without side effects. 143 In a randomized study of patients for 24 hours after coronary bypass, correction of the usual drop in serum T 3 by IV T 3 infusion had no beneficial or deleterious effect on cardiac parameters. 144 Of interest, it also did not affect leucine flux or urinary nitrogen excretion, contrary to the usual assumption that a drop in serum T 3 should spare body protein. Novitsky (145) studied three conditions in which NTIS and myocardial functional depression have been documented - i) transient regional myocardial ischemia and reperfusion, ii) transient global myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing cardiac surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass, and iii) transient inadequate global myocardial perfusion in brain-dead potential organ donors. Under all three conditions, in models and in man, following administration of T3/T4, the myocardial dysfunction was rapidly reversed. Cautiously use of thyroid hormonal therapy to any patient with the ESS and/or a stunned myocardium was advocated. The general outcome of these studies is that they weakly support the use of T 3 , and none of the studies found evidence of damage caused by treatment. 144-150 In summary, it can be stated that there is no clear evidence that thyroxine or triiodothyronine treatment of NTIS in animals or man is disadvantageous, but no certain proof that it is advantageous. In the acute NTIS syndrome associated with operations, short term treatment with T3 augments cardiac function, but has not been shown to alter the already low mortality (150). However, what evidence there is suggests TH may be beneficial. The argument has been raised that administration of thyroid hormone in NTIS would prevent the elevation in TSH commonly seen in recovering patients. This seems rather specious. More objectively, the elevation of TSH is another suggestion that the few patients who survive the ordeal were hypothyroid and left untreated. Lastly, it is unlikely that administration of replacement hormone during NTIS would be harmful, even if all of the evidence presented suggesting hypothyroidism was erroneous, and the patients were in fact euthyroid. IF THYROID HORMONE REPLACEMENT
