The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


of replacement hormone during NTIS would be harmful, even if all of the evidence presented suggesting hypothyroidism was erroneous, and the patients were in fact euthyroid. IF THYROID HORMONE REPLACEMENT IS GIVEN, WHAT SHOULD IT BE? Clearly the high mortality rate in patients in the chronic phase of NTIS, with T 4 under 4 μg/dL, suggests that this is a target group in whom thyroid hormone administration should be considered. In this group of patients, there appears to be no obvious contraindication to replacement therapy, with the possible exception of people who have cardiac decompensation or arrhythmias. Even here, the evidence is uncertain. There is no clear evidence that administration of replacement doses of T 3 to patients with low cardiac output is disadvantageous, and in fact current studies using intravenous T 3 in these patients indicate it is well tolerated and may be beneficial. 151 Arrhythmias obviously also raise a question, but again, there is no evidence that replacement of thyroid hormone to a normal level would cause trouble in control of arrhythmias. Low free T 3 levels are reported to be associated with an increased incidence of fibrillation after cardiac surgery in elderly patients. 152 Thus even in this group of patients, it is reasonable to suggest therapy. It should also be noted that among patients with NTIS, there will certainly be patients who are clearly hypothyroid—based on known disease, treatment with dopamine, or elevated TSH—who need replacement therapy by any standard. If therapy is to be given, it cannot be thyroxine alone, since this would fail to promptly elevate T 3 levels. 54 Treatment should include oral, or if this is impractical, intravenous T 3 , and probably should be at the replacement level of approximately 50 μg/day given in divided doses. It may be appropriate to give slightly higher doses, such as 75 μg/day for 3 to 4 days to increase the body pool more rapidly, followed by replacement doses as described. Coincidentally, it is appropriate to start replacement with T 4 . Serum levels of T 4 and T 3 should be followed at frequent intervals (every 48 hours) and dosages adjusted to achieve a serum T 3 level at least low normal (70 to 100 ng/dL) prior to the next scheduled dose. If treatment is successful, T 3 administration can gradually be reduced, and thyroxine administration can be increased to replacement levels as deiodination
