The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


100 ng/dL) prior to the next scheduled dose. If treatment is successful, T 3 administration can gradually be reduced, and thyroxine administration can be increased to replacement levels as deiodination increases. Because of the marked diminution in T 4 to T 3 deiodination, and shunting of T 4 toward r T 3 , replacement with T 4 may initially only lead to elevation of rT 3 and have very little effect upon T 3 levels, or physiologic action. In this situation, continued administration of T 3 would be preferred. An alternate therapy, giving TRH to stimulate TSH production and TH release, has been shown to be effective in raising TH levels during short term treatment. This is described below. No prolonged treatment, or effects on survival have so far been reported. ADDITIONAL SUPPORTIVE HORMONAL THERAPY TO CONSIDER Although this discussion concentrates on the potential value of treating patients with NTIS with replacement thyroid hormone, several important recent studies expand the concept to other areas, including treatment of the associated hyperglycemia, relative adrenal insufficiency, use of beta blockers in burn patients, and possible use of GHRH and testosterone. Van den Berghe and co-workers have suggested that the acute and prolonged critical illness responses are entirely different neuroendocrine conditions. In protracted severe illness, patients are kept alive with conditions that previously caused death. However, this process has unmasked a variety of nonspecific wasting syndromes that include protein loss, accumulation of fat stores, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance, hypoproteinemia, hypercalcemia, potassium depletion, and hypertriglyceridemia. In prolonged illness, cortisol values are elevated, although ACTH levels are low, indicating that other mechanisms are driving the steroid response. Growth hormone secretory pulses are reduced, and the mean GH concentration is low in prolonged critical illness. FSH and LH are reduced, and testosterone levels are reduced. These authors maintain that the reduced neuroendocrine drive, present in the chronic phase of illness in an intensive care setting, is unlikely to be an evolutionary preserved beneficial process. They suggest that the administration of hypothalamic physiotropic releasing peptides may be a safer strategy than the administration of peripherally active hormones. 153-156 NTIS is typically associated with poor nutrition unless supportive measures are taken, and undernutrition is a known inducer of NTIS. Yet nutritional support is not uncomplicated. Parenteral feeding of rabbits (in contrast to fasting) in a model of chronic NTIS resulted in a normalization of low T3 levels, but did
