The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


Yet nutritional support is not uncomplicated. Parenteral feeding of rabbits (in contrast to fasting) in a model of chronic NTIS resulted in a normalization of low T3 levels, but did not correct low T4 levels(157) .Use of early parenteral alimentation for patients in the ICU with NTIS was recommended by Perez-Guisado et al (158), who found it decreased length of hospital stay. However a study by Langouche et al (159) found, in contrast, that adding parenteral nutrition sooner than one week in the ICU increased complications and delayed recovery. Hyperglycemia and insulin resistance are common in critically ill patients, even if they have not previously had diabetes. Van den Berghe et al carried out a prospective randomized study on ICU patients on mechanical ventilation, maintaining blood glucose at a level between 80 and 110 mg/dl, versus allowing glucose to range between a level of 180 – 200 mg/dl. Intensive insulin therapy reduced overall in-hospital mortality by 34 percent, bloodstream infections by 46 percent, acute renal failure requiring dialysis or hemofiltration by 41 percent, the median number of red-cell transfusions by 50 percent, and critical-illness polyneuropathy by 44 percent, and patients receiving intensive therapy were less likely to require prolonged mechanical ventilation and intensive care (98). This strict blood sugar control can lead to bouts of hypoglycemia, and higher controlled values are currently aimed for. In isolated brain injury patients, intensive insulin therapy reduced mean and maximal intracranial pressure while identical cerebral perfusion pressures were obtained with eightfold less vasopressors. Seizures and diabetes insipidus occurred less frequently. At 12 months follow-up, more brain-injured survivors in the intensive insulin group were able to care for most of their own needs. Preventing even moderate hyperglycemia with insulin during intensive care protected the central and peripheral nervous systems, with clinical consequences such as shortening of intensive care dependency and possibly better long-term rehabilitation. Prevention of catabolism, acidosis, excessive inflammation, and impaired innate immune function may explain previously documented beneficial effects of intensive insulin therapy on outcome of critical illness. Severe burns are known to be associated with a hypermetabolic state and a strong sympathetic response. Beta blockade given as propranolol to reduce the resting heart rate by 20% decreased resting energy expenditure and increased net muscle protein balance significantly in a group of burn patients. It is logical that this would be a significant benefit (160). Severe sepsis, which is of course associated with
