The Non-Thyroidal Illness Syndrome
KEYWORDS: patients, hormone, levels, ntis, serum, thyroid, low, illness, thyroid hormone, free, normal, endocrinol, tsh, syndrome, reduced


net muscle protein balance significantly in a group of burn patients. It is logical that this would be a significant benefit (160). Severe sepsis, which is of course associated with NTIS, is frequently associated with relative adrenal insufficiency, and possibly systemic inflammation-induced glucocorticoid receptor resistance. In a prospective randomized study, Annane et al studied a seven day treatment of patients with septic shock, by giving hydrocortisone, 50 mg q6h, and 9-alpha-fludrocortisone, 50 mg once daily. The risk of death in this treated group was significantly reduced without increasing any adverse effects. The treatment was most beneficial in individuals who responded poorly to a 250 mg ACTH test, which was conducted prior to the therapy. Non-response was defined as a response of 9 mg/dl or less, between the lowest, and highest concentration taken after the ACTH injection. Samples were taken in this study at 30 and 60 minutes (161). The severity of the illness was suggested by the statistics that 63% died in the placebo group, and 53% in the corticosteroid treatment group. The authors recommend that all patients with catecholamine dependent septic shock should be given a combination of hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone as soon as a short corticotrophin stimulation test is performed, and the treatment should be continued for seven days in non-responders. Hamrahian et al advise caution in using total serum cortisol measurements in patients with serum albumin levels below 21.5gm/dl. They observed that these patients may have low total cortisol because of low CBG, but have normal or elevated free cortisol levels (162) In contrast to the generally beneficial effects of hormonal therapy described above, high levels of growth hormone given to critically ill patients were found by Takala et al to augment mortalit y. The dosage used was 0.1 mg/kg bw, for up to 21 days. Mortality rate was nearly double. These authors suggest that GH may have an adverse effect upon immunity, cause fluid retention, and cause hyperglycemia (163). TREATMENT WITH HYPOTHALAMIC RELEASING HORMONES Van Den Berghe and collaborators have pioneered studies on the effects of hypothalamic releasing hormones in patients with severe NTIS. The logic supporting this approach is that it corrects a major cause of the low hormonal state, and may allow normal feed-back control and peripheral regulation of hormones, thus being more physiological than replacing the peripheral hormone deficit directly. Extensive studies document restoration of T4 and T3 levels following administration of TRH
