The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


modern environmental conditions as symmetrical negative feedback models initially suggested. Compensatory changes in physiology and behavior are more pronounced in response to negative than positive energy balances. Furthermore, energy intake is determined by eating behavior, which itself, may be determined by a number of complex physiological, environmental, social, and cultural factors. One should not perhaps expect to see strict regulation of food or energy intake on a day-to-day basis in modern environments. IS EATING BEHAVIOUR REGULATED? The control of appetite is often viewed to operate within an energy balance model of body weight regulation, but this should not lead to the view that appetite is controlled simply as an outcome of energy balance. Eating (food, energy, and nutrient intake) is a form of behavior, and like many aspects of volitional behavior, the factors leading to changes in that behavior are complex and are the outcome of factors which can be described by behavior change models. Using a COM-B model of behavior (Capability, Opportunity, Motivation, Behavior) ( 4 ), these factors include capability (psychological or physical ability to enact the behavior), motivation (reflective and automatic mechanisms activate or inhibit behavior), opportunity (physical and social environments that enables the behavior). Given the interacting and complex nature of these influences it is to be expected that unless homeostatic or other physiological feedback signals are particularly powerful, their effects on eating behavior would be difficult to detect. It is often implied (but not explicitly stated) that eating behavior is part of a feedback loop that is subsumed to the regulation of energy balance, but under the conditions of modern environments, there is little rationale for why eating behavior per se should be a regulated phenomenon as described by classic homeostatic models. Eating behavior may show repeated patterns which are stable over time, but these patterns may be quite different from the concept of regulation described in typical homeostatic models of blood glucose regulation or thermoregulation for example. While eating behavior is influenced by a number of factors, it is reasonable to argue that some of those factors may become particularly salient under specific physiological or environmental circumstances. This is important as energy balance regulation appears asymmetric, with compensatory changes in physiology and behavior more pronounced in response to negative than positive energy balances. The exact mechanisms that oppose energy deficits are complex, inter-related, and individually subtle ( 5 , 6 ). While energy expenditure
