The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


pronounced in response to negative than positive energy balances. The exact mechanisms that oppose energy deficits are complex, inter-related, and individually subtle ( 5 , 6 ). While energy expenditure and its components change in response to energy deficits in a quantitatively important manner, it is likely that changes in energy intake (EI) have a greater capacity to produce relatively large alterations in energy balance and body composition ( 7 ). The physiological and psychological impacts of weight loss likely occur on a continuum, with the point on this continuum influenced by (i) the degree of energy deficit, (ii) its duration, (iii) body composition at the onset of the energy deficit, and (iv) the psychosocial environment in which it occurs ( 8 ). In contrast, as weight is progressively gained there is very little evidence of physiological or behavioral systems exerting negative feedback to actively limit further weight gain. However, there is considerable heterogeneity in the rate of weight gain during overfeeding ( 9 ), which may in part, reflect inter-individual variations in physical activity and/or partitioning the excess energy between fat mass (FM) and fat-free mass (FFM) ( 10 , 11 ). The implication of asymmetric energy balance regulation would be that appetite is under stronger physiological control in relation to negative energy balances, whereas in a state of energy balance or positive energy balances weak linkages (negative feedback) exist between physiological functioning, food intake, and the motivation to eat. If energy balance regulation is asymmetric and modern environments are spatially and temporally rich in energy dense foods, it is logical to assume that many of the factors that shape eating behavior and energy intake are due to environmental influences such as sensory and environmental cues for food intake (which are presumably mediated through hedonic and other affective mechanisms). There is now a strong current of thought that a major cause of an increase in food intake associated with the rise of obesity resides in the hedonic rather than the homeostatic system. Some authors argue that in the resource limiting environments in which we evolved, hedonic and homeostatic systems functioned in a synchronized manner to facilitate over consumption during relatively brief periods of food abundance. In an environment where food resources are unpredictable and finite, overconsumption would have been an adaptive behavior limited (capability, opportunity) by environmental uncertainty. Natural selection would favor such behaviors. There would have been little
