The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


food resources are unpredictable and finite, overconsumption would have been an adaptive behavior limited (capability, opportunity) by environmental uncertainty. Natural selection would favor such behaviors. There would have been little need to evolve systems that protect against weight gain as it would be an improbable outcome in resource limited environments. This does not mean that the so-called ‘energy homeostasis system’ is no longer important in modern environments. Modern day environments have changed very rapidly and radically relative to the environment shaping energy balance regulation. Therefore, to understand how homeostasis and hedonics may influence food intake in modern environments requires an appreciation of the asymmetry of energy balance regulation, the time course over which such regulation may operate, and the very rapid time-course over which the modern food environment has changed. FOOD INTAKE AND APPETITE CONTROL The Motivation to Eat Within the COM-B model of behavior, motivation is an important factor influencing behavior if capability and opportunity do not constrain behavior (as is the case in today’s so called ‘obesogenic’ environment). In the field of ingestive behavior, motivation to eat usually refers to reflective processes that are subjectively experienced or expressed. They are often believed to relate to underlying physiological or external environmental influences, but have the status of a self-reported, subjectively expressed psychological construct. Appetite has been defined as the subjective expression of willingness or motivation associated with qualitative selection and quantitative consumption of specific foods during an ingestive event ( 12 ) . Appetite is not necessarily solely related to situations of nutritional depletion and can be influenced by a number of physiological and non-physiological factors. Appetites are specific to certain foods, often learned and frequently sensory specific ( 13 ). Unfortunately, the term appetite control is often used without specifying what is being controlled. Does eating behavior change to maintain some constancy and motivation to eat? Does appetite change in order to control food intake around some central tendency? Does appetite change with the aim of changing food intake to regulate energy balance? Often it is the latter view that is implied but not clearly articulated. Table 1. Key Psychobiological Components of Appetite ( 14 , 15 ) View in own window COMPONENT OF APPETITE DEFINITION Hunger The subjective sensation described as the primary motivation to eat. An increase in subjective hunger usually predicts meal initiation under ad libitum feeding situation. It does not necessarily predict type or
