The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


subjective sensation described as the primary motivation to eat. An increase in subjective hunger usually predicts meal initiation under ad libitum feeding situation. It does not necessarily predict type or amount of food eaten. Satiation The process during a meal that generates the negative feedback leading to its termination (within-meal inhibition). Satiety The degree of satisfaction and/or fullness following food consumption. This bears some reciprocal relationship to hunger and inhibits further motivation to eating. Liking The sensory pleasure elicited by contact with food contributing to the hedonic motivation to consume (wanting). Wanting The motivation to consume a specific food, manifesting explicitly (desire to eat) or implicitly. Because a great deal of human behavior is both reactive and learned, it is possible that the environment can produce prompts, cues, and stimuli that influence learned patterns of motivation to eat. Because eating behavior is a significant determinant of energy balance it is often argued that manipulation or control of motivation to eat (commonly termed appetite control) can be used as a means to prevent excess energy intake and obesity, usually via putative mechanisms of satiety. This is a logical proposition particularly if appetite is not actually very tightly controlled with reference to overconsumption and the development of obesity. Some characteristics of the expression of appetite do appear to render individuals vulnerable to over-consumption of food - these characteristics can be regarded as risk factors that vary between individuals ( 16 ). Other significant and salient environmental, acquired, and inherited influences on eating behavior aside, there has been considerable work dedicated to trying to conceptualize and understand putative mechanisms that may link motivation to eat to food and energy intake. A CONCEPTUAL THEORETICAL MODEL LINKING PHYSIOLOGY, MOTIVATION, AND BEHAVIOR TO FOOD INTAKE One of the most commonly accepted theoretical models for the control of appetite is the satiety cascade, a putative network of interactions between physiological, psychological, and behavioral factors which form a psychobiological system. The term psychobiological assumes that physiological functions provide internal cues that may impact motivation to eat, and can be conceptualized on three levels ( Figure 1 ). These are the levels of psychological events (hunger perception, cravings, and hedonic sensations) and behavioral operations (meals, snacks, energy, and macronutrient intakes); the level of peripheral physiology and metabolic events; and the level of neurotransmitter and metabolic interactions in the brain ( 17 ) (see for Andermann & Lowell ( 18
