The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


intakes); the level of peripheral physiology and metabolic events; and the level of neurotransmitter and metabolic interactions in the brain ( 17 ) (see for Andermann & Lowell ( 18 ) for a review of the central control of food intake). Appetite reflects the synchronous operation of events and processes in the three levels. Implicit in this theoretical model is the notion that the physiological signaling systems influence motivation to eat and that motivation to eat shapes eating behavior. The model suggests that neural events trigger and guide behavior, but each act of behavior involves a response in the peripheral physiological system. In turn, these physiological events are translated into brain neurochemical activity that is related to the strength of motivation to eat and the willingness to refrain from eating. In this model it is assumed that motivations to eat change with the aim of changing food intake to regulate energy balance. The lower part of the psychobiological system ( Figure 1 ) illustrates the satiety cascade links motivation and behavior to peripheral and central signals related to eating. It also includes those behavioral actions which actually form the structure of eating, and those processes which follow the termination of eating and which are referred to as post-ingestive or post-prandial events. Figure 1. The satiety cascade, as originally presented ( 17 ), showing the expression of appetite as the relationship between three levels of operations: the behavioral pattern, peripheral physiology and metabolism, and brain activity. See for Andermann & Lowell ( 18 ) for a more recent review of the central control of food intake. PVN, paraventricular nucleus; NST, nucleus of the tractus solitarius; CCK, cholecystokinin; FFA, free fatty acids; T: LNAA, tryptophan: large neutral amino acids. EPISODIC AND TONIC SIGNALS OF APPETITE CONTROL Traditionally a distinction has been drawn between episodic and tonic signals in the control of appetite ( 19 ). Episodic signals are mainly inhibitory (but can be excitatory) and are usually generated by episodes of eating. These signals oscillate in accordance with the pattern of eating, and most are closely associated with the signaling of satiety. Tonic signals arise from tissue energy stores such as adipose tissue and metabolically active tissues to exert some degree of feedback on the expression of appetite to match day-to-day food intake with longer-term energy needs. These two sets of signals, one set responding sharply to nutrient flux and the other
