The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


feedback on the expression of appetite to match day-to-day food intake with longer-term energy needs. These two sets of signals, one set responding sharply to nutrient flux and the other providing a slow modulation of appetite and food intake, are integrated within complex brain networks that control the overall expression of appetite. Examination of these putative mechanisms tend to be more common in acute or short-term studies of ingestive behavior in which the primary change is motivation to eat or eating behavior rather than longer term studies. Short-term experiments are valuable for mechanistic understanding, but such studies often make the assumption that changes in the motivation to eat or eating behavior will translate in the long term into aspect of energy balance regulation. However, concentrating only on short-term effects without considering the longer-term time scale may fail to reveal the way that food intake is affected or energy balance is regulated as the experimental time window is much narrower than is relevant for such regulation to occur (e.g., weeks and months rather than minutes, hours or days). Put simply, many investigators may be looking for evidence of regulation over a period where no such regulation is likely to occur. It is therefore important to distinguish between longer term (tonic) mechanisms of putative energy balance regulation and shorter term (acute, episodic) mechanisms that may affect motivation to eat or EI. Episodic Appetite Signals Episodic signals are those physiological events that are triggered as responses to the ingestion of food. These form the inhibitory processes which first of all stop eating and then prevent its re-occurrence and are therefore termed satiety signals. The types of signals involved in terminating a meal (satiation) and preventing further consumption (post meal satiety) can be represented by the satiety cascade. Initially the brain is informed about the amount of food ingested and its nutrient content via sensory input. The gastrointestinal tract is equipped with specialized chemo- and mechano-receptors that monitor physiological activity and pass information to the brain mainly via the vagus nerve ( 20 ). This afferent information constitutes one class of ‘satiety signals and forms part of the pre-absorptive control of appetite. It is usual to identify a postabsorptive phase that arises when nutrients have undergone digestion and have crossed the intestinal wall to enter the circulation. These products, constitute the flux of energy and nutrients into the circulation, may be metabolized in the
