The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


have undergone digestion and have crossed the intestinal wall to enter the circulation. These products, constitute the flux of energy and nutrients into the circulation, may be metabolized in the peripheral tissues or organs, or may enter the brain directly via the circulation. In either case, these products constitute a further class of metabolic satiety signals. Additionally, products of digestion and agents responsible for their metabolism may reach the brain and bind to specific chemoreceptors, influence neurotransmitter synthesis or alter some aspect of neuronal metabolism. In each case the brain is informed about some aspects of the metabolic state resulting from food consumption. It seems likely that chemicals released by gastric stimuli or by food processing in the gastro-intestinal tract are involved in the control of appetite ( 21 ). Many of these chemicals are peptide neurotransmitters, and many peripherally administered peptides cause changes in food consumption ( 22 ). (Please refer to ENDOTEXT chapter ‘Endocrinology of The Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism’ by Andrea Pucci and Rachel L. Batterham for additional information on gut hormones physiology). Cholecystokinin Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a hormone released in the proximal small intestine mediating meal termination (satiation) and possibly early phase satiety. CCK reduces meal size and also suppresses hunger before the meal; these effects do not depend on the nausea that sometimes accompanies an IV infusion ( 23 ). Food consumption (mainly protein and fat) stimulates the release of CCK (from duodenal mucosal cells), which in turn activates CCK-A type receptors in the pyloric region of the stomach. Fat in the form of free fatty acids (FFA) of carbon chain lengths C12 and above produce pronounced CCK releases ( 24 , 25 ). This signal is transmitted via afferent fibers of the vagus nerve to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in the brain stem. From here the signal is relayed to the hypothalamic region where integration with other signals occurs. Animal data suggest that endogenous CCK release mediates the pre-absorptive satiating effect of intestinal fat infusions, and may in turn be critical in regulating the intake of fat ( 26 ). As in rats, intestinal infusions of fat produce a reduction in food intake and promote satiety in humans ( 27 ). In humans the satiety effect of fat infused directly into the duodenum can be blocked by the CCKA receptor antagonist loxiglumide ( 28 ). High-fat breakfasts have
