The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


( 27 ). In humans the satiety effect of fat infused directly into the duodenum can be blocked by the CCKA receptor antagonist loxiglumide ( 28 ). High-fat breakfasts have been shown to produce both greater feelings of satiety (signified by reduced levels of hunger, desire to eat and prospective consumption) and elevated endogenous plasma CCK levels. Collectively, these studies support the theory that CCK plasma levels are a potent fat (or fatty acid) -stimulated endogenous satiety factor, whose effects on food intake and eating behavior are mediated by CCKA receptors. It has also been shown that synthetic CCK-A type agonists suppress food intake in humans. A drug, known by the number ARL1718, caused a significant reduction in meal size and had a longer duration of action than observed after infusions of CCK itself. A number of other CCK analogues / CCK 1 receptor agonist treatments have been developed including most recently GW181771 (GlaxoSmithKline) and SR146131 (Sanofi-Aventis). Studies with such drugs, together with those on the peptide hormone itself, do suggest that CCK has the properties of a true satiation signal which contributes, under normal circumstances, to the termination of a meal. However, CCK is not uniquely involved in the expression of satiety and is also involved in a spectrum of physiological responses generated following nutrient consumption. The action of CCK certainly acts in concert with other meal-related events, such as gastric distention for example. Glucagon-Like-Peptide-1 Glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 is an incretin hormone, released from the gut into the blood stream in response to intestinal nutrients. Endogenous GLP-1 levels increase following food intake, particular of carbohydrate ( 29 , 30 ). These studies suggest a role for GLP-1 in mediating the effects of carbohydrate (specifically glucose) on appetite. In healthy men of normal weight, infusions of synthetic human GLP-1 (7-36) during the consumption of a fixed breakfast test meal, enhanced ratings of fullness and satiety when compared to the placebo infusion ( 31 ). During a later ad libitum lunch, food intake is also significantly reduced by the earlier GLP-1 infusion. Intravenous GLP-1 also dose-dependently reduces spontaneous food intake and adjusts appetite in healthy weight male volunteers. This marked reduction in food intake and enhancement in satiety is also observed in male patients living with overweight or obesity and type 2 diabetes. In men living with obesity, intravenous GLP-1 potently reduces food intake either during or post-infusion ( 32 )
