The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


in male patients living with overweight or obesity and type 2 diabetes. In men living with obesity, intravenous GLP-1 potently reduces food intake either during or post-infusion ( 32 ) and, at lower sub-anorectic doses, slows gastric emptying. Reductions in intake and slowed gastric emptying are accompanied by decreased feelings of hunger, desire to eat and prospective consumption, and a prolonged period of post-meal satiety. These data demonstrate that exogenous GLP-1 reduces food intake and enhances in satiety in humans, both those healthy weight and living with obesity. However, it should be kept in mind that the doses of GLP-1 often administered are usually higher than the normal values seen in blood after a meal. Consequently, although GLP-1 receptors could be a possible target for anti-obesity drugs, the physiological role of GLP-1 itself in the normal mediation of satiety is still not confirmed. Nonetheless, GLP-1 through its action as an incretin which prompts the release of insulin, will certainly have some indirect role on the pattern of eating behavior. Interestingly, two of the most promising drug options for people living with obesity are liraglutide and semaglutide; both GLP-1 agonists. These drugs have been shown to decrease hunger ( 33 ) and/or increase satiety ( 34 ). The action of the pharmacological agents may mean that people living with obesity gain some control over their eating behaviors, however longer-term studies are required to investigate their true potential. In addition, it should be noted that the GLP-1 receptors responsible for the anti-obesity action of semaglutide and liraglutide are located in the brain rather than the periphery. Peptide YY 3-36 Peptide YY 3-36 (PYY 3-36 ) is one of the two main endogenous forms of PYY. It is produced from the cleavage of PYY 1-36 (the other major form of PYY) by dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV). PYY is a 36 amino acid ‘hind gut’ peptide released from endocrine cells in the distal small intestine and large intestine. This hormone is similar in structure to the orexigenic neuropeptide NPY (70% amino acid sequence identity), and in the past, PYY has been regarded, like NPY, as a potent stimulator of food intake. However, in a series of studies in rats, mice and in one human study (all included in one paper), Batterham et al. ( 35 ) have demonstrated that peripheral PYY 3-36 administration reduces food intake and inhibits weight gain in rodents. These
