The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


human study (all included in one paper), Batterham et al. ( 35 ) have demonstrated that peripheral PYY 3-36 administration reduces food intake and inhibits weight gain in rodents. These effects on intake and body weight are not observed in transgenic animals lacking NPY Y2 receptors (the NPY Y2 receptor knock-out), thereby implicating these receptors in mediating the anorectic effects of PYY. PYY release in the distal intestine is triggered by a variety of nutrients, including fats (particularly FFA), some forms of fiber and bile acid ( 24 , 25 ). In humans, endogenous PYY is released predominantly after, rather than during a meal ( 35 , 36 ) and causes a decrease in gastric emptying (the so-called ‘ileal brake’). Thus, it is more associated with post-meal satiety. PYY (including PYY 3-36 ) can cross the blood brain barrier via a non-saturable mechanism. Moreover, some of the effects of peripheral PYY 3-36 on food intake are either independent of or dependent on vagal afferents running from the periphery to the brain ( 37 , 38 ). With regard to the effect of PYY on human appetite, Batterham et al. ( 35 ) demonstrated that in healthy humans a 90-minute PYY 3-36 infusion reduced hunger and subsequent food intake two hours later. In a further report, PYY infusions in people who were either a healthy weight or living with obesity caused a 30% reduction in lunch intake post infusion and decreased the 24 h energy intake by 23% in those with a healthy weight and by 16% in those living with obesity ( 36 ). The natural plasma levels of PYY were lower in those with living with obesity than in the healthy weight participants, and were inversely correlated with the body mass index. The lower levels of PYY in those with living with obesity could mean a weaker satiety signaling through this hormone and therefore a greater possibility of over-consumption. However, as the authors noted these effects required doses greater than the normal physiological range of endogenous PYY and marked nausea was observed in one experiment ( 39 - 41 ). Amylin Research has also focused on amylin, a pancreatic rather than a gastrointestinal hormone, which also has a potent effect on both food intake and body weight ( 42 ). Peripheral administration of amylin reduces food intake in mice and rats, and meal size in rats. Chronic or peripheral
