The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


effect on both food intake and body weight ( 42 ). Peripheral administration of amylin reduces food intake in mice and rats, and meal size in rats. Chronic or peripheral administration of amylin over a period of 5 to 10 days produces significant reductions in cumulative food intake and body mass of rats ( 43 ). Thus, amylin appears to be a component part of the appetite regulation system. The effects of amylin on human food intake, food choice or appetite expression has yet to be fully assessed. However, pramlintide (a human amylin analogue), given to replace deficits in endogenous amylin in people with diabetes, has been shown to alter body weight in people living with obesity and diabetes treated with insulin ( 44 - 46 ) and people with obesity without diabetes ( 47 ). In healthy weight participants pramlintide induces reductions in meal intake and duration, and reduces pre meal appetite ( 48 ). Similar effects of pramlintide on intake and eating behavior are reported in people living with obesity (with and without type 2 diabetes) ( 49 , 50 ). Ghrelin In contrast to the peptides mentioned above, ghrelin is the only known excitatory peptide released in the gastrointestinal system. Ghrelin is a 28-amino acid peptide that stimulates the release of growth hormone from the pituitary ( 51 ). Secreted primarily from the stomach, it is also found in a number of other tissues ( 52 , 53 ). Ghrelin was the first excitatory peptide discovered and acts upon the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus ( 51 , 54 , 55 ). The composition and action of ghrelin is uniquely modified by the addition of an octanoyl group to the serine residue at position three. Some studies suggest this acylation is crucial for ghrelin to bind to the growth hormone-secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) and cross the blood-brain barrier ( 56 ). Ghrelin’s effects on food intake are mediated by neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein in the central nervous system ( 57 ). The majority (80-90%) of circulating ghrelin is in the deacylated form ( 51 ). Two theories have been proposed, firstly that deacylated ghrelin could result from incomplete acylation of the peptide, with both forms utilizing differently regulated pathways, or secondly, that DG could result from the deacylation of ghrelin ( 58 ). More recently, deacylated ghrelin has been termed the inactive form. Ghrelin is thought to be
