The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


pathways, or secondly, that DG could result from the deacylation of ghrelin ( 58 ). More recently, deacylated ghrelin has been termed the inactive form. Ghrelin is thought to be involved in meal initiation as it is high during periods of fasting and decreases in response to food intake, thus suggesting a physiological role for ghrelin in meal initiation ( 59 ). Intravenous infusion or subcutaneous injection of ghrelin in humans increases both feelings of hunger and food intake ( 56 , 60 ) and to promote increased food intake, weight gain and adiposity in rodents ( 60 ). Satiety Cascade Peptides In the overall control of the eating pattern, the sequential release and then de-activation of the peptides described above, can account for the evolving biological profile of influence over the sense of hunger and the feeling of fullness ( 61 ). The actions of these hormones therefore contribute to the termination of an eating episode (thereby controlling meal size) and subsequently influence the strength and duration of the suppression of eating after a meal. Evidence of this is shown by Gibbons et al. ( 62 ) whereby the post meal period was separated into early and late phases of satiety. It should be noted that whilst the profiles of peptide response shown in papers often show the expected increase and decrease (in the case of satiety peptides) and decrease and increase (in the case of ghrelin), there is a wide degree of individual variability in peptide responses. This is not often commented on, or shown. Furthermore, the majority of papers do not measure a range of peptides but rather focus on one or two. Individual variability in the release and maintenance of the levels of hormones (or the sensitivity of receptors) may determine whether some individuals are prone to snacking between meals or to other forms of opportunistic eating. The overall strength or weakness of the action of these peptides will help to determine whether individuals are resistant or susceptible to weight gain. Individual variability in the response of gut peptides to different food types has been shown more recently ( 63 ) and can be seen in Figure 2 . At present, it does not appear that a poor response in one peptide means a poor response in all peptides, and it is likely that the cumulative response of the peptides (of which there are many) is
