The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


a poor response in one peptide means a poor response in all peptides, and it is likely that the cumulative response of the peptides (of which there are many) is key for the modulation of appetite and EI. Since different foods may produce the same effect on hunger and fullness but display quite distinctive profiles of post-prandial peptides, this suggests that the satiety signaling system is complex and there is no single unique pattern of peptides that defines satiety. This questions to what extent short term satiety can be accounted for by individual changes in putative satiety peptides, and what other factors may contribute to subjective satiety or cessation of eating behavior in humans. Figure 2. Panel A shows the average ghrelin suppression after high fat and low-fat meals and Panel B and C shows the individual profiles of ghrelin for each participant after both high and low-fat meals. Adapted from ( 63 ). TONIC SIGNALS OF APPETITE CONTROL Ghrelin and the Hunger Drive As noted above, ghrelin is an episodic peptide increasing during periods of fasting and decreasing in response to food intake. However, ghrelin is also unique since it has been proposed that in addition to being linked to the initiation of eating, ghrelin also acts as a compensatory hormone. Circulating ghrelin decreases in response to overfeeding and increases in response to chronic negative energy balance such as occurs with exercise or anorexia nervosa ( 64 ). This means that in people living with obesity and in animals experimentally made fat, circulating ghrelin levels would be reduced in an apparent attempt to restore a normal body weight status. Therefore, ghrelin illustrates the characteristics of both an episodic and tonic signal in appetite control. From meal to meal the oscillations in the ghrelin profile act to initiate and to suppress hunger; over longer periods of time, some factor associated with fat mass applies a general modulation over the profile of ghrelin and therefore, in principle, over the experienced intensity of hunger. At some point, it seems likely that people living with obesity are insensitive to lower ghrelin levels and/or other factors outweigh the relative importance of circulating ghrelin. When weight is lost, for example following a period of food restriction and weight loss, ghrelin levels would rise (or normalize), and therefore promote the feeling of hunger. This is likely to be one of the signals that makes the loss
