The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


restriction and weight loss, ghrelin levels would rise (or normalize), and therefore promote the feeling of hunger. This is likely to be one of the signals that makes the loss of body weight difficult to maintain. Ghrelin blockade therefore may prove a useful anti-obesity treatment. Whilst people living with obesity have lower fasting ghrelin levels, they have been shown to show a similar response to infused ghrelin as normal-weight participants, that is, increased food intake ( 65 ). Ghrelin levels in people living with obesity do fall after food, but not to the same degree as healthy weight participants in whom different calorie loads were shown to decrease ghrelin levels in a dose-response manner, but in people living with obesity this clarity was not shown as clearly ( 66 ). This points towards a potential mechanism for weight gain to be a consequence of a down regulation of gut peptide signaling and that the sensitivity to ghrelin is being overridden by other factors, for example, hedonic control of appetite. The Role of Leptin One of the classical theories of appetite control has involved the notion of a long-term signal, leptin, which informs the brain about the state of energy stored in adipose tissue ( 67 ). In 1994 a mouse gene that controls the expression of a protein by adipose tissue which could be measured in the peripheral circulation (leptin) was discovery. It is now well accepted that there is a good correlation between the plasma levels of leptin and adipose tissue ( 68 ), and leptin interacts with NPY, one of the brain’s most potent neurochemicals involved in appetite, and with the melanocortin system, in the central control of appetite. Alongside other neuromodulators involved in a peripheral-central circuit, leptin links adipose tissue with central appetite mechanisms and metabolic activity. A number of mutations in the genes controlling molecules in the leptin-insulin pathways are associated with the loss of appetite control and obesity. For example, the MC4-R mutation (melanocortin concentrating hormone receptor 4) leads to an excessive appetite and massive obesity in children, similar to leptin deficiency. Studies have shown for individuals with a genetic form of leptin deficiency that leptin treatment produces dramatic weight loss, an effect associated with marked decreases in hunger ( 69 - 71 ). Further, the administration of exogenous leptin to humans, with either an insufficiency in or a specific deficit of endogenous leptin appears
