The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


marked decreases in hunger ( 69 - 71 ). Further, the administration of exogenous leptin to humans, with either an insufficiency in or a specific deficit of endogenous leptin appears to strengthen within meal satiation and post meal satiety ( 71 , 72 ). However, leptin-based obesity treatments for most individuals with obesity seem inappropriate given they appear leptin insensitive rather than leptin deficient. Indeed, despite extensive literature on leptin and other putative feedback signals arising from adipose tissue ( 73 , 74 ), there appears to be limited evidence in humans of the extent to which changes in adipose tissue exert strong negative feedback on motivation to eat or EI in individuals in approximate daily energy balance or modest positive imbalances (as characterize the majority of individuals in the modern environment). As a number of questions still exist regarding the applicability of a 'lipostatic' control system to the regulation of appetite in humans free from congenital leptin deficiency ( 75 ). Consequently, recent models of human appetite have attempted to integrate the role of both FM and FFM into the control of appetite and energy balance to better account for the peripheral signals of appetite. Fat-Free Mass and Resting Metabolic Rate and Associations with Appetite A conceptual model of human appetite that incorporates the energetic demands of metabolically active tissues has been proposed, with a tonic drive to eat arising from components of energy expenditure (e.g., resting metabolic rate; RMR) and its main determinants (e.g., FFM). This model is based on a series of studies demonstating that FFM, but not FM, is associated with hunger and EI under conditons of energy balance ( 76 - 81 ) (see Figure 3 ). For example, Blundell et al. ( 78 ) reported that FFM was associated with self-selected ( ad libitum ) meal size and total daily EI in 93 individuals living with overweight or obesity. In contrast, no associations were found between FM and EI. Resting metabolic rate, of which FFM is the main determinant ( 82 ), has also been found to be associated within-day hunger sensations and EI ( 80 , 81 , 83 ). These findings have been replicated in studies employing a wide range of participants and under a variety of experimental conditions, with the associations between FFM and EI observed under laboratory ( 79 - 81 , 84 ) and free-living settings ( 85 ,
