The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


and under a variety of experimental conditions, with the associations between FFM and EI observed under laboratory ( 79 - 81 , 84 ) and free-living settings ( 85 , 86 ), in new born babies ( 87 ), adolescents ( 88 , 89 ), normal weight women ( 90 ) , people living with moderate ( 91 ) or extreme obesity ( 92 ), and people of varying ethnic origin ( 93 , 94 ). These studies provide evidence that the relationship between FFM and EI exists across the entire age spectrum from birth ( 87 ), through childhood and adolescence ( 88 ) and into adulthood ( 78 , 81 , 84 , 93 , 95 ) and older age ( 96 ). There is also limited evidence that losses of both FFM and FM may be associated with changes in appetite ( 97 ) and weight regain ( 98 ) following weight loss, suggesting that integrated models of weight loss that account for FFM and FM losses may better explain changes in appetite during prolonged energy deficit (see below sections). However, there are few prospective longitudinal studies relating changes in functional body composition to appetite or EI, and where there is evidence, it often from studies with extreme weight loss induced via semi-starvation or military training. Figure 3. Association between fat-free mass, resting metabolic rate and daily energy intake (top panels), and a path diagram illustrating a mediation model for the direct effects of FM and FFM on RMR and RMR on EI, the indirect effect of FM and FFM on EI mediated by RMR, and the squared multiple correlations (R2) for RMR and EI. Data originally reported in Hopkins et al. ( 80 , 85 ). While often not explicitly discussed in relation to models of human appetite, the concept that energy needs exert influence on food intake is not new. In 1962, Kenneth Blaxter ( 99 ) noted that the basal metabolism of mature animals of different species increases to a fractional power of weight, with small animals have a higher basal metabolism per kilogram of weight than the large ones. This implies that to maintain body weight, small animals must obtain each day from food a larger number of calories per unit of the weight the large ones. If the total habitual energy expenditures of different species are all about the same multiples of
