The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


food a larger number of calories per unit of the weight the large ones. If the total habitual energy expenditures of different species are all about the same multiples of their basal energy expenditure, then both the calorie intake and the basal metabolism are likely to be proportional to the same fractional power of bodyweight. Furthermore, the energetic demands of individual tissue-organs such as the liver ( 100 ) or the growth and maintenance of lean tissues ( 101 , 102 ) have previously been suggested as sources of appetitive feedback. For example, Millward’s protein-stat theory suggests that lean mass, and in particular skeletal muscle mass, is tightly regulated such that food intake (specifically, dietary protein) is directed to meet the needs of lean tissue growth and maintenance ( 101 ). This theory is based on the existence of an ‘aminostatic’ feedback mechanism in which food intake is adjusted in response to amino acid availability to meet the protein demands of lean tissue growth and maintenance. Studies Examining the Associations between Fat-free Mass, Resting Metabolic Rate and Energy Intake Using statistical mediation models, a number of cross-sectional studies conducted under conditions of energy balance have demonstrated that the effect of FFM on EI is mediated by RMR ( 80 , 103 ) and total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) ( 104 ), suggesting that energy expenditure per se may exert influence over EI. For example, Hopkins et al. ( 80 ) reported that the effect of FFM on EI was fully mediated by RMR i.e. FFM had no ‘direct’ effect on EI but rather ‘indirectly‘ influenced EI via its effect on RMR. In agreement with these findings, Piaggi et al. ( 104 ) reported that TDEE accounting for 80% of the observed effect that FFM exerted on EI in 107 healthy individuals. Such findings suggest that the associations between FFM and RMR with EI may reflect a ‘mass-dependent’ effect arising from the energetic demands of FFM and its constituent tissue-organs rather than a specific endocrine signal secreted by these tissue-organs . However, it should be acknowledged that such findings represent statistical rather than biological pathways. Furthermore, skeletal muscle, a major component of FFM by weight, secretes a large number of myokines ( 105 ) which provide a molecular signal for bi-directional communication with other organs ( 106 ). While myokines such as interleukin 6 ( 107 ) and irisin ( 108
