The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


( 105 ) which provide a molecular signal for bi-directional communication with other organs ( 106 ). While myokines such as interleukin 6 ( 107 ) and irisin ( 108 ) have been linked to food intake and energy expenditure, the specific role that these (and other myokines) play in the control of appetite is unclear. An important consideration in the proposed relationship between FFM and EI is that FFM is a heterogeneous tissue compartment that is comprised of numerous individual tissue-organs with wide ranging metabolic functions and mass-specific metabolic rates ( 109 - 111 ). Tissue-organ structure and function are tightly coupled and determine their tissue-specific metabolic rate ( 112 ). In turn, the tissue-specific metabolic rates of individual organs summate to determine whole-body metabolic rate (e.g., RMR). The maintenance of tissue-organ structural integrity and function is therefore a metabolic priority ( 112 ), but to date there has been little attempt to integrate individual tissue-organs and their mass-specific energy expenditures into homeostatic models of human appetite. Recently however, Casanova et al., ( 113 ) used whole-body magnetic resonance imaging to examine whether the masses of high-metabolic rate organs (brain, liver, heart and kidneys) were associated with fasting hunger in 21 healthy males (age= 25 ± 3 years; BMI = 23.4 ± 2.1 kg/m 2 ) ( 114 ). As expected, fasting hunger was associated with FFM (r = 0.39; p = 0.09) but not FM (r = -0.01; p = 0.99). Interestingley, the association between the combined masses of the high-metabolic rate organs and fasting hunger (r = 0.58; p = 0.01) was stronger than with FFM as a single uniform body compartment. In particular, liver (r = 0.51; p = 0.02) and skeletal muscle mass (r s = 0.57; p = 0.04) were strongly associated with fasting hunger. As the masses of the liver and skeletal muscle explained ~17% and ~21% of the variance in RMR, respectively, these findings again suggest that energy expenditure per se may exert influence over food intake. Another important consideration is how behavioral components of total daily energy expenditure (e.g., physical activity or activity energy expenditure) influence energy intake. The effects of physical activity and/or exercise on appetite is discussed below. As noted, physical activity may influence the control of appetite via a number of physiological and psychological pathways (e.g., alterations in gastric emptying ( 115 ), appetite-related hormones ( 116 ),
