The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


noted, physical activity may influence the control of appetite via a number of physiological and psychological pathways (e.g., alterations in gastric emptying ( 115 ), appetite-related hormones ( 116 ), food reward ( 117 ), and eating behavior traits ( 118 )). In addition, physical activity or exercise may also exert influence, albeit modestly, on appetite and EI via its contribution to TDEE. Hopkins et al. reported in 242 individuals in which physical activity and EI were measured under free-living conditions that activity energy expenditure was independently associated with daily EI alongside FFM and RMR ( 86 ). As activity energy expenditure only explained 3% of the variance in total daily EI, its effect on daily EI was much more modest than that seen for FFM or RMR. This is perhaps not surprising given the smaller and more variable contribution of physical activity energy expenditure to TDEE as compared to FFM and RMR ( 119 ). It could be argued that while FFM and RMR are well placed to exert stable influence over day-to-day food intake, the contribution of physical activity energy expenditure to daily EI is likely to be weaker and more variable (and therefore, also harder to quantify). Factors Affecting the Strength of Association Between Fat-Free Mass and Energy Expenditure with Energy Intake It has been suggested that excess FM may disrupt the coupling between FFM and EI, with associations between FFM and EI weaker in those living with obesity than in healthy weight individuals ( 90 , 95 , 104 , 120 ). Early work by Cugini et al. reported that a positive association existed between FFM and hunger, while FM and hunger were negatively associated, in healthy weight individuals ( 121 ). However, no such associations were seen between FFM or FM and hunger in those living with obesity ( 120 ). Based on these data, the authors suggested that FM accumulation may disrupt the feedback mechanisms linking these tissues to hunger. More recently, Grannell et al. reported a positive association between FFM and EI during an ad libitum test meal in 43 individuals living with severe obesity, but the strength of this association was weaker in individuals with a higher BMI ( 92 ). To further explore the moderating effect of FM, Casanova et al., ( 90 ) examined the linear and non-linear associations between body composition (FFM and FM), energy expenditure (RMR and TDEE)
