The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


further explore the moderating effect of FM, Casanova et al., ( 90 ) examined the linear and non-linear associations between body composition (FFM and FM), energy expenditure (RMR and TDEE) and EI ( ad libitum test meal intake and free-living 24-hour EI) in 45 healthy weight and 48 individuals living with obesity. Percentage body fat moderated the associations between RMR (β=-1.88; p=0.02) and TDEE (β=-1.91; p=0.03) with free-living 24-hour EI. Furthermore, FM was negatively associated with test meal EI only in the leaner group (r=-0.43; p=0.004), with a weak non-linear association observed between FM and EI in the whole sample (r 2 =0.092; p=0.04). Such findings point to a non-linear relationships between FM and EI, and this may help account for why negative associations between FM and EI have been observed in healthy weight individuals ( 121 , 122 ), but studies in those living with overweight or obesity often report no association between FM and EI ( 79 , 88 , 91 , 123 ). A weaker negative association between FM and EI at higher body fatness is in line with the notion of leptin and insulin resistance ( 124 , 125 ), which may alter central and peripheral sensitivity to appetite-related feedback signals ( 126 - 128 ). Furthermore, while the contribution of FM to RMR is smaller than FFM ( 129 ), its contribution to RMR becomes proportionally larger as FM increases with excessive weight gain. Therefore, differences in the strength and direction of association between FM and EI at higher body fatness may reflect the increased contribution of FM to body weight and RMR alongside a blunting of its inhibitory influence on EI. It should also be acknowledged that the associations between FM and EI likely reflects both biological and psychological factors. Indeed, Hopkins et al., ( 85 ) have demonstrated that psychological factors such as cognitive restraint are robust predictors of EI when considered alongside physiological determinants of EI (e.g. FFM and RMR), and have the potential to play a mediating role in the overall expression of EI ( 85 ). A recent paper also suggests that the associations between FFM and TDEE with EI may become weaker with age ( 96 ). Based on a secondary analysis of the Interactive Diet and Activity Tracking in AARP Study, a biomarker validation study of self-reported diet and PA measures in older adults, Hopkins et al., reported
