The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


a secondary analysis of the Interactive Diet and Activity Tracking in AARP Study, a biomarker validation study of self-reported diet and PA measures in older adults, Hopkins et al., reported that FFM and TDEE (derived from doubly labelled water) predicted self-reported EI in 590 older adults (mean age 63.1 ± 5.9 years). Interestingly, while the associations between FFM or TDEE and EI existed across age quintiles, age moderated the associations between FFM and TDEE with EI such that these associations weakened with increasing age ( 96 ). Please refer to ENDOTEXT chapter ‘Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans’ by Klaas R Westerterp for additional information). Associations Between Body Composition and Energy Intake During Prolonged Negative or Positive Energy Balances Another important point to note is that the aforementioned associations between body composition, energy expenditure, and EI are from cross-sectional analysis performed in weight stable individuals at or close to energy balance. However, the effect of FFM on appetite appears to be dependent on energy balance status, with evidence suggesting that losses of FFM may also act as an orexigenic signal during energy deficit. During the Minnesota semi-starvation study ( 130 ), 32 healthy men undertook 24 weeks of semi-starvation (25% of weight loss), 12 weeks of controlled refeeding and 8 weeks of ad libitum refeeding. During the last phase (n = 12), hyperphagia remained until baseline levels of FFM were restored. This led to FM accumulation that surpassed baseline levels (i.e., “fat-overshoot”), a phenomenon that has been reported elsewhere following underfeeding or military training ( 131 , 132 ). As hyperphagia persisted until FFM had been restored to pre-weight loss levels, it was suggested that independent appetitive feedback signals from both adipose tissue and FFM (e.g., a ‘proteinostatic’ mechanism) contributed to the changes in hunger and food intake seen and restoration of body weight ( 133 , 134 ). While the demands imposed by semi-starvation or military training on energy balance clearly exceed those experienced during common diet and/or weight loss interventions, evidence also exists to suggest that FFM loss during clinically relevant weight loss may also act as an orexigenic signal. Following weight loss, it is commonly suggested that subjective hunger and orexigenic hormone concentrations increase ( 135 , 136 ), but studies have also reported no change or reduced hunger following weight loss ( 137 - 139 ). The composition of the weight lost, which is a function
