The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


136 ), but studies have also reported no change or reduced hunger following weight loss ( 137 - 139 ). The composition of the weight lost, which is a function of initial body fat, the rate and extent of weight loss, diet composition and exercise ( 140 , 141 ), may also influence any accompanying changes in appetite. It has been suggested that greater FFM loss during weight loss is associated with increased hunger ( 97 ) and weight regain ( 98 ) following weight loss. To assess whether changes in body composition occurring during weight loss were associated with subsequent energy balance behaviors under conditions of therapeutic weight loss, Turicchi et al. conducted a systematic review and meta-regression examining weight loss studies in weight clinical weight loss was achieved (mean = 10.9%) and weight regain occurred in the follow-up period (mean = 5.4%) ( 98 ). They found that while both greater rate and amount of WL predicted weight regain, the composition of weight loss i.e. the (amount of FM and FFM) explained greater variance in weight loss alone (40% vs 29%) ( 98 ). Furthermore, Turicchi et al., reported that greater FFM loss following a 12% reduction in body weight via a low-calorie diet was associated with greater increases in hunger in men (r = 0.69, p = 0.002) but not women (r = 0.25, p = 0.24) ( 97 ). In line with these findings, after 5 weeks of very-low calorie diet (500kcal/d) or 12 weeks of low-calorie diet (1250kcal/d) Vink ( 142 ) reported that greater FFM loss during energy restriction was associated with greater weight regain during a subsequent 9-month follow-up period. Data examining FFM loss during extensive periods of energy deficit are therefore suggestive that FFM loss may be part of an integrated response driving post-weight loss increases in EI and weight regain, potentially as a means to restore the structural integrity of FFM compartments (although the influence of FFM loss appears more modest than FM loss). These data also emphasize the importance of developing integrative models of energy balance that consider the dynamic relationships between body structure, physiological function, and the way these mechanistic interactions influence key psychological and behavioral determinants of energy balance such as appetite. However, there are few prospective longitudinal studies relating changes in functional body composition to appetite or EI, and further research using advanced imaging methods for tissue-organ
