The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


balance such as appetite. However, there are few prospective longitudinal studies relating changes in functional body composition to appetite or EI, and further research using advanced imaging methods for tissue-organ composition and multi-compartmental body composition models across a range of initial body compositions and weight losses would provide additional mechanistic insight ( 97 ). Taken together, cross-sectional research in weight stable individuals indicates that greater FFM is associated with increased EI, but research also indicate that FFM loss is associated with increased appetite and EI. If greater FFM is associated with increased appetite, how is it that FFM loss during weight loss is also associated with increased appetite? One explanation is that FFM exerts ‘passive’ and ‘active’ effects on appetite under situations of differing energy balance ( 6 , 143 ). At or near to energy balance, Dulloo et al. ( 143 ) has suggested that the energy demand of FFM and its constituent components create a ‘passive’ background pull on EI that ensures the energetic demands of metabolically active tissues are met through day-to-day food intake. In contrast, during weight loss, FFM loss may act as an ‘active’ orexigenic signal that stimulates increased hunger and EI in an attempt to ensure the preservation of FFM and the functional integrity of its constituent tissue-organs ( 143 ). However, it should be noted that long-term studies with longitudinal tracking of appetite, body composition and energy expenditure are rare, particularly under-conditions in which body composition is systematically manipulated. Body weight gain leads to an expansion of FFM which increases RMR, but how such changes causally influence appetite or food intake has not been examined. As weight is gained, both FM and FFM expand but at different rates. While such changes may not drive weight gain per se , a higher FFM and associated RMR may increase the background tonic drive to eat, favoring maintenance of a higher body weight. Expansion of FM over the long term induces insulin and leptin resistance, expansion of FFM and, in extremis, some slight elevation of RMR, could account for the apparent diminishing negative feedback from FM as adipose tissue expands ( 90 , 95 , 104 , 120 ). Therefore, it may be argued that any putative effect of FFM or RMR on the drive to eat may decrease with increasing BMI, since FFM and RMR increase at a decelerating rate with increase in weight, while
