The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


putative effect of FFM or RMR on the drive to eat may decrease with increasing BMI, since FFM and RMR increase at a decelerating rate with increase in weight, while the energy content of the body expands disproportionately as FM expands. While factors associated with energostatic models of appetite may be unlikely to drive body weight up in the first place, it is not inconsistent with maintenance of a higher body weight once this is achieved by other means. Thus, it may be that RMR is associated with EI at or close to energy balance, but that RMR (and its primary determinant FFM) become dissociated from the process of overconsumption during significant weight gain as the signal(s) becomes ‘overwhelmed’ by other stimuli important in driving weight gain e.g., food availability, sensory variety, dietary energy density and food reward. HOMEOSTATIC AND HEDONIC PROCESSES OF APPETITE CONTROL Food intake is clearly influenced by homeostatic processes of hunger and satiety, modulated according to short term and long-term signals of nutritional and energy status and moderated by lifestyle factors such as physical activity. However, human eating behavior is a complex phenomenon and people eat for many other reasons too: for friendship and celebration, in response to sadness or stress. All these cognitive and emotional motives converge on the fact that eating is a potent source of reward. It provides the eater with an instant but temporary hit of gratification. The greater the reward, the harder it is to resist the behaviors that produce it even when the consequences are risky or harmful and especially when the risk is removed in time. Therefore, a key issue in the study of appetite control is the relationship between hedonic and homeostatic drives ( 144 ). Historically, hedonic processes have been viewed as a function of nutritional need-state. In a state of depletion, the hedonic response (experienced palatability or pleasure) to energy providing foods is enhanced and when replete, the hedonic effect of these foods is reduced ( 145 ). This view is compatible with the association between energy density and palatability ( 146 ) and also that the consumption of fats and sugars “energy-dense nutrients“ may be under neuro-regulatory control ( 147 ). However, the idea of reward as merely serving the fulfilment of nutritional need is not sufficient to explain non-homeostatic food intake and it is perhaps more useful to try and distinguish the substrates of
