The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


reward as merely serving the fulfilment of nutritional need is not sufficient to explain non-homeostatic food intake and it is perhaps more useful to try and distinguish the substrates of homeostatic and hedonic systems and to assign them separate identities ( 148 ). Homeostasis and Hedonics: Cross-Talk and Interaction Advances in our understanding of the molecular and neural mechanisms behind food intake regulation and appetite control are revealing how the reward system can interact with homeostatic mechanisms. For example, cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands (e.g., anandamide) are implicated in the reward system. Peripheral and central administration of anandamide increased appetite in rodents, and this seemed to be related to alterations in incentive value (wanting) for palatable foods ( 149 ). However, the cannabinoid system has been shown to interact with homeostatic processes in a number of ways: Leptin signaling becomes defective when hypothalamic endocannabinoid levels are high ( 150 ); activation of CB1 receptors prevent the melanocortin system from altering food intake ( 151 ); furthermore, CB1 receptors can be found on adipocytes where they may directly increase lipogenesis ( 152 ). Opioid neurotransmission also forms part of the biological substrate mediating reward processes of consumption. For example, endogenous opioids are associated with the reinforcing effect of food (especially when palatable) ( 153 , 154 ). However, there is evidence to show that in a fasted state, the reinforcing effect of food can be reinstated in enkephalin and Î 2 -endorphin knock-out mice ( 155 ). Therefore, homeostatic processes may interact with hedonic signaling to override selective reward deficit. Hence although homeostatic and hedonic systems can be given separate identities ( 148 ), they are also - to an extent - inseparable, with neural cross-talk permitting functional interactions which may influence the organization of eating behavior. From this standpoint, the interaction of homeostatic and non-homeostatic pathways in the neuro-regulatory control of eating may be more important than the two systems studied in isolation. From behavioral and anatomical observations ( 156 ), it has been suggested that projections from the hypothalamus to the nucleus accumbens may modulate the motivation to eat via metabolic signals. Furthermore, direct and indirect projections from the accumbens to the hypothalamus may explain the ability for mesolimbic processes “activated by relevant environmental cues and incentives” to essentially hijack the homeostatic regulatory circuits and drive-up energy intake. Further research is necessary to identify the pathways that mediate
