The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


mesolimbic processes “activated by relevant environmental cues and incentives” to essentially hijack the homeostatic regulatory circuits and drive-up energy intake. Further research is necessary to identify the pathways that mediate such interactions; however progress has been made ( 157 ). Liking vs. Wanting Food The hedonic perspective on appetite control accounts for eating behavior motivated by the expectation or experience of pleasure from consuming specific foods and involves dissociable processes of “wanting” and “liking”. The “liking” component refers to the subjective experience of pleasure elicited by the sensory perception of food and is associated with the release of endogenous opioids acting on localized clusters of neurons termed “hedonic hotspots” ( 158 ) The “wanting” component of reward refers to the process by which food is assigned motivational significance or “incentive salience attribution” and is associated with the release of the neurotransmitter dopamine in the mesocorticolimbic pathway. This latter component can be activated by thoughts or cues signaling food and often precedes the actual receipt of food ( 159 ). In human neuroimaging studies, regional differences in the neural activation to food stimuli during either anticipatory or consummatory phases of reward processing are broadly supportive of the distinction between liking versus wanting. Response to passive viewing of high- versus low-calorie foods or cues signaling the imminent receipt of a tasty food are more reliably observed in the amygdala and ventral striatum, whereas the response to the actual taste and consumption of a palatable food is associated with activation in the primary taste cortex in the insular and opercular cortices ( 160 ). Some researchers have proposed that differences between individuals who are healthy weight and those with obesity in neural activation to palatable food can be understood as a dissociation in both the direction and region of responding during the anticipatory and consummatory phases of food intake- with greater striatal activation in individuals living with obesity compared to healthy weight controls when a food is wanted but lower activation in liking-related regions when a food is actually tasted ( 161 ). However, several inconsistencies in the brain imaging literature have been noted ( 162 ), and further research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis. Liking and wanting for food are often viewed in relation to subjective states or explicit feelings that refer to the everyday understanding of these terms in the context of food choice and food intake ( 163 ).
