The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


viewed in relation to subjective states or explicit feelings that refer to the everyday understanding of these terms in the context of food choice and food intake ( 163 ). Wanting might describe subjective states of desire, craving or perceived deprivation of pleasure, whereas liking is characteristically understood as the perceived hedonic effect of a food, the appreciation of its sensory properties or some evaluative judgment of its potential to give pleasure. As the subjective sensations of liking and wanting often overlap and are subject to interference or misinterpretation, their relationship with behavior is often difficult to discern ( 163 ). However, liking and wanting responses to food are not necessarily consciously monitored or even always accessible to the individual. Although people tend to be very good at estimating and reporting their liking for food, they are often unable to accurately gauge their implicit wanting for food (i.e., why they are unconsciously drawn to one food over another). The hedonic aspect of eating is important in a well-functioning homeostatic system for the directing and motivating an adequate supply of nutrients and energy. Increasingly, evidence for the interplay between liking and wanting with hunger and satiety is helping to clarify the role of hedonics in the control and loss of control over food intake ( 164 ). This extension to the conventional homeostatic model recognizes that hedonic processes are affected by acute nutritional need states and might modulate food intake through their interaction with other physiological processes involved in satiation and satiety. Likewise, cognitive and sensory inputs implicated in food liking and wanting can modulate the metabolic processes associated with homeostatic control over food intake ( 165 ). In addition to the effect of liking and wanting on episodic appetite responses, more recent evidence is emerging to suggest that tonic signals of nutritional status might affect liking and wanting for food to influence food preference and the composition of the diet ( 164 ). MODULATION OF APPETITE THROUGH PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Physical Activity and Control of Food Intake Some individuals believe that the energy expended during exercise will automatically drive-up hunger and food intake to compensate for the energy deficit incurred. However, evidence shows that interventions of acute exercise generate little or no immediate effect on levels of hunger or daily EI (see ( 166 - 170 ) for reviews). One reason that studies do not demonstrate an increase in EI following
