The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


no immediate effect on levels of hunger or daily EI (see ( 166 - 170 ) for reviews). One reason that studies do not demonstrate an increase in EI following acute exercise could be that they fail to track EI for sufficiently long periods after the bout of exercise, or that the exercised-induced energy expenditure is not large enough to stimulate appetite. However, even with a high dose of exercise (gross exercise-induced increase in energy expenditure = 4.6 MJ) in a single day and following tracking of EI for the following two days, there is no automatic compensatory rise in hunger and EI ( 171 ). Exercise training interventions have shown similar findings with regards to EI ( 169 , 172 ). In a recent systematic review and meta-analysis of exercise training interventions in people living with overweight or obesity, Beaulieu et al. ( 172 ) found that among 25 exercise groups, exercise training (ranging 2-72 weeks) did not lead to any significant post-intervention differences in EI compared to non-exercise control groups. Meta-regression showed this was not affected by intervention duration. However, due to the high number of poor-quality studies (i.e., using self-reported measured of dietary intakes), further analyses were conducted in only fair/good quality studies (reduced to 5 exercise groups), and found a 102-kcal post-exercise difference between exercisers and controls. It is important to note that this is an effect observed on the average and does not illustrate inter-individual variability (discussed below). Therefore, over time, on average there may be small compensatory increases in EI in response to the increased energy demands from greater physical activity levels. Indeed, the review also found a small increase in fasting hunger after exercise training in 19 exercise groups ( 172 ). Nevertheless, depending on the daily energy expenditure accrued with exercise training, this should still lead to some degree of weight loss and favorable changes in body composition, as reviewed by Bellicha et al.( 173 ). Small positive changes were also observed in relation to eating behavior traits, with a reduction in disinhibition (13 exercise groups) and an increase in restraint (12 exercise groups) assessed by the Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire ( 172 ). A small number of studies in the review also suggested that exercise training may reduce reward or preference for high-fat foods ( 172 ). Overall, most of the evidence indicates that exercise training in people living with overweight or
