The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


suggested that exercise training may reduce reward or preference for high-fat foods ( 172 ). Overall, most of the evidence indicates that exercise training in people living with overweight or obesity appears to have a relatively small but positive influence on eating behavior. This effect may be heightened with longer-term physical activity by altering the sensitivity of appetite regulation. It should be kept in mind that most exercise training studies are of modest duration (e.g. up to 72 weeks the meta-analysis of Beaulieu et al. ( 172 )), and the long-term changes in appetite and eating behavior, and the time-course over which these occur, are yet to be fully understood. Fewer studies have examined the relationship between changes in energy expenditure and eating behavior in non-obese participants who do not have a preconceived goal associated with weight reduction. Does Habitual Physical Activity Level Affect Appetite Sensitivity? Appetite sensitivity refers to the capacity to detect over- or under-consumption with the potential to subsequently adjust intake accordingly. This can be achieved by compensating for a particular EI by adjusting the size of the next meal. There is some evidence to suggest that regular exercisers, or habitually physically active individuals, have a better capacity to control food intake and energy balance due to increased appetite sensitivity. Long et al. ( 174 ) demonstrated that habitual exercisers have an increased accuracy of short-term regulation of EI in comparison to non-exercisers. In this study, participants were given either a low or high energy preload for lunch, and were then asked to eat ad libitum from a test meal buffet. Energy intake did not significantly differ following the two preloads in the non-exercise group, indicating a weak compensation. However, the habitual exercisers demonstrated nearly full compensation (~90%) by reducing their EI following the high energy preload compared to the low energy preload. This study has been replicated in groups varying in objectively-assessed habitual physical activity levels ( 175 ). Similarly, Martins et al. ( 176 ) reported that the sensitivity of short-term appetite control increased in previously sedentary individuals following 6 weeks of aerobic exercise training, with participants again better able to adjust subsequent EI following high and low energy pre-loads following the exercise intervention. Furthermore, King et al . ( 177 ) examined the effects of 12 weeks of supervised aerobic exercise on hunger and satiety in 58 individuals living with overweight or obesity. Two
