The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


King et al . ( 177 ) examined the effects of 12 weeks of supervised aerobic exercise on hunger and satiety in 58 individuals living with overweight or obesity. Two separate processes were revealed that acted concurrently to influence the impact of exercise on appetite regulation. Post-intervention, a significant increase in fasting hunger was seen, but this increased orexigenic drive was offset by a parallel increase in post-prandial satiety (as measured in response to a fixed energy meal). Therefore, this ‘dual process’ may reflect the balance between the strength of tonic and episodic signaling following chronic exercise, and may be an important factor which determines whether individuals successfully lose weight or not. Interestingly, these improvements in appetite control appear to be related to satiety and perhaps not to satiation ( 178 ), but more research on the interplay between diet composition, satiation/satiety and physical activity level is required, as well as underlying mechanism. Findings of improved appetite sensitivity with increased physical activity are in line with Jean Mayer’s work over 60 years ago. Mayer et al. ( 179 ) demonstrated a non-linear relationship between energy expenditure and EI in Bengali jute mill workers. Daily occupational physical activity and EI were closely matched in those performing physically demanding jobs. However, in those performing light or sedentary occupational roles, this coupling was lost such that daily EI exceeded expenditure. Such work has led Blundell et al. ( 180 ) to suggest a J relationship between physical activity and appetite regulation, with ‘regulated’ and ‘non-regulated’ zones of appetite regulation seen across the physical activity spectrum. Sedentary or low levels of physical activity coincide with an ‘unregulated zone’ of appetite in which EI and energy expenditure are disassociated (thereby promoting overconsumption of food at low levels of physical activity). At higher levels of physical activity however, stronger regulation of appetite and food intake exists such that EI better matches energy expenditure. This would promote the better maintenance of energy balance, albeit at higher levels of absolute intake and expenditure, i.e. higher ‘energy turnover/flux’ ( 180 ). This non-linear relationship has since been replicated in a systematic review ( 181 ) and in a study of over 400 participants ( 182 ). The model proposed by Blundell was recently updated by Beaulieu et al. ( 183 ), as shown in Figure 4 . Furthermore, emerging evidence from a highly-controlled metabolic chamber study suggests that appetite
