The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


by Blundell was recently updated by Beaulieu et al. ( 183 ), as shown in Figure 4 . Furthermore, emerging evidence from a highly-controlled metabolic chamber study suggests that appetite control is indeed improved at higher levels of energy turnover ( 184 ). Longer-term studies are required to understand the impact of high energy turnover on appetite control, but it is believed that high levels of EI relative to expenditure may improve weight management via a favorable impact on physiological adaptations ( 185 ). Figure 4. Regulated and non-regulated zones of appetite with varying levels physical activity from Beaulieu et al. ( 183 ). Model based on Jean Mayer’s study in Bengali jute mill workers ( 179 ) and previously published in Blundell ( 180 ). While the mechanisms behind an improvement in appetite control with regular physical activity remains unclear, insulin sensitivity has been proposed as one mechanism by which activity-induced improvements in appetite regulation may occur. Exercise is known to increase insulin sensitivity ( 186 - 188 ), and insulin sensitivity is known to be involved in satiety induced by particular foods ( 189 ) and in the compensatory response to high energy loads ( 190 ). A further mechanism by which exercise could affect appetite is through altering gut peptide action. For example, CCK is implicated in the short-term regulation of appetite, and levels of CCK have been shown to rise after exercise ( 191 ). Interestingly, Martins et al. ( 192 ) measured fasting and post-prandial levels of orexigenic (total and acylated ghrelin) and anorexigenic (PYY, GLP-1) peptides in 15 individuals living with overweight or obesity during 12 weeks of supervised aerobic exercise. A significant increase in fasting hunger was again seen following the intervention, but this was offset by greater satiety in response to a fixed energy meal following the intervention. Interestingly, there was also a significant increase in the suppression of acylated ghrelin following the fixed energy meal, and a tendency toward an increase in the post-prandial release of GLP-1 following the exercise intervention. These hormonal responses would have acted to augment satiety during the post-prandial period. Further work by Gibbons et al. ( 193 ) revealed that exercise training had no overall impact on pre and postprandial appetite peptide release; however, differences emerged when participants were classified as ‘responders’ and ‘non-responders’. Compared to non-responders, responders had overall greater suppression of acylated ghrelin and
