The Control of Food Intake in Humans
KEYWORDS: energy, pubmed, intake, food, appetite, weight, food intake, obesity, control, body, exercise, ffm, journal, loss, satiety


on pre and postprandial appetite peptide release; however, differences emerged when participants were classified as ‘responders’ and ‘non-responders’. Compared to non-responders, responders had overall greater suppression of acylated ghrelin and greater increase in GLP-1 and total PYY. This effect was independent of the exercise intervention as differences were observed from baseline. Therefore, the specific role that appetite-related peptides play in activity-induced improvements in appetite regulation remains to be fully understood. In addition to gastrointestinal mechanisms, it is important to understand how physical activity timing and patterns impact energy balance and appetite control. Physical activity can be prescribed by the FITT principle: frequency, intensity, time (duration) and type, and more recently, timing as another parameter has been proposed, as emerging evidence suggests that when exercise is performed relative to a meal or the time-of-day may influence obesity and cardiometabolic health in both adults and children ( 194 ). Indeed, physical activity is also another cue that influences circadian rhythms ( 195 ). In a systematic review and meta-analysis of exercise training interventions in individuals living with overweight or obesity ( 117 ), only 3 studies (1 RCT) on diurnal exercise timing were identified ( 196 - 198 ). These studies, in addition to observational studies (reviewed in ( 199 )), suggest that early relative to late day exercise timing may lead to greater weight/fat loss. However, a recent RCT suggests no effect of exercise timing on weight loss, but this may have been due to the relatively low dose of aerobic exercise ( 200 ). The underlying mechanisms the greater weight loss in response to early exercise timing likely involve an impact on both behavioral and physiological processes regulating energy balance and appetite control ( 201 ). Performing morning exercise may lead to greater weight loss by enhancing the satiety response to food throughout the day, reducing the desire for and intake of high-energy-dense foods, and shifting food intake timing to earlier in the day, thus reducing daily energy intake ( 199 ). Evidence for this hypothesis is scarce, with an acute study showing that morning exercise led to greater post-exercise satiety; however, this was not examined in response to actual food intake ( 196 ). More rigorous research in this area is needed to clarify these proposed effects. CONCLUSION The control of food intake in humans is a biopsychological phenomenon. Motivation to eat is an important factor influencing food intake
