Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


halfthe cases required treat- level: ment. Studies from developing countries have generally adopted a more inclusive approach that uses systematic, • Scabies. Although scabies was often the commonest skin community-based surveys backed by examination. Published disease,it was completely absent in some regions. figures for the prevalence ofskin diseases in developing coun- • Superficial mycoses. This group of infections was usually tries range from 20 to 80 percent. reported as one ofthe three commonest diseases. In a study in western Ethiopia,between 47 and 53 percent of • Pyoderma.This disease was often,but not invariably,associ- the members oftwo rural communities claimed to have a skin ated with scabies. disease (Figueroa and others 1998),but when they were exam- • Pediculosis. This disease was the subject of much variation ined, 67 percent of those who denied having skin problems but is often overlooked in surveys.Firm,community-level were found to have treatable skin conditions, most of which data on the prevalence ofpediculosis are deficient;thus,this were infections. However, prevalence alone does not equate disease is not discussed further in this chapter. with disease burden.For instance,most communities recognize • Eczema or dermatitis. Although this disease was usually scabies as a problem because ofits intractable itching and sec- unclassified,irritant dermatitis and chronic lichen simplex ondary infection,whereas they may ignore tinea capitis,which were often cited. is equally common among the same populations,because they • HIV-related skin disease.This disease was reported mainly in are aware that it follows a benign and asymptomatic course in Africa.The pruritic papular dermatitis ofAIDS is a specific many patients. problem. Researchers agree about the main risk factors associated • Pigmentaryanomalies.Threedifferentproblemswerecited: withskindiseaseindevelopingcountries,themostimportant hypopigmentation,oftendiagnosedaspityriasisalba,aform of which appears to be household overcrowding. In primary of eczema; melasma; and dermatitis caused by cosmetic schoolsinwesternEthiopia,morethan80percentofrandomly bleachingagents(Mahéandothers2003). examined schoolchildren had at least one skin disease, • Acne. This disease was reported as an emerging and which was usually caused by one of four conditions: scabies, common problem. 708 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Roderick Hay, Sandra E. Bendeck, Suephy Chen, and others These diseases are the same as those recorded in the litera- Table 37.1 Search Strategy for Therapies ture described previously.Other skin conditions cited by dif- Search term for ferent members ofthe group surveyed follow: Disease Search term for disease treatment • Tropical ulcer.The incidence was highly variable,but tropi- Scabies [“scabies”] [“treatment of” or cal ulcer can account for a huge workload in primary care “ivermectin” or centers in
