Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


disease treatment • Tropical ulcer.The incidence was highly variable,but tropi- Scabies [“scabies”] [“treatment of” or cal ulcer can account for a huge workload in primary care “ivermectin” or centers in endemic areas. “permethrin” or “Lindane” or • Nonfilarial lymphoedema. This condition was mainly con- “malathion” or fined to Ethiopia. “benzoyl benzoate” or • Onchodermatitis, filarial lymphoedema, endemic trepone- “crotamiton” or matoses,Buruli ulcers,and leprosy.These conditions are dis- “sulfur”] cussed in detail elsewhere in this book,but note that they Pyoderma or [“skin diseases, bacterial” or [“drug therapy” or often present with skin changes and symptoms. bacterial skin “ecthyma” or “staphylococcal “prevention & control” infections skin infections” or “impetigo” or “therapy”] According to World Bank (2002) figures for low-income or “pyoderma” or “folliculitis”] populations in 2000, the estimated numbers of individuals Tinea capitis: [“tinea capitis”] [“drug therapy” or infected with pyoderma and scabies, based on the highest “therapy” or prevalence figures from community surveys in the developing “prevention & control”] world,are 400 million and 600 million,respectively.Based on Tinea imbricata: [“tinea imbricata.mp”] the lowest prevalence figures, these estimated numbers are 40 million and 50 million, respectively. For tinea capitis, the Tropical ulcer [“tropical ulcer$.ti”] or [“skin ulcer(explode)” and estimated number of cases based on the highest estimates of “tropic$.mp”] prevalence for Sub-Saharan Africa alone is 78 million. Overall,these data suggest that significant changes could be Source: Authors. made in reducing the burden of skin diseases by focusing on Note: Terms in brackets are medical subject heading terms. If no standard medical subject heading terms were available, databases were searched either using the title option (denoted the small group of conditions, particularly infections, that as“.ti”) or the keyword option (denoted as “.mp”). account for the bulk ofthe community case load.This chapter concentrates on those conditions for which such a strategy SKIN DISEASES could be implemented—namely, scabies, pyoderma, fungal infections,tropical ulcers,HIV/AIDS-related dermatoses,and Scabies pigmentary disorders. Scabies is a common ectoparasitic infestation caused by Sarcoptes scabei,a human-specific mite that is highly prevalent EFFECTIVE THERAPIES in some areas ofthe developing world.Scabies is transmitted by direct contact.In industrial societies,it is usually seen in sexu- In considering the evidence for effective treatment,a subgroup ally active adults,although it may also appear in the form of of the team (Bendeck, Chen, and McLeod) undertook a data clusters ofcases among the elderly in residential homes.Peaks search to establish the evidence base for treatment ofthe com- ofinfection in communities may be cyclical.The ease oftrans-
