Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


McLeod) undertook a data clusters ofcases among the elderly in residential homes.Peaks search to establish the evidence base for treatment ofthe com- ofinfection in communities may be cyclical.The ease oftrans- mon conditions. They carried out comprehensive searches of mission appears to depend,in part,on the parasitic load,and the MEDLINE (1966–April 2003) and EMBASE (1980–April some patients,including the elderly,may have large numbers of 2003) databases to identify therapeutic studies on scabies, parasites present.By contrast,in healthy adults,the total para- pyodermas,and superficial mycoses (but note that many ofthe site load may be low, but they, nonetheless, may suffer from studies were performed in industrial countries). They used highly itchy lesions.The organisms can also reach high densi- foreign-language articles if an English abstract was provided. ties in patients suffering from a severe depression ofimmuno- Table 37.1 shows search terms for each of the skin diseases logical responses, as in HIV infection. In this crusted or common in the developing world and for treatment. Norwegian form of scabies,lesions may present with atypical The team members reviewed study titles and abstracts to crusted lesions that itch little. select relevant articles and scrutinized the bibliographies of In developing countries,transmission commonly occurs in selected articles to identify pertinent studies not captured in young children and infants and their mothers and is related to the initial literature search.They defined admissible evidence as close contact,overcrowding,and shared sleeping areas.Sexual treatment ofeach disease. also a scourge of prisons in developing countries, where it is Skin Diseases | 709 associated with overcrowding (Leppard and Naburi 2000).No • Permethrin 5 percent cream.This effective,nonirritant treat- evidence exists that transfer is related to inadequate hygiene. ment is usually administered as a cream applied all over the The most important complication of scabies is secondary body.A single application washed off after 8 to 12 hours is bacterial infection, usually caused by Group A streptococci. used. The tubes are small, and adequate quantities should Evidence from studies among the indigenous population of beprescribed.This treatment is also the most costly of the northern Australia indicates that this infection is not always topical therapies. benign and that persistent proteinuria is associated with past Treatment failures in developing countries may be related scabies infestation,suggesting that nephritis related to second- to the lack of a suitable place in many communities where ary infection of scabies may cause long-lasting renal damage patients can apply treatment effectively over the entire body (White,Hoy,and McCredie 2001). from
