Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


of a suitable place in many communities where ary infection of scabies may cause long-lasting renal damage patients can apply treatment effectively over the entire body (White,Hoy,and McCredie 2001). from the neck down in privacy. The disease presents with itchy papules and sinuous linear Oralivermectin,whichisanimportantdruginthetreatment tracks in the skin that can be highly pruritic and particularly of onchocerciasis,has also been used in patients with scabies, troublesome at night. Often more than one member of a particularlythosewiththecrustedformorinplacessuchaspris- household has the disease. ons,where large numbers of infected individuals live in close proximity.Ithasalsobeenappliedasacommunity-basedtreat- Treatment. The treatments used for scabies are mainly applied mentandisreportedtobeeffectiveassuch(Hegazyandothers topically. Treatment is not based on treating just affected 1999).Itisnotlicensedforthetreatmentofscabies,andthelack individuals, both because of the ease with which scabies ofsafetydataontheuseofivermectinininfantslimitsitsuse. spreads and because symptoms may develop days or weeks In addition, insufficient evaluations of its efficacy and cost- after infection.The advice given to patients always includes a effectivenessindevelopingcountrieshavebeencarriedout. recommendation to treat the entire household with a similar medication,a difficult problem when many people live in the Evidence for Effective Therapies. The team identified 56 arti- same dwelling. The treatments commonly available include cles on therapies for scabies and found the following to be the thefollowing: viable ones: oral and topical ivermectin, permethrin, gamma benzene hexachloride,benzyl benzoate,crotamiton,malathion, • Sulfur ointments.There are no controlled clinical studies of and topical sulfur. Table 37.2 summarizes the evidence for the use ofthis cheap medication,which is usually made up ivermectin versus a placebo or permethrin and for topical in an ointment base.Soap containing sulfur is available in ivermectin,as well as for the less expensive topical sulfur. some areas.Anecdotally,sulfur ointment needs to be applied for at least one week to the entire body.Irritation is a com- Community-BasedTreatmentsforScabies. Fewstudieshave mon side effect,and lower concentrations,such as 2.5 per- addressedtheproblemofcommunity-administeredtreatments cent,are applied to infants. for scabies, despite the argument that without a community • Benzyl benzoate.A 10 to 25 percent benzyl benzoate emul- approachtotherapyinmanydevelopingcountries,thesuccess- sion is applied over the entire body and left on the skin for fulmanagementof scabiesinareaswhereitaffectsmorethan up to 24 hours before washing off. Current recommenda- 5to 6 percent of the population is doomed to failure. Taplin tions suggest that one to three applications may be suffi- and others’ (1991) study of the use of 5 percent permethrin cient, but consensus on the optimal treatment regimen cream in the San Blas Islands,Panama,confirms this view.A would be useful.Benzyl benzoate emulsion is an irritant and three-year program of treatments backed
