Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


cient, but consensus on the optimal treatment regimen cream in the San Blas Islands,Panama,confirms this view.A would be useful.Benzyl benzoate emulsion is an irritant and three-year program of treatments backed by surveillance can lead to secondary eczema in some patients. reducedtheprevalenceofscabiesfrom33percenttolessthan • Gamma benzene hexachloride (Lindane). This product is 1percent;however,athree-weekbreakinregulartreatmentwas widely available and is used as a single application washed followed by a rapid increase in prevalence to 3 percent. The off after 12 to 24 hours. Concerns have arisen about the resultsoftreatmentsinvolvingtheapplicationofsimilarproto- increasing risk ofdrug resistance and the absorption ofthe cols,butusingothertopicalagents,arenotavailable.Oraliver- drug through the skin.It is also not used in children because mectinlendsitself toacommunity-basedtreatmentapproach of reports of neurotoxicity and fits. This product is not andhasbeenusedinthisway(Hegazyandothers1999;Usha available in many countries. andGopalakrishnanNair2000),butinsufficientfollow-updata • Malathion (0.5 percent) in an aqueous base.The highly puri- arecurrentlyavailabletocommentfurtheronthisapproach. fied commercial forms are effective after a single applica- tion,although a second is advised.No data are available on Bacterial Skin Infections or Pyoderma the use ofthis preparation in developing countries. • Crotamiton cream or monosulfiram 25 percent. These alter- Bacterial skin infections or pyoderma are common in most native therapies have highly variable efficacy rates. developing countries (Mahé,Thiam N’Diaye,and Bobin 1997). 710 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Roderick Hay, Sandra E. Bendeck, Suephy Chen, and others Table 37.2 Evidence of the Efficacy of Treatments for Scabies Treatment and Number average wholesale of people price Strongest evidence in study Results Comments Ivermectin oral Randomized clinical trial 55 79.3 percent cure with single dose of • Will treat concomitant strongy- US$5.20 (3 mg), given at (versus placebo) ivermectin 200 (cid:1)g/kg versus 16.0 percent loidiasis and onchocerciasis 200 (cid:1)g/kg, one or (Hegazy and others 1999) cure with placebo (p(cid:2)0.001) • Not approved for scabies by the two doses U.S.Food and Drug Administration • Safety not established for children under five and pregnant women Randomized clinical trial 85 Single dose: 70.0 percent cure with • A single application of permethrin (versus permethrin) (Taplin ivermectin 200 (cid:1)g/kg versus 97.8 percent issuperior to a single dose of and others 1991) cure with permethrin 5 percent ivermectin, which suggests that Second dose (two-week interval): ivermectin may not be effective at 95.0 percent cure with ivermectin allstages in the life cycle of the 200(cid:1)g/kg (statistically equivalent cure parasite rates with ivermectin and permethrin usedas single dose/application) Ivermectin (topical) Open-label, prospective, 32 100 percent cure rate with two doses of • Subjects treated with
