Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


Investigator-blinded, 75 93 percent mupirocin versus 96 percent • Impetigo RCT (versus oral erythromycin (no statistical difference) • Also looked at bacterial erythromycin) Recurrence with erythromycin: 10 percent recurrences of patients with S. aureusand 6 percent of • 53 patients clinically and bacterio- patients with S. pyogenes; recurrence with logically assessable; no ITT mupirocin: none. Source: Authors. gm(cid:1) gram; ITT(cid:1) intent to treat; ml(cid:1) milliliter; p(cid:1) probability; RCT(cid:1) randomized clinical trial; TP(cid:1) topical product. a.Comments include type of skin infection; indication of prophylaxis, otherwise therapeutic trial; ITT analysis; and other comments. significant benefits.In this area,carefully designed pilot control and some other common causes of foot infection, such as programs would provide extremely valuable data. Scytalidium.The clinical and social impact offungal infections on individuals varies with local conditions.For instance,tinea pedis is a treatable condition that causes cracking and inflam- Fungal Infections mation with itching between the toes.It is generally viewed as Fungal infections that affect the skin and adjacent structures a nuisance that only marginally affects the quality oflife;how- are common in all environments.They include infections such ever,under certain conditions its significance is far greater.For as ringworm or dermatophytosis; superficial candidosis and example, fungal infections of the web spaces and toenails in infections caused by lipophilic yeasts and Malassezia species; diabetics provide a portal ofentry for S.aureus,an event closely Skin Diseases | 713 related to the development of serious foot complications in withT.tonsurans.This factor poses a dilemma in management, patients with peripheral vascular disease and neuropathy. because where the disease is common and endemic,a regular Similarly, foot infections originally caused by dermatophytes source will always exist for new, severe, inflammatory infec- can develop into more serious disabling infections through sec- tions in children. Therefore, addressing this issue by tackling ondary Gram-negative bacterial infection among certain occu- individual cases without addressing the reservoir,albeit illogi- pational groups in the tropics,such as workers in heavy indus- cal,may ultimately be the most practical approach. try,the police,or the armed forces.Wearing heavy footwear is The diagnosis of tinea capitis is difficult to make clinically a risk factor for the emergence ofthis problem. in mild cases because the main presenting signs are localized Other infections, such as oropharyngeal candidosis, are patchesofhairlosswithfinescaling.Insomechildren,thehair important complications of HIV. This commonest infectious loss is more diffuse. With the inflammatory forms, circum- complication of AIDS is a potential early marker.Whereas in scribedpatchesofhairlosswitherythemaandpustulationalso many patients it may simply have nuisance value,in others it occur,andthewholeareaisraisedintoaboggymass.Theonly
