Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


loss is more diffuse. With the inflammatory forms, circum- complication of AIDS is a potential early marker.Whereas in scribedpatchesofhairlosswitherythemaandpustulationalso many patients it may simply have nuisance value,in others it occur,andthewholeareaisraisedintoaboggymass.Theonly has a more serious impact and leads to dysphagia and loss of waytoconfirmthediagnosisaccuratelyistotakehairsamples appetite.Malasseziainfections such as pityriasis versicolor are forcultureandmicroscopy,whichisnotpossibleinmanyareas also common in the developing world and often occur in more because theylack laboratorydiagnostic facilities.One specific than 50 percent ofthe population;however,they are generally formoftineacapitis,favus,isclinicallyrecognizableanddistinct, asymptomatic but cause patches of depigmentation, and becausethescalpiscoveredwithwhiteplaquescalledscutula. patients seldom seek treatment. Theinfectionischronicandcandevelopintopermanent,scar- Some fungal infections are extremely widely distributed or ringalopecia.Inhabitantsofendemicareasoftenrecognizefavus common in defined endemic areas.They include tinea capitis asadistinctconditionthatcauseschronicillness,andasaresult, and tinea imbricata. theuptakeofconsultationfortreatmentishigher. Highly effective, topically applied treatments for tinea Tinea Capitis. Tinea capitis is a common,contagious disease capitis are unavailable, and even though simple remedies ofchildhood that can spread extensively in schools.It is caused such as benzoic acid compound (Whitfield’s ointment) may Microsporum .Infections can spread from child Nevertheless,the use of topical therapies may limit the spread to child (anthropophilic infections) or from animals to children oftinea capitis.Treatment depends on the use oforal therapies. (zoophilic infections). Anthropophilic infections tend to be The most widely available of these is griseofulvin, which is endemic or epidemic,whereas the zoophilic forms occur spo- given to children in doses of10 to 20 milligrams per kilogram radically. The commonest sources and causes of zoophilic daily for a minimum ofsix weeks.Noncontrolled studies show infections are cats and dogs (Microsporum canis), cattle and that a single dose of1 gramofgriseofulvin given under super- camels (Trichophyton verrucosum), and rodents (T. mentagro- vision can eradicate infection in more than 70 percent ofindi- phytes).The causes ofthe anthropophilic form ofthis infection viduals,but such regimens have not been adequately assessed vary in different areas of the world.Although in areas of the under trial conditions to determine their effect on community developing world this condition is endemic at high levels, levels ofinfection,nor are follow-up data available. in many parts of Africa it is a common condition affecting Recent years have seen the development of a number of more than 30 percent of children in primary schools. The effective,new,oral antifungals,including terbinafine,itracona- main African species are M. audouinii, T. soudanense, and zole,and fluconazole.Terbinafine is a highly active agent that is T. violaceum. The last is also found in the Middle East and effective in the treatment ofdermatophyte infections.It is given India. T. tonsurans, the form of tinea capitis endemic in
