Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


T. violaceum. The last is also found in the Middle East and effective in the treatment ofdermatophyte infections.It is given India. T. tonsurans, the form of tinea capitis endemic in the in doses of 62.5 milligrams for those under 10 kilograms, United States (Wilmington,Aly,and Frieden 1996) and in parts 125 milligrams for those weighing 10 to 40 kilograms, and of Europe,such as France and the United Kingdom (Hay and 250milligrams for those over 40 kilograms.Evidence indicates others 1996),is extremely resistant to treatment.No evidence that it is effective after one week oftherapy in T.violaceumand indicates that this form has spread to Africa yet,although this T.tonsuransinfections,but the best responses are seen when it possibility exists. is used for four weeks. Unfortunately, at these doses it is less Families of children with tinea capitis seldom present for effective for Microsporuminfections,although some data sug- treatment.However,in a small proportion ofindividuals,tinea gest that responses are significant ifthe doses are doubled.This capitis produces a highly inflammatory lesion with suppura- drug is,therefore,difficult to administer in standardized proto- tion on the scalp along with permanent scarring and local cols when the cause of infection is uncertain. Itraconazole is hair loss. The numbers of infected individuals showing this also effective,but no suitable pediatric formulation is available highly symptomatic change are not known with any accuracy, because it is marketed in a capsule form that is difficult to but it is believed to occur in about 5 percent of cases, more administer to young children. Fluconazole is also effective, 714 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Roderick Hay, Sandra E. Bendeck, Suephy Chen, and others although comparative studies of its use are not available. All is endemic,it can be a significant problem occupying much of three drugs are costly, and a community-based program that the time ofhealth aid post staff. uses them would be difficult to fund and implement. Individual treatments have depended on the antifungals Theteamfoundatotalof 432articlesforthetreatmentof described earlier,including griseofulvin.Terbinafine and itra- tinea capitis. Table 37.4 presents key references for the oral conazole are highly effective, but their cost has constrained therapies, the mainstay of therapy. The effective treatments their use.As table 37.5 shows,the relapse rates after itracona- included topical therapies (benzoic acid,bifonazole,selenium zole are also higher than after terbinafine (Budimulja and sulfide, ketaconazole shampoo, and miconazole shampoo) as others 1994). Topical agents such as benzoic acid compound wellassystemicagents(griseofulvin,terbinafine,itraconazole, (Whitfield’s ointment) are helpful,but are seldom curative and fluconazole,andketoconazole).Theresultsoftopicaltreatments
