Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


after terbinafine (Budimulja and sulfide, ketaconazole shampoo, and miconazole shampoo) as others 1994). Topical agents such as benzoic acid compound wellassystemicagents(griseofulvin,terbinafine,itraconazole, (Whitfield’s ointment) are helpful,but are seldom curative and fluconazole,andketoconazole).Theresultsoftopicaltreatments are difficult to apply over such large areas.Some patients may appearinferiortothoseoforaltherapy,althoughtheyhavenot be treated with locally derived treatments,such as the sipoma been directly compared, and some of the topical agents were paint used in Papua New Guinea,which contains salicylic acid, appliedtopreventtransmissionratherthantotreatinfection. brilliant green,and kerosene.Traditional treatments have also Attempts at community control of tinea capitis have been been used,but never evaluated.The leaves of Cassia alata,for devised but have not been monitored adequately.The methods instance,are widely used in the western Pacific. have been based on surveillance through culture and treatment The team found studies of the use of griseofulvin, of all infected children.Culture-based diagnosis is difficult to terbinafine,and itraconazole for tinea imbricata.Some studies implement regularly in developing countries. The treatment did mention sipoma paint and Cassia alata, but no studies used for community therapy has been griseofulvin in conven- evaluating their efficacy have been performed. The team also tional daily or large single doses,but those approaches have not found case reports supporting the use ofgriseofulvin. been compared. In addition, control protocols usually advise Different treatments for use on a community basis need to treating carriers with topically applied agents such as selenium be evaluated because the impact of this condition on local sulfide (which is relatively cheap) or a miconazole shampoo health services in areas ofhigh prevalence is heavy in terms of (which is moderately priced). In practice, some “carriers”are both time and staffworkload. really patients with extremely localized and hard-to-detect infections,and such patients will not respond to topical treat- Tropical Ulcer ment in the long term. A second problem is the absolute reliance on laboratory confirmation of cultures to direct Tropical ulcer is a common condition found mainly in chil- treatment of carriers. Therefore, other strategies need to be dren and teenagers in well-defined tropical regions.It usually evaluated, such as reducing the community load, perhaps by affects the lower limbs (Bulto, Maskel, and Fisseha 1993), topical therapy or single-dose griseofulvin,to reduce the risk of causingthesuddenappearanceofregularanddeepulceration. spread.An alternative would be to continue with the existing It is mainly seen inAfrica,India,and the western Pacific and practice oftreating individual cases while recognizing that this in parts of Indonesia and the Philippines. The disease is process ignores the community reservoir. causedbyacombinedinfectionof anumberof differentbac- teria together with
