Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


trial. 716 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Roderick Hay, Sandra E. Bendeck, Suephy Chen, and others Table 37.5 Evidence of the Efficacy of Terbinafine for Tinea Imbricata Treatment, level of evidence, cost (manufacturer, brand Number of name, formulation, people average wholesale price) Evidence in study Results Comments Terbinafine Double-blind random- 83 Clinical and mycological cure rate: • Terbinafine has a slightly higher (terbinafine versus itraconazole (p(cid:1) 0.05) and relapse rate than itraconazole Cost: itraconazole) At week 17 follow-up, reinfection or • 72 patients eligible for follow-up (Lopez-Gomez and • Novartis relapse: others 1994) • Lamisil • 6(cid:1)37 (16 percent) evaluable terbinafine • Tablets, 250 mg, patients US$260.51 for 30 tablets • 24(cid:1)31 (75 percent) evaluable (AWP) itraconazole patients (p(cid:2) 0.001) • Tablets, 250 mg, US$868.16 for 100 tablets (AWP) • Cream, TP, 1 percent, 15gm, US$32.61 (AWP) • Cream, TP, 1 percent, 30gm, US$58.40 (AWP) Source:Authors. AWP(cid:1) average wholesale price; gm(cid:1) gram; mg(cid:1) milligram; p(cid:1) probability. may be necessary if healing is delayed. Treatment, therefore, HIV-Related Skin Diseases consists of early treatment with penicillin,a strategy that may Awiderangeofskinconditionsmaydevelopasaconsequence also fit with a syndromic approach to ulceration,because it will of HIV infection, but most are beyond the scope of this also be effective for yaws.The alternative is oral metronidazole, chapter. They include conditions that are a significant drain but no evidence of the comparative efficacy of these two onscarceresources.TheseincludeKaposi’ssarcomaandtoxic approaches is available. epidermal necrolysis, a potentially life-threatening form of In searching the literature for effective remedies for tropical skinfailurethatisoftendruginducedandrequiresthelevelof ulcer,the team found little evidence.The team did find studies care and attention that would be deployed for patients with evaluating metronidazole and topical dressings, and several severeburns. articles mentioned the efficacy ofpenicillin and split skin graft- The commonest skin-related complication ofHIV,particu- ing,but no randomized controlled trials have been performed. larly in Africa,is the itchy papular eruption or papular pruritic A single case report supports the use of co-trimoxazole. The eruption ofHIV.It presents with fiercely itchy multiple papules management strategy thereafter depends on keeping the on the face and upper trunk. It is of unknown etiology and wound clean to allow appropriate healing using local antisepsis responds only to symptomatic treatment—for instance, and cleansing, such as potassium permanganate solution, antipruritic preparations such as antihistamines—although chlorhexidine, or even saline, and protecting the area from simple topical preparations, such as calamine or menthol further abrasion or secondary infection with sterile dressings. creams,may
