Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


preparations such as antihistamines—although chlorhexidine, or even saline, and protecting the area from simple topical preparations, such as calamine or menthol further abrasion or secondary infection with sterile dressings. creams,may alleviate the itching.Recognizing this condition is important, because it is seen only in HIV/AIDS cases and is the risk ofdeveloping chronic leg ulceration is substantial. often mistakenly treated as acne.It does not respond to treat- No community strategies for preventing tropical ulcer are ments for acne. known,although the process ofinfection suggests that simple, hygienic measures to disinfect and clean the affected limb, Pigmentary Disorders perhaps modified from those used in lymphatic filariasis, might be effective as a simple preventive regimen.The possible The development ofpigmentary change is an important source use ofvaccines has been substantially researched for the animal of concern in many communities . Disorders counterpart,sheep foot rot,which is caused by a similar com- associated with pigmentary changes are common and range bination oforganisms. from hereditary defects such as albinism (Lookingbill, Skin Diseases | 717 Lookingbill,and Leppard 1995) to increased pigmentation,or onchocercal skin disease), as well as a paper on the direct hyperpigmentation, associated with inflammatory skin lesions costs of treating scabies in Italy. These studies are shown in such as acne.Albinism is a significant cause oflife-threatening table 37.6. skin cancer in the developing world. Examples ofdrug costs (tables 37.2 to 37.4) for tinea capitis, For many of these conditions, no effective remedies are scabies,and pyoderma can be estimated as follows: available. For instance, hyperpigmentation secondary to inflammation cannot be removed effectively,although it may • Treatment of a single case of scalp ringworm using griseo- fade with time.Similarly,no effective cure exists for vitiligo,a fulvin purchased from two differently priced U.S.sources to common disease involving loss of pigment, although experi- achieve the published efficacy rates (table 37.4) with a con- localized repigmentation. Therefore, advising patients of the dose of 250 milligrams, would provide between 61 and current comparative ineffectiveness of treatments for these 92percent efficacy at a drug cost per individual ofUS$29 or not lead to effective outcomes should be an important part of supervised dose of1 gram would cost US$1.40 or US$2.50. the strategy for treating skin diseases. With supervision oftreatment,the total cost per cure using Some forms of increased pigmentation, such as melasma, daily treatment ranges from US$35 to US$88 per patient. which is hyperpigmentation of the cheek and forehead areas • Treatment of100 people with scabies using sulfur
