Chapter
KEYWORDS: skin, percent, treatment, disease, scabies, tinea, infections, diseases, cid, patients, capitis, evidence, developing, effective, cost


pigmentation, such as melasma, daily treatment ranges from US$35 to US$88 per patient. which is hyperpigmentation of the cheek and forehead areas • Treatment of100 people with scabies using sulfur ointment, and is seen mainly in women, respond to the application of assuming 500 grams per individual, would cost US$58 or hydroquinone derivatives. However, because such treatments US$0.58 per person.This regimen would provide a 71 per- are often misused,they would not be used at the community cent cure rate at three months and a cost per cure of $1.30 level and would be used only with advice from a trained prac- per patient. titioner. Depigmenting creams, lotions, and emulsions are • Treatment with povidone of an individual with pyoderma widely available as cosmetic preparations in many local mar- would cost US$0.68, assuming that 400 milliliters would kets and shops, and in a study in Dakar, Senegal, more than treat eight people.This regimen would provide a cure rate of 50percentofwomenquestionedstatedthattheywereregularly 88 percent at three months and a cost per cure of US$1.10 using bleaching creams ranging from hydroquinones to corti- per patient. costeroids (Mahé and others 2003).Hydroquinones are poten- tially damaging to the skin and with continuous use cause Thesecalculationshavetakenintoaccountidealcommunity patchy increased pigmentation and scarring of the facial skin. treatment conditions, where the recurrence rate is negligible. Similarly,misuse ofcorticosteroids is associated with a range of However,ifsuch a community-based scheme is not effectively secondary effects from skin thinning to increased infection developed,more than 50 percent ofthose with scabies are likely rates.Warning people about the potential risks of depigment- to be reinfected.The figures are lower for tinea capitis (15 per- ing creams would be a useful health promotion strategy in cent) and pyoderma (10 percent).Table 37.7 shows the costs of many communities. treating large populations. Skin depigmentation is also a feature of leprosy. Thus, Although little information is currently available,in partic- teaching health care workers responsible for leprosy surveil- ular about the effect oflocal pricing ofmedications on overall lance to recognize skin patterns is a practical strategy of great effective treatment costs,the studies cited in this chapter indi- potential value in continuing progress toward eliminating this cate that the financial burden of skin diseases within families disease. may well be significant and that producing a series of robust analyses ofthe cost implications ofboth treatment and failure to provide adequate management strategies for these common ECONOMIC ASSESSMENTS AND SKIN DISEASES conditions is critical. IN
