CASEREPORT
KEYWORDS: wilson, disease, wilson disease, neurological, symptoms, sdisease, liver, hepatic, age, neurological symptoms, patient, changes, norm, slovakia, copper


g/l, norm 0.20–0.60 g/L) and Markedlyinhomogenousliverwithmap-likehyperdenseareasandmultiple hypodensefocalchanges. increasedexcretionofcopperthroughurine(1752.60nmol/24h, norm <1,000 nmol/24h) were detected. Eye examination with aslitlampconfirmedthepresenceofaKayser-Fleischerring.A In June 2013 the patient underwent a brain magnetic genetic test revealed a mutation of the His1069Gln; 3207C>A resonance imaging. A non-specific finding of multifocal geneforATPase7Binthehomozygousstate. encephalopathy supratentorially and bilaterally, with confluent Chelation therapy with penicillamine was started, in a changesinthebrainstemregionhadbeendescribed(Figure1). dose of 150mg daily with a gradual increase (maximum TheCTrevealedhepatomegalywithmultiplefocalchangesin daily dose of 1,050mg) in combination with pyridoxine. theliver(Figure2). The course of the therapy was complicated after 3 months A complete gynecological examination (including by deterioration of her neurological symptoms attributed to mammography), oesophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, an adverse effect of penicillamine. Due to very debilitating andaCTofthechestdidnotleadtothediscoveryofthepotential dystonic tremor of her head she was frequently injected with originofsupposedmetastases. onabotulinumtoxin A into her posterior cervical muscles with TargetedbiopsyoffociintheliverunderCTcontrolrevealed substantialsymptomaticeffect. severediffusesteatofibrosis,withfibrouslywidenedportobiliary Aftergraduallyloweringitsdose(downto450mgdaily)and spaces with multiplied biliary pseudoducts, inflammatory commencing therapy with a zincum suphuricum in a dose of FrontiersinMedicine|www.frontiersin.org 2 February2020|Volume7|Article26 Žigraietal. Late-OnsetWilson’sDisease FIGURE4|Urinecopperexcretionduringchelatingtherapy. 200mg daily,therewasa gradual improvement in neurological The unusual neurological symptoms of Wilson’s disease symptoms. Copper urine excretion levels during the treatment comprise muscle cramps, undulating tongue movements, depictsFigure4. oculogyric crisis, and optic neuropathy and cough due to unconsciousbreathingmusclecontractions(6). Psychiatric presentation may occur at any stage of Wilson’s DISCUSSION disease. First symptoms may manifest in adolescence as worsening performance at school and behavioral changes. Wilson’s disease is a rare genetic disease that is treatable if it These symptoms may precede the hepatic and neurological is discovered early—prior to the development of more severe symptomatology by a significant period of time. Other damage,especiallytotheliverandbrain. psychiatric manifestations include personality changes If Wilson’s disease is suspected, the first step involves (antisocial behavior, irritability, and disinhibition), mood examinationofcoppermetabolismparameters(concentrationof disorders (bipolar disorders, manic and hypomanic serumceruloplasminandexcretionofcopperthroughurine)and syndrome, depression, suicidal attempts), psychosis, eye examination with a slit lamp with a focus on the Kayser- anorexia, dyssomnias, sexual dysfunction, and cognitive Fleischerring.Afterthat,genetictestsaredonethatconfirmthe impairment(7–9). diagnosisandenabletargetedgenetictestsaspartofcompulsory OthersymptomsofWilson’sdiseaseincludehemolyticanemia family screening in the patient’s first-degree relatives. If the (usually seen in manifestations with acute liver failure), kidney abovetestsdonotunequivocallyconfirmWilson’sdisease,while injury (in most cases tubular), osteoporosis, osteomalacia, suspicion remains, histological examination of a liver sample arthralgia, arthritis, cholecystolitiasis, and endocrine disorders with quantitative determination of the copper in dry matter is (amenorrheaandhyperthyroidism)(10). indicated(3). Inalargegroupof1,223patients,Wilson’sdiseasemanifested Diagnosing the hepatic form of Wilson’s disease can after 40 years of age in only 3.8% of cases, and 2/3 of these be complicated. Apart from a relatively wide spectrum of patients had
