CASEREPORT
KEYWORDS: wilson, disease, wilson disease, neurological, symptoms, sdisease, liver, hepatic, age, neurological symptoms, patient, changes, norm, slovakia, copper


form of Wilson’s disease can after 40 years of age in only 3.8% of cases, and 2/3 of these be complicated. Apart from a relatively wide spectrum of patients had neurological symptoms. In the aforementioned manifestation (ranging from an asymptomatic course with a large group (11), Wilson’s disease did not manifest after age 60 laboratoryfindingofslightlyincreasedaminotransferaseactivity years. The available literature describes two cases of patients to a fulminant hepatic failure) (4), the diagnostics can be with a hepatic form (in one case with fulminant hepatic complicatedbyfrequentlynormalvaluesofserumceruloplasmin failure) and two cases with a mixed neurological and hepatic andtheabsenceofaKayser-Fleischerring(5). form of Wilson’s disease(12–14), that manifested after age DiagnosingtheneurologicalformofWilson’sdiseaseiseasier 60years. becausealmostallpatientswiththisformhavedecreasedserum Thefactorsinfluencingaphenotype(hepaticvs.neurological ceruloplasminvaluesandapresentKayser-Fleischerring(3). presentation, age of presentation) are not precisely known. The most common neurological symptoms of Wilson’s The association between phenotype and genotype have not disease include dysarthria, tremor (starting in upper been confirmed. The important factor affecting phenotype is extremities,andusuallymoredominantononeside),dystonia, gender—inmenWilson’sdiseasemorecommonlypresentswith dysdiadochokinesis, micrographia, rigidity, impaired posture neurological symptoms in older age. Hepatic presentation is andgait,hypomimia,characteristicopen-mouthfaceexpression, bradykinesia,uncontrollablefitsofcrying,swallowingdisorders, more frequent in females (15). The other genetic, different salivation, and other signs of a damaged vegetative nervous environmental and epigenetic factors are considered to be system(4). importantforclinicalmanifestationofthedisease(16). FrontiersinMedicine|www.frontiersin.org 3 February2020|Volume7|Article26 Žigraietal. Late-OnsetWilson’sDisease In the case of our patient (probably) due to her advanced zone can point to Wilson’s disease as a possible cause of liver age, the possibility of Wilson’s disease was not considered, and cirrhosis(20,21). the condition was erroneously assessed as part of her cerebral Parenchymatous heterogeneity with multiple hypo- or atherosclerosisandlaterasasignofParkinson’sdisease. hyperechogenic nodules reminiscent of metastatic changes is a In patients with Wilson’s disease, the brain MRI scan shows commonfindingduringultrasonographyofthepatients(22). cerebral atrophy and symmetrical hyperintensity or mixed In our patient, it was the above finding reminiscent of intensity in T2-weighted images changes in white matter of metastatic liver damage that suggested a biopsy of the liver, the cerebral hemispheres, basal ganglia, thalamus, cerebellum which did not reveal malignant cells, and only a finding abrainstem. of steatofibrosis in the context of the above neurological Another well-known MRI findings that could help us symptoms led to suspecting an alternative diagnosis of to establish the diagnosis include the “face of giant panda Wilson’sdisease. sign” (mid-brain intensity changes on T2 weighted images— The suspected Wilson’s disease was subsequently confirmed hyperintensityinthetegmentum,hypointensityofthesuperior byalowconcentrationofserumceruloplasmin,increasedurine colliculus and preservation of normal signal intensity in the excretionofcopper,thepresenceofaKayser-Fleischerringand red nuclei and lateral portion of the pars reticulata of the genetictesting. substantia nigra) as well
