CASEREPORT
KEYWORDS: wilson, disease, wilson disease, neurological, symptoms, sdisease, liver, hepatic, age, neurological symptoms, patient, changes, norm, slovakia, copper


subsequently confirmed hyperintensityinthetegmentum,hypointensityofthesuperior byalowconcentrationofserumceruloplasmin,increasedurine colliculus and preservation of normal signal intensity in the excretionofcopper,thepresenceofaKayser-Fleischerringand red nuclei and lateral portion of the pars reticulata of the genetictesting. substantia nigra) as well as the “face of the miniature panda It is generally believed that Wilson disease is an illness of sign”or“tridentsign,”or“pandacubsign”seeninthepontine children or young adults. However, it is now becoming clear tegmentum (intensity changes on T2 weighted image—relative thatthisdiseasecanpresentinamucholderagegroup.Wilson hypointensity of the medial longitudinal fasciculi and central disease should also be included in the differential diagnosis tegmetal tracts—the eyes of the panda, hyperintensity of the work-up of hepatic diseases and unclear neuropsychiatric aqueductopeningintothefourthventricle—noseandmouthof syndromesinpatientsafterage60years,especiallybecauseitis thepanda,boundedinferiorlybythesuperiormedullaryvelum) potentiallytreatable. and “bright claustrum sign” (thin rim of T2 hyperintensity in lateralpartofclaustrum)(17–19). ETHICS STATEMENT The process that later indirectly led to making the correct diagnosiswastriggeredonlybytheultrasonographicfindingof Writteninformedconsentwasalsoobtainedfromthepatientfor aliversuspectedofbeingaffectedbymetastasis. thepublicationofthiscasereport. Ultrasonography of Wilson’s disease patients shows a hyperechogenicliverasanimagingcorrelateofhepaticsteatosis AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS orfibrosis. In the case of hepatic cirrhosis, the general ultrasonography MŽ wrote the first draft of the manuscript. PVe analyzed signsthatarefoundinclude:liversurfaceirregularities,thickened liver histology and wrote section of manuscript. PB analyzed gallbladderwalls,widenedportalveinwithdecreasedflowrate, computed tomography and wrote section of manuscript. MŽ, the size of the caudate lobe to the size of the right liver lobe of the patient, manuscript revision, read, and approved the equaltoor>0.65andafindingofaperihepatichyperechogenic submittedversion.
