Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


study of conditions necessary for hemagglutination ; (2) examiriatioll of specific factors affecting either the cell or the virion to enhance, alter, or abolish the reaction; and (3) direct physicocl~ernical analysis of cells, viruses and “receptor analogs.” We have not considered in this discussion (1) passive hemagglutination reactions used for measurement of anti- body to viral antigens adsorbed to tanned erythrocytes (e.g., HAA) or (2) hcmagglutinins which are formed during viral infection indcpcn- dcntly of mature virions (c.g., vaccinia). 11. THER ED CELLM EMBRANE The ultrastructurc and composition of erythrocytc membranes consti- tute a field of study which is cxpanding SO rapidly that no attempt can be made here to encompass the extensive literature on the subject, except for particular aspects which concern this review. It is of more than historical interest that the influcnea virus-erythrocyte-glyccprotein inhibitor model has served as an important link in relating biological function to red cell membrane structurc. Influenza virus receptors are intimately associated with receptors for isoantibodies, namely blood group antigens (A, B, H, MI N). These scrvc as additional markers with which to recognize biological activities of purified rnembrrmc frac- tions. In broad analogy with virus receptor analogs, the structure of antigenic determinants of blood group spccificity has been elucidated not from primary analysis of erythrocytes but from extcnsive study of soluble blood group substances derived froin sourccs other than red cells. MN antigens constitute an cxception to this statcmcnt, since they are found only in erythrocytes, and in fact form a part of the glycopro- tein complex which contains virus receptor activity. A direct approach to the chcinical characterizatiori of various receptor activities lies in attempting to render erythrocyte membranes solublc and then to separate components by standard methods of protein and carbohydrate chemistry. Much depends initially on the nature of thc starting material which is to be rendered soluble by onc means or an- other. Plasma proteins, leukocytes, and platelets are possible sources of contamination if not separated from the crythrocytes before lysis. The method of lysis used to obtain stroma, or posthemolytic residue, also has an ixriportant bearing on the purity of the end product, since hemoglobin and other cytoplasmic constituents are readily occluded and cling tenaciously to membranes of red cells lysed in distilled water. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 3 By hypotonic lysis under carefully controllcd conditions of pH and ionic strength, pure erythrocyte ghosts are obtainable . Such membranes retain
