Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


red cells lysed in distilled water. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 3 By hypotonic lysis under carefully controllcd conditions of pH and ionic strength, pure erythrocyte ghosts are obtainable . Such membranes retain virtually all of the lipid of the intact cell. This fact, along with their antigenic distinction from cytoplasmic constituents, makes such preparations acceptable as intact cell membranes. They ap- pear as biconcave disks when viewed by phase-contrast microscopy and are virtually free of hemoglobin as determined by colorimetric and im- munological analysis, and by electron microscopy (Howe and Lee, 1969; Howe et al., 1970b). Table I presents a simplified summary of several methods which have been used to partition membranes or posthemolytic residue into biologi- cally active subfractions. The term “posthemolytic residue” is here in- Hemoglobin-free membranes Posthemolytic residue phenol 1 soluble 1 aqueous butanol I (insoluble) I fraction I sialo- (lipids) (lipoprotein) I sialo- -200) \ I t glycoprotein / / siaJlo - Xmsialo- trypsin (VRS)b protein proteins I I I I I I I M.W. 10,000 31,000 (monomer) 80-160,000 (mixtures) I NANA 37% 20-25% t - I f AB/MN + + not tested - ,+ VI f - + + - I j + + I 18 I Yield of glycoprotein enhanced by prior extraction of membranes with lithium (1 diiodosalicylate. Product antigenically identical to VRS. b Virus receptor substance. c Rich in serine, threonine. Includes some nonsialoproteins. Rich in serine, threonine, 0-glycosidically linked to N-acetylgalactosamine (alkali labile) ; asparagine linked N-glycosidically to N-acetylglucosamine (alkali stable). M.W. 55,000 proposed on basis of corrected SDS-gel data. VI = influenza viral hemagglutination inhibition. 0 I = reactive sites uncovered by removal of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NANA) from alkali-stable oligosaccharide side chain. 4 C. IIOWE AND 1,. T. LEE FIG.I . Purified virus rcccptor substance (VRS) negatively alained with PTA. (3) VRS frnm human eryllirocytca. (b) VRS from riiuriiie (Swiss) erythrocytes. (By Courtesy of nr Jnmm R. TTiirris.) x 125,000. tcrirlcd to signify relatively crude preparations of stroma as contrasted to membranes that retain both morphological and chemical identity and tire uncontaminated with hemoglobin, plasma protcin, or formed ele- ments. Hot 50% phenol extraction of membranes separates into the aque- ous phase a glycoprotcin which can be fuither purified through fractional etlislnol precipitation and various comhina- Lions of gel filtration and chromatography (Springer et al., 196G). The find product is free of lipid, contains virtually a11 the sialic acid and npproxirnntcly linlf
