Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


precipitation and various comhina- Lions of gel filtration and chromatography (Springer et al., 196G). The find product is free of lipid, contains virtually a11 the sialic acid and npproxirnntcly linlf of the hexoscs and amino sugars of the membrane, ttnd is completely soluble in water. By sevcrnl diffcrcnt criteria, including polyacrylumidc gel clectrophoresis (PAGE) , ultracentrifugal analysis, ti~idi mmunoelectrophoresis, it represents a single component. Electron microscopic examination of a preparation of erythrocyte glycoprotein considered pure by these criteria was negatively stained witjh phospho- turigstic acid and examined by electron microscopy (Fig. la). It is seen that the preparation comprises a homogeneous array of particles, al- though no conclusions as to ,size or configuration can be drawn due to hypcrtonicity of the staining solution. An exactly compartiblc prepara- tion from muriric erythrocytes is shown, in which the particles are seen to be closely similar to the human siibstance in both size and uniformity (Fig. 11)). TIic yield of glycoprotein from hurnsn crythro- oytes was rcportetl to be enli:mccd if membranes wcrc extracted first with liLliiiirn diiodosrilicylate (Ids) and then with 25% aqueous phenol (Marchesi and Andrews, 1971). Glycoprotein purified in this manner shows mtigcnic identity with the VRS and MN substances prcviously described. Recent electrophoretic studies of various glycoprotcins, includ- VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 5 ing the LIS-phenol-derived erythrocyte material, have shown that appar- ent molecular weights vary with the degree of acrylamide cross linking . In the light of these findings, some of the molecular weights previously determined for phenol-derived glycoproteins (VRS and MN substances) by PAGE will have to be reevaluated (cf. Table I). The stromal glycoprotein is a poten6 inhibitor of ,influenza virus hemagglutination, and contains, in its polysaccharide moiety, the deter- minants for M and N blood group antigens (Kathan et al., 1961; Howe et al., 1963; Springer et al., 1966). It thus may be considered to encompass the sites on the erythrocyte surface to which myxoviral hemagglutinins attach, i.e., the virus receptor substance (VRS) . These surface glyco- protein sites are associated with, and appear to be extensions of intra- membranous particles revealed by freeze-etching techniques and electron microscopy . Antibodies evoked in rabbits by injection of VRS in complete Freund’s adjuvant may be directed not only to the particular blood group antigens contained in its polysaccha- ride moiety , but also to the protein portion of the VRS molecule. The latter antibodies are broadly cross-reactive from one
