Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


the particular blood group antigens contained in its polysaccha- ride moiety , but also to the protein portion of the VRS molecule. The latter antibodies are broadly cross-reactive from one individual VRS preparation to another, independently of blood group antigens. Antibody to VRS, labeled with ferritin, reacts specifically with intact erythrocytes as well as with the external surface of hemoglobin- free membranes. Figures 2 and 3 show electron micrographs of these reactions, both of which can be blocked by prior absorption of the labeled antiserum with pure VRS . Trypsin treatment inac- tivates receptors for myxoviruses both on erythrocytes and in purified VRS. As a result, the electrophoretic motility of both erythrocytes aqd glycoprotein is reduced. These effects are accounted for by the cleavage of a sialopeptide from the erythrocyte glycoprotein . A structural model has been proposed for this component and for its . insertion into the erythrocyte (Winzler, 1969a) The trypsin-sensitive fragment is considered to be at the amino end of a linear polypeptide which is anchored among the cell lipids at its carboxyl end. Along the polypeptide chain are a series of oligosaccharide residues in which N-acetylneuraminic acid (NANA) is terminally bound. This terminally bound NANA accounts for the predominantly anionic nature of the cell surface and the rapid electrophoretic mobility of the intact pure glyco- protein itself (Cook et al., 1961; Howe and Lee, 1969; Danon et al., 1965). The oligosaccharide side chains are attached to the peptide through O-glycosidic linkage of 1%’-acetylgalactosamine to serine and threonine, and through N-glycosidic linkage of N-acetylglucosamine to aspartic acid residues. The pure glycoprotein has a characteristically high content of all three of these amino acids (Winzler, 1969a; Kathan 6 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE FIG. 2. Specific rraction of hurniin group 0 erythrocytrs with fcrritin-lttleled antibody to VltS. Glutaraldehyde and osmium tctroxidc fixation after reaction wilh antibody and wnshing with phorrptitile-~~iifred~i ne, pH 7.2. (By courtmy of Dr. Thomas Biiclii.) (u) x 20,000. (1)) Dctnil from (a), x 100,000. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS FIG. 3. Specific reaction of human erythrocyte membranes with ferritindabeled antibody to VRS. (a) Erythrocytes were reacted with the antibody, washed free of nonspecific protein and ferritin, and lysed by the addition of complement. The cell membranes were washed free of hemoglobin, and fixed in glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide. x 50,000. (b) Portion of a hemoglobin-free membrane prepared by hypotonic lysis (Dodge et al., 1963), allowed to
