Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


were washed free of hemoglobin, and fixed in glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide. x 50,000. (b) Portion of a hemoglobin-free membrane prepared by hypotonic lysis (Dodge et al., 1963), allowed to react with antibody, washed in phosphate-buffered saline, fixed in gluiaraldetiydc, and negatively stained with PTA. x 100,000. (By courtesy of Dr. Thomas Bachi.) 8 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE et al., 1961; Springer et al., 1966; Howe et al., 1972). Thc trypsin-rc- leased sialopcptide carries the prosthetic groupings necessary for virus attachment to the cell and for inhibition of influenza viral hemagglutinin by the purified glycoprotein. The sialopcptide also carries the determi- nants for M and N blood group antigens recognized in the intact glyco- protein. Recent cvidence (Dzierzkowa-Borodcj et nl., 1970) shows that determinants reacting with anti-I arc containcd in an alkali-stable trisac- charide obtained by borohydride degradation of VRS from which NANA has previously bcen rcmovcd by mild acid hydrolysis. Phcnol-derived glycoproteins from several species differ from one another significantly with respect to monosaccharide composition and content of the corre- sponding amino acid residues involved in carbohydratc-protein linkage . Treatment of hemoglobin-free memhranes with aqueous pyridine re- sulted in the partition of the protein into a soluble fraction containing most of the membrane sialic acid and irisolublc fractions containing membrane lipid . On Sephadox (2-200, in the presence of pyridine, sialoprotein was separatcd from components lacking sugar residues. Thc sialoprotein fraction had at least one component which shared antigenic identity with VRS, and which undoubtedly ac- counted for the virus inhibitory action of thc sinloprotein fraction (Table I). Virus rcccptor activity of the pyridine-dcrived sialoprotein was np- preciably lower than that of pure VRS. This may have bccri due to the presence of nonreactive components, or to an nrrangcment of comple- mentary prosthetic groups ICSS cfficicnt than VRS in binding to the viral surface. In amino acid analysis, the pyridine-derived sialoprotein gave high serine and tlircoriirie values comparable to those for the purified VRS, strongly supporting tile conclusion that this large molecular weight glycoprotein was an entity distinct from thc siiialler proteins in thc soluble fraction, which coritaincd little or no sialic acid (Howe et al., 1971). n-Butanol has been used by a number of investigators (Howe et al., 1963; Maddy, 1964) to soluhili7e membrane components A portion of tlic rncrrlbrane protein was thus rendered water soluble, presumably by separation from lipids and lipoproteins which entered the
