Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


et al., 1963; Maddy, 1964) to soluhili7e membrane components A portion of tlic rncrrlbrane protein was thus rendered water soluble, presumably by separation from lipids and lipoproteins which entered the butanol phase. Several cxtractions were required to reinove all lipid from the water- solublc fraction, which compriscd scvcral compoiients and coritaincd sialic acid, virus receptor, and blood group activities (Whittcmorc et al., 1969). One component cross-reacted antigenically with pure VRS (Howe and T,ee, 1969). As will bc noted subsequently, erythrocyte rccep- tors for scvcrnl groups other than rnyxoviruscs hnvc bccn described on the basis of the inliibitory activity demonstrable in mixtures of mem- VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 9 brane components, such as the water-soluble fraotion referred to above. These ('receptors," however, cannot be rccognized in a statc of purity comparable to that of VRS. Combinations of various methods have been used to determine the total number of individual proteins present in crythrocyte membranes prepared by hypotonic lysis and free of hemoglobin and cytoplasmic constituents. Rosenberg and Guidotti (1969) subjected ghosts to sequen- tial extraction with EDTA, 0.8 M NaCl and ethanol-ether. The resulting lipid-free residue contained most of the sialic acid of the membrane and was resolved by gel electrophoresis into five additional fractions, two of which accounted for 90% of the sialic acid in the starting mate- rial. These two sialoprotein fractions had molecular weights in the same range (25,000-30,000) as that of the monomeric form of VRS obtained by phenol extraction of membranes. The other components separated on gel electrophoresis were in the size range from 10,000 to 170,000. NH,-terminal end group analyses indicatcd consistent differences among the proteins of the various fractions. A minimum of twelve different polypeptide chains were judged to be present in the membrane. These results are to be compared with thosc of another study in which hemo- globin-free membranes were dissolved in SDS and heated at 100°C for 3 minutes in order to disaggregate the proteins completely. Sephadex G-200 chromatography revealed the presence of at least 14 components of molecular weight ranging from 32,000 to 255,000, two of which con- tained carbohydrate-one with a molecular weight of 108,000; the sec- ond, a smaller, more rapid component thought to be glycolipid (Lenard, 1970). In this latter study, the multiplicity of components in SDS gel was not critically excluded as being due to random aggregation. 111. METHODOLOGY The visible result of viral hemagglutination is the “pattern” formed
