Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


study, the multiplicity of components in SDS gel was not critically excluded as being due to random aggregation. 111. METHODOLOGY The visible result of viral hemagglutination is the “pattern” formed at the bottom of a test tube or well plate by lattices of red cells lightly conjoined by viral hemagglutinin (Salk, 1944). The stability of this pattern varies inversely with the ability of the virus to elute. Hemagglu- tination serves as a useful direct means of titering intact viral particles or hemagglutinating subunits. Since hemagglutination is a simple two- component system, the titer of a given preparation will depend on the concentration of viral particles and their state of aggregation. The concentration of erythrocytes, the pH, the temperature, and in some instances the presence of divalent cations or other supplementary factors may affect the titer. Details of special significance will be mentioned hercinafter with the discussion of individual groups of hemagglutinating viruses. The tcchniques generally applicable to the 10 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE quantitation of viral hemagglutination are well described in standard compendia of virological diagnostic proccdurcs (Lennettc and Schmidt, 1969). With a few exceptions, titrations of viral hemagglutinin and corre- sponding antibodies are readily adaptable to microtechniques (Sever, 1962) which arc highly reproducible and effect substantial economies of valuable diagnostic and experimental reagents. While the pattern tcchnique is the one in widest USO, otlior approaches to quantitation of viral hemagglutination have been developed, particu- larly with influenza viruses. Densitometric procedures, first devised by Hirst and Pickels (1942), depend on the rate of settling of cells during their interaction with viral hcrnagglutinating partides resulting in the formation of aggregates. Readings of optical density taken at given inter- vals of time, and related to a normal cell suspension without virus, bear a direct relationship to the conccntratiori of viral particles. 1,evine et al. (1953) were able to extend this principle to establish methods for determining the absolutc number of hemagglutinating particles present in a virus suspension. Their method was based on spectrophoto- qetric measurcmcnt of thc number of erythrocytes dimerized by viral hemagglutinin under conditions precluding the formation of larger cell aggregates. The presence of dimers under thc standard conditions used was established by direct rnicroscopy. These workers found that thc conversion factor for transforming tube dilution hemagglutination titers into absolute numbers of hemagglutinating particles was the same for influenza and Newcastle discase viruses. More recently, a photornctric method
