Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


that thc conversion factor for transforming tube dilution hemagglutination titers into absolute numbers of hemagglutinating particles was the same for influenza and Newcastle discase viruses. More recently, a photornctric method has been described which depends on dctcrmining the highest dilution of virus causing maximal agglutination by extrapolation from data obtained with constant numbers of cells and varying dilutions of virus. At this point, variability in reactivity of virus with different samples of erythrocytes is minimal. Actual titers are then calculated mathematically from this point of reference and are expressed as “hemagglutinin concentration units.” A high degree of reproducibility was claimed for this method, which has advantages primarily for detecting minor antigenic variations among related strains of influenza virus. In studies of the antigenic composition of the influenza virus envelope, constituents of the hemagglutinin have bcen obtained which, on separa- componentr aye considered to be monovalent with rcspcrt to hcmaggluti- nating activity, but are antigenically related to the hemagglutinin com- plex. Such for example is the “host antigen” found in influenza viruses whirh have been propagated in chicken embryos Rnrl which will be dis- cussed subsequently in greater detail. The method for dctccting these VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 11 monovalent fragments of hemagglutinin depends on thcir capacity to combine with antihemagglutinin and thereby to block its inhibition of hemagglutination by complete virus (hemagglutination-inhibition block- ing or HIB test) (Harboe, 1963). The specificity of the antibody is critical and purified virus must be used, since nonviral host tissue frag- ments may combine with antibody to block hemagglutination. The hemadsorption phenomenon is based on the attachment of erythro- cytes to infected cells in culture which have hemagglutinin at their sur- faces (Shelokov et d.,1 958). Monolayers suspected of containing in- fected cells are drained of culture fluids; a suspension (usually 0.5%) of washed guinea pig erythrocytes is added in a quantity sufficient to immerse the cells. The reaction takes place at 4OC almost immediately. After 15-20 minutes the monolayers are drained and washed with cold balanced salt solution to remove unattached cells. The preparations are then examined immediately under the microscope, before any elution of erythrocytes occurs. Done in this manner, hemadsorption may substi- tute for cytopathic effect in estimating titers or units of infectivity. Hemadsorption plaques represent a variation of this technique. Mono- layers are infected in the same manner as for plaque titrations with a cytolytic virus. Instead of the usual solid overlay,
