Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


Hemadsorption plaques represent a variation of this technique. Mono- layers are infected in the same manner as for plaque titrations with a cytolytic virus. Instead of the usual solid overlay, a semisolid overlay (e.g., methyl cellulose or 0.27. agar) is used which can be removed at the end of the total incubation period without disturbing attached cells. Residual traces of medium are removed by washing with pre- warmed balanced salt solution, and hemadsorption is carried out. Plaques thus revealed display a dose response quite comparable to infectivity measured by TCID,, or liemadsorption end points and offer a reliable means for quantitation of myxoviruses. Hemadsorp- tion can be directly quantitated by lysing attached erythrocytes with distilled water and measuring the concentration of free hemoglobin (Finter, 1964). With either fluid or semisolid overlays, urea-cyanide (Aculute, Ortho Pharmaceutical CoIporation, Raritan, New Jersey) may be used as the lysing agent. This renders both erythrocytes and freed tissue cells soluble. There is thus no interference with the spectrophoto- metric determination of hemoglobin converted to cyanornethemoglobin. Optical density is read at 410 nm, and the results are expressed as percentage of a standard solution of cyanomcthemoglobin. IV. MAJORV IRUS GROUPST HATR EACTW ITH ERYTHROCYTES A. Myxoviruses Since the discovery of myxoviral hemagglutination (Hirst, 1941 ; McClelland and Hare, 1941), much has been learned about the nature 12 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE of the viral subunits involved in the reaction as well as about the chemis- try of the L‘receptors’o’ n crythrocytes. In addition, this virus-erythrocyte interaction has constituted a model for the study of the first stagcs of viral attachment to host cells capable of synthesizing new virus. The extensive literature on influenza viruses has been well reviewed in recent years (Buzzcll and Hanig, 1958; Hoyle, 1968). The reaction of myxoviruses with red cells involves two relatively independcnt phenomcna, namcly adsorption and elution. The viral com- ponents primarily responsible are, respcctivt!ly , hemagglutinin and neuraminidasc. Both are componcnts of the viral envelope, and both are codcd for independently by the influenza viral genome. Recombinants of A, strains of influenza virus with an A strain (NWS) served to demon- strate that the hcmagglutinin of reccnt A, isolates (IIong Kong) differed antigenically from that of Ap strains isolated prior to 1968, but that the neuraminidases of all A, strains examined were antigenically identi- cal with one another (Schulman and Kilbourne, 1969). These observa- bions showcd that
