Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


strains isolated prior to 1968, but that the neuraminidases of all A, strains examined were antigenically identi- cal with one another (Schulman and Kilbourne, 1969). These observa- bions showcd that hemagglutinin and neuraminidase varied indepcn- dently as antigens; and that antibodies to the enzyme werc of primary importance in protection against Hong Kong virus. It is also evident from R U C ~a tudics that the antigenic classification of influenza viruses must take into account the specificity of both of these major envelope components. Hemagglutinin and neuraminidase have bcen recognized as distinct entities by elcctron microscopic examination of negativcly stained prep- arations of virus after disintegration with ether or detergents, and sep- aration by elcctrophoresis, column chromatography or density gradient centrifugation. Laver and Valentine (1969) disrupted strains of influenza A virus with sodium dodccyl sulfate (SDS) and subjected them to clec- truphorrsis on ccllulose acetate. Electron microscopic examination of the eluted, biologically active subunits, in the presence of SDS, revealed hemagglutinin to comprise rods 40 x 140 A; the neuraminidase appeared us oblong structures 85 X 60 A with a centrally attached fiber 100 A in length. Removal of SDS by ucctone precipitation resulted in the for- mation of polymers of either subunit and, in mixtures of the two, in thc formation of copolymers. The results suggested that the spikes on the intact virion are of two kinds corresponding, respectivcly, to the two independently active subunits describcd. Rott et aE. (1970) subjected SDS-treated influenza virus to sucrose density gradient centrifugation. They isolated hemagglutinin which was reactive with chicken erythro- cytes and which appeared on negative staining as a rodlike structure 50 A in diameter and 200 A in length; a second morphological form, composed of sphcrical particles about 40 A in diameter, was rcactive VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 13 with guinea pig cells. Biologically active neuraminidase and hemaggluti- nin have been isolated from one and the same preparation of virus by treatment with Tween-20 and separation on Sephadex G-200. Residual hemagglutinin could be removed from neuraminidase by absorption with chicken erythrocytes. The sedimentation coefficient for hemagglutinin subunits was 8.1 S; and that for neuraminidase, 10.8 S. Structures seen by electron microscopy in negatively stained preparations of neuram- inidase consisted of aggregates in rosette formation with a central knob (Webster, 1970). In other studies, purified influenza A, virus was treated with ether, and the envelope components separated from nucleocapsid by electrophoretic techniques and
