Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


rosette formation with a central knob (Webster, 1970). In other studies, purified influenza A, virus was treated with ether, and the envelope components separated from nucleocapsid by electrophoretic techniques and by analytical ultracentrifugation. The isolated neuraminidase-hemagglutinin complexes tended to aggregate into rosettelike clusters and appeared to comprise either tubelike structures, rings attached to stalks, or variations between these two forms. In this biologically active form, the neuraminidase-hemagglutinin complex waE comparable in size to the tubular structures forming the characteristic spikes of the influenza virus envelope . The chemical nature of the reactive groups of the viral hemagglutinin responsible for attachment to soluble or cell-surface glycoproteins is not at all clear, except that peptides are involved. The attachment is pH dependent, and therefore may be mediated by ionizable amino acid groupings of the hemagglutinin. The work of Hoyle and Hana (1966) pointed to disulfide linkages as “active centers” for two major biological activities of the influenza virus particle, namely hemagglutinin and neuraminidase. Chemical cleavage of S-S bonds resulted in the inactiva- tion of one or the other of these activities, depending on the strain of virus used. Similar observations were made by Eckert (1967) on the hemagglutinin of the reassociated envelope protein of influenza virus (PR8). Hemagglutination, and its inhibition by mucoids, is generally independent of neuraminidase activity. That this dichotomy may not be absolute is suggested from recent studies (Hoyle, 1969) which indicate a close resemblance between the active sites of both neuraminidase and hemagglutinin in several strains of influenza virus. Through the use of reagents reacting directly with amino acids in proteins of A and A, strains, centers containing histidine were found which appeared to possess both hemagglutinin and neuraminidase activity. It was concluded that histidine was essential for neuraminidase activity and that tyrosine could substitute for histidine in the hemagglutinin-active centers. Included in the hemagglutinin of influenza virus is a sulfated glycopro- tein, originally referred to as “host antigen” (Harboe, 1963). Antibody to normal chicken tissue inhibited strains of influenza virus hemaggluti- nin due to the reaction of a portion of the antihemagglutinin with this 14 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE host factor on the viral particle. It was subsequently shown that this same antigen was present in liirge quantities and in soluble form in chorioallantoic fluid from both infected and normal chicken embryos, and that it could be quantitated by the hemagglutination inhibition blocking (HIR) test
