Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


in liirge quantities and in soluble form in chorioallantoic fluid from both infected and normal chicken embryos, and that it could be quantitated by the hemagglutination inhibition blocking (HIR) test (Section 111) (IIaukencs et a,?., 1966; Lee ef al., 1969). The host antigen showed structural similaritics to blood group substance and to certain keratosulfates from cartilage (Haukenes et nl., 1966; Meyer et al., 1967). Rabbit antisera to the pure substance contained antihemagglutinin react,ivc with purified intact influenza virus particles. Besides fowl erythrocytes, cells of many mammalian species are agglu- tinated by infliiPiiza viruses. Adsorption appccirs to be relatively indepen- dent of temperature, and takes place with most strains equally well at 4°C and 37°C. This is largely an electrostatic interaction, and in general there are upper (pH 9.0) and lower (pH 5.0) limits to the pH range in which the reaction is maximal (Tischer, 1963). With respect to thc molecular basis for viral attachment (hemagglutinin), much has been learned from the study of receptor analogs, the prototype of which was originally described as a nonspecific inhibitor of viral hemagglutina- tion distinct from antibody in human serum (Francis, 1947). Rcccptor analogs have sincc bccn obtaincd from rnnny sources. They are all glyco- protein and bind preferentially to reactive sites on the virus so as to prevent attachment to crythrocytcs. Irihihitory action in all cases is ubolished following treatment with reagents (e.g., pcriodutc oxidation, trypsin, neuraininidase or receptor-destroying enzyme of Vibrio cholerue or Clostridiupra perfringens) which modify tlic polysaccharide moiety by alteration of NANA residucs, or their removal from the macromolecule. A pttrtial list of inhibitory glycoproteins includes, besides human and animal sera : egg components, urinary mucoprotein, ovarian cyst fluid, mcconiurn, Collocalia mucoid (Howc ef al., 1961 j , nncl extracts of tissues, e.g., lung and erythrocytes, of several species. Extensive study of purified glycoproteins has shown that the residuc csscnlial for intcraction with influenza virus is N-acetylneuraminic acid (Gottschalk, 1966a,b). Recent studies have shown further that carbons 7, 8, and 9 in the polyhydroxyl side chain of NANA are involved in the binding of sialoproteins to irifluerietL virus (Suttajit and Winder, 1971 ) . Althollgh all inhibitors of influenza virus hemagglutination contain NANA, not all sialoproteins are active inhibitors. The inhibitory potency of a glycoprotein is deter- mined by the number of negatively chargcd terminal sialic acid residues which can attach simultaneously to complcmcntary groupings of the viral surface. The
