Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


inhibitory potency of a glycoprotein is deter- mined by the number of negatively chargcd terminal sialic acid residues which can attach simultaneously to complcmcntary groupings of the viral surface. The attachment in turn is a function of the number of sialic acid residues available per molecule of glycoprotein and the degree VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 15 of complementarity of the viral surface (Fazekas de St. Groth and Got- tschalk, 1963). The basis for the latter is still unknown. A relationship between molecular size, sialic acid content, and inhibitory activity has been recognized among a number of naturally occurring inhibitors of influenza virus hemagglutination . Such a relation- ship was also demonstrated artificially with serum orosomucoid, which in the native state is a weak inhibitor. Polymers, produced by heating under controlled conditions, had molecular weights greater than 200,000 and on a weight basis were found to be much more potent inhibitors than the monomeric form (Whitehead and Winzler, 1968). Inhibitory activity was lost after treatment with V. cholerae neuraminidase. Con- cordant results were obtained with orosomucoid polymerized by cross- linking with acetaldehyde (Morawiecki and Lisowska, 1965). A polymer of molecular weight in excess of 800,000 showed activity approximately 600-fold greater than that of the monomer. A filamentous form of heat- polymerized orosomucoid was found to be more active against certain strains of influenza virus than a globular form of the same macromolecule . This observation suggested that multiple reactive sites on the viral particle might be more reactive with sialic residues in a linear disposition than on a convoluted molecule? thus accounting for the greater inhibitory efficiency of the “chain” polymer over that of the “ball.” However, hemagglutination by viral subunits was equally sensitive to inhibition by the two morphological forms of orosomucoid. Therefore, it seems that factors other than simply the spatial configura- tion of NANA residues must be essential for interaction with viral hemagglutinin. A heat-labile inhibitor, unrelated to antibody or complement? is found in many animal sera (C. M. Chu, 1951). This factor (p inhibitor) is not inactivated by periodate or neuraminidase, either of bacterial or viral origin; it requires calcium ions for activity and is inactivated by trypsin. These properties suggest that the antiviral activity involves peptide rather than glycosidic linkages, and by analogy, that erythrocyte receptors for influenza virus may exist which do not involve terminal NANA residues. The p inhibitor seems to have greater activity against A,
