Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


glycosidic linkages, and by analogy, that erythrocyte receptors for influenza virus may exist which do not involve terminal NANA residues. The p inhibitor seems to have greater activity against A, than against B strains of influenza virus (Hoyle, 1968). A third type of nonspecific inhibitor (gamma inhibitor) is present in some normal animal sera, particularly those of horses and guinea pigs. The horse serum inhibitor is a glycoprotein distinct from antibody and is highly active against A, strains of influenza virus, with little activity against A, or B strains. It is stable to heat and neutralizes hemagglutinin as well as infectivity in 0210. This neutralizing effect was ascribed to the unusual avidity of some strains of virus to complex 16 C. IIOWE AND L. T. LEE with receptor groupings on the glycoprotein. The firmness of the inhibi- tor-virus union may also have been due to incomplete receptor dcstruc- tion by viral enzyme and consequent failure of virus and inhibitors to dissociate. Fractionation and structural studics of horse serum inhibitor showed that it comprised two active siibstituents in the polysaccharide moiety, namely 4-O-acctyl-NANA as well as NANA. The former rcprcsented the grouping active against A, influenza virus, the latter the residue reactive with a recent B isolate. In accord with this interpretation was thc fact that the A? inhibitor was sensitive to viral ncuraminidase only after trealrncnt with mild alkali. In addition, metaperiodate treatment enhanced the inhibitory activity against the B virus. Since this type of enhancement had not been encountered in strains of influenza virus isolated prior to 1965, it was postulated that this biologicti1 change was related to natural antigenic modifications emerging at the same time. These findings suggested that the structure of NANA itself might play a determining role in the inhibition of A? viral hernagglutinin. Strains of influenza were obtained from isolates of A, virus in the 1957 pandemic whicli were distinguished by either sensitivity ("+") or insensitivity ("-") to horse serum (gamma) inhibitor. Reactivity with antibody parallcletl receptor destruction in the serum inhibitor and "+" on erythrocytes (Choppin and Tamm, 1960a). The avidity of the strains for glycoprotein substrates was explained by the failure of sub- strate hydrolysis and hence failure of virus to be liberated from the complex (Choppin and Ttimm, 1960b). A ptirnllel ohservation was re- ported which indicated that avid strains were still able to agglutinate fowl cells after rcrnoval of receptors for
