Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


from the complex (Choppin and Ttimm, 1960b). A ptirnllel ohservation was re- ported which indicated that avid strains were still able to agglutinate fowl cells after rcrnoval of receptors for other influenza viruses by treat- ment with RDE, either bacterial or viral. Moreover, the avid A, strain eluted incomplctcly from ncurnminidasc-treated erythrocytes. These findings were taken to mcan that avid strain rcceptors, uncovered by ncuraminidase or periodate treatment, diff ered qualitatively from those for nonavid strains of influenza virus . It has been assumed that the cornhination of irifluenza viruses with glycoprotcins from various sources depends on the same forces and mo- lecular requirements that are responsible for viral attachment to glyco- protein receptors on the surface of erythrocytes. As described in an earlier section, VRS, or soluble virus receptor substance from human erythrocytes has thc oligobaccharide residues required for viral attach- ment. Moreover, all the NANA on the erythrocyte is terminally bound and can be clettvcd by neuraminidase, Loth bacterial and viral. The fi~idirigs cited above with respect to avid strains of A, virus suggest the prcscrice 0x1 erythrocytes of determinant inhibitory groupings which VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 17 do not include NANA; but this has not been substantiated. On the other hand, the presence of differently substituted neuraminic acids has not bccn entirely cxcluded. It is of some importance that the sialopeptide split from erythrocytes by the action of trypsin is itself a poor inhibitor of hemagglutination. The parent matcrial, however, is recognized as a macramoleculc of 31,000 monomeric molecular weight. It is itself a potent inhibitor and increases in potcncy with polymerization (Springer et al., 1969). Thcre is same evidence showing that after removal of sialopeptide by trypsin, resulting in complete removal of NANA, erythrocytes are still capable of hemagglutination by influenza virus (Winzler, 1969b). Hence, other portions of the peptide backbone may be involved in this interaction, including the proximal portions of oligosaccharide side chains. Other soluble sialic acid-containing fractions of erythrocyte mem- branes, whether derived by butanol or by pyridine extraction (Table I) are several orders of magnitude less potent than VRS as viral inhibi- tors. This may be explainable by the fact that these fractions are mix- tures of active less aggregated glycoprotein with inactive proteins. There is no certainty that the frequency or distribution of the necessary recep- tor configurations are the same in these sialoprotein fractions as in the glycoprotein purified by the phenol
