Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


There is no certainty that the frequency or distribution of the necessary recep- tor configurations are the same in these sialoprotein fractions as in the glycoprotein purified by the phenol method. Adsorption of virus to erythrocytes in suspension causes their aggrega- tion into a fragile lattice which, on settling, forms the characteristic agglutination pattern at the bottom of the tube or titration well plate. The visible reaction is followed by elution of intact viral particles when the reaction mixture is brought from 4OC to 37OC at pH 7.2. Elution of influenza virus was initially recognized as being enzymatic in nature (Hirst, 1942) and is now known to be due to the action of neuraminidase in the viral envelope. While the completeness with which influenza viral particles elute from the crythrocyte surface may vary from strain to strain, the basic mechanism can be considered the same in all cases. Elution of the viral particle is accompanied by release of NANA from the receptor site. Similarly, in the interaction with soluble analogs, viral neuraminidase effects a degrec of dissociation which varies with the strain, as intimated above. Structural studies with orosomucoid have indicated that the prosthetic groupings necessary for interaction with influenza virus include oligosaccharide side chains, linked O-glycosidi- cally to serine and threonine (Gottschalk, 1965). NANA occupies a ter- minal nonreducing position in a-ketosidic linkage to N-acetylgalactos- amine; it is at this latter bond that viral neuraminidase acts to free NANA from glycoprotein inhibitors (Graham and Gottschalk, 1960; Carubelli et al., 1965; Gottschalk, 1966a). The polyhydroxy side chain 18 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE of NANA must be intact for maximum activity of the cneyme to take place (Sutttijit and Winzler, 1971)- In gcnerul, the completeness of elu- tion from the crythrocytes appears to be inversely proportional to the avidity for glycoprotein inhibitors, as exemplified by the reaction of “+” struins of A, influenza virus with the gamma inhibitor of horse serum, cited carlier. In studies with low rnolecular wcight oligosaccha- rides as substrates for ncuramiiiidase, the enzyme from Ti. chalerue (the classical RDE) was shown to hydrolyze both 2-6’ and 2-3’ ketosidic linkages, whercas the viral enzyme attached only to thc 2-3’ bond. Al- though the 2-6’ cornpourids were able to bind the viral enzynic, the latter acted only slightly, if at all, in releasing NANA (Drzeniek, 1967). This suggested that enzyme itself may have some rolc, albeit limited,
