Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


able to bind the viral enzynic, the latter acted only slightly, if at all, in releasing NANA (Drzeniek, 1967). This suggested that enzyme itself may have some rolc, albeit limited, in binding thc virtil particle to cell receptor material. Probably both 2-3’ and 2-6’ linkages cxibt in the erythrocyte, as deduced from studies of an alkali labile tetrasaccharide obtained by borohydride reduction of stromal sialopcptidc. The latter was derived by trypin treatment of either virus receptor substtince (VRS) or crythroc,ytes (Table I) (Winder, 1969b). It was demonstrated that after adsorption and elution of influenza virus, the electrophoretic mobility of erythrocytes was greatly reduced, in concert with their resistance to reagglutination by freshly added virus (Hanig, 1948; Stone arid Ada, 1952; Cook et al., 1961). Treatment with RDE of V. cholerae, with trypsin or with pcriodute achieved the same results. These early observations, subsequently confirmed and extended, urc readily explttiricd in cucli insttirice by the rcmovul of sialic acid residues, whether as NANA alone or as part of a sialopeptidc fragment. The predomiriuntly negative charge of the erythrocyte at physiological pH can bc ascribed entirely to ionized frce COO- groups of sialic acid. Similarly, the electrophoretic mobility of purified VKS from human RBC was greatly reduced following reaction with influenza virus and removal of sialic acid . Resides changes in electrophorctic mobility, reinoval of NANA residues from human erythrocytes by either viral or bacterial ncuraminidase effects striking changes in the immuno- logical reactivities of the cell. These concern several specificities: (1) the M and N blood group antigens which are inactivated by inyxoviruses acting either on whole cells or on purified erythrocyte glycoprutcins bcwr- irig thcsc determinants ; (2) Forssman heterophile antigens, including those associated with infectious mononucleosis ; arid (3) the specificities reluted to broadly reactive serum “panagglutinin” and phytohernag- glutinins. The subject of antigenic alteration of erythrocytes by myxovi- ruses and soluble cnzymcs has been revicwcd elsewhere (Springer, 1963 ; Drzeniek, 1970. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 19 B. Paramyxoviruses The paramyxovirus group, now set apart from the orthomyxoviruses , (influenza viruses) includes the viruses of mumps and Newcastle disease and the parainfluenza subgroup which comprises 5 members. In contrast to the influenza viruses, paramyxoviruses are capable of lysing erythro- cytes of several species, and of fusing cells in culture to form poly- karyons. Neither hemolysis nor cell fusion caused by exogenously applied virus bore any relation to the virulence of several
