Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


several species, and of fusing cells in culture to form poly- karyons. Neither hemolysis nor cell fusion caused by exogenously applied virus bore any relation to the virulence of several strains of NDV (Kohn and Fuchs, 1969). In contrast, polykaryocytosis induced during active infection in chick embryo fibroblasts (endogenous fusion) was correlated with the virulence of several strains of NDV for chicken embryos (Reeve and Alexander, 1970). Moreover, the fusing capacity of avirulent strains was enhanced by blockade of cellular RNA synthesis. Inhibition of pro- tein synthesis with p-fluorophenylalanine or cyclohexamide resulted in parallel inhibition of fusion by virulent strains. These findings suggested that protein synthesis was required for fusion to occur and that the cytopathology induced by avirulent strains was related to failure of viral maturation and release and to the intracellular accumulation of viral products (Reeve and Poste, 1971). The molecular basis for cell fusion, whether exogenous or endogenous is still largely unknown, how- ever. The same is true for viral hemolysis. The paramyxoviruses hemagglutinate the erythrocytes of avian as well as a number of mammalian species. As with the influenza group, the viral hemagglutinin is situated on the spikes of the viral envelope in close association with viral neuraminidase. Hemagglutination occurs with strains of paramyxoviruses over a wide range of pH (5-9)) opti- mally at about 7 (Tischer, 1963)) and presumably by much the same mechanism as with influenza virus. The same receptors on the erythro- cyte are involved, as proved by the capacity of influenza viruses to inactivate receptors for paramyxoviruses, and vice versa. Trypsin and V. cholerae enzyme are equally effective in this regard, receptor destruc- tion in all instances being associated with the release of diffusible NANA. While most strains of paramyxoviruses, particularly those adapted to laboratory passage, are relatively insensitive to the alpha (Francis type) hemagglutination inhibitor, they are nonetheless capable of splitting NANA from receptor analogs as well as from purified VRS (Howe and Morgan, 1969). One exception appears to be purified ovine a-l-glycopro- tein which has been reported to inhibit NDV hemagglutination to high titer independently of viral enzyme activity . Paramyxoviruses elute from the erythrocyte surface with lower efficiency than influenza viruses. Those viruses which are not actively hemolytic 20 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE can be shown to elute at neutrality. Those which hcmolyze at tempera- tures ahove 4OC: (NDV, mumps, Sendai) can be adsorbed to formalinized fowl
